05-08-2020||India||‘Universal appeal of Lord Ram cannot be hijacked, is not BJP’s property’: Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday took a swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said the universal appeal of Lord Ram and Sanatan Dharma cannot be hijacked by those who chant either hymns or slogans. The articulate Congress leader emphasized that Lord Ram belonged to all of humanity and also invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of the legendary Hindu king.Taking to microblogging social media platform Twitter, Tharoor tweeted, “The universal appeal of Ram & Sanatan Dharma cannot be commandeered by those who chant either hymns or slogans. He belongs to all humanity. For Hindutva, Ram is a God to be worshipped; for Gandhiji, Ram represented the ideal qualities that every person should practice &seek to emulate.”On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the construction of the historic Ram Temple in Ayodhya and presided over the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’, Tharoor in a series of tweets said that Lord Ram was “not the property of the BJP”. ALSO READ | ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya event“He is the ideal man whose image is deeply etched in the hearts & minds of millions. Gandhiji always sang his hymns & died w/ “Hey Ram” on his lips. He talked about a Ram Rajya where all would live in peace & prosperity. Can’t let His name be hijacked!” Tharoor wrote.The Congress leader also clarified that the Congress party had never been opposed to the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, but it was against the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992. The centuries old mosque had been demolished by a large number of kar sevaks on December 6, 1992.Tharoor also recalled that in 1989, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhiji had allowed the VHP to do shilanyas on non-disputed land nearby as an alternate site.India on Wednesday witnessed the historic ceremony of the Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya with celebrations panning out across states. The much-awaited foundation stone laying ceremony of for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was concluded by PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/universal-appeal-of-lord-ram-cannot-be-hijacked-is-not-bjp-s-property-tharoor/story-Ic06gRiQ7TM09Am7TB883K.html
05-08-2020||India||Man in MP shoos away tigress with trick taught by elders, saves wife and brother too||The courage, determination and presence of mind a 30-year-old tribal man in Umaria district, 516 km east of Bhopal, not only saved him but also his wife and brother after they were attacked by a tigress in Bandhavgarh tiger reserve while they were on their way home on a bike, said a forest official on Wednesday. Ram Milan Baiga, a resident of Garhpuri village which is located in core area of Bandhavgarh reserve, was returning to his village on Monday evening on a bike with his wife Meera Baiga, 25 and brother Shyam Baiga, 28, when a tigress attacked them in Khitauli range of the reserve, said NP Kartikeya, a range officer. The forest officer confirmed that pug marks of a tigress found on the spot after the incident. “All three fell on the ground after the tigress attacked but instead of running away, Ram Milan stood there, asked wife and brother not to run away and started making noises as taught by his elders in his childhood on how to shoo away wild animals. They continued to stand there and kept making noises for about 15 minutes to drive away the tigress. Later deputy range officer Gajraj Singh reached there and took them to the outpost,” said Kartikeya. Ram Milan and Meera suffered injuries on their hands and legs and were admitted to the district hospital where their condition is stable, the official said. Kartikeya said, “If these three had tried to run away this could have been dangerous for all of them but Ram Milan’s courage, presence of mind and strategy worked perfectly for all of them.” Ram Milan said, “I had seen my elders making noises loudly to shoo the wild animals away while taking the cattle in the forest areas for grazing. Despite living in a village, that too in the core area of tiger reserve, I had never had such an encounter with any wild animal so far. This was quite a different experience on Monday and scary moments for us that I would never be able to forget.” He said he was initially stunned when the tigress attacked before he remembered the survival trick.“I saw the tigress standing just a few metres away from us after it attacked us and we fell on the ground. For some moments I froze and was at my wit’s end before I used the trick taught to us by our elders and it really worked. When I started making noises my wife and brother too followed. I am overjoyed because I not only could save my life but also the lives of my wife and brother. Nothing could be more joyous a moment for me than this.” Retired conservator of forest Jagdish Chandra said, “Sometimes a tiger or tigress attacks a human being in self-defence too sensing a threat to its life from him if he or she gets close to it in any particular situation. Standing still is a good practice to avoid conflict as running away may further strengthen the perceived threat felt by the tiger or tigress. Making noises too can help one while not running away as it may take the tiger by surprise but it all depends on particular situations in which a person is confronting a wild animal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-mp-shoos-away-tigress-with-trick-taught-by-elders-saves-wife-and-brother-too/story-2Xqei7JX4LvGgtRfOvVzIN.html
05-08-2020||India||Testing drops in Bengal’s private labs after govt caps cost, total tests cross 1 million mark||The numbers of swab testing in several private laboratories have dropped over the past one month after the West Bengal government fixed the rate of Covid-19 tests and brought it down to nearly half in June-end. The number of tests in government laboratories, however, has shot up. The total number of samples tested in the state, including private laboratories, crossed the one million mark on Wednesday and touched 1.03 million “The state government had on June 26 capped the cost of Covid-19 testing to Rs 2,250 at private laboratories and private hospitals in the state. Earlier it was Rs 4,500. Thereafter the number of tests per day has dropped in some private laboratories,” said a senior official of the Bengal government’s health department. One private laboratory tested more than 11,000 samples in the last 15 days in June. In the month of July, however, it could conduct only around 9000 tests. Another well-known laboratory chain conducted more than 60,000 tests in the last 15 days of June. However after the cost was capped, the number of tests came down to half in July. “Some of our employees tested positive and the facility had to be closed down for some days for sanitization. We decided to go slow. Also as the government has ramped up its own testing facilities more people are now approaching the government laboratories,” said an official of a well-known private laboratory in Kolkata. Even though some private laboratories said that they have increased their testing rate, it is not as high as the government’s testing. “We have almost reached our optimum capacity and hence can’t increase the number of tests any more. We are trying to procure an extra machine by the end of August to ramp it up further,” said an official of the private hospital where samples are tested. The Mamata Banerjee administration which, had earlier received flak from the inter-ministerial central team and the opposition parties for its low testing rate in April, has now increased its daily testing several times. While in the first week of April there were only four state-run laboratories and less than 100 samples were tested per day, by the first week of May the number of samples tested per day was increased to around 2500. In the first week of July the number was further ramped up and 10,000 tests were being done in one day. Now more than 22,000 tests are done in 57 laboratories. “The number of tests is being further increased with antigen tests. More than 24,000 antigen tests have already been done. We are going to increase the number of daily tests to around 25,000,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-drops-in-bengal-s-private-labs-after-govt-caps-cost-total-tests-cross-1-million-mark/story-2jYUQ2crbt4xNNVgRh29SN.html
05-08-2020||India||For once, saffron cuts across political divide with Ram temple event celebrations in MP||The saffron hue cut across party lines in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday with both the ruling party and opposition leaders embracing the colour to mark the foundation stone laying ceremony for construction of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, discharged earlier in the day from a Bhopal hospital after getting cured of Covid-19, turned up in saffron clothes before the media and so did state Congress president Kamal Nath on his social media page. Several other leaders including ministers posted their profile photos either in saffron clothes or posted a picture of Lord Ram in place of their profile photos. On the occasion, the state headquarters of the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress parties were both illuminated. In the evening Congress workers worshipped Lord Ram at their state headquarters in Bhopal by placing a framed image of ‘Ram darbar’ at the main gate, lighting lamps and performing an aarti in presence of Kamal Nath and several other senior Congress leaders. Bhajans were sung and Congress workers even chanted ‘Jai Shriram’, said Narendra Saluja, media coordinator of state Congress president. Talking to media persons after he was discharged, Chouhan said PM Narendra Modi was a once-in-five-centuries leader since it was under his leadership that the Central government made forceful pleas before the Supreme Court and the latter ruled in favour of the temple. “We have seen leaders of decades and a century but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the leader of five centuries as one of the most contentious issues in the country was resolved amicably,” Chouhan said. Also Read: Gorakhpur celebrates Ram temple foundation stone laying ceremony with diyas, colours, bhajansSenior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “Laying of foundation stone for the magnificent temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya is a moment of amazing joy and glory for every Indian. Please come together to celebrate the occasion by lighting lamps at our homes and make this historical moment lasting forever.” State Congress president Kamal Nath, who recited Hanuman Chalisa on Tuesday said, “I welcome the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. People in the country had been waiting for and expecting this for a long time. The construction of Ram temple is taking place with consent of every Indian and this is possible in India only.”Also Read: ‘Not surprised by Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple comment’: Kerala CM Vijayan Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh stuck to his stand and said, “Laying of foundation stone for god Ramlala temple in Ayodhya is taking place in violation of the established norms of astrology. I pray to the god to forgive us and grant blessings for construction of the temple without any obstruction.” People across the state celebrated the occasion reciting Sundarkand in temples, greeting one another. Special worship and prayers were organised at Mahakal temple in Ujjain and other temples in Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior, Indore and other districts. Fireworks were organised in Bhopal and people danced while beating drums, as per reports from various parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-once-saffron-cut-across-political-divide-with-ram-temple-event-celebrations-in-mp/story-wi5GrNgKvEYCFl9OWVSnnK.html
05-08-2020||India||Mumbai rains: PM Modi assures all possible help to Maharashtra CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray about the prevailing situation in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rains and assured all possible support, the Prime Minister’s Office said.Incessant heavy rains and strong winds battered Mumbai and adjoining areas on Wednesday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall,” the PMO tweeted.PM Modi assured Thackeray all possible support, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rains-pm-modi-assures-all-possible-help-to-maharashtra-cm/story-YqHkcGrK6xDWECjhn0486M.html
05-08-2020||India||Sangam city loudspeakers give ‘voice’ to Ram temple ceremony in Ayodhya||Though more that 160 km away from the temple town of Ayodhya where the bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking) ceremony took place on Wednesday to lay the foundation of a grand Ram temple, Prayagraj played a significant part in the proceedings. It was a firm from Prayagraj, also called Sangam city, which installed loudspeakers free of cost for the event. Around 3,500 loudspeakers from Prayagraj were used so that residents of Ayodhya could hear bhajans and Vedic mantras during the bhoomi pujan and the addresses by the leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Owner of the firm Praveen Malviya volunteered and offered his service free of cost. “Around 3,500 loudspeakers were sent to Ayodhya on the occasion of bhoomi pujan so that people of Ayodhya could hear the mantras chanted during the ceremony. It was a great opportunity to serve Lord Ram on this occasion,” he said. The firm has been associated with religious events and its loudspeakers have been used during the annual Magh Mela and during Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh fairs for the past many decades. Loudspeakers play an important role during the fairs in making important announcements and contacting the kin of people who get lost in the crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangam-city-loudspeakers-give-voice-to-ram-temple-ceremony-in-ayodhya/story-updIpb0PvILvTUsnVZEZwK.html
05-08-2020||India||Religious fervour as PM Modi lays foundation of Ram Temple in Ayodhya||People including members of Bharatiya Janata Party and Vishwa Hindu Parishad lit earthen lamps in different parts of the country to celebrate laying of the foundation stone of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, as government functionaries, irrespective of political affiliations, termed the event as a “historic moment” for every Indian.There was mood of fervour and accomplishment as saffron group members blew conch shells at 12.15 p.m. when Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered prayers at Ayodhya for laying the foundation of the Ram Temple, and later in the evening lit earthen lamps and held special prayers for Lord Ram at their homes and offices.BJP offices in various states were decorated and live telecasts of the bhoomi pujan were shown on big screens outside the offices. The party members raised slogans of Jai Shri Ram and Jai Siya Ram as special prayers for Lord Ram were held through public address systems. After bhoomi pujan by PM Modi, ladoos were distributed among people at several places.Ram Temples, which were especially decorated for the occasion, witnessed huge attendance of devotees. Entire streets leading to these temples in the Hindi heartland were decorated. Throughout the day, special prayers were held at several temples.However, rains at several parts of the country including Ayodhya on Wednesday dampened the celebrations but not the sentiments. In Raj Bhavans in several states such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, diyas were lit and special prayers were held.Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, who held recitation of Sundarkand with his family members and lit 101 earthen lamps at the Raj Bhawan in Jaipur, said the commitment to build the Ram Temple has been fulfilled. “The temple will be established as a symbol of cultural and national unity and with the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’,” said Mishra, who hails from Uttar Pradesh and was minister in NDA-1.Governors of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Anandiben Patel and Baby Rani Maurya congratulated the Prime Minister saying it as the fulfilment of a big commitment. “The dream of all Hindu believers has moved towards reality today,” Maurya said.Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot expressed hope that it would become a symbol of unity in the country.“His life teaches us the importance of truth, justice, equality for all, compassion and brotherhood. We need to focus on establishing an egalitarian society based on the values espoused by Lord Ram,” Gehlot tweeted. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also tweeted a congratulatory message and said the temple will bring unity and prosperity in the country.West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who had ordered complete lockdown in the state on Wednesday for Covid-19 management, said, “Our country has always upheld the age-old legacy of unity in diversity, and we must preserve this to our last breath!”However, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that several party workers were arrested when they violated the lockdown restrictions to visit local temples in Bengal. At Kharagpur in West Midnapore district police resorted to lathi charge after minor clashes with BJP workers. “Mamata Banerjee is anti-Hindu,” he said.Ruling party chief ministers such as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan termed the day as historic. “This happy moment is historic for every Indian,” Khatter said while his MP counterpart said the “dream of 500 years” has come true.The Ram temple will strengthen peace and humanity in the country, said Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said the dreams of thousands (of people) who sacrificed their lives for the construction of the temple has come true.“There was a long and hard struggle for 500 years. But the power of Indian democratic values, judiciary and executive, under the leadership of PM Modi, has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found peacefully through democratic and constitutional means,” said UP chief minister Yodi Adityanath.Karnataka Minister KS Eshwarappa on Wednesday hailed the laying of foundation stone (bhoomi pujan) for a grand Ram Temple and said “Kashi Vishwanath and Krishna Janmasthan temples have to be liberated”.“A beautiful temple will come up, but there are Kashi Vishwanath and Krishna Janmasthan temples which have to be liberated,” Eshwarappa said.(With state bureau and agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-fervour-as-pm-modi-lays-foundation-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-q5MNa7IenoUjx2vJAoRAbN.html
05-08-2020||India||Monsoon fury leaves Mumbai battered, bruised and waterlogged||Torrential rain and strong wind battered Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Wednesday leaving many areas waterlogged and disrupting traffic.Water entered the state-run J J Hospital in the Byculla area as the rain continued to pound through the day.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the Mumbai municipal corporation to stay on high alert in the view of more rain forecast for Thursday. He took stock of the situation and asked the BMC to coordinate with the police and railway authorities, health machinery and NDRF to ensure that citizens do not face any hardships.The incessant rain and high speed wind disrupted rail and road traffic, tripped power supply and uprooted trees in several areas. Many low-lying areas have been badly waterlogged. Public transport in and around Mumbai which was already operating under restrictions because of the Covid-`19 pandemic, was further disrupted due to waterlogging on rail tracks and roads.Low-lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai reported massive waterlogging.Authorities also pressed into service the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which rescued around 200 passengers from a local train stranded in heavy rain between Masjid Bunder and Byculla stations in the evening.High speed wind also toppled three large cranes at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust in adjoining Raigad district. “Due to high-speed winds, three key cranes fell at one of our terminals, but no one was injured in the incident,” PTI quoted chairman of JNPT Sanjay Sethi as saying.He said the collapse of the cranes won’t affect operations at JNPT, one of the country’s biggest ports.A tower of a telecom company also toppled in the wind near Old Vashi Creek Bridge in Navi Mumbai. At 6 pm, the MeT department issued an alert for intense spells of 30 to 50 mm rainfall per hour with strong winds in Mumbai and suburban areas.It said strong winds could reach up to 70 to 80 km per hour speed and occasionally gust to 100 km per hour in the next three to four hours.The Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour Line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Vadala railway stations. Train services suspended due to waterlogging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services were operational.Train services on Western Railway suspended between Churchgate and Mumbai Central railway stations. “Due to very heavy rain and fallen trees near the tracks at Churchgate, Mumbai Central and in between Marine Lines and Charni Road, the special suburban trains have been suspended temporarily between Mumbai Central and Churchgate. Trains are being reversed from Mumbai Central Dadar, Bandra and Andheri,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.The Central Railway and Western Railway have been operating nearly 350 special train services each daily for those working in essential and emergency services amid the Covid-19 pandemicBus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were also affected due to water-logging on some roads.South Mumbai was badly hit as heavy rains led to waterlogging on several roads and low-lying areas.The Colaba weather observatory recorded 229.6 mm rain in 9 hours (8.30 am to 5.30 pm), heaviest rain for the season for south Mumbai. Santacruz recorded 65.8 mm during this time.According to the IMD, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during a 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-fury-leaves-mumbai-battered-bruised-and-waterlogged/story-0SgGWeYh7I1USUDA4KiM2I.html
05-08-2020||India||With 112 Covid-19 deaths, Tamil Nadu records highest toll in 24 hours||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 112 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, the highest number of fatalities that the state has logged in a single-day till date, taking the death toll to 4,461. The southern state is the second worst-hit in the country after Maharashtra, by the Covid-19 pandemic, with capital city Chennai recording the maximum number of patients.In the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu has added 5,175 new coronavirus cases taking the case count to 2.73 lakh.The number of people who have recovered from the infection has surpassed the fresh cases with 6,031 people getting discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,14,815.Currently, the state has 54,184 active cases of coronavirus, a government health bulletin said.Among the fresh cases, Chennai reported 1,044 patients and three nearby districts of Chengelpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram together logged 1,301 cases crossing the state capital’s count.Tamil Nadu’s case count now stands at 2,73,460 and Chennai accounts for about 1,05,004 patients.After remaining shut for over four months as part of steps taken to fight the infectious disease, gyms in Tamil Nadu are due to open from August 10.Chief Minister K Palaniswami agreed to open gyms after considering a representation from the Tamil Nadu Gym Owners and Trainers Welfare Association. The CM passed an order allowing gyms to resume services from August 10 since the Centre too has allowed such facilities to work from today, the government said.The gyms will be allowed to offer services only to people aged up to 50 years and Standard Operating Procedures, which will be issued separately for them, will have to be followed and social distancing maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-112-covid-19-deaths-tamil-nadu-records-highest-toll-in-24-hours/story-0MXxUkk7r4IZcDEQPau0tO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘I got my calling on the ghats of Varanasi’||Actor Madhrima Roy considers herself lucky that in small span of her career she got a variety of roles to play, that too across mediums, “Mine has been a small journey but still I am content with my work as luckily I got to play diverse characters with wonderful scripts. Though I come from a non-film background, for me reaching to this point has been an overwhelming experience,” she said over the phone. For Madhurima, her journey has been a learning experience. “Hailing from army background, I was brought up in a way where you need to be strong and independent self. I started as insurance salesman when I was studying in Pune and had just completed my college. I remember my father telling me to understand the importance of standing on your own feet and being self sufficient. And then followed a series of jobs and I learnt to do my own things. Then in the middle, I got selected for a Miss India contest in the year 2011. And then modelling happened and I reached Mumbai. To begin with, I took up a job in a public relations company. Meanwhile, I did get an offer for a travel show and got selected. I was paired up with a musician. When we reached Varanasi and happened to perform a small skit on the ghats, I realised that it is acting that I want take up as a career. You can say on the ghats of Varanasi I got my calling.” The pretty actor has been part of films as well as web shows and says it is difficult to choose between the two. “See as far as script, screenplay and characterization is concerned, I can’t differentiate between the two mediums. For me film sets are larger than life where we take one or two scenes and the entire day goes to get that perfect shot; whereas in web series you don’t get too many takes and not too many minutes to shoot in a day. In web, characters are fleshed out in depth as series are longer version of story telling and you get at least seven to eight episodes to bring out layers of any particular character,” she said. The versatile actor has previously appeared in ‘Criminal Justice,’ the third season of ‘Little Things,’ the second season of ‘Inside Edge’ and the first season of ‘Four More Shots Please!.’ In films, she has been part of last year’s release ‘Judgementall Hai Kya’ and The Zoya Factor.She is thrilled with the response a recent OTT show has received. “When I was offered ‘Mafia’, there were multiple things that excited me about the show. First it was a bilingual show (streaming in Hindi and Bangla), a crime thriller and the character I got to play was well written. We shot deep inside a forest that was four hours from Darjeeling in West Bengal and the entire outdoor shoot was such a beautiful experience. Now when the show is so well received and my character Birsa Dsgupta has earned me quite a lot of praise, it’s like all our hard work has paid off.”Madhurima has already started shooting for her upcoming web series, a crime drama ‘Mumbhai.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-got-my-calling-on-the-ghats-of-varanasi/story-6RAFqV6110Zi4bJBeaHRoN.html
05-08-2020||India||MP promotes mask banks to contain Covid-19; survey says 28% people wear masks only to dodge police||The Madhya Pradesh government is promoting mask banks to motivate people under ‘one mask- several lives’ campaign, launched to control spread of coronavirus in the state in view of the state’s decision to not impose any further lockdown restrictions except on Sundays and during the night hours.The decision comes a few days after an online survey covering more than 1,000 people in 70 cities and towns of the state found that 44% people found wearing a mask inconvenient while 28% of the respondents wore masks only due to fear of police personnel. State officials say people’s failure to religiously follow the safety norms is one of the main reasons behind the spread of the virus in the state. Under the ‘ek mask- anek jindagi’ campaign, a part of Kill Corona drive part II, launched for a fortnight from August 1, as many as 1.30 lakh masks were donated by social organisations, public representatives and other people, out of which 1.15 lakh masks have been distributed. All the civic bodies are supposed to run these banks to encourage people to wear masks. Also Read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Urban administration and development minister, Bhupendra Singh, said, “As many as 413 mask banks have been established so far across the state with support of non-government organisations, public representatives and other people.” The focus on encouraging use of masks by the public as a containment tool can be seen in the context of the findings of the online survey conducted by Public Relations Society consisting of former professors from several journalism universities and heads of departments. According to the report, as many as 54% of the respondents said they wore masks to protect themselves from infection while 8% of them said they did it to protect others. “The survey suggested that 9% respondents did not wear face masks, while 28% said they wore face masks only on seeing police personnel. Those not wearing face masks gave two reasons- First, they didn’t step out of their houses, hence they didn’t need it and second, they were strong and therefore nothing would happen to them. A small percentage said face masks were expensive to use,” said Pushpendra Pal Singh, the founder member of the organization. Also Read: Independence Day 2020: Wear your love for the nation on your face mask Singh said while the survey suggested there was massive awareness among people on masks, but still there were people who didn’t wear it at all, and some others, who didn’t wear it regularly or properly. Hence, those ignoring the requirement were not only putting themselves at risk of contracting the virus but also others. The survey, conducted among the youth, also found out that 71% of college-going youth had worn face masks every time while going out in the last seven days, while 16% had worn it occasionally and the remaining wore it rarely. As per the health department’s bulletin released on Wednesday evening, the state has registered 35,734 Covid-19 patients so far with 652 new patients identified in the past 24 hours. A total of 929 patients have died so far. When the unlock period began in the state on June 16, the state had 10,935 patients and 465 casualties, registered in roughly three months since March 20. However, the cases have more than doubled by 24,799 since June 16. Similarly, the unlock period has seen 464 deaths, almost equal the number reported in the first three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-promotes-mask-banks-to-contain-covid-19-survey-says-28-people-wear-masks-only-to-dodge-police/story-QkkFWVtAdRZJjQ5BUXFCuI.html
05-08-2020||India||Gorakhpur celebrates Ram temple foundation stone laying ceremony with diyas, colours, bhajans||The laying of the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday sparked off celebrations in Gorakhpur.Earthen lamps (diyas) were lit on the premises of the Gorakhnath temple where the priests recited verses from the Ramcharitmanas and devotees organised bhajan- kirtan to mark the occasion. “The mahants of the Gorakhnath Math belonging to the Nath panth have played a pivotal role in the Ram temple movement since the British period. The present mahant, Yogi Adityanath, who is the chief minister of the state, also gave momentum to the movement after he joined the Nath panth in 1992. After becoming chief minister, he not only named Ayodhya district, but also upgraded the town to a municipal corporation. He has launched several projects for development of the temple town,” said Kamalnath, a priest at Gorakhnath temple. “Today is a historic day for us. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the (Ram) temple. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as well as a large number of seers from across the country were present on the occasion. Lamps were lit on the samadhis of Mahant Digvijay Nath and Mahant Avaidyanath, two leading lights of the Ram temple movement,” he said. The Covid-19 guidelines were implemented during the celebrations, Kamalnath said. Religious songs were played in other temples of Gorakhpur too. People played with colours at crossings of the city. Besides, a special programme was organised at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s local office. Gorakhpur MP and actor Ravi Kishan too joined the celebrations. “I have urged people to light lamps at their houses to celebrate the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple. For people across the country, it’s Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-celebrates-ram-temple-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-with-diyas-colours-bhajans/story-OzqUBSt3x6WORzAJELN10K.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: ‘A blessed day’, tweets PM Modi on Ram temple bhoomi poojan ceremony and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘A blessed day’: PM Modi tweets on Ram temple bhoomi poojan ceremonyPrime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the day of foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.Read more. ED summons Rhea Chakraborty for questioning on Friday in Sushant Singh Rajput caseEnforcement Directorate on Wednesday issued summons to Sushant Singh Rajput’s former live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty asking her to appear before the agency on Friday at 11 am, said officials privy to the development.Read more. Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is whyPrime Minister Imran Khan’s move to unveil the so-called new ‘political map’ of Pakistan by including the entire erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Junagadh in Gujarat may be an exercise to appease the domestic political sentiments but the move is fraught with serious implications. And none of them are good for Pakistan.Read more. ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949.Read more. Uddhav Thackeray puts BMC on high alert citing more rains in Mumbai on ThursdayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Mumbai municipal corporation to stay on high alert in the view of weather forecast for the current spell of rains to continue on Thursday leading to further water logging and other disruptions to routine life in the city.Read more. Ram Temple | ‘BJP, RSS intervention expedited the process’: Rita JoshiBJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi spoke on the construction of Ram temple. Speaking in a debate at Hindustan Times, Joshi spoke on the politics around the construction of the temple and said the process was expedited by BJP and other Sangh organizations. “The entire country has accepted the decision and people should not try to invoke others,” Joshi said. Joshi added that development is the main goal for the BJP government and that won’t be mixed with religious issues. Watch more. 60 Years of Mughal-e-Azam: Iconic Bollywood film screenplay enters Oscars libraryMughal-e-Azam is a larger-than-life epic that can easily be considered an important chapter for cinema-lovers. The magnum opus, directed by K Asif, is still a captivating watch, 60 years since its release in 1960. Gifted actors such as Prithiviraj Kapoor, Dilip Kumar and Madhubala became synonymous with their onscreen personas - Akbar, Salim and Anarkali.Read more. Samsung Galaxy Note 20 series goes official with big upgrades, improvementsSamsung has officially launched the Galaxy Note 20 series. Thanks to a recent spate of leaks and rumours, there was little left to know about the latest smartphone series. Nonetheless, the new series features Galaxy Note 20 and Galaxy Note 20 Ultra.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-a-blessed-day-tweets-pm-modi-on-ram-temple-bhoomi-poojan-ceremony-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e3IYqQRjCTUWafGDBe7lOL.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Not surprised by Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple comment’: Kerala CM Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday accused the Congress of toeing the ‘soft Hindutva’ line, saying he was not surprised over party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s statement supporting the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya.“We all know who opened the doors of the temple and who allowed ‘Kar Sewa’ which ultimately led to the demolition of the Masjid. The Congress always supported soft Hindutva. So I did not find any surprise in the statements of Congress leaders, including Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi,” the CM said.The Indian Union Muslim League, a major ally of the Congress in Kerala, on Wednesday passed a resolution expressing displeasure over Priyanka Gandhi’s statement on the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, saying her statement was inappropriate and reminded Congress leaders not to dilute their secular credentials. The CPI (M) has been taunting the League, asking it to explain its position after Priyanka lauded the construction of Ram temple. Without taking the name of anyone, the CM said the country was in the midst of a pandemic and all efforts should be there to contain the spread of the virus and it was no time for any celebration or festival. He said politburo has made the position on the temple clear and he did not want to elaborate it further. Meanwhile, the state has reported seven deaths and 1195 new cases. Out of 29,150 total cases active are 11,495 and recovered 17, 537. With seven more casualties the death toll went up to 96 and there are 515 containment spots in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-surprised-by-priyanka-gandhi-s-ram-temple-comment-kerala-cm-vijayan/story-o8QeJvKq1Kp4syHI1PdJGL.html
05-08-2020||India||Three Karnataka links to Ram Temple’s Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya||There are three key Karnataka links to the Bhoomi Pujan conducted in Ayodhya on Wednesday. The first is now well known that the auspicious time or the muhuraat for the foundation stone laying ceremony was recommended by Belgavi-based astrologer N R Vijayendra Sharma.The Abhijit muhurta in Shatabisha Nakshatra was recommended as one of the options after Sharma’s original choice of the event on Akshay Tritiya on April 26, could not be carried out due to the nationwide lockdown because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Similarly, there are two other important associations of the state to the event. The three- feet tall wooden idol of Kodanda Rama (Rama with bow and arrow) presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was made by Kengeri, Bangalore-based wood carving sculptor Rama Murthy. The idol carved from local Thega (teak wood) was sent along with one and half feet tall idols of Lord Ram’s sons Luv and Kush, according to Murthy.The final association is that the ‘Raghupati’ laddoos made of pure ghee and saffron which were distributed after the foundation stone laying ceremony had some of the 20,000 kilograms of ghee which was supplied by the Karnataka Milk Federation. It is the same ghee that KMF retails under the brand name ‘Nandini and which also provides flavour to the famous Tirupati laddoos too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-karnataka-links-to-ram-temple-s-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya/story-kEznVqX9n0dVgOiJe1kgdN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘A blessed day’: PM Modi tweets on Ram temple bhoomi poojan ceremony||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the day of foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya will remain etched in the memory of every Indian. A blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous. @ShriRamTeerth pic.twitter.com/4JbHYcTv0b“A blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous,” the prime minister tweeted. Earlier in the day, the prime minister invoked Lord Ram and goddess Sita and said chants of “Siyavar Ramchandra ki Jai” and “Jai Siya Ram” are resonating not only in Ayodhya but also in the rest of the world. PM Modi also expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-blessed-day-pm-modi-marks-ram-temple-bhoomi-poojan-ceremony/story-I6xfJi48imsqeEoLVwHROP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘See no merit in your petition’: SC to rape-accused bishop Franco Mulakkal||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed deposed Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by a nun, saying that there is no merit in his petition.“You don’t have a case, we do not see any merit in your petition,” said an SC bench headed by CJI SA Bobde.Appearing for Mulakkal, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi sought to convince a bench that his client was being made a victim for proceeding against the nun. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, was not convinced. Mulakkal, while serving as Bishop of Jalandhar Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church, was accused of raping a nun belonging to the Missionaries of Jesus congregation. The complaint was filed with the Kerala police in June 2018. Mulakkal was accused of raping the 43-year-old nun on more than 13 occasions during his visits to the Kerala convent between 2014 and 2016. The victim was the Mother Superior of the convent in question. He was later removed from the charge of the Jalandhar diocese. He first approached the local court in Kerala praying for discharge, claiming that he was being falsely implicated by the victim who had an axe to grind against him after he initiated disciplinary proceedings against her for alleged financial misdemeanors. The plea was dismissed in March following which he approached Kerala High Court. His petition before the HC stated, “Due to the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the petitioner (Mulakkal) against the sister, she has maliciously and falsely implicated him with an ulterior motive to wreak vengeance on him and cooked up this story just because of her personal grudge towards him, without any justification.” After examining the wealth of evidence against him, the July 7 HC order dismissing his petition, noted, “Rape is the most revolting, cruel and hated crime to a woman… Thus when the records indicate that prima facie materials are available to show that the Sister was subjected to sexual assault, including rape, at the hands of the superior authority who is the Bishop of the Diocese, it is not possible to infer that this Bishop was falsely implicated by the Mother Superior of the Home functioning under him, on mere enmity as contended by him.” Mulakkal pinned hopes on the Supreme Court to avert a possible trial. The Kerala government had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court anticipating an order on his plea. The state police filed the charge-sheet in April 2019 naming Mulakkal. Even the Kerala High Court had said that the antecedents of the victim do not make out a case to doubt the prosecution story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/see-no-merit-in-your-petition-sc-to-rape-accused-bishop-franco-mulakkal/story-aDriWTpRLLjiiJj1E7JSGJ.html
05-08-2020||India||ED summons Rhea Chakraborty for questioning on Friday in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday issued summons to Sushant Singh Rajput’s former live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty asking her to appear before the agency on Friday at 11 am, said officials privy to the development.Rhea Chakarborty is said to have gone out of public view ever since she posted a video appeal claiming innocence and wishing that the truth behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s death comes out one day clearing her name. Bihar police has been claiming that it has been unable to trace Chakraborty, who has been accused of diverting huge sums from Sushant’s account apart from keeping him in confinement and harassing him mentally.Also Read: ‘Rhea Chakraborty is absconding, she is not coming forward’ says DGP BiharThe Enforcement Directorate is probing the financial misconduct aspect of the investigation.Earlier today, Central government notified a CBI probe into the abetment of suicide case registered against Rhea Chakraborty by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in Patna. The case was filed several days after Rajput, aged 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Rhea has filed a petition in Supreme Court seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar to Mumbai. During the hearing of the case, the apex court today directed the Mumbai Police to place before it the status report of the probe conducted so far.Also Read: IPS officer asked me to pressurise Rhea Chakraborty: DCP DahiyaAmong the several questions swirling over Sushant’s death, one pertains to alleged financial fleecing of the rising star at the hands of his former girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty. Bihar Police DGP Gupteshwar Pandey in a sensational claim made on Tuesday said that Rs 50 crore was withdrawn from the late actor’s account in the last four years and Rs 15 crore was withdrawn in the last year alone. He also accused the Mumbai Police of deliberately not probing the financial angle in the case. Sushant’s parents and Bihar police have earlier blamed Rhea Chakraborty of manipulating Sushant including diverting his money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-rhea-chakraborty-for-questioning-on-friday-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-GhXq1dH9O3dSEou9wZWZAJ.html
05-08-2020||India||SpiceJet operates two flights from Moscow and Tashkent to repatriate 295 Indians||SpiceJet said on Wednesday that it operated a repatriation flight each from Moscow in Russia and from Tashkent in Uzbekistan, bringing back a total of 295 Indians. These flights were operated in association with film actor Sonu Sood, the airline said in a press release. “The 295 Indian nationals repatriated had been stranded in Russia and Uzbekistan for over two months,” it said. SpiceJet said it used its Boeing 737 aircraft for the Moscow-Chennai flight that was operated on Tuesday and the Tashkent-Delhi flight operated on Wednesday. The low-cost carrier said it will be operating another repatriation flight from Manila to Delhi on August 7 to bring back 180 Indians from the capital city of Philippines. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the pandemic. However, special international charter flights, permitted by the Indian aviation regulator DGCA, have been operating as usual. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-operates-two-flights-from-moscow-and-tashkent-to-repatriate-295-indians/story-evi9ZAeixeSepJ53Z9i5qJ.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Amazing Ayodhya’: New book to tell history of Lord Rama’s birth place||Coinciding with the Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’, publishing house Bloomsbury on Wednesday announced their latest book that will shed light on the history of Ayodhya.Titled “Amazing Ayodhya”, the book by Neena Rai promises to offer “authentic information” about the city, which will not only help understand the life and times of ancient Hindus, but also the revered figures of Rama and Sita.“No one grows up in India untouched by the beautiful story of Ram and Sita. Every Deepavali, one hears about Ram and Sita’s welcome back to Ayodhya. But amongst all the celebrations one hardly pays attention to the fascinating city of Ayodhya. All that we hear about Ayodhya is how the city was lit up to welcome its king and queen. “In order to understand the avatars we worship, we must understand how life and times were in their ‘yug’. ‘Amazing Ayodhya’ is an attempt in gaining knowledge of Ayodhya, its architecture and other details -- like how big was Ayodhya? How was it shaped like? What were the houses like? Who established Ayodhya? What kind of animals lived there?” Rai told PTI.According to the publishers, the well-researched book is replete with descriptions and draws out comparisons of an earlier era with our current life and culture, thus connecting the past with the present.  “The author compares Ayodhya with the cultures of other ancient civilisations so that the reader feels connected to the past and the content of the book appears contemporary.  ‘Amazing Ayodhya’ is a must-read for a better understanding of history, scriptures and Hindu civilisation,” it added.The book will hit the stands in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazing-ayodhya-new-book-to-tell-history-of-lord-rama-s-birth-place/story-GNnrJixUcPkRGiYy7ZoQUN.html
05-08-2020||India||South Mumbai gets season’s heaviest rain in 9 hours, CM Uddhav Thackeray asks people to stay home||With heavy rain battering Mumbai city and adjoining districts from Tuesday night and continuously on Wednesday, the Colaba weather observatory has recorded 229.6 mm rain in about nine hours (from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm)—the season’s heaviest rainfall for south Mumbai. The Mumbai Police has requested people to stay indoors and not to venture out in the stormy weather which is also likely to continue on Thursday, according to the weather forecast. “We request Mumbaikars to stay indoors and not venture out unless it is extremely essential. Practice all necessary precautions and do not venture out near the shore or waterlogged areas,” the Mumbai Police said in a statement.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also appealed to the people to stay indoors and venture out only for essential work. The chief minister asked civic agency-- the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to coordinate with the police and railway authorities, health machinery and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to ensure that people do not face any problems due to the inclement weather.ALSO READ | Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, ThaneState minister for Tourism and Environment Aditya Thackeray took to Twitter and echoed the CM’s thoughts. “While we’ve asked all to stay home, the police and urban/ rural local bodies staff are on the streets and are braving the stormy rains. Please stay home and stay put wherever indoors you are across the entire belt receiving rains,” the Thackeray scion tweeted. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) officials have been directed to ensure that there is no mishap at the ongoing work at Metro Rail sites, a statement from the chief minister’s office said.Heavy rains lashed parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts on Wednesday, affecting some local train and bus services due to water-logging on rail tracks and arterial roads. ALSO READ | Mumbai drowns under its monsoon woesThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already put the city and its suburbs on red alert and issued a warning to people to stay indoors amid forecasts of high tide. Normal life was disrupted across Mumbai and a few districts as heavy rain continued to batter the city.The red alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts of Maharashtra. The weather agency’s warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday but that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday.The Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour railway line between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Wadala railway stations. Train services were suspended due to water-logging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services, however, are currently operational.Due to heavy rain and water-logging, the train services on the Harbour line between CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus) and Vashi and on the mainline between CSMT and Thane have been suspended, the Central Railway informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-mumbai-gets-season-s-heaviest-rain-in-9-hours-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-people-to-stay-home/story-sMPQHwB95O7I44nyg8DlBP.html
05-08-2020||India||Vocal in support for Ram temple now, Congress seeks to change its pro-Muslim party image||The apparent shift in the Congress’ stand on the Ram temple in Ayodhya is widely attributed to the party’s attempt to change the perception of being a pro-Muslim party that was listed by the AK Antony-led panel in 2014 as one of the major reasons for its worst-ever electoral performance in the Lok Sabha polls that year. For the past six years, the grand old party has been trying hard to change that image. Though the Congress had all along maintained that it will abide the Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya issue or support any negotiated settlement arrived at by the parties concerned, it had held that the demolition of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 was a “shameful and criminal act for which the perpetrators must be brought to justice”. It had never been this vocal in its support for the construction of the Ram temple. Barring few exceptions that too privately, majority of Congress leaders had come out in support of the move. Tasked to look into the reasons for the 2014 Lok Sabha poll debacle, a four-member committee, headed by former defence minister AK Antony, in its report concluded that fighting elections on secularism versus communalism plank had hurt the Congress as it was identified a pro-Muslim party which resulted in substantial gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also tried to change that opinion with his frequent temple visits during subsequent elections that prompted his political rivals to charge him with playing a “soft Hindutva” card. He had also visited Ayodhya in September 2016, becoming the first member of the Gandhi family to visit the holy city in 26 years. His father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had visited Ayodhya in 1990. On Wednesday, Rahul Gandhi said Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values and can never appear in cruelty, hatred or injustice but did not mention the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya in his tweet unlike his sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “Maryada Purshottam Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values. He is the core of humanism embedded deep in our hearts. Ram is love, he can never appear in hatred. Ram is compassion. He can never appear in cruelty. Ram is justice, he can never appear in injustice,” he tweeted in Hindi. Soon after the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya came in November last year, the Congress not only welcomed it but also sought to take credit for paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple. The Congress insisted that it was the party-led central government that had acquired the 67 acre land outside the disputed 2.77 acre land in 1993 to maintain the law and order. The opposition party also sought to remind its detractors that it was the Rajiv Gandhi government that allowed the ‘shilanyas’ or a ground-breaking ceremony at an undisputed site close to Babri Masjid and had also opened the doors of the Ram temple in 1986. The credit-taking exercise by the Congress was in line with a view of a section of its leaders, especially from North India, asking that the party should talk openly about the ‘shilanyas’ at Ayodhya in 1986 and the acquiring of land during its tenures to counter the BJP. After the demolition of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992, the PV Narasimha Rao government had acquired the disputed site and 67 acres of land surrounding it through a law passed in 1993. The land included pockets of government land, a disputed shrine and land belonging to the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas. But the Nyas opposed the take over and said the land should be handed over to its rightful owner. The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, met on November 9 last year and unanimously passed a resolution, welcoming the judgment and favouring the construction of the Ram temple. “The Indian National Congress respects the verdict of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya case. We appeal to all the parties concerned and to all communities to abide by the secular values and spirit of fraternity enshrined in our Constitution and to maintain peace and harmony,” the resolution said. The issue also resonated at a meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party’s Rajya Sabha members on July 30. Deepender Singh Hooda said the Congress leaders should speak in one voice and stick to the CWC resolution on the issue as it is attached to the sentiments of millions of Indians. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi had expressed the hope that the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya would be a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony. “Lord Ram belongs to everybody. Lord Ram wants everybody’s welfare. That is why he is called ‘Maryada Purshottam’,” she said in a statement. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath hosted a ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ recital at his residence in Bhopal on the eve of bhoomi pujan on Tuesday and announced that 11 silver bricks, bought from contributions by Congress members, will be sent for the construction of the temple. In Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has announced construction of a “magnificent” Mata Kaushalya (mother of Lord Ram) temple in Raipur and developing religious tourist circuits of Valmiki Ashram at Turturiya, where twins of Lord Ram, Luv and Kush, were said to have born. A 1,000 year-old Shiv temple in Rampal area of Jagdalpur district, believed to have been established by Lord Ram during exile, will also be renovated, the Congress government had said in a statement on Monday. Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and former union minister Manish Tewari welcomed the bhoomi pujan ceremony, saying this was an occasion to resolve to follow the path of ‘Dharma’ set by Lord Ram. A Congress leader on the condition of anonymity dismissed suggestion that the grand old party has shunned ‘soft-Hindutva’ and adopted the ‘hardline Hindutva’ stand, saying Lord Ram is a unifier, the protector and the voice of the oppressed and the deprived and an assimilation of all cultures, castes, class and religions. “The nation and its people must now decide who depicts these values – the assimilating, cohabitating, all-inclusive ideology of the Congress party or the inherently divisive, hateful and parochial ideology of the BJP-RSS,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vocal-in-support-for-ram-temple-now-congress-seeks-to-change-its-pro-muslim-party-image/story-wcqc2lwRs1KOH79y6E3loI.html
05-08-2020||India||China allows Indians to return, puts in place strict Covid-19 medical protocol||Nearly 150 Indians including diplomats’ families, officials of multilateral banks and private individuals are expected to return to China on a special Air India flight from New Delhi to Guangzhou on Thursday.The final sanction from Beijing for their return was preceded by intensive rounds of discussions between Indian and Chinese officials in the backdrop Beijing not allowing Indians into China in the last special flight, which flew in on June 29.Chinese officials had made it clear this time that Indians will only be allowed on Thursday’s flight if each individual had done serum antibody detection and nucleic acid tests within five days (before boarding) and their individual health forms were endorsed by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi.A fresh nucleic acid test has to be done once the passengers disembark in Guangzhou – if positive, the passenger would have to return to New Delhi on the same flight.Also read | ‘India’s move in J&K illegal’: China on one year of Article 370 abrogationPrivately employed Indians planning to return to China had another mandatory requirement to be completed – an invitation letter signed by the local Chinese foreign affairs office where they work.On its way back to New Delhi from the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou on Thursday morning, the flight, part of the fifth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic, is expected to fly back more than 200 Indians.Most returning Indians are students studying medicine in China.The Chinese government allowed Thursday’s VBM flight to bring Indians back to China more than a month after blocking Indian nationals from returning because two returning Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19 on a Shanghai-bound special flight on June 20.Among those returning to China on Thursday are Indians working for the multilateral banks, the New Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.The arriving Indians will be quarantined at hotels designated by local health authorities in Guangzhou for two weeks.China has increasingly restricted foreign nationals from returning to the country unless their return is deemed important by the companies they work. The country has also made it mandatory for everyone to apply for a fresh visa.Also read: Upset at India’s big review of Confucius institutes tomorrow, China says ‘be fair’China has also implemented a strict medical protocol to be followed by those hoping to return.China suspended the entry of foreign nationals holding normal visas or residence permits from March 28 because of the spreading pandemic.Entry of persons with diplomatic visas were not affected except for the fact they could only return on special or chartered flights.In February, India had evacuated hundreds of its citizens from the worst-hit Hubei province in central China, and the first pandemic epicentre, Wuhan city, the provincial capital in two special flights.China has seemingly controlled the Covid-19 outbreak, barring the 300 domestically transmitted cases in Beijing in June, more than 600 cases in Xinjiang in the northwest and 90 cases in the northeastern city of Dalian.The health authorities are monitoring imported cases of Covid-19 – mostly among Chinese nationals returning from abroad.The Chinese mainland reported five new imported Covid-19 cases Tuesday, bringing the total number of imported cases to 2103, the National Health Commission said Wednesday.No deaths had been reported from the imported cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-allows-indians-to-return-puts-in-place-strict-covid-19-medical-protocol/story-QUo9tC2PFyYO9SRwnX8uLL.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi celebrates Ram temple ceremony||Kashi celebrated as Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed bhoomi pujan of Ram temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. While priest Ganesh Dutt Shastri blew a conch shell at his house near Dashashwamedh Ghat as he watched the live screening of the groundbreaking ceremony, others performed yagna and distributed sweets to express their joy.Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV) members recited devotional songs at the Guru Gorakshnath Temple premises in Maidagin area.“Today is a great day for all of us for now a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya is assured,” HYV’s divisional coordinator Ambarish Singh Bhola said.BJP’s Kashi region cleanliness project coordinator Anoop Jaiswal, along with his party workers, offered prayers to Lord Ram near Geeta Temple in the vicinity of Girjaghar intersection and paid floral tributes to late VHP leader Ashok Singhal and Kothari bandhu, the two young RSS workers killed in police firing in Ayodhya in 1990. Also Read: To ‘liberate’ Kashi and Mathura, mosques should give way to mandirs, says Karnataka ministerAmid drumbeats, the BJP workers distributed sweets. Another group of BJP workers offered around 10 kg laddoos at Lord Hanuman Temple on Maidagini intersection.Rudrabhishek was done by BJP workers at Siddheshwar Temple in Asi area while Baba Balakdas with his pupils performed rituals at Patalpuri Mutt.Vivek Singh, a Karni Sena functionary, said their members offered 101 kg laddoos at Sai Temple in Nadesar area. Muslim and Hindu women also celebrated while social worker Nazneen Ansari sang Ram aarti written in Urdu. Ansari, who has written Hanuman Chalisa, Ram Prarthana and Ram aarti in Urdu, is now translating Ramcharitmanas in Urdu.“I have been performing Sri Ram aarti for the last 14 years. Construction of a grand Ram Temple will add to the glory of all,” Ansari said and added, “Lord Ram is ours and we are of Lord Ram.” Also Read: Ram dhun reverberates across continents, Indian community in US celebrates Ram temple bhoomi pujanDr Rajiv Srivastava, founder of Vishal Bharat Sansthan, was also present. A group of Kashi’s Muslim women performed aarti of Lord Ram. RSS workers at Sigra watched the screening of the bhoomi pujan ceremony on television. Circle officer Dashashwamedh Ghat Awadhesh Pandey said security had been increased and the police have been instructed to keep a strict vigil at the ghats. Security was also tightened around the prominent religious places, including the temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-constituency-varanasi-celebrates-ram-temple-ceremony/story-UMz3wPMu0Kn81SVO863yVI.html
05-08-2020||India||Centre asks CBI to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case||The Centre on Wednesday evening issued a notification asking the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a day after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar demanded such a probe. On Monday, political leaders cutting across party lines pushed for a CBI probe into the case in the Bihar assembly.Uddhav Thackeray, Nitish Kumar’s counterpart in Maharashtra, where the actor died, and the western state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh had both earlier ruled out a CBI probe.The agency is likely to register an FIR by later tonight or early morning on Thursday, said officials aware of the developments. Earlier today, the Centre told the Supreme Court that it has accepted the request by the Bihar government to order a CBI probe in Sushant Singh Rajput case. “Union of India has in principle accepted the request by Bihar to have a CBI probe. Notification regarding the same will be issued by end of day today,” the court was told.The late actor’s father had alleged that there were unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account involving actor Rhea Chakraborty, a film and TV actor, and others. He had accused Chakraborty of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career.The actor’s father, who also sought a CBI probe, had said on Monday he had filed a complaint with Mumbai Police in February claiming Rajput’s life was in danger. The revelation came as Singh filed an FIR with Patna police, alleging Mumbai police of inaction even after 40 days of the actor’s sudden death.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said the actor died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-cbi-to-investigate-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-had-demanded-probe/story-6l2HuuLZuDOboZ8X5CZWwO.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s mother watches Ram temple event on TV as son plays key part||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mother Heeraben was seen on Wednesday watching the action from Ayodhya on her television set as her son performed the groundbreaking ceremony for a proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya, the very site where the Babri Masjid once stood. Pictures showed Heeraben, her hands joined in prayer, surveying the action on the flat screen TV as PM Modi went about playing his part in the proceedings. Heeraben, who lives in Gandhinagar, was seen lighting diyas in April after PM Modi made an appeal to the nation in its fight against coronavirus. She has been a great champion of the causes her son espouses: be it donating to the PMCARES fund or lighting diyas or getting in a queue during demonetisation move. Across the country, people remained glued to their television sets as Modi performed the bhoomi pujan at the Ram JanmabhoomiThe wait of centuries has ended, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said after performing the groundbreaking ceremony.Beginning his speech with “Jai Siya Ram”, the prime minister told the gathering that a grand temple will now be built for “Ram Lalla”, the infant Ram, who had been living in a temporary tent for years.“Many people made sacrifices for the Ram temple. I pay my respects to all of them,” he said in the speech that followed the laying of the foundation for the Ram temple.He also released a postage stamp to mark the event.Sending out the message that “Ram is everywhere, Ram belongs to all”, Modi said the temple symbolises India’s rich heritage and will be an inspiration to all of humanity.Despite efforts to eradicate Lord Ram’s existence, he lives in our hearts and is the basis of our culture, Modi said.Citing Lord Ram’s message, Modi said the more powerful India gets, the more it will be loved and remain peaceful.“Social harmony was the core principle of Lord Ram’s governance,” the prime minister said.The construction of the Ram temple is an instrument to unite the country, he said, adding that it will lift the economy of the entire region.“We have to join stones for the construction of Ram temple with mutual love, brotherhood,” he said, asserting that everyone’s sentiments have to be taken care of.Last November, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the site where the 16th century Babri mosque was demolished in December 1992.While allotting the Ram Janmabhoomi site for a temple to be built by a trust, it ordered that a five-acre site should be found elsewhere in Ayodhya for a new mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mother-watches-ram-temple-event-on-tv-as-son-plays-key-part/story-0WQxHYGWKQDQN9FnMMOyiN.html
05-08-2020||India||500-years-long wait is over, wish of India’s 135 crore people fulfilled: Yogi on Ram Mandir bhoomi poojan||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple has marked the end of a 500-year-long wait and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for paving way for construction of the temple through a democratic and constitutional process.“A 500-year-long wait for this historical day culminated today because of Prime Minister Modi. The wishes of India’s 135 crore people and the well-wishers of Sanatan Dharma followers have been fulfilled,” said Adityanath who began his address with couplets from the Ramcharitmanas of sage Tulsidas.After the ceremony, Adityanath said that the power of Indian democracy and judiciary had shown the world how solutions to problems can be found through democratic and constitutional means. Attributing the initiation of temple construction to the PM Modi, he said, “Prime Minister’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue.”“In this 500-year-long struggle, many brave men and women laid down their lives. The struggle went on for this goal. Prime Minister Modi showed that the resolution of the problem through peaceful means was possible. We could fulfil the dream of Ram temple because we abided by the constitution,” the chief minister said. “Deepotsav ceremony was started in Ayodhya three years ago. Now, it is getting materialised (by bhoomi pujan). Work is in progress on the Ramayan circuit. Now, development of Ayodhya will take place,” said the chief minister while addressing the gathering on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus after the bhoomi pujan. BEGINNING OF A NEW INDIA: BHAGWATSoon after the bhoomi pujan ceremony, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said that this is the beginning of a new India.“Our country believes in ‘Vasudev Kutubhkam’ i.e. world is one family. We believe in taking everyone along. Today is a new beginning of a new India,” he said while addressing the gathering.There was a wave of joy in the whole country now and it was a pleasure to have centuries of fulfilment, Bhagwat said.“When the then RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras told me that 20-30 years of hard work was required for construction of Ram Mandir, I took a pledge (for construction of Ram Mandir).”“Construction of Ram temple is not like construction of any other temple,” Bhagwat added.Remembering those who could not be present on the occasion, including BJP veteran LK Advani, he said, “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here. Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should have come but could not because of the situation (Covid-19).”The RSS chief also remembered late VHP president Ashok Singhal and the late Mahant Ramchandra Paramhans Das, who had spearheaded the movement for the construction of temple. WISHES OF RAM BHAKTS FULFILLED: NRITYA GOPAL DASShri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das also addressed the gathering and spoke about early completion of the temple “The wishes of Ram bhakts living across the globe has been fulfilled today with the Shree Ganesha (beginning) of the construction of the Ram temple. People will get to see that the Ram temple is built,” Das said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-years-long-wait-is-over-wishes-of-india-s-135-crore-people-fulfilled-yogi-on-ram-mandir-bhoomi-poojan/story-Au7UebFujK9LqEMkaHTMVN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Bound to values of Ram’: Uma Bharti sheds reluctance, attends Ram Temple ceremony||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti finally attended the foundation stone laying ceremony for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday after initial reluctance.Bharti, earlier on August 3, had declared her intention to skip the main ceremony in Ayodhya citing the threat from coronavirus infection to dignitaries such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She had said she will instead be present chanting hymns at the banks of Sarayu river in the city.However, Bharti, a prominent figure of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, tweeted on Wednesday to say she was bound by her faith in Lord Ram and since she was invited by the top officials of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust and asked by them to attend the grand event, she would oblige.“I am bound by the values of Maryada Purshottam Ram. I have been instructed to be present at the site for the groundbreaking ceremony by a senior official of the Ram Temple trust. Therefore I will be attending this programme.,” she tweeted this morning. Also Read: Ayodhya relives ‘Ramayan’ days; People throng shops with TV sets to watch Ram Mandir bhoomi poojanBharti was seen seated next to Sadhvi Rithambara, another prominent leader of the Ram temple movement, during the ceremony.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev and Swami Avadeshanand Giri, head of the Juna Akhara, were also present at the ceremony.Senior Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader Dinesh ji, who goes by one name, introduced RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to saints present at the venue.Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim litigant in the Ayodhya title suit, too, attended the ceremony. But Mohammad Sharif, a Padma Shri awardee, could not attend the event due to ill-health. Both are residents of Ayodhya.Also Read: Lord Ram is within all of us: PM Modi’s top quotes after Ayodhya bhoomi poojanAfter Prime Minister Narendra Modi left the venue, some of the invitees also went to the ceremony site and paid their respects there.Other stalwarts of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement including former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani, former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh were not present in person for the ceremony due to the greater threat Covid-19 infection poses to elderly people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bound-to-values-of-ram-uma-bharti-sheds-reluctance-attends-ram-temple-ceremony/story-QCfPikwc5po3i3eqOENxxO.html
05-08-2020||India||Bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya will establish self-confidence for making India self-reliant: Mohan Bhagwat||The ground breaking ceremony of a Ram temple in Ayodhya has spread joy across the country and will establish the self confidence needed for making India self-reliant, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said. Recalling the three-decade-old struggle of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its ideological family members for the construction of the temple, he hailed the contribution of veteran BJP leader LK Advani, late VHP president Ashok Singhal and Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans.There are many people who worked hard and some even sacrificed their lives for the temple, many may not be here physically, Bhagwat said remembering Singhal and spiritual face of the temple movement late Paramhans.“While there are some like Advani ji who led rath yatra but could not come due to the current situation (Covid-19 pandemic). He must be watching this from his home on TV,” Bhagwat said while addressing from the Ram temple site in Ayodhya. Bhagwat, the guest of honour for the ground breaking ceremony, termed it is a moment of joy asserting “there is a wave of happiness in the country”.“There is a pleasure of fulfilment of a dream for years. But the greatest joy is establishment of the self confidence and self-sufficiency needed for making India self-reliant is realised today,” said the RSS chief, who sat along with Modi at the havan ceremony. With the bhoomi pujan, the Sangh’s three-decade-old pledge of constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya is being realised, he said.“When we had taken the pledge, our then Sangh chief Balasahab Deoras had told us we would have to work hard continuously for 20-30 years and we did,” Bhagwat said, adding today the society is realising the joy of fulfilment of its pledge.Emphasising that the foundation stone of the temple laid on Wednesday signifies the spirit to take everyone along, he said it is being done by the able leadership of the country to make India a global leader.Requesting people to follow the ideals of Lord Ram to regain the past glory of the country, Bhagwat said people should also build an Ayodhya inside them based on values and teachings of its king to make India great.Projecting Ram as an universal king, the RSS chief said he belongs to all and all belongs to him.Bhagwat was one of the selected invitees at the ‘bhoomi poojan’ ceremony of the Ram temple at the site where a large number of Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.Construction of the Ram temple has been a core issue of the RSS, and it has been providing all necessary support to its ideological family members BJP and VHP to realise this long awaited mission of the saffron organisations.Besides Bhagwat, top office bearers of Sangh - its general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, its joint general secretaries Krishna Gopal and Dattateya Hosabale were also present at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhoomi-poojan-in-ayodhya-will-establish-self-confidence-for-making-india-self-reliant-mohan-bhagwat/story-i39nyzjVadqLOuLYfscqkL.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC reserves order on petition seeking quashing of probe against Union minister Shekhawat||After hearing arguments for three hours on Wednesday, a single bench of Rajasthan High Court reserved its order on the petition filed on July 28 seeking quashing of a lower court order that directed investigation against Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in a cooperative society scam case. Jaipur additional district judge no. 8 Pawan Kumar, on July 21, directed the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police to probe the alleged role of the Union minister, his wife Naunad Kanwar and their alleged friends Rajendra Baheti and Kevalchand Dakliya in the Rs 884-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society fraud case. The fraud case was registered by the SOG in August 2019. Also read: Rajasthan HC issues notice to Speaker on appeal seeking stay on merger of six BSP MLAsThe lower court issued the order on the basis of a revision petition filed by two complainants, Ladu Singh and Guman Singh from Barmer, who had invested Rs 68 lakh in the co-operative society and were denied their dues upon maturity of the sum. The petition to quash the lower court’s order was filed in the HC by Kevalchand Dakliya who is allegedly Shekhawat’s friend and a shareholder in Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society “After arguments, the court has reserved its orders,” said Vivek Bajwa, counsel for Dakliya. Also read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Ladu Singh’s counsel, AK Jain, said that the argument started at around 12.30 pm and ended around 3.30 pm after which the single bench of justice Satish Kumar Sharma reserved its orders. “My arguments were that the HC should not intervene in the case as it’s not a matter of injustice. The lower court has not taken any cognizance in the case but only issued directions,” Jain said. The SOG had registered the case against the co-operative society on August 23, 2019, after a preliminary inquiry on the basis of the complaints by investors. The SOG had found that 50,000 investors were defrauded of Rs 884 crore. Meanwhile, the hearing on the bail application of Sanjay Jain, a power broker arrested on charges of toppling the government, will take place in the lower court on Thursday. Jain was arrested on the night of July 17 by the SOG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-reserves-order-on-petition-seeking-quashing-of-probe-against-union-minister-shekhawat/story-YUIquHJwxFmqUAwtv3PAaL.html
05-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand sets up temporary jail at AIR centre in Almora to check Covid-19 among prisoners||Almora jail administration in Uttarakhand has set up a temporary jail at the staff quarters of Akashvani centre in the district for new inmates to ensure that prisoners in the main district jail are not infected by Covid-19.Satish Sukhija, senior jail superintendent of Almora said “We have set up a temporary jail at staff quarters phase-3, Akashvani centre Almora for new inmates. Whenever new inmates come, they will be kept in this temporary jail.”“Twenty-two inmates have been brought in this jail so far. Eleven police personnel have been posted at this jail for security,” he said.Officials said the jail administration has acquired seven staff quarters at Almora Akashvani Centre premises where new inmates will be kept there for at least 18 days and then they will be shifted to district/central jails in Almora and Bageshwar.“Each new inmate will be kept here for 18 days. After this period they will undergo Covid-19 test. Once they test negative they will be shifted to the main jail”, Sukhija said.Sukhija also said that it is a very tough task to maintain social distancing in jails. “No matter how much effort is made, rules are not followed. So we have decided to keep the new inmates in temporary jail,” he saidAll India Radio officers in Almora who did not wish to be named, said authorities took over these quarters even after their opposition. “After the temporary jail was built here, the families of the other employees living here are facing problems. It has become difficult for women, children to leave their houses”, said one AIR officerAccording to jail officials around 168 prisoners are lodged in main jails of the district.Coronavirus has infected many inmates in jails of US Nagar and Nainital districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sets-up-temporary-jail-at-air-centre-in-almora-to-check-covid-19-among-prisoners/story-UmEFtWpXi2o3kgcOLJP5JL.html
05-08-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was discharged from a private hospital here on Wednesday after recovering from coronavirus infection, an official said.Doctors have advised Chouhan, who was in the hospital for 11 days, to stay in home-quarantine and monitor his health for a week, the official added.Chouhan, 61, tested positive for coronavirus on July 25.He tweeted on Sunday that he did not have any symptoms of the infection and would be discharged if he tested negative in the latest test.In a health bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Chirayu hospital where he was admitted said Chouhan had been asymptomatic for the past 10 days.The doctors who were treating him found that all his clinical parameters within normal limits, it said.“They (doctors) advised discharge as per the ICMR policy dated May 8, 2020, wherein patients can be discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset and no fever for three days.There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” the bulletin said.Chouhan, in a tweet, thanked the hospital staff and said there was no need to fear, but people should be careful.He urged people not to hide coronavirus symptoms, and consult a doctor and follow the guidelines.State BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said the chief minister was in sound health.Welcoming the news, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh advised Chouhan to follow all the isolation norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-discharged-from-hospital-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-C9yQ6G3XYDYmNNMWCKHS6N.html
05-08-2020||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad moved to RIMS director’s bungalow amid Covid-19 fear, BJP cries foul||Incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Jharkhand, was moved to the hospital director’s bungalow on Wednesday in view of his clinical safety arising from the spurt in Covid-19 infection. Ranchi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Kumar Jha confirmed that Prasad was moved to director’s bungalow. “RIMS and the jail administrations had decided to move Prasad from the paying ward and it was carried out today,” Jha said. Prasad’s moving was being speculated ever since a dedicated Covid-19 ward started functioning in RIMS after the pandemic broke out. It gained momentum after one of his caretakers tested positive Covid-19 recently. However, the former Bihar chief minister underwent a Covid-19 test which came out negative on July 26. Also read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Several rooms on the floor where Prasad was admitted were also occupied due to security reasons, which were now needed for the treatment of coronavirus patients, a RIMS official said requesting anonymity. Jharkhand’s total Covid-19 tally crossed 14,000, of which Ranchi accounts for over 2,500 cases. The number of active cases was registered at 1,802 in Ranchi till Tuesday evening. Superintendent of Birsa Munda Central Jail, where Prasad was imprisoned before he was admitted to RIMS, Hamid Akhtar said, “We had received a request from the RIMS administration regarding Prasad’s movement to the bungalow. They said as Covid-19 cases are rising, they wanted to use other rooms which were occupied due to security reasons for Prasad.” Finally, it was decided that Prasad would be moved to the director’s bungalow, which is also a part of the RIMS campus, Akhtar added. The official residence of the RIMS director has been vacant after former director Dr DK Singh left RIMS last month. The incumbent director, Dr Manju Gari, is yet to move in. Earlier, the police administration carried out the security audit of the bungalow on receiving the request letter from the RIMS administration. Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving a jail term after being convicted in the fodder scam cases and was admitted to the RIMS paying ward with stage-3 kidney problems in December 2018. Meanwhile, he applied for a regular bail in July. The state BJP termed Prasad’s shifting to director’s bungalow as special treatment by the incumbent Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Congress-led government in Jharkhand in the view of upcoming Bihar election. “Now, the director’s bungalow would turn into an RJD headquarter where Bihar poll strategies would be chalked out,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. The JMM, however, rubbished the allegation describing it as the BJP’s stunt to get political mileage. “Prasad is imprisoned. How can the director’s bungalow turn into RJD headquarter? Since BJP has no work, it is levelling baseless allegation,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. He said the jail and the RIMS administration took the decision in view of Prasad’s age and rising cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-moved-to-rims-director-s-bungalow-amid-covid-19-fear-bjp-cries-foul/story-OfuVy0ZtCfKMz6RYAyM0RI.html
05-08-2020||India||Cong placates Kerala ally Muslim League over Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple endorsement||The Congress party heaved a sigh of relief after the Muslim League, one of its oldest allies, diluted its tough position on general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s statement lauding Ram temple construction and limited its criticism to terming it “inappropriate and untimely” in a party resolution passed on Wednesday. The resolution passed in an emergency meeting of the League’s executive committee in Malappuram also asked Congress leaders not to dilute their secular credentials. In her tweet Priyanka had said “boomipoojan” will be “an occasion for national unity, fraternity and cultural congregation.”“The Congress is a secular party. We are upset with statements of some of its leaders including that of Priyanka Gandhi, which we feel are inappropriate and untimely,” said the resolution. The League has also asked its leaders not to air their opinions freely on this issue.Also Read: Hours before Ayodhya event, Muslim body questions Supreme Court judgementMany senior Congress leaders including AICC general secretary K C Venugopal had called Muslim League leaders not to take any hasty decision when assembly elections are only nine months away.After Priyanka Gandhi’s statement, party’s senior leader E T Mohammad Basheer MP had expressed reservations. State Congress leaders were in a piquant situation after the ruling CPI(M) and others taunted the League to explain its position on the contentious issue. A worried Congress was forced to seek intervention of the party high command to cool tempers within the League ranks.“The League is a trusted partner of the UDF. Any attempt to create a wedge will not succeed,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy, who enjoys a good rapport with the League leadership. League leader P K Kuhalikutty also shared this view later. The League has been a part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) since the coalition was formed in late seventies. But before this, it was in the left camp and shared power in the second EMS Namboodiripad ministry in 1967.Eying the minority vote bank, the CPI(M) has been wooing unhappy League leaders for quite some time. The party has accommodated many erstwhile League leaders including former MP T K Hamsa and state higher education minister in the Pinarayi government, K T Jaleel. The temple issue had caused a split in the League after the demolition of Babri Masjid when senior leader Sulaiman Sait and others walked out of the party questioning its alliance with the Congress. Also Read: Kerala physician among 3 Indian Islamic State operatives killed in Afghanistan prison attackA moderate face in Kerala, the party lost some of its ground to fundamentalist outfits after the masjid demolition but later bounced back. After the Congress, it is the second biggest party in the UDF with two MPs in Lok Sabha from the state. “The party will have to prevail over hardliners so it called an emergency meeting to cool tempers. Otherwise the party has good equations with the Congress leadership,” said political observer Sunnkutty Abraham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-placates-kerala-ally-muslim-league-over-priyanka-gandhi-s-ram-temple-endorsement/story-KXZ8XlPXp4mLGGIkMj4MMI.html
05-08-2020||India||Indian School of Business to help Andhra govt revive economy in post-Covid-19 world||Hyderabad-based Indian School of Business (ISB), one of the prestigious business schools in the country, will help the Andhra Pradesh government in reviving the state’s economy and generation of employment in the state in the post-Covid-19 scenario. On Wednesday, the state government entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the ISB to work with various departments for chalking out measures for economic recovery and growth monitoring. Chief executive officer of the state economic development board (EDB) J V N Subramanyam and ISB dean Prof Rajendra Srivastava exchanged the MoU in the presence of state industries and commerce minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy. Reddy told reporters later that the ISB would be the knowledge partner of the state government to work on various initiatives such as skill development, e-governance, turning Vishakhapatnam into a growth engine and improving value addition in food processing etc.” He said the ISB would nurture a think tank by setting up a policy lab called “GoAP-ISB Policy Lab,” a public policy laboratory to drive evidence-based policy decisions. “It aims to create a Knowledge Bank for strategic planning, policy analysis, data analytics and action-research essential for sustaining high rates of growth,” he said. The policy lab would also focus on investment flows, employment generation and wealth creation. “The lab will be modelled on the lines of Policy Lab in the UK cabinet and would enable greater synergistic functioning of departments and work towards the objective of economic monitoring, recovery, and development,” the minister said. Special chief secretary, industries and commerce Karikal Valaven, secretary of information technology-enabled services and communications Bhanuprakash Yetaru and managing director of AP state skill development corporation Arja Sreekanth were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-school-of-business-to-help-andhra-govt-revive-economy-in-post-covid-19-world/story-KPZEFwpB248bw4ZgwltKMM.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya relives ‘Ramayan’ days; People throng shops with TV sets to watch Ram Mandir bhoomi poojan||From blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells to ceaseless chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Siyavar Ramchandra Ki Jai’, streets of this temple town got immersed in a religious fervour on Wednesday as the foundation laying ceremony for a Ram Temple got underway here. Some jewellery shops in the famous Shrigaar Haat area turned into places for community television spots as passers-by and even some security personnel and mediapersons joined shopkeepers to watch the live telecast of ‘bhoomi poojan’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the temple and his speech. Many recalled that these scenes were similar to ones quite common in late 1980s when ‘Ramayan’ serial was telecast on Doordarshan and people used to gather at few houses and shops having TV sets. Rooftops of buildings in the area, close to Hanumangarhi Temple, became hubs and vantage points for video journalists and photographers, while roadside trees provided the much-needed shade to security forces deployed for the occasion.  Some shopkeepers were also seen distributing laddoos (sweets), while saffron flags with pictures of Lord Ram and Lord Hanuman were seen on many balconies, verandahs and rooftops. While only a few shops were open and police barricades stopped people well before the ceremony area, crowds gathered on rooftops with social distancing making way for heavy jostling among people to get a glimpse of what many described as a historic moment for Ayodhya, a Sanksrit word that means ‘unconquerable’ and has long been known as birthplace of Lord Ram. Chants of Jai Shri Ram, blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells reached a crescendo the moment the word got around about Modi’s arrival at the main venue, where access was highly restricted due to safeguard measures in place to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Another round of chants began when the prime minister began his speech with ‘Jai Siya Ram’ and crowds in front of TV sets also responded loudly to Modi’s ‘Siyavar Ramchandra ki Jai’ slogan. Wearing a green-coloured mask, 60-year-old Shanti, who was glued to a TV set at a jewellery shop, said, “I feel extremely overwhelmed to experience this glorious and historic moment. I feel happy that now the Ram temple will be built.” Mahendra Yadav, seated next to Shanti, said, “It is a very important moment in my life, and I am going to cherish it to the hilt. If possible, I will tell stories about this day to my grandchildren.” Many were also seen reciting couplets of Ramcharit Manas quoted by Modi in his speech. Nagraj said, “Though, I am sitting at Shringaar Haat, I feel like sitting at the site of Bhoomipujan.” Shiv Dayal Soni, a third-generation jeweller, said, “It was a different type of footfall at my shop today. I did not get any customers today and instead devotees came here and watched the live telecast of Bhoomi poojan and the speech of Prime Minister Modi.” Glued to TV at the same place, along with many passers-by and some security personnel, Savitri Soni said, “I feel proud to witness this momentous occasion. People coming here at the shop and watching this event on television gives me immense satisfaction. Today’s scene reminds me of the first Ramayan serial, when people used to gather the house of a person having a television, and Ramayan was collectively viewed.” As people were chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’, a ‘Chabiwala Baba’ also arrived on the scene with a nearly 3-feet long key made of cardboard. When asked about the key, he said, “This is the key of knowledge and it has the power to bring transformation and change of heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-relives-ramayan-days-people-throng-shops-with-tv-sets-to-watch-ram-mandir-bhoomi-poojan/story-QKVocROp9s6bziq4pJrCXM.html
05-08-2020||India||On big Ram temple day, Uttar Pradesh BJP leader recalls his ‘prized’ possession||Amid celebrations in Ayodhya over the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a proposed Ram temple, Uttar Pradesh BJP leader Sunil Bharala on Tuesday said he still has his “prized” possession at home – a piece of a brick of the Babri mosque that was demolished 28 years ago by a frenzied mob. Sunil Bharala was a young BJP functionary, after a stint with the RSS, when he participated in kar seva in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Presently, he is the chairman of Uttar Pradesh labour welfare council, a post equivalent to a minister of state. “There was a mad scramble among kar sevaks to possess a piece of brick of the structure whose three domes had for decades mocked Hindus and symbolised religious persecution of the majority in their own country...I still have the prized brick at home,” Bharala told Hindustan Times.Back then, Bharala was a functionary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha’s Daurala unit. “I remember that bigger leaders like LK Advaniji were on stage and repeatedly cautioning kar sevaks against taking the law into their hands. Yet, till the time he was on stage, the crowd respected his words. But the moment he left, slogans like ‘ek dhakka aur do... (just one more push...)’ were raised and they charged up many young kar sevaks like me,” he recalled. Cut to present, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who was in Ayodhya for the bhoomi poojan today, also remembered LK Advani and said had it not been for coronavirus, Advani would have been in Ayodhya. “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (Covid-19),” said Mohan Bhagwat.Bharala spoke about how kar sevaks carried with them hand pump handles and other heavy hand-held iron instruments but stopped short of conceding that the build up at Ayodhya on December 6 was planned.“For years those domes were symbols of Hindu suppression. For years, those symbols would mock us. I guess the patience of Hindus had run out. Leaders like Sadhvi Rithambhara’s speeches filled the cadres with renewed vigour and I guess it would have been impossible for anyone to stop them then,” Bharala recalled. “I was associated with the RSS and all that I knew was that the Babri domes appeared to mock us. So, aware of the kar seva, we decided to leave for Ayodhya in a white car, which had UP ‘government’ written on it. That helped us fox the police at many places and since we had changed our attire from dhoti kurta to shirts and trousers, policemen didn’t suspect us,” Bharala said. He said when they reached Ayodhya, Dinesh Sharma, present deputy CM, and Sadhvi Rithambhara were there. In no time they were next to the disputed structure, which was brought down in a surprisingly quick time, he added.“I still remember the stampede that followed as the police opened cane charge to disperse the mob. I don’t know how long I ran and how far? But, when I stopped, I realised I had run away a bit too far. I only had Rs 20 with me. Somehow I reached home but the scramble for the brick piece, the way we foxed cops and the dash for safety are still etched in my memory. Today, all seems worth it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-prized-babri-mosque-brick-at-home-up-minister-on-big-ram-temple-day/story-IMc4F8BTCfU0PTso5I7T8K.html
05-08-2020||India||To ‘liberate’ Kashi and Mathura, mosques should give way to mandirs, says Karnataka minister||K S Eshwarappa, a senior minister in Karnataka declared shortly after the ground breaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya that the focus would be next on “liberating” Kashi and Mathura.Eshwarappa who is the panchayat raj and rural development minister in chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s cabinet was speaking at an event in Shivamogga district where puja and havans were organized to mark the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya.“A mark of slavery has been erased. Two more remain at Kashi and Mathura, which need to be (erased) and where the mosques should give way to mandirs.” The minister who is also a former president of the Karnataka unit of the BJP said that all efforts should be carried out to ensure that other marks of slavery (ghulamgiri) are erased to build a strong India.Congress spokesperson B L Shankar refused to comment on the remarks of Eshwarappa saying “We don’t know whether this is the official stance of BJP as a party or Eshwarappa’s personal stance. If the BJP takes a stand on this, then only we will comment on the matter.”Incidentally, the Congress has also welcomed the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya but has said the issue should be used to unite and not divide people. KPCC President D K Shivakumar had declared on Tuesday that ‘Lord Ram is in the hearts of all Congressmen.”Earlier Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be Lord Ram’s birthplace in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-liberate-kashi-and-mathura-mosques-should-give-way-to-mandirs-says-karnataka-minister/story-a9QCdlTwEhRC7QGzmIslkI.html
05-08-2020||India||First-of-its-kind mobile Covid-19 lab dedicated to public||Touted as a first of its kind in the nation, a mobile Covid-19 lab was inaugurated on Wednesday by the Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar.The lab, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) can do 9,000 RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests per month, an official press release said here. “This is a unique lab having all safety features and capable of producing 100% accurate results within four hours,” Dr Sudhakar was quoted as saying in the press release. The Indian Institute of Science (IISC) had developed the lab and handed it over to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). The mobile lab can also be used for molecular diagnostic-testing and can be deployed in coronavirus hot spots quickly, the release said adding, apart from Covid-19, the lab can be utilised for testing H1N1, HCV, TB, HPV and HIV among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-of-its-kind-mobile-covid-19-lab-dedicated-to-publicd/story-edN33DoT3kWsSDyYLaZwrN.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC issues notice to Speaker on appeal seeking stay on merger of six BSP MLAs||The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday asked state assembly Speaker CP Joshi to respond by Thursday to the petition filed by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) seeking an immediate stay on the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress.The six MLAs, who won the BSP ticket, had joined the Congress in September 2019 and the Speaker had approved the merger next day. The MLAs are Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).The Bharatiya Janata Party had opposed the merger and sought the disqualification of the six MLAs in February 2020. Joshi on July 30 rejected the disqualification petition.Besides BSP, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar had filed a petition with the single bench of Rajasthan High Court seeking a stay on Speaker’s order. The single bench sought reply from Joshi and the six MLAs by August 11.Also read: Rajasthan govt cracks whip on Mukundra officers after death of two adult tigers On Tuesday, the BSP and Dilawar filed a review petition with the division bench of the High Court seeking a stay on the merger of BSP MLAs with the Congress. “The division bench comprising chief justice Indrajeet Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta has issued notice to assembly Speaker and has sought a reply by tomorrow,” said Dinesh Kumar Garg, counsel for BSP.He said the arguments on behalf of the BSP were made by BSP national general secretary Satish Mishra and on behalf of the BJP the arguments were made by Harish Salve.Garg said that earlier, they had prayed the court to accept their special appeal and to suspend the order of assembly Speaker dated September 18, 2019, whereby he had declared that 6 elected representatives of BSP have merged with Indian National Congress.He said, earlier, the single bench of the HC had issued a notice to the six MLAs who, at present, are in a private hotel in Jaisalmer and had sought a reply by August 11.“As per the news published in the newspapers that the six MLAs were staying at a hotel in Jaipur and now been shifted to a hotel in Jaisalmer, service of the notices upon the respondents is not possible and the session of the assembly is proposed to be started on August 14. If the stay prayed for is not granted the present, the matter would be rendered infructuous and will defeat the whole purpose of filing the present writ petition before the court,” Garg said. BJP spokesperson Pankaj Meena said that it’s a fact that the nod to the merger of the MLAs was biased. “This notice reflects that the merger of the BSP MLAs with the Congress was not fair and the issuing of notice is indicative of the fact,” Meena said. BSP state president Bhagwan Singh Baba said that the party is excited as the case is moving swiftly and in the right direction. “The issuing of the notice is a positive indicator and we have full faith in the judiciary, we will get justice,” Baba said. State Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said that the matter is subjudice. “I can only say that the Speaker is a constitutional post and the decision taken by him were constitutionally and legally correct,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-issues-notice-to-speaker-on-appeal-seeking-stay-on-merger-of-six-bsp-mlas/story-GhZtQY4axQHUv5tmBtJAaN.html
05-08-2020||India||India crosses two crore Covid tests, more than six lakh daily tests on last two days||The Union health ministry has released data to show that India is continuously ramping up its Covid 19 testing capabilities to cross two crore cumulative tests mark including more than 6 lakh samples tested over 24 hours for two consecutive days.The health ministry release follows WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan’s observations that India had not conducted an adequate number of tests compared to some other countries like Germany, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan that she claimed had “successfully” managed the disease.The health ministry data released on Wednesday says India’s tests per million has increased sharply to reach 15,568.“India has continued testing over 6 lakh Covid-19 samples for the second consecutive day. With 6,19,652 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,14,84,402. The tests per million has seen a sharp increase to 15,568,” a health ministry release said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Tuesday, Swaminathan had said that there was a need for a benchmark figure of tests per million to indicate satisfactory level of testing. “We need to have some benchmark and every public health department needs to have benchmarks on what is the rate of testing per lakh or per million, what is the test positivity rate,” she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.She added that without an adequate number of tests, fighting the virus is like “fighting fire blindfolded”. The Centre had announced its intention to sharply increase testing levels to reach one million tests a day by the end of August. The health ministry statement on Wednesday says that the Center and states are committed to aggressive testing for early detection and treatment of coronavirus cases.“The resolve of Union and State/UT Governments to follow aggressive testing as the first important step in the early detection and treatment/home isolation of COVID-19 positive cases has resulted in India rapidly increasing the number of tests done per day,” it said. Also Read: Covid-19 pandemic: Proportion of youth infected with virus triples in five months, says WHOThe centre maintains that it is following a “graded and evolving response” which has translated into widening of the testing network in the country.“To keep up with the comprehensive ‘TEST, TRACK and TREAT’ strategy, the testing lab network in the country is being continuously strengthened. The lab network as on today consists of 1,366 labs in the country with 920 labs in the government sector and 446 private labs,” the statement says.As per a break of Covid 19 testing facility currently available in the country, there are 696 Real-Time RT PCR based testing labs including 421 in the government sector and 275 in the private sector. India also has 561 TrueNat based testing labs including 467 government owned labs and 94 private labs. The number of CBNAAT based testing labs stands at 109 including 32 run by the government and 77 operated by private entities.India is currently the third-worst affected country by coronavirus with 19,08,254 total confirmed cases of the disease including 12,82,215 cases that have been cured from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-two-crore-covid-tests-more-than-six-lakh-daily-tests-on-last-two-days/story-QsIXJQkFtu5skYeHPUHR6M.html
05-08-2020||India||Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is why||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s move to unveil the so-called new ‘political map’ of Pakistan by including the entire erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Junagadh in Gujarat may be an exercise to appease the domestic political sentiments but the move is fraught with serious implications. And none of them are good for Pakistan.Such maps were published in 1947-48 when Mohammed Ali Jinnah was Pakistan’s first governor general. But the Islamic Republic had to rework the map that then had also included East Pakistan or the present day Bangladesh.The so-called new political map released by PM Imran Khan sounds a death knell to the self-determination movement among separatists in Kashmir Valley as Islamabad has now co-opted Jammu and Kashmir, leaving no space for either plebiscite or independent Kashmir. This does not come as a surprise to Kashmir watchers in New Delhi as both self-determination and so-called freedom struggle was a ruse for cross border terror activities.By showing the northern areas of Gilgit-Baltistan as part of Jammu and Kashmir, Islamabad’s promise of greater autonomy to this mountainous region stands nullified as the region has been merged with predominantly Sunni regions of Mirpur and Muzaffarabad as also the Valley.However, the impact of PM Khan’s cartographic hallucination on India-Pakistan ties is very significant. By reopening the 1947-48 maps, Pakistan has given up on bilateralism of 1972 Shimla Agreement and 1999 Lahore Declaration - the two agreements that committed both nations to resolving bilateral disputes bilaterally - and paved a way for unilateralism. Does Imran Khan’s ‘Naya Pakistan’ also want to give up other bilateral pacts too? Like the bilateral 1960 Indus Water Treaty that allows waters of Indus, Chenab and Jhelum to be used by Pakistan while allocating Beas, Ravi and Sutlej waters to India?Also Read: ‘Political absurdity’: India roasts Imran Khan over Pakistan’s new ‘political map’While the Indian government has dismissed the new Pakistan map as a “political absurdity”, the map opens up the route for unilateralism by India should it choose to invoke it in future as Islamabad has indulged in unilateralism by issuing a new map that depicts territories firmly under Indian control as Pakistani territory.But the map is also telling commentary about Pakistan’s relationship with its ‘iron brother’ China that has been engaged in a standoff with India for the last three months in East Ladakh. PM Khan, who is often accused of reducing Pakistan as a client-state of Xi Jinping’s China, has not only kept Shaksgam Valley and Aksai Chin out of its cartographic expansion but also left this frontier undefined to let China draw the line on the map.It is quite evident that Pakistan has followed Nepal. Kathmandu had issued a map to emphasise its illegal claims on Lipulekh, Limiyadhura and Kalapani in India’s Uttarakhand on 21 May 2020. It is not mere coincidence that both Pakistan and Nepal are close allies of Beijing with the latter pumping in money in form of infrastructure aid to prop up both regimes.Also Read: In Imran Khan’s 18-point Kashmir plan for Aug 5, outreach to Turkey, Malaysia and ChinaAlthough India has no desire to either expand its territorial claims or give up on bilateralism vis-a-vis Pakistan, the map reflects the frustration within the Imran Khan government over its inability to get the international community to side with Islamabad on the Kashmir issue after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year.Pakistan watchers also see the move as a response to the rise of India in the comity of nations, particularly after the Indian troopers stood up to an aggressive People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh, particularly the bloody clash at Galwan on June 15. The larger question on how to deal with India is part of regular interlocution between foreign offices of China and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-s-new-political-map-will-backfire-on-pakistan-here-is-why/story-6PhKeCSkiproZshBGypkEI.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: With heavy rains lashing Mumbai, Thane, train and bus services come to standstill and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, ThaneIncessant heavy rain lashed parts of financial capital Mumbai and Maharashtra’s Thane and Palghar districts from Tuesday night, throwing local train and bus services out of gear due to water-logging on railway tracks and arterial roads, officials said on Wednesday. Read more‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949. Read moreBurj Khalifa lights up in solidarity with Lebanon after Beirut explosionA massive explosion in Lebanon’s capital city Beirut left a trail of utter devastation sending shockwaves across the city. Now people from all corners of the world have taken to social media to express their grief over the incident and stand in solidarity with Lebanon. The hashtag #PrayForLebanon is also trending on Twitter. Read moreFelt like I betrayed my country, called my girlfriend and cried a lot: Ishant Sharma recalls conceding 30 runs to James FaulknerDescribing it as the turning point of his career, India pacer Ishant Sharma said he felt he had ‘betrayed the country’ when Australia’s James Faulkner hit him for 30 runs in an over in 2013. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Note 20 Ultra to debut with these five big upgradesSamsung introduced the ‘Ultra’ variant with this year’s Galaxy S20 series. The Galaxy Note 20 series that’s launching today will also have an Ultra model. As the name suggests, the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra will be the high-end model and it’s expected to come with some major upgrades. Read moreNineties curtain haircut a hit among celebritiesRemember the middle-parted poker straight hairstyle, called curtain hair, sported by actors Tom Cruise and Leonardo DiCaprio in the ’90s? The year 2020 has seen its resurgence, with actors and K-pop stars bringing it back in trend. However, this time, it is not just for those with straight hair but also being flaunted by celebs with wavy locks. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s death: Centre accepts Bihar govt’s request for CBI probeThe government has accepted Bihar government’s request of CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, Centre’s senior second-most law officer Tushar Mehta stated it before the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Solicitor General Mehta made the submission during hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty. Rhea had sought transfer of the case registered in Patna to Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-with-heavy-rains-lashing-mumbai-thane-train-and-bus-services-come-to-standstill-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EMJUEejj5TuUdhm7cAWhhJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh cop suspended for kicking and slapping complainant||The Andhra Pradesh police on Wednesday suspended a police inspector in Srikakulam district for allegedly kicking and beating a villager who went to the police station to complain about a dispute over distribution of house sites on Tuesday. A video of the inspector, C Venugopal of Palasa-Kasigbugga town police station, kicking Marri Jagan from Tekkalipatnam village of Palasa block on his stomach and slapping him a couple of times, went viral in the social media, triggering protests from opposition parties and local Scheduled Caste organisations. Following instructions from state deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das, district superintendent of police Amit Bardar and deputy inspector general L K V Ranga Rao ordered a probe into the incident and took action against the erring police inspector. Amit Bardar told reporters later in the afternoon that Venugopal had been placed under suspension and a probe had been ordered. Condemning the behaviour of the inspector against the villager, he apologised to the victim’s family on behalf of the police. “We shall take measures to prevent recurrence of such instances in future,” he assured. Andhra Pradesh director general of police Gautam Sawang also said such “highhanded behaviour is not acceptable in the police department.” The AP police, through its Twitter handle, said it will not tolerate highhanded behavior.“An incident was reported regarding Police behaviour with Youth in Srikakulam Dist. Inspector Kasibugga has been suspended for his highhanded #behaviour. An enquiry has also been ordered to go into the facts. Such behaviour cannot be tolerated within #APPolice & @POLICESRIKAKULM,” it tweeted.According to the police, the family of Marri Jagan had a dispute over land patta with some others in the village. On Tuesday evening, Jagan and his mother went to the Kasibugga police station to lodge a complaint. The inspector suddenly got angry and kicked the man out of the police station and slapped him repeatedly. The victim’s mother came to his rescue and took him away. Opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted the video of the attack and condemned the attack on the youth: “Shocking! Under orders from YSRCP Leaders, a Dalit man who went to lodge a complaint at the Police Station in Palasa, Srikakulam, was kicked & slapped by police even as his mother wailed & tried protecting her son. When will this YSRCP sponsored brutality & madness stop in AP?” Naidu’s son and TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh also condemned the incident and accused the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government of being a mute spectator to the attacks on Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cop-suspended-for-kicking-and-slapping-complainant/story-oYi6bfOcTbFtiEMTpMSp5L.html
05-08-2020||India||Two foresters suspended, probe ordered as Mukundra Hill loses half of its tigers in a fortnight||The Rajasthan government has ordered an inquiry and has suspended two forest officials after two radio-collared tigers died in newly created Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) within 15 days. Assistant forest conservator Rajesh Kumar Sharma and forest ranger Makkhan Lal Sharma were suspended on the charges of negligence in discharge of government duty.According to a government order, an inquiry has been set up to determine the cause of the death of tigers MT-3 and MT-2; to enquire into the circumstances that led to the deaths and to establish laxity on part of any officers/ staff if any. Also read: ‘India’s move in J&K illegal’ - China on one year of Article 370 abrogationThe government has also directed to affix responsibility accordingly and to review the existing systems of management in the tiger reserve including monitoring protocols, identifying lacunae, if any, and suggest ways to improve and strengthen facilities and systems.Principal chief conservator of forests (development) Yogendra Kumar Dak has been appointed as the enquiry officer, according to an order by forest secretary B Praveen.The carcass of radio-collared MT-2 tiger was found at Beora Talai in MHTR on Monday, 48 hours after its death, which, experts said, showed that the movement of the tigers was not being monitored.Rajasthan’s representative in National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the apex body in the country, Daulat Singh Shaktawat said that fact that the wildlife department found the body of a radio-collared tiger 48 hours after its death is enough to indict the MHTR officials. “If they cannot track a big cat with a radio collar, what will they do with other tigers?” he questioned.Shekhawat, who has been DCF in Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve, said the vet who conducted the autopsy of MT-2 told the media that the tiger died at least 48 hours before its carcass was found.MHTR tourism advisory committee member Tapeshwar Singh Bhati also blamed lack of monitoring for the death of MT-2. “The tigress had infection. The forest department did not do anything about it on time,” he said.Kota chief conservator of forest Anand Mohan said there was a technical glitch in the radio collar. “We received and downloaded signals from the radio collar of MT-2 on July 31; after that signals were unavailable due to technical glitch until Tuesday morning,” said the officer who was removed on Tuesday. Mohan said there was no lapse in monitoring. “There is heavy growth [of vegetation] in the reserve and streams are full of water in the monsoon making it difficult for us to track tigers in the field; tracking of a tigress with cubs is even riskier,” he said.But conservationists don’t buy these arguments. They are unsure how could there be any territorial fight when there are only three big cats.“The death will happen, be it natural or unnatural due to conflict, accidental or, in rare cases, due to poaching, which is negligence. Death of two tigers is a serious concern,” said YK Sahu, who was the field director of Ranthambore when tigers were moved from Ranthambore to Mukundra. MT-3 died 12 days ago on July 23 under mysterious circumstances.Mukundra Hills was declared a tiger reserve in 2013 with portions of wildlife sanctuaries of Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Chittorgarh. It is spread across 759 square kilometre area and is now left with two adults tigers and four cubs. Of the four cubs, one is missing and another has been admitted to Kota zoo in critical condition.MHTR was notified because it was an important corridor for Ranthambore tigers.“The plan was to decongest Ranthambore and make MHTR a satellite area for big cats,” Sahu added. Sariska Tiger Foundation president and former IFS officer Sunayan Sharma said the shortage of skilled staff, especially forester, rangers and guards, was an issue with all wildlife sanctuaries in the state including Mukundra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-foresters-suspended-probe-ordered-as-mukundra-hill-losses-half-of-its-tigers-in-a-fortnight/story-Snf0OSaLkAIwKOeOrL4CtN.html
05-08-2020||India||Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, Thane||Incessant heavy rain lashed parts of financial capital Mumbai and Maharashtra’s Thane and Palghar districts from Tuesday night, throwing local train and bus services out of gear due to water-logging on railway tracks and arterial roads, officials said on Wednesday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already put the city and its suburbs on red alert and issued a warning to people to stay indoors amid forecasts of high tide. Normal life was disrupted across Mumbai and a few districts as heavy continued to batter the city.“Intense rain is likely in Mumbai today. The city received heavy rainfall at isolated places in the last 12 hours. More impact was on western suburbs with rainfall of more than 150 mm,” the IMD said on Wednesday.The red alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts of Maharashtra. The weather agency’s warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday but that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday.ALSO READ | Mumbai drowns under its monsoon woesThe Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour railway line between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Wadala railway stations. Train services were suspended due to water-logging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services, however, are currently operational.Local train services have also been suspended on the Harbour railway line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Vashi railway stations and on the Central railway mainline between CSMT and Kurla railway stations.Water-logging was reported from low lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai city. In Palghar district, Dahanu logged over 350 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Wednesday while some areas in Thane received over 150 mm during the period, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather agency predicted more intense showers during the rest of the day on Wednesday.ALSO READ | Red alert issued for Mumbai, nearby areas battered by heavy rainAccording to the IMD, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during the same period.According to railway sources, suburban services were stopped due to water-logging on tracks at Palghar station. There was minor disruption at Palghar from 5.40 am to 7.10 am due to 266 mm rain in two hours and hence, a few trains were regulated enroute, Western Railway’s chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said. He said the Western Railways suburban services were currently functioning normally between Churchgate and Dahanu Road.On the central line, there was water-logging on tracks in Sion and Kurla areas and trains were running with some delay. Both the Central Railway and Western Railway are operating nearly 350 special train services each daily for those working in essential and emergency services.Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the civic body’s transport wing, were also hit due to water-logging on arterial roads. BEST services were diverted on more than 30 routes, including two locations in Thane district, till 9 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-train-services-best-buses-hit-hard-as-heavy-rain-lashes-mumbai-thane/story-W13FKGwFcbFSe749pORIEJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Temple bhoomi pujan will pave way for ‘Ram rajya’: Sumitra Mahajan||The foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday will pave the way for the concept of Ram Rajya to take shape in the country, former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan said.Mahajan, who watched the live telecast of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony in Ayodhya with other party leaders here, told this to reporters.“After years of penance by many people, the construction of Ram temple finally began in Ayodhya. People across the world are feeling happy and satisfied over it,” she said.“All of us dream for Ram rajya in the country. Now it will start taking shape as the feeling for it in everybody’s heart is growing,” Mahajan said.Earlier, BJP workers burst firecrackers to express happiness over the Ram temple ground breaking ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-bhoomi-pujan-will-pave-way-for-ram-rajya-sumitra-mahajan/story-kkNiDMQp9cCF2tCqchP6VM.html
05-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 67.19%; case fatality drops to 2.09%: Govt||A total of 51,706 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in India in a span of 24 hours, the highest in a day, pushing the recovery rate to 67.19 per cent on Wednesday while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.09 per cent, the Union health ministry said.The recoveries have surged to 12,82,215 and are more than twice the active cases of the coronavirus infection, it said.Due to the record highest daily recoveries, the active cases have reduced to 5,86,244 and comprise 30.72 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload.“With an increasing number of Covid-19 patients recovering, there has been a 63.8 per cent increase in the recovered cases in the last 14 days, indicating that the Covid-19 response and management driven by the Centre’s ‘test, track, treat’, strategy is yielding the desired results,” the ministry said in the statement.Coordinated implementation of the strategy by the Union and state and Union Territories governments has also ensured that the Covid-19 case fatality rate has been low when compared to the global scenario.“It has been progressively falling and stands at 2.09 per cent as on date,” the ministry said.The aggressive testing along with ramped up hospital infrastructure by collective efforts of the public and private sectors has ensured the increasing recovery rate, which has improved from 63 to 67 per cent in the last 14 days, it said.With such consistent increase, recoveries now exceed the active cases of Covid-19 by nearly 7 lakh.  India has continued testing more than 6 lakh Covid-19 samples for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, the ministry said.The resolve of Union and state or Union Territory governments to follow aggressive testing as the first important step in the early detection and treatment/home isolation of Covid-19 cases has resulted in India rapidly increasing the number of tests done per day, it said.“The graded and evolving response resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing network in the country,” it said. With 6,19,652 tests conducted on Tuesday, the cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,14,84,402. The tests per million has seen a sharp increase to 15,568. The testing lab network in the country is being continuously strengthened and as on date consists of 1,366 labs in the country with 920 labs in the government sector and 446 private labs.  India’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 19.08 lakh on Wednesday, with 52,509 people testing positive for Covid-19 in a day, while the death toll climbed to 39,795 with 857 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-67-19-case-fatality-drops-to-2-09-govt/story-C1qIVfK24aLZQ54nf5pmgM.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi violated oath of office by laying Ram temple foundation stone: Asaduddin Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi violated the oath of office by laying the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“India is a secular country. The Prime Minister has violated the oath of office by laying the foundation stone of Ram Mandir. This is the day of the defeat of democracy and secularism and success of Hindutva,” ANI quoted Owaisi as saying.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereLast month, Owaisi had said that Modi’s attendance at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple would amount to “violation of the constitutional oath”.On Wednesday, Modi offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the Lord Ram’s birthplace.The groundbreaking ceremony marked the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party nearly 25 years ago. Last year, the Supreme Court cleared the hurdle in the construction of the temple when it awarded the site to Hindus after decades of litigation.The BJP rank and file has applauded the groundbreaking ceremony with Union home minister Amit Shah calling it the beginning of a new era.Vedic rituals marked the ground breaking ceremony in Ayodhya with 175 people in attendance because of restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-violated-oath-of-office-by-laying-ram-temple-foundation-stone-asaduddin-owaisi/story-sOOdfd4QrjyckclsIfYsBM.html
05-08-2020||India||DMK MLA visits BJP office moments after suspension, says Stalin turned DMK into ‘family party’||Tamil Nadu’s DMK MLA Ku Ka Selvam visited BJP’s office in Chennai soon after he was suspended by party chief MK Stalin for alleged violation of party discipline after he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and met BJP president JP Nadda in Delhi on Tuesday and claimed the DMK had become a family’s party.Ku Ka Selvam, was temporarily suspended by party chief Stalin and also served a show cause notice asking him why he should not be expelled from the primary membership of the party. While Selvan has in the past rejected speculations that he was inclined to join the BJP, his attack on Stalin on Wednesday at BJP’s office doesn’t indicate a reconciliatory posture.“The DMK now functions as a family’s party,” Selvam was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Selvam, who represents the prestigious Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai which houses DMK party’s headquarters and Stalin’s Chittaranjan avenue residence, is reported to be miffed with party for not picking him for DMK’s Chennai West district secretary post.On Tuesday, he travelled all the way to Delhi to meet railway minister Piyush Goyal with a request to install two lifts at a railway station under his constituency and also ended up meeting BJP president JP Nadda. Reports say he was accompanied by former DMK leader V.P. Duraiswamy who later joined the BJP.In Delhi, Selvam praised PM Modi for good governance and wished him well for the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.Also Read: PM Modi’s wisdom paved way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue: Yogi AdityanathAfter the meeting, he denied he was joining the BJP and said he requested Nadda to develop Rameswaram and other places associated with Lord Ram further.An upset DMK on Wednesday issued an official statement announcing Selvam’s suspension.“DMK headquarters office secretary and executive committee member Ku Ka Selvam is relieved from the posts effective today.” He has also been asked to reply to a show cause notice for bringing disrepute to the party.Selvam has demanded that the DMK snaps ties with the Congress and condemn “Karuppar Kootam” channel, for allegedly denigrating ‘Kanda Sashti Kavacham’ hymn in praise of Lord Muruga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-mla-visits-bjp-office-moments-after-suspension-says-stalin-turned-dmk-into-family-party/story-A29vuEDDrahmfycdRc8YEP.html
05-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh launches social security scheme for tendupatta collectors||The Bhupesh Baghel-led Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday launched a social security scheme for tendupatta collectors in the name of the slain Congress leader Mahendra Karma, who was killed by the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist rebels in May 2013, to provide financial aid to the family of collectors after their death. About 12.5 lakh tendupatta labourers’ families will be benefitted because of the new social security scheme. The government said that Saheed Mahendra Karma Tendupatta Sangrahak Samajik Suraksha Yojana would provide a one-time financial aid of Rs 2 lakh to the nominee, or the heir in case of normal death of the head of the registered tendupatta labourer of a family. “It is a social security scheme under which we will provide Rs 4 lakh to the family members in case of death due to accident or permanent disability caused because of the accident,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Chhattisgarh. The state forest department and Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Cooperatives Union Limited (CSMFPCUL) have jointly launched the scheme to provide social security to the labourers’ families engaged in tendupatta collection. CSMFPCUL authorities have been entrusted with the responsibility to implement the scheme. Each district authority has been instructed to process the claims within a month and the financial aid will be directly credited to the bank account of a tendupatta collector. The Congress government has also increased the tendupatta collection wage rate from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000 per standard sack since it came to power in end-2018 after 15 uninterrupted years of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule. However, the Chhattisgarh unit of the BJP took potshots at the Congress government. The BJP claimed that the insurance scheme for tendupatta labourers was stopped by the “careless Congress government”. “The careless Congress government stopped the insurance scheme for the tendupatta labourers that was introduced during the BJP rule. The Baghel government has been forced to start its new social scheme because of the pressure from our party leaders,” said Ajay Chandrakar, an ex-BJP minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-launches-social-security-scheme-for-tendupatta-collectors/story-SLVibk67UQfkQL2DXhUoIP.html
05-08-2020||India||New grasshopper species discovered after 116 years, named after 28-year-old Indian biologist||A new species of pygmy grasshopper, discovered after 116 years by a group of foreign researchers in Sri Lanka, has been named after a 28-year-old Indian orthopterist (one who studies grasshoppers) and conservation biologist Dhaneesh Bhaskar of Kerala. The new species, which was discovered by a group of Croatian and German researchers in Sinharaja rainforests of Sri Lanka, hails from Cladonotus genus and has been named as Cladonotus Bhaskari. The discovery is based on a single specimen of the species photographed in 2016 by Tom Kirschey in its natural rain forest habitat in Sri Lanka. The researchers then studied it and found it to be distinct from all the other discovered species of grasshoppers and then declared it as a new species in research journal Zootaxa in July this year. Also read: At Ayodhya Ram temple event, PM reiterates mantra to fight coronavirusBhaskar, who is a grasshopper researcher in Kerala Forest Research Institute and a member of the Species Survival Commission (grasshopper specialist group) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), expressed happiness after knowing about the development. Bhaskar said, “I am deeply honoured with the move of the researchers. It will surely motivate me in pursuing my research on grasshoppers and contribute in a more significant manner in the Indian Orthoptera research.” One of the researchers from the group, Josip Skejo from Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, University of Zagreb, Croatia said, “We decided to name the new species of pygmy grasshopper after our good friend Bhaskar to honour him on his research he had done on the grasshoppers in India.” “We believe he is one of the few Indian researchers who have researched on the species of grasshoppers in India and Sri Lanka because, before this, all such research on grasshoppers in this area was done by foreign researchers only,” said Skejo. The other researchers of the group include Josef Tumbrinck, Maks Deranja, Karmela Adzic and Marko Pavlovic. Lauding Bhaskar’s research, Skejo also said, “Bhaskar made it possible for all the people around the world to get familiar with the grasshopper species of India after he initiated a project on digitalisation of all the specimens discovered here.” “I think naming a new species after him will give him huge motivation in his research of grasshoppers in India,” he said. On the significance of the discovery of the new species, he said, “It is very important because our study suggests it is the first specimen in last 70 years and the first new Cladonotus species in the last 116 years.” On the new species, Skejo said, “Cladonotus Bhaskari is the largest known specimen of genus Cladonotus and it is the only known female.” “Its body is robust and dark in colour. The living specimen in dark brown in colour while pale brown when the specimen is dried. It’s whole body, head and legs are covered in fine and minute spine-like tubercles. It resembles tiny twigs hence its also called Twighopper,” he said. “It is also clearly distinguished from other species of the genus by its long and spine-like frontomedial projection and cockscomb shaped promedial projection,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-grasshopper-species-discovered-after-116-years-named-after-28-year-old-indian-biologist/story-qRmgEvjaVoJJddnV30xNCK.html
05-08-2020||India||Meeting of parties called by Farooq Abdullah not held due to restrictions imposed by authorities: NC||A meeting of some political parties called by Jammu and Kashmir’s veteran leader Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday to discuss the situation arising out of the abrogation of Article 370 provisions a year ago could not be held due to strict restrictions imposed by authorities, his National Conference said. Abdullah had invited leaders of several political parties to his residence on Gupkar Road to chalk out a joint political strategy for restoration of the special status through democratic means. National Conference MP from Anantnag in south Kashmir Hasnain Masoodi and PDP’s Rajya Sabha member Fayaz Mir were turned away from Gupkar Road citing restrictions imposed by the authorities due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the district, NC leaders said. CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, NC MP from Baramulla in north Kashmir Akbar Lone and Abdullah’s nephew Muzzafar Shah, who heads the Awami National Conference, were stopped at their residences and not allowed to go out, they said. Former chief minister and Abdullah’s son Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to say that the authorities in Kashmir did not allow the meeting to take place. Omar Abdullah, who is the vice president of the NC, said the Gupkar Road -- leading to his residence and that of his father -- was sealed by the authorities. “One year on, this is Gupkar road today - police vehicles opposite our gates, concertina wire strung across the road at regular intervals and no vehicles allowed. My father had called a meeting of leaders of MAINSTREAM parties to deliberate on the current situation,” Omar Abdullah said on Twitter, along with two pictures of the deserted road. The former chief minister said, “Clearly the meeting is not being allowed to go ahead. The BJP gets to announce a 15 day celebration to mark 5th Aug and a handful of us aren’t allowed to meet in my father’s lawn. So much for BJP national leaders wondering why there is no political activity.” The NC leader said the authorities were “still too afraid” to allow them to meet or carry out any normal political activity. “One year later the authorities are still too afraid to allow us to meet much less carry out any normal political activity. This fear speaks volumes about the true situation on the ground in Kashmir,” he said in another tweet. The senior Abdullah had called a similar meeting a day before the Centre’s move last year where the leaders of the valley-based political parties came up with a ‘Gupkar Declaration’ in which they resolved to fight against any attempts to abrogate the constitutional provisions that guaranteed the special status to Jammu and Kashmir or any move to trifurcate the state using democratic means. Meanwhile, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti said “prolonged enforced silence” would not “suppress” the emotions of the people of Kashmir forever. “A year ago we witnessed how a majoritarian govt mutilated and robbed JK in broad daylight. Seasons may have changed but the betrayal will never be forgiven or forgotten. Prolonged enforced silence wont suppress emotions forever,” Iltija posted on her mother’s Twitter handle which she has been using since Mehbooba was taken into custody in August last year. PTI SSB MIJ SKL SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-of-parties-called-by-farooq-abdullah-not-held-due-to-restrictions-imposed-by-authorities-nc/story-UiIuFjZmjxh1fPqAV1qk5J.html
05-08-2020||India||Police inspector fires two rounds before arresting robber, accomplice escapes||One robber was arrested and another managed to escape on Wednesday early morning after Praful Ghodke, inspector (law & order), Sakinaka police station, missed the targets shot at from his service revolver. Earlier, the duo had robbed an auto driver, Mohammed Sharif Shamsul Huda Khan (46), of Rs 5,200 and also stabbed him on Andheri-Ghatkopar Road at around 1 am in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Ghodke, who was on patrolling duty, reached the spot and found that the robbers had gone to a nearby Metro Rail construction site to rob of the construction workers. When Ghodke accosted them, the duo attacked him with knives and bamboo poles, said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector, Sakinaka police station. “Ghodke in a flash pulled out his service revolver and fired at the two robbers. But the bullets missed them and none of them were injured. In the mêlée, one of the accused escaped, but Ghodke arrested the other one with the help of a beat marshal and local residents,” said Sawant. The arrested accused had been identified as Mohammed Azhar Yusuf Shaikh (27), while the accused, who escaped, has been identified as Azaj alias Daku (30). Shaikh has eight cases of robbery, theft, housebreaking, and pickpocketing registered against him at Trombay police station, Sawant said. The police have booked both the accused under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 307 (attempt to murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Arms Act, 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-inspector-fires-two-rounds-before-arresting-robber-accomplice-escapes/story-ilw9G7B4z1sxXA92REeNOL.html
05-08-2020||India||Should have given written complaint if he feared for Sushant’s safety: Mumbai Police on father’s claim||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday reiterated that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father should have made a written complaint earlier this year, if he feared for his son’s safety. The actor’s father had earlier in a video statement said that he had warned the Mumbai Police in February that he was worried about his son’s life.“I told Sushant’s father clearly that he should give a written complaint. He wanted a person named Miranda to be kept in police custody. We never received any written complaint from him,” DCP Paramjit S Dahiya (Mumbai Police) said on Sushant Singh Rajput’s father sending him Whatsapp messages on February 25.A month and a half after the 34-year-old actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment in Mumbai on June 14, the Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it had accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe into the sudden death of the actor.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s father releases video appeal: ‘Alerted Mumbai Police in February my son’s life in danger’A bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy observed that the truth behind the actor’s death should be revealed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre, told the apex court that the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe in the case had been accepted.The Supreme Court was hearing a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty, who is seeking transfer of an FIR, accusing her of abetting the suicide of the actor, from Patna to Mumbai.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s family wanted us to take Rhea Chakraborty into custody, slap her: Mumbai copEarlier on Wednesday, the Bihar Police said that Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has filed an FIR in Patna, is absconding and has not been in touch with the police.“Rhea Chakraborty is not in touch with us. She is absconding, she is not coming forward. We don’t have any information about her being in touch with the Mumbai Police either,” Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey said.His statement came on a day when the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by Chakraborty seeking to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-have-made-a-written-complaint-if-he-feared-for-sushant-s-safety-mumbai-police-on-father-s-claim/story-SxIc587ULbTAl5sZkIMX9O.html
05-08-2020||India||Five labourers die in wall collapse in Dadra and Nagar Haveli||Five labourers died and two were injured when a newly constructed wall of a factory collapsed due to heavy rains near Silvassa city in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place at Surangi village, around 16 km from headquarters Silvassa, on Tuesday night, inspector Harish Rathod of Khanvel police station said.The labourers were hired by a contractor to construct a factory building and were living in a temporary shelter near the compound wall, which was built a few months ago, he said.“Following a heavy spell of rains, the wall collapsed on the labourers who were asleep, killing five of them on the spot,” he said, adding that two injured workers were rushed to a nearby hospital.The deceased labourers, who were natives of nearby Sindoni village, have been identified as Raju Jadav, Ashvin Jayram, Balu Kakal, Jahir Soma and Anil, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-labourers-die-in-wall-collapse-in-dadra-and-nagar-haveli/story-02mK2YTrhBEnDvPdWquXCP.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s wisdom paved way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of the Ram temple issue and fulfilling the dream.The power of Indian democracy and judiciary under the leadership of PM Modi has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found through democratic and constitutional means, he said at the groundbreaking ceremony for the temple here.“Prime Minister’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue,” he said.Yogi said people have struggled for 500 years for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.Prime Minister Modi earlier performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-wisdom-paved-way-for-peaceful-resolution-of-ram-temple-issue-yogi-adityanath/story-UaS5DNzOS4XA7GI3EERnaM.html
05-08-2020||India||At Ayodhya Ram temple event, PM Modi reiterates mantra to fight coronavirus||Amid the festival-like celebrations, the coronavirus threat was not lost on Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he underlined the importance of social distancing and masks at the bhoomi pujan or groundbreaking ceremony for building a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya.“Do gaj ki doori, mask hai zaroori (A distance of two yards and wearing masks is necessary),” said the PM, who was wearing a golden dhoti kurta and a white mask, while wrapping up his speech at the ceremony.The wait of centuries has ended and India is writing a golden chapter in Ayodhya, PM Modi said after performing the bhoomi poojan of the proposed Ram temple. Beginning his speech with “Jai Siya Ram”, the Prime Minister told the gathering that a grand temple will be built for “Ram Lalla”, the infant Ram, who had been living in a temporary tent for years.“Many people made sacrifices for the Ram temple. I pay my respects to all of them,” the Prime Minister said after the groundbreaking ceremony of the temple at the spot where many Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said some people could not be here today due to restrictions in view of Covid-19, but they will be invited for future events in Ayodhya. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat remembered LK Advani, the face of the Ram temple movement in the 1990s, in his speech and acknowledged that many who sacrificed couldn’t be here because of the coronavirus situation. “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (COVID-19),” said Mohan Bhagwat.The guest list for the event, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-ayodhya-ram-temple-event-pm-modi-reiterates-mantra-to-fight-coronavirus/story-QQoWDdF5z3ht2vTYkkpTRI.html
05-08-2020||India||Lord Ram is within all of us: PM Modi’s top quotes after Ayodhya bhoomi poojan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the bhoomi poojan ceremony was an “emotional moment”, which has illuminated everyone’s heart in the entire country, after laying the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“A long wait has ended today... A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been living under a tent for many years,” the Prime Minister said during foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram temple.“With the construction of this temple, history is not only being made but is also being repeated. The way boatmen and tribals helped Lord Ram, the way children helped Lord Krishna lift Govardhan mountain, similarly, the temple’s construction will be completed with everyone’s efforts,” he added.Here are the top quotes from his speech at Ram Janmabhoomi site:* A grand temple will now be constructed for our Ramlala, who has been living under sacks and tents for years now* Breaking up and then standing again, Ram Janmabhoomi has been freed from this interference which was on for centuries* Ram is carved within our minds, he is within us. If we want to do some work, then we look up to Lord Ram for inspiration* Shri Ram’s temple will become the modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit. And this temple will also become a symbol of the collective resolve power of crores and crores of people* The way Dalits, OBCs, tribals, every section of the society supported Gandhiji during the freedom struggle, this pious work of building Ram temple has started with the cooperation of people from all over the country* There is no aspect of life where our Ram does not inspire us. There is no such feeling of India in which Lord Ram is not seen. Ram is in the faith of India, Rama is in the ideals of India. Rama is in the divinity and philosophy of India* I believe that this grand Ram temple built in Ayodhya, like the name of Shri Ram, will reflect the rich heritage of Indian culture. I believe that the Ram temple to be built here will inspire the entire humanity till eternity* Ram speaks and thinks in accordance with time, place and circumstances. Ram teaches us to grow with time. Rama is in favour of change and modernity. With these same inspirations, India is moving ahead with Shri Ram’s ideals* Prabhu Shri Ram has taught us to follow the lessons of duty, how to perform our duties. He has shown us the path of realisation and researches out of opposition. We have to join these bricks of Ram temple with mutual love and brotherhood* I believe, we will all move forward, the country will move forward. This temple of Lord Ram will continue to inspire and guide humanity for years to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-is-within-all-of-us-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-after-ayodhya-bhoomi-poojan/story-0kXR6F5eCWiJljFmQkwrpJ.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Lord Ram can’t appear in injustice, hatred’: Rahul tweets as Ayodhya witnesses historic event||Lord Ram is justice, he is compassion and the manifestation of love; he can never appear in hatred, cruelty and injustice, tweeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as India witnessed the historic moment of the foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief posted, “Maryada Purushottam Lord Ram” is the manifestation of the best human qualities that form the core of humanity. On Tuesday, Gandhi’s sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released a statement ahead of the Ram mandir bhoomi pujan event. In the statement, she hoped for the event to become “an occasion of national unity, fraternity and cultural congregation”.  Also read: ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’ - PM Modiमर्यादा पुरुषोत्तम भगवान राम सर्वोत्तम मानवीय गुणों का स्वरूप हैं। वे हमारे मन की गहराइयों में बसी मानवता की मूल भावना हैं।राम प्रेम हैंवे कभी घृणा में प्रकट नहीं हो सकतेराम करुणा हैंवे कभी क्रूरता में प्रकट नहीं हो सकतेराम न्याय हैंवे कभी अन्याय में प्रकट नहीं हो सकते।Earlier in the day, senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and MP Shashi Tharoor also tweeted ahead of the grand Ram temple ceremony. Sibal refrained from directly referring to the occasion and posted, “some moments in history are destined”. Tharoor said that “Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry” if his virtues and values are spread all across. The much-awaited foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple concluded in Ayodhya on Wednesday with PM Modi performing the bhoomi pujan ceremony at the auspicious Ram janmbhoomi site. The prime minister released a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’ and addressed the nation on the groundbreaking occasion.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying makeshift tent till now. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” the prime minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-cannot-appear-in-injustice-hatred-rahul-gandhi-tweets-as-ayodhya-witnesses-historic-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-QeR7oYTis6ybkL0VPJkUQI.html
05-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar Police say Rhea Chakraborty absconding, urge Mumbai Police to exempt their officer from quarantine||The Bihar Police chief on Wednesday said that Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has filed an FIR in Patna, is absconding.“Rhea Chakraborty is not in touch with us. She is absconding, she is not coming forward. We don’t have any information about she being in touch with even Mumbai Police,” Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey said.His statement came on a day when the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by Chakraborty seeking to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai.The Centre told the Supreme Court that it has accepted the recommendation made by the Bihar government to transfer the probe in the case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).An FIR was registered in Patna, based on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh, against Chakraborty under several sections including abetment to suicide. A team of Bihar Police is in Mumbai to probe the matter.But the man leading the team, IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, was quarantined when he reached Mumbai to investigate the case. While the BrimanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the decision was taken due to the spread of Covid-19, the Bihar Police said Tiwari was “forcibly quarantined”.Pandey today requested the Maharashtra Police to exempt Tiwari from quarantine.“We requested BMC to exempt IPS officer Vinay Tiwari from being quarantined. We told them at least send him back as he is an IPS officer. This is not a professional behaviour. This officer is being kept as if he has been arrested,” the Bihar DGP said.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said he died by suicide.According to Mumbai Police, the statements of 56 people have been recorded till now in connection with the case, including the family of the late actor, his domestic help and several industry persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bihar-police-say-rhea-chakraborty-absconding-urge-mumbai-police-to-exempt-their-officer-from-quarantine/story-ouZaFqJSHzXPl4pTMihveP.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan govt cracks whip on Mukundra officers after death of two adult tigers in 10 days||The Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government on Tuesday cracked the whip on officials of Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) following the death of two adult tigers in the past 10 days.The state government has removed Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) Anand Mohan and Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), MHTR, T Mohan Raj and also suspended assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Rajesh Kumar Sharma on charges of negligence in the discharge of their duties. Two tigers have died at the tiger reserve in the past 10 days. Tiger MH-3 had died on July 23 due to a cardiac arrest and tigress MT-2 was found dead on Monday (August 3). The tigress had delivered two cubs in June, of which one is missing and another is critically ill. Manoj Parashar and Bijo Joy have been appointed as the new CCF and DCF, MHTR, respectively. “The accountability of the officials has been fixed and directives have been issued to ensure that the ill cub is treated well,” said Sukhram Vishnoi, state forest minister. He said the tigers were radio-collared and cameras are installed in the reserve in a bid to ensure effective monitoring of the animals. However, the tigers’ deaths have exposed lapses in the monitoring of the animals. The carcass of tiger MT-2 (4) was found at Beora Talai in MHTR on Monday morning and its autopsy revealed that a territorial fight led to its death. Though the MHTR authorities have rescued one of its cubs, another one is still missing. MT-3 had died in MHTR on July 23 due to multiple-organ failure. The autopsy revealed that lumps of fat in its lungs and other body parts had caused its death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-cracks-whip-on-mukundra-officers-after-death-of-two-adult-tigers-in-10-days/story-O78dJes8m2ptfwbDlS7rKL.html
05-08-2020||India||After bhoomi poojan at Ayodhya, RSS’ Mohan Bhagwat says we have fulfilled our resolve||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Wednesday the foundation laying ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has come after decades-old struggle and has been a moment of great satisfaction.The RSS chief said the organisation worked nearly 30 years for the fulfilment of the resolve to construct the temple in Ayodhya.“We had taken a resolution. I remember the then RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras telling us that we will have to struggle for 20 to 30 years, only then will this be fulfilled. We struggled and at the beginning of the 30th year, we have attained the joy of fulfilling our resolution,” Bhagwat said.His comments came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the bhoomi pujan of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s movement that defined its politics for three decades.“There is a wave of joy in the entire country today. There is a pleasure about the fulfilment of centuries of hope. The greatest joy is because of the establishment of the self-confidence, which was lacking, today to make India self-reliant,” he said.Catch all the LIVE updates from the Ram temple groundbreaking ceremony“So many people had sacrificed but they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be watching this at his home. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (coronavirus pandemic,” he added.Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anadiben Patel were among those who attended the event at the site where some Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.The guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis.Also Read: ‘Some moments are destined’: Kapil Sibal, Tharoor tweet ahead of historic Ram temple ceremonyPriests chanted Sanskrit shlokas and the ground-breaking ceremony got underway under a giant marquee decorated in shades of reds and yellows and Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing.As the Prime Minister laid the foundation of the temple, slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended. The temple town was decorated with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags as residents celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple.The Prime Minister had arrived in Ayodhya in a helicopter from the state capital of Lucknow and was received by Adityanath among others. Before the ceremony to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple, the Prime Minister took part in prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple.From there, he travelled to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi site where he performed prayers to the Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman. He also planted a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bhoomi-poojan-at-ayodhya-rss-mohan-bhagwat-says-we-have-fulfilled-our-resolve/story-kqQsI65xMwDKXkCkijqkBP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949.The Prime Minister started his address with “Jai Shri Ram” chant. “This chant is not just echoing in Ayodhya but in the entire world,” he said.He also said that Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) who has been living in tents for years will finally get a temple of his own now.“Today, Ram Janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” said PM Modi.“Lord Ram is in our hearts, whatever work we have to do he is our inspiration,” the prime minister added.He further said that attempts were made to finish the existence, but Lord Ram is the basis of India’s culture.“The movement for building a Ram temple had dedication, struggle and resolve. I bow to those people whose sacrifice has made this possible,” PM Modi said.Before the ceremony, the prime minister visited the Hanuman Garhi temple where he performed aarti of Lord Hanuman. Ramesh Das, the head mahant of the temple, gifted a turban and a crown to PM Modi.PM Modi has come to Ayodhya after a gap of 29 years. It was in 1991 when he last visited the city.He has been associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) movement to build a Ram temple for a long time. He was a part of veteran BJP leader LK Advani’s Rath Yatra in 1990.In 1991, when he last visited Ayodhya, Modi had said that he will come to city only when the construction of Ram temple begins. That was made possible by a judgement of the Supreme Court in November last year when a bench headed by former chief justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi ruled in favour of Hindus.The Muslims were given land separately for the construction of a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-living-under-tents-for-years-will-finally-get-a-temple-pm-modi-at-ayodhya-event/story-KFuDHbNmfMH7mPpSlsb1EN.html
05-08-2020||India||PM performs ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.  RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event at the site where a large number of devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereThe guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis. As a priest chanted Sanskrit ‘shlokas’ and the ground-breaking ceremony got under way under a giant marquee decorated in shades of reds and yellows, Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing and sat a safe distance away from each other.  Slogans of ‘Bharat Mataki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended and the prime minister laid the foundation of the temple.Bhajans and ‘shlokas’ were heard as the town, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Most shops were painted in bright yellow.The prime minister arrived in Ayodhya in a helicopter where Adityanath among others received him. Before the function to lay the foundation stone of the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’, the prime minister took part in prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple.From there, he travelled to the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi’ where he performed prayers at the ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’. He also planted a Parijat (Indian night jasmine) sapling. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town Delivering a unanimous judgement on a case that had long polarised the country, the court said the faith of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the site was undisputed The Ram Janmabhoomi movement got a fillip in 1990 with then BJP president L K Advani’s ‘rath yatra’. Two years later, in December 1992, the 16th century Mughal-era Babri Masjid, built on what a large sections believe is Lord Ram’s birthplace, was demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-performs-bhoomi-pujan-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-40qXjMhjnnjyCCjieiTpbP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Defines India’s spirit of social harmony, testimony to Ramrajya’: President Kovind on Ayodhya event||President Ram Nath Kovind hailed the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya where Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram temple.“Felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India,” he tweeted om Wednesday. Felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India.PM Modi on Wednesday offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the birthplace of Lord Ram in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. The groundbreaking ceremony marks the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nearly three decades earlier.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event.The guest list, including religious leaders, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis. As a priest chanted Sanskrit ‘shlokas’ and the groundbreaking ceremony got underway, PM Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing and sat a safe distance away from each other.Slogans of ‘Bharat Mataki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended and the prime minister laid the foundation of the temple.Bhajans and ‘shlokas’ were heard as the town, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple.Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Most shops were painted in bright yellow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defines-india-s-spirit-of-social-harmony-testimony-to-ramrajya-president-kovind-on-ayodhya-event/story-WT6lUUGFKMcSkJtmZupa2K.html
05-08-2020||India||IPS officer asked me to pressurise Rhea Chakraborty: DCP Dahiya||A senior Mumbai police official has claimed that Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law, an IPS officer, had asked him to pressurise the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty to end their relationship.Deputy Commissioner of Police Paramjitsingh Dahiya told a TV channel that O P Singh, brother-in-law of Rajput and senior IPS officer of Haryana police, had made the request in February this year.Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.“Singh asked me to call Rhea Chakraborty to the police station informally and pressurise her,” said Dahiya, who was the zonal police head of Bandra region till April 1.Dahiya said Singh told him that Rajput’s family felt Rhea was “controlling” the actor and wanted her out of his life.Dahiya said the actor’s family did not submit a written complaint. He said O P Singh made the informal request (to pressurise Rhea) to him through WhatsApp messages on February 18 and 25. The DCP said Singh visited Mumbai on February 5 and told him to inform Rajput that he was in Mumbai. He also requested that a person called Miranda be kept in a day’s police custody, without any complaint or investigation, Dahiya said.The DCP said he “politely and firmly” told Singh that it was not possible for him to call anyone to the police station and keep him in custody as it was against procedure.Dahiya said he asked Singh to file a written complaint based on which the matter would be investigated. The written complaint never came, he added.Rajput’s father K K Singh has released a video saying he alerted Mumbai police on February 25 that his sons life was in danger.On Monday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh said the family didnt raise any suspicion when the city police recorded their statements on June 16.“At that moment, they didnt raise any suspicion and also didn’t complain about any lapse in our investigation,” he said. PTI DC VT VT VT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-asked-me-to-pressurise-rhea-chakraborty-dcp-dahiya/story-29T3KWfQ3CzTgPwyAMopKO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Quarantining Bihar cop not a good signal’: Supreme Court in Sushant Singh Rajput case hearing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that quarantining of Bihar Police officer, who had gone to Mumbai to investigate the Sushant Singh Rajput case, has not sent the right message.“Quarantining of Bihar Police officer has not sent good message despite the fact that Mumbai Police has good professional reputation,” the bench said.The lawyer representing Rajput’s father KK Singh said that the Maharashtra Police are destroying evidence in the case.The Centre had earlier told the top court that it has accepted the recommendation sent by the Bihar Police for a CBI probe into the actor’s death. “Truth should come out so far as actor’s death is concerned,” the bench then said.The Maharashtra Police, meanwhile, said that the Bihar Police has no jurisdiction to either lodge an FIR or investigate it and this has been made a political case. The submissions were made during a hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar’s capital of Patna to Maharashtra’s Mumbai.A case was registered by Rajput’s father in Patna against Rhea Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide in June.IPS officer Vinay Tiwari had gone to Mumbai for investigation, but was quarantined. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the decision was taken due to the spead of the coronavirus disease. But Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said that Tiwari was forcibly quarantined.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said have he died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantining-of-bihar-cop-not-a-good-signal-supreme-court-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-hearing/story-KXLvIHFAwDPKwXhYkdhRqM.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from home and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from homeOn the big Ram temple bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman showcased a rangoli or kolam on Lord Ram made at the little temple at her place. Read moreIn pics: Fireworks, havan and ceremonious rituals as India celebrates historic Ram mandir bhoomi pujanUttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya is all set to witness the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in a short while from now. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family wanted us to take Rhea Chakraborty into custody, slap her: Mumbai copA Mumbai cop who was contacted by a relative of Sushant Singh Rajput’s has said that he was told to ‘slap’ the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, after his family alleged that she was alienating him from his family and misappropriating his funds. Read moreXiaomi Mi TV Stick launched in India, check price, specsXiaomi has launched its Amazon Fire TV Stick-rival ‘Mi TV Stick’ in India. The Mi TV Stick made its debut just last month and now it’s here. Read moreAyodhya: What Ram Temple construction means to the young | ground reportThe millenials in Faizabad believes that the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya will benefit the town as well as boost the economy of the town. Watch to know moreWatch this man’s interesting innovation to maintain social distancing at shopWho doesn’t like a simple idea that can help fulfil or complete a big task? Well, this video shows one such method and several people are praising it. Read moreThe Rise And Fall Of Amar SinghIn the 1983 film Zelig, Woody Allen (who also wrote and directed the movie) plays the eponymous hero; a man who manages somehow to know everyone (from F Scott Fitzgerald to Adolf Hitler) and who turns up at every important event. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-bhoomi-poojan-day-in-ayodhya-fm-sitharaman-tweets-rangoli-pic-from-home-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0on4TwrbCIIYobOruVys7J.html
05-08-2020||India||Golden chapter, says PM Modi after laying foundation stone for Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the birthplace of Lord Ram in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. The groundbreaking ceremony marks the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party nearly three decades earlier.LK Advani, 92, and Murli Manohar Joshi, 86, the two BJP stalwarts who had led the campaign to build the temple in its early days, are said to have watched the live telecast of the event because of the coronavirus pandemic. Home Minister Amit Shah, from his bed in a Gurugram hospital where the 55-year-old top BJP leader was admitted last week due to the virus.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying in a tent for decades. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” PM Modi said at the event who expressed gratitude to all the people who had made huge sacrifices for the temple moment.“India is creating a golden chapter in Ayodhya. The wait of centuries ends today,” PM Modi said in his televised address at the event.PM Modi used silver bricks during the rituals. But for the foundation stone, bricks donated by devouts from across the world in 1989 would be used. “There are 275,000 such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said as the vedic rituals, which have continued for three days, were coming to an end.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereDressed in the traditional kurta and dhoti, PM Modi offered prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple soon after landing in the riverside town of Ayodhya from Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow. Anil Mishra, member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust, said this puja was performed to “seek Lord Hanuman’s permission to start construction work of Ram Mandir”.PM Modi next headed straight to the temple for the ceremony. Security has been tight for the event, particularly in light of the coronavirus pandemic and the need to adhere to social distancing.Only 175 guests have been invited. Among them are Mohan Bhagwat, the chief of the ruling BJP’s ideological fountainhead Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.But the temple trust has ordered 100,000 packets of laddus for distribution to people and dignitaries.PM Modi is the first prime minister to visit the Ram Janambhoomi and offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949, escalating the row over the small plot of land on which a mosque had been built in the 16th century. Hindus believe the Babri Masjid, was built over a temple dedicated to Lord Ram, whose birthplace is also considered to be at the site.The temple construction has been made possible because of a Supreme Court verdict nine months ago that ended a legal battle lasting decades and awarded the site to Hindus. The Muslim community has been given a 5-acre plot at another location to build a new mosque to make up for the 500-year-old Babri Masjid demolished by a mob in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-6PtybMaVg4pvL92ufuBBbO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Ram temple bhoomi pujan fulfilment of Bal Thackeray’s dream’, says Shiv Sena||With the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple being held in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena has termed the development as “fulfilment” of party founder Bal Thackeray’s dream.The NCP, which is one of the constituents in the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said the ceremony is a “matter of joy” for all and that Lord Ram is the deity of Indians.“Fulfilment of Balasaheb’s dream,” reads a graphic Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut shared on Twitter. pic.twitter.com/6wmQ5TL4ixThe graphic also depicts a temple and carries text “Shree Ram” and “garv se kaho hum Hindu hai (say with pride that we are Hindus)”.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereThe late Sena patriarch, termed by party followers as “Hinduhridaysamrat” (Emperor of Hindu hearts), was a strong proponent of the temple cause.State NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said he always worships at the temple of Lord Ram in his constituency in Sangli district.“Today ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple construction is being performed in Ayodhya. It is a matter of joy for all of us. We always worship with devotion in Lord Ram’s temple built in my constituency.“Maryadapurushottam Prabhu Shri Ram will forever be deity of Indians,” Patil tweeted with the hashtag “RamMandirAyodhya”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the temple in Ayodhya. PTI ENM NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-fulfilment-of-bal-thackeray-s-dream-says-shiv-sena/story-i1kPuoDJYIvhleHiU9HuUI.html
05-08-2020||India||Many parts of Delhi receive light rain on Wednesday morning||Many parts of the national capital received light rains on Wednesday morning and India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said this was due to a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh that had moved westwards. However, there is little likelihood of rain in the next three to four days as a well marked low pressure area has formed over northern Bay of Bengal, which will bring intense rains mainly to central and some parts of peninsular India.“The light rain in Delhi is a result of a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh. But rain will reduce and the monsoons will be subdued for a few days here,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.The well marked low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, off the north Odisha and West Bengal coast, and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat have strengthened the southwesterly monsoon flow. The monsoon is in active to vigorous phase over the Konkan coast and adjoining areas of the west coast, and eastern parts of India, including Odisha and West Bengal. Under this favourable scenario, widespread rain with scattered heavy to very heavy falls and isolated extremely heavy falls are most likely to continue over the Konkan and Goa (including Mumbai) till August 6, and over Madhya Maharashtra (Ghat areas) till August 5 and reduce thereafter, according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin.Heavy to extremely heavy rain is very likely over Gujarat till August 6, and over Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Kerala and south interior and coastal Karnataka during the next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-parts-of-delhi-receive-light-rain-on-wednesday-morning/story-oS5vsWjbgxervqUt6RvefJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Heavy rainfall leads to waterlogging at Mankoli junction on Thane- Bhiwandi stretch||Incessant overnight rains in Thane and its adjoining cities in the densely-populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) led to waterlogging on Wednesday morning below the Mankoli bridge on the Thane–Bhiwandi bypass stretch. Though the traffic movement was reduced to a crawl, it was not disrupted, Thane Traffic Police authorities said. “There were fewer vehicles on the streets on Wednesday morning that prevented any traffic disruption. However, the road parallel to the Mankoli bridge was waterlogged. Many traffic police personnel was deployed at key intersections to avoid any traffic snarls,” said an officer of Thane’s Narpoli traffic unit. “The stretch below the Mankoli bridge was waterlogged and that considerably slowed down the traffic flow. Fortunately, there was no major traffic disruption and diversion, as many commuters avoided the stretch to reach to their respective workplaces,” said Sudesh Naik (30), a commuter. Thane’s neighbouring Kalyan, too, was lashed by an overnight downpour. Waterlogging was reported from Sant Tukaram Nagar, and Chikanghar in Kalyan (West). While a section of residents from Rambaug in Kalyan (West), Kolsewadi and Raja Ram Nagar in Kalyan (East) complained of flooding in their houses. Kalyan-Dombivli received 175 millimetres (mm) of rainfall in the past 24 hours until 7 am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-leads-to-waterlogging-at-mankoli-junction-on-thane-bhiwandi-stretch/story-cQbpLZgxfpOrHXoZq3r86J.html
05-08-2020||India||In pics: Clad in golden dhoti-kurta, PM Modi performs bhoomi pujan rituals for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in the holy city of Ayodhya on Wednesday for the momentous foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. Dressed in a golden-coloured traditional dhoti kurta, the prime minister’s first stop was the 10th-century Hanuman Garhi temple wherein he offered special prayers.PM Modi was presented with a headgear, silver ‘mukut’ and a stole by Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Maharaj, head priest of the ancient Hanuman Garhi Temple.The prime minister then went on to offer prayers to Ram Lalla and performed ‘sashtang pranam’ at Ram Janmabhoomi. PM Modi also planted a Parijat sapling, considered a divine plant, ahead of foundation stone-laying of Ram temple. Surrounded by seers, the prime minister took part in the rituals and performed bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple. As per the priest at Ram temple bhoomi pujan, nine bricks were kept at the site of the ceremony which were sent by the devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989.“There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said during the ceremony as reported by ANI.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among other dignitaries took part in the event at the Ram Janambhoomi site. Soil from more than 2000 pilgrimage sites and water from more than 100 rivers was brought for the rituals.After performing the rituals, the prime minister released a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’ and took to the stage to address the nation on the groundbreaking occasion. PM Modi began his address by chanting Jai Siya Ram and thanked all citizens of the nation as well as Indian diaspora across the world on the pious occasion.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying makeshift tent till now. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” the prime minister said. The prime minister will be in the temple town for around three hours before heading back to Lucknow at around 2.20 pm, as per his itinerary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-clad-in-golden-dhoti-kurta-pm-modi-performs-bhoomi-pujan-rituals-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-QaPd6jrVGZZhv3jtUZnCVP.html
05-08-2020||India||Accepted Bihar request for CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Centre to SC||The government has accepted the request by the Bihar government to order the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Centre’s senior second-most law officer Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta made the submission during the hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar’s capital of Patna to Maharashtra’s Mumbai.“Union of India has in principle accepted the request by Bihar to have a CBI probe. Notification regarding the same will be issued by end of day today,” Mehta said.The top court asked the parties involved to file their response in three days. It also ordered the Maharashtra government to apprise the court of the stage of investigation by Mumbai Police into Rajput’s death. The case will now be heard next week.Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh, had filed a police complaint against Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide in June. His father has also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from his son’s bank account and mentally harassed him.Chakraborty has challenged Bihar police’s jurisdiction in the matter, saying that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had recommended that the CBI take over the case on Tuesday. Kumar said the decision was taken after Rajput’s father met the state police chief Gupteshwar Pandey. “The DGP spoke to Sushant Singh Rajput’s father this morning and he gave consent for CBI inquiry. So now, we are recommending CBI probe in the matter,” Kumar said on Tuesday.Uddhav Thackeray, Kumar’s counterpart in Maharashtra, and the western state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh had both earlier ruled out a CBI probe.Rajput’s father had also met Kumar seeking CBI investigation in the case. The actor’s father had said on Monday he had filed a complaint with Mumbai Police in February claiming Rajput’s life was in danger. The revelation came as Singh filed an FIR with Patna police, alleging Mumbai police of inaction even after 40 days of the actor’s sudden death.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said have he died by suicide.(Please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist if you need support or know someone who does. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accepted-bihar-request-for-cbi-probe-into-sushant-s-death-centre-to-supreme-court/story-owCW3tZMVfqRrxMHK94XaJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Mumbai: Lake levels increase to 37.36%, from 34.95% on Tuesday morning||The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai have recorded a marginal increase in their water level following heavy rainfall over the past two days in the city and its suburbs, but the storage is found to be much below its capacity during the corresponding period in the past two yearsOn Wednesday morning, the water content in the lakes, located in Mumbai, and adjoining Thane and Palghar districts, was pegged at 37.36% -- up from 34.95% the previous day. While last year, the count during the corresponding period was 89.96%. The poor water content in the lakes has led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities to impose a 20% water usage from Wednesday onwards owing to meagre rainfall in the catchment areas. Between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, monsoon rains added 33,411 million litres (ML) water to the seven lakes and the total storage is at 5,39,307 ML. While in 2019 and 2018, the corresponding figure was 1,3,01,984 and 1,2,18,692 ML, respectively. The following is the break-up of the rainwater received by the seven lakes in and around Mumbai over the past 24 hours: Upper Vaitarna 97 millimetres (mm); Modak Sagar (141 mm); Tansa (83 mm), Middle Vaitarna (99 mm); Bhatsa (88 mm); Vehar (105 mm); and Tulsi (154 mm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-lake-levels-increase-to-37-36-from-34-95-on-tuesday-morning/story-8G0YxXP52jKMVi8DaVTHGI.html
05-08-2020||India||On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from home||On the big Ram temple bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman showcased a rangoli or kolam on Lord Ram made at the little temple at her place. “In many homes, a rangoli/kolam is made afresh each day with rice powder. This, today, in the little temple at my place,” tweeted the minister.  In many homes, a rangoli/kolam is made afresh each day with rice powder. This, today, in the little temple at my place. #Ayodhya #AyodhyaBhoomipoojan @ShriRamTeerth pic.twitter.com/GsphTU9dGsPM Modi arrived in the temple town of Ayodhya this morning for the groundbreaking ceremony for a Ram temple at the very site where the Bajri Masjid once stood. The masjid was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992. PM Modi is the first prime minister to visit the Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949, escalating the row over the small plot of land on which a mosque had been built in the 16th century. Hindus believe the Babri Masjid, was built over a temple dedicated to Lord Ram, whose birthplace is also considered to be at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bhoomi-pujan-day-in-ayodhya-fm-sitharaman-tweets-rangoli-pic-from-home/story-yrhW6VnIaau5BVccn3MIbO.html
05-08-2020||India||WATCH LIVE: PM Modi in Ayodhya for Ram temple bhoomi poojan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and UP Governor Anandiben Patel are among the 175 guests present for the grand groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.The Prime Minister reached the Ram Janmabhoomi site after visiting the Hanuman Garhi temple where he stopped for special prayers. After a 10-minute darshan and prayer to Lord Ram, PM Modi participated in a tree plantation programme inside the premises.Watch the bhoomi poojan ceremony live from Ayodhya:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-in-ayodhya-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-poojan/story-wSXjwNguGH2G7aPKSegcNJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Bullet scarred, failing eyesight: But will visit Ram Janmabhoomi only when temple is built||Sudhir Nag, a kar sevak, who received a .303 rifle bullet shot under his right eye in 1990 during police firing in Ayodhya, is 30 years on still adamant that he will visit the Ram Janambhoomi site only when the Ram temple is built.  The bullet scar is still there. He has lost vision in the right eye and his vision in the left eye, too, is diminishing. But he is firm on his vow of not visiting the temple site till the temple is built. “I will set eye on Ram Janmabhoomi (RJB) when the temple is built. I would have stayed away from the Ram temple bhumi pujan ceremony even if I was invited,” says Nag paradoxically. He is not an invitee. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereNag, a resident of Ayodhya, had vowed in 1990 to never go back to the RJB site where he was shot, until the temple was built.  The police firing on kar sevaks had taken place on the orders of the then chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav near the Ram Janmabhoomi site. “A .303 bullet had entered my face and some pellets entered my eyes. I instantly lost sight in the right eye as the retina was fully shattered while vision in the left eye is fading slowly,” said Nag who was 21 then. For close to three decades, Sudhir Nag has carried the scar on his face and a grudge in his heart. “Now, I don’t even have a grudge against him (Mulayam Singh Yadav). He, too, is witnessing the process for the temple construction. I will go to the RJB site when the temple is ready. Not before that. Doesn’t matter if I turn blind in the other eye also. A vow is a vow,” said Nag. Nag also condemned the deaths of 28 other kar sevaks in the police firing that ratcheted up tensions across the country. On October 30, 1990 Nag was leading a batch of 70 kar sevaks towards the RJB site when police firing started and a bullet hit him in the face. He survived following three successive surgeries at Lucknow’s Medical College. On December 6, 1992, thousands of kar sevaks stormed the police barricades, climbed on top of the three domes of the Babri masjid and broke it to pieces with hammers and pick axes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bullet-scarred-failing-eyesight-but-will-visit-rjb-only-when-temple-is-built/story-KN6JI5KPpvjheZSvntI5sL.html
05-08-2020||India||In pics: Fireworks, havan and ceremonious rituals as India celebrates historic Ram mandir bhoomi pujan||Uttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya witnessed the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Ayodhya on Wednesday and marked the occasion by laying the foundation stone of the grand temple and performing bhoomi pujan ritual. The momentous ceremony saw Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among other dignitaries, in attendance. Ayodhya is spruced up and all decked with freshly painted buildings and decorations adorning every nook and corner of the town. In pics: Clad in golden dhoti-kurta, PM performs Ram temple bhoomi pujanNot just the temple town, celebrations marked the grand event across the country. Over 11,000 diyas are set to be lit across the city of Ayodhya, illuminating every street and all houses will be celebrating with a ‘deepotsava’, a festival of lights.Around 175 eminent guests have been invited for the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of Ram temple. Besides Prime Minister Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Mahant Nritya Gopaldas Maharaj, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be present on stage.As per the priest at Ram temple bhoomi pujan, nine bricks were kept at the site of the ceremony which were sent by the devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989.“There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said during the ceremony as reported by ANI.Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday and will be encashed for the construction of Ram Mandir. Around 100,000 lamps will be lit on the banks of the Saryu River on Wednesday.Celebratory mood also reverberated across continents as members of the Indian community were seen taking to the streets in Washington DC, chanting Jai Shree Ram and waving saffron flags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-fireworks-havan-and-ceremonious-rituals-as-india-gears-up-for-historic-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan/story-sq68XfRm7kODAxIy6ffSvK.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi in Ayodhya, quick prayer at Hanuman Garhi before bhoomi poojan ceremony||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday landed in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on Wednesday to participate in the grand groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple, a poll promised fulfilled by his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Prime Minister had left Delhi in the morning in an Indian Air Force (IAF) plane and landed in the state capital of Lucknow from where he was flown to the temple town in a helicopter. Click here to follow live udpates of bhoomi poojan ceremonyPM Modi visit the 10th-century Hanuman Garhi temple for special prayers. He is expected to reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at 12pm, where he will visit Ram Lalla or the infant Lord Ram for 10 minutes, according to his official itinerary.He will participate in a tree plantation programme inside the premises and will plant a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine. Modi will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Borders sealed, Covid-19 testsPM Modi will be there for at least three hours in the temple town, which has been decked with 150,000 lamps, many buildings given a fresh coat of paint and murals from the epic Ramayana have been painted on walls. There will be as many as 5,100 urns decorated by local artists on the road that Modi will travel on.Authorities have put in a massive security cloak in the town, which has been spruced up for the event. The borders of Ayodhya, which nearly 130km from the state capital of Lucknow, have been sealed, thousands of security personnel have been deployed and 75 check posts have been put to block approach roads.“Over 300 police personnel, who are younger, fit and healthy as well as tested negative for Covid-19 infection, have already been handpicked for deployment in VVIP security,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.Also read: The rise of the proud, global HinduAuthorities have put in place a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing the wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site in the town where 16 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease and has 604 active cases. “Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” Anuj Jha, the district magistrate who is also a member of the temple trust, said.The guests were allowed entry to the venue from 10am and they had to undergo Covid-19 test before getting in. Rapid testing kits will be used which will give result in 15 minutes. According to officials, the district health department will deploy its team for carrying out the tests, officials said.Auspicious moment, silver bricksA water-proof marquee has been put up at the venue for the ceremony and a stage has also been set up from where PM Modi is expected to address the gathering. The government has urged local residents to remain at home and follow the grand event on television.PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel will be on the stage as 175 guests will be present for the bhoomi poojan.Vedic rituals had started at Ram Janmabhoomi at around 9am on Wednesday. The main programme of bhoomi poojan will begin at 12:30pm and PM Modi will lay five silver bricks as the temple foundation amid the chanting of Vedic hymns at 12:40pm. Priests and religious leaders have said that the muhurat or auspicious moment will last only for 32 seconds.The Prime Minister will use a 40-kilogram silver brick to lay the foundation of the temple. The brick, which has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairperson of the temple trust, will be removed after the ceremony. The groundbreaking ceremony will be telecast live and CCTV screens have been put across the town for residents to follow the ceremony. Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday, said trust officials. “Later, these silver bricks will be enchased and the money will be used for the construction of Ram Mandir,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to the trust chief, said.The Prime Minister will also meet Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust after the programme. He will leave for the helipad at 2:05pm and for Lucknow at 2:20pm.Prohibitory orders are in force in the town and not more than five people will be allowed to gather. Markets and shops will remain open but with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. Outsiders will be stopped from entering the city and residents of Ayodhya will be allowed in if they produce any identification document.A Supreme Court ruling in November ended a decades-old dispute and ordered that a Ram temple be built on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-ayodhya-quick-prayer-at-hanuman-garhi-before-bhoomi-poojan-ceremony/story-AMQnos7nlsKziTfkQ5BNEL.html
05-08-2020||India||The Rise And Fall Of Amar Singh||In the 1983 film Zelig, Woody Allen (who also wrote and directed the movie) plays the eponymous hero; a man who manages somehow to know everyone (from F Scott Fitzgerald to Adolf Hitler) and who turns up at every important event. The film is a mockumentary, which is to say that it is made to look like a documentary with shots of the fictional Zelig inserted into actual footage of real events.I first met Amar Singh around four years after I saw the movie and in my mind, Amar Singh was always the Indian Zelig: a man who managed to work his way into any situation of consequence and to stand shoulder to shoulder with any important person he saw.I first met Amar Singh after I moved to Calcutta in 1986. He was no big deal then. Though he was a Rajput, his twin claims to fame were his association with the city’s prosperous Marwari community and his friendship with Bengal Congress leaders.As he was neither much of a businessman nor a politician of any great consequence, he was already punching much above his weight. He could get the city’s richest men --- the Birlas, the Goenkas, and others --- on the phone and became involved, at a high level, in the feuds that characterized the Bengal Congress of that era. (He was pro-Subrata Mukherjee, anti-Mamata Banerjee and so on.)He also understood the media. He would turn up at the ABP office, where I then worked, escorting visiting notables. He brought Dr. Karan Singh to see us. He came again with Veer Bahadur Singh who was then (if I remember correctly) Telecom Minister. Amar Singh was hardly the only local politician to accompany national biggies on their visits to Calcutta. But what made him different was that he demanded almost as much attention as the visitor he was escorting, inserting himself into every conversation and holding forth at length. Interrupt him and you risked offending the important visitor so most of us heard him out politely.ALSO READ: Two kinds of cockroachesIn a few years, Amar Singh had established a presence in Delhi as well. When Jaya and Amitabh Bachchan came to Calcutta for the premiere of Agneepath in 1990, Amar Singh attached himself to Jaya Bachchan whom he had helped with a Children’s Film Festival in Delhi. (At the time Jaya was Chairperson of the Children’s Film Society.) He was not yet a friend of Amitabh’s but because he popped up, Zelig-like, in all the photos, he came off to the general public as a close friend of all the Bachchans.The following year, when Chandra Shekhar was Prime Minister, Amar Singh who knew the PM a little, performed what would become a classic Amar Singh maneuver. He told Chandra Shekhar that he would introduce him to Amitabh Bachchan, who was not only a legend but was also of immediate consequence to Chandra Shekhar because his government was dependent on Congress support and Bachchan was Rajiv Gandhi’s close friend. To Bachchan, Singh said that Chandra Shekhar was like a brother to him and he, Amar Singh, would personally ensure that any problems that had been created for the Bachchans by the predecessor VP Singh- government would disappear.For years afterwards, Amar Singh would tell the story of how he personally carried the government file relating to a case against the Bachchans around till Chandra Shekhar agreed to sign it and close the case.“Amitji may have been a friend of Rajiv Gandhi’s but it was Amar Singh who got the files signed and the case disposed off,” Amar Singh would boost.This got him nowhere with Rajiv who turned down Amar Singh’s request for a Congress ticket for the 1991 election and refused to even meet him despite Amitabh’s urging. But it certainly endeared him to Amitabh and by 1992, the two men were extremely close and spoke to each other on the phone every single day.ALSO READ: The Covid PuzzleIn his later years, after the Bachchans had thrown him out, Amar Singh would complain bitterly that Amitabh was never sufficiently grateful for all the things that he had done for him. And certainly there is no doubt that during the crucial phase when Bachchan’s ABCL had collapsed, leaving debts of hundreds of crores, Amar Singh helped raise the funds required to get the debts settled.But equally, there is no doubt that Amar Singh gained much more from the association than he admitted. His career advanced within the Samajwadi Party because he was able to deliver the Bachchans whenever Mulayam Singh Yadav needed them. He gained entry to political circles that would never have allowed him in by promising to bring Amitabh along. And though the Bachchans treated him with extraordinary respect and deference, Amar Singh made it a point to gratuitously inform people that Amitabh would come to the airport to receive him when he visited Mumbai and that he had organized the weddings of both the Bachchan children, exercising total control over the guest list.Nobody really knows what went wrong with that relationship --- I only have Amar Singh’s version which was so poisonously anti-Bachchan as to lack all credibility --- but while it lasted, there is no doubt that Singh became the closest friend Amitabh had ever had, especially after the split between the Bachchan brothers.Did Amar Singh precipitate the split? He said various things at various times so it is hard to be certain. But there is no doubt that nearly everywhere Singh went, there were family issues. He was central to the split between Mulayam and his son Akhilesh. He was openly hostile to Mukesh Ambani and an active warrior for the Anil Ambani camp when the brothers fought. And when the Bajajs had a problem, he turned up there as well, Zelig-like.By the end of his time in the limelight, Amar Singh had either fallen out with or moved away from every powerful person he was once close too. The parting with the Bachchans was bitter. He ceased to be a figure of any consequence in UP politics after Akhilesh kicked him out of the SP, though he tried very hard but fruitlessly to get somewhere with the BJP.He was openly attacking Anil Ambani in interviews which meant that the parting could not have been cordial. His attempts to suck up to Mukesh Ambani (“I made a mistake by behaving badly with Mukeshbhai” etc.) were rebuffed. Subroto Roy of Sahara whose planes and helicopters Amar Singh flew around in during the glory days told a TV interviewer that he thought Amar Singh had now become so arrogant that his feet hardly touched the ground.The story of his fall may not be surprising: any moth that flies too close to the flame always risks going up in smoke. But the more remarkable story is the one of his rise. I saw him at fairly close quarters for over 30 years and I still can’t figure out how he managed to fly so high and get so far.Some of the explanations that I have heard from people who knew him make some sense. Yes, he was a perfect conduit between business and industry with an ability to fix deals, get projects cleared and raise election funding. But there are others who can do that too. So it is not enough of an explanation for his remarkable rise.Some of his success was probably influence-peddling. As he did with Chandra Shekhar and Amitabh Bachchan way back in 1991, he knew how to trade in contacts and to fling names around. In the heyday of the Mulayam government, he used to brag that his house filled up every morning with important figures (including civil servants) all looking for favours. Every favour handed out was an IOU that he banked. When HD Deve Gowda was Prime Minister, Amar Singh, who said he had arranged election financing for Gowda when he was just a Karnataka politician, would turn up at Race Course Road early in the morning and park himself there. Anyone who came to meet the Prime Minister would first have to reckon with Amar Singh.But much of his success had to do with his own drive, his own confidence and his ability to become the master of any situation. Often when he was with his star-friends, with top industrialists or even his political masters, it was hard to tell who was the star or the boss and who was the lesser figure.When he went with Mulayam to meet the President of India or such allies as Sonia Gandhi, Amar Singh was the one who took the chair nearest the host and led the conversation. Top industrialists were often reduced to inarticulate, blathering wrecks while Amar Singh took charge.But none of this quite captures the secret of Amar Singh’s success. How did he inveigle himself so successfully into the life of the notoriously private Bachchan family that they gave him his own room in their house?. Why did Anil Ambani, a smart, savvy and confident businessman, let Amar Singh pose as his alter-ego? Why did Mulayam let Amar Singh become his Svengali?I don’t think anyone has ever been able to answer these questions. Nor can anyone explain what finally went so wrong. Why did nearly all of Amar Singh’s friends turn their backs on him at roughly the same time?The last time I met him was in his huge new villa where he gave me a bitter interview about his ex-friends. He was excited to be the subject of a full-length interview, an increasingly rare occurrence towards the end of his life, and insisted on showing me around his palatial new house.When we got to his private cinema, he wanted to play a part of a song sequence from a Hindi movie on his huge screen.”You will be surprised by how good the sound is,” he bragged.But the system wouldn’t work. No picture would play. Amar Singh asked someone to fix it. The man tried but had no success.Amar Singh got angrier and angrier. “Aaj kuchch nahin chal raha hai!” he complained in exasperation and rage.And of course, he was right.To read more on The Taste With Vir, click hereFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-rise-and-fall-of-amar-singh/story-WvyGeqCM0neQdYzgd4MxMO.html
05-08-2020||India||Ramcharitmanas, congratulatory messages: What BJP leaders said on Ayodhya bhoomi pujan||Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Wednesday congratulated people of the country as Prime Minister Narendra Modi headed to Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya to take part in the bhoomi poojan for the construction of the Ram temple. From Amit Shah to Rajnath Singh, several Union ministers and BJP leaders posted their messages on Twitter.Union home minister Shah, who has contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), had simply tweeted a digital photograph of the proposed Ram temple. pic.twitter.com/U9HLSVj5YRDefence minister Rajnath Singh posted a few lines from the epic poem Ramcharitmanas, written by Tulsidas, and retweeted photographs of the temple town by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra. जद्यपि सब बैकुंठ बखाना। बेद पुरान बिदित जगु जाना॥अवधपुरी सम प्रिय नहिं सोऊ। यह प्रसंग जानइ कोउ कोऊ॥अति प्रिय मोहि इहाँ के बासी। मम धामदा पुरी सुख रासी॥⁰हरषे सब कपि सुनि प्रभु बानी। धन्य अवध जो राम बखानी॥#JaiShriRam https://t.co/OyjJSVaLOtUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also tweeted a few lines from the Ramcharitmanas, the tale of Lord Ram in Awadhi language, and extended his congratulations. Click here to follow all the live updates of Ayodhya bhoomi poojan“Dear Ram devotees, greetings to you, congratulations to you. Jai Shri Ram!” he said.Union minister Smriti Irani tweeted a bhajan or a devotional song sung by a little girl, Sooryagayathri. #JaiShriRam pic.twitter.com/s7hU0zkix3Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also posted a video.“Lord Ramji’s temple had to be built had to become a Mandir. This is the temple of faith of millions of Ram devotees. Jai Shri Ram,” he said.BJP leader Pragya Singh Thakur said she was elated and speechless ahead of the ceremony.“Today, the mind is elated, happy, ecstatic. I am speechless I the bliss and all I can say is just that-Jai Shri Ram, the work is done. Jai Shri Ram, Jai Shri Ram, Jai Shri Ram, Jayshriram, Jai Shri Ram,” the member of Parliament from Bhopal tweeted.The groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple marks the end of a religious dispute that dates back to 1885 when a Hindu priest petitioned the local court to build a temple where the 16th-century Babri Masjid stood.Thousands of kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, scaled the Mughal-era mosque and demolished it on December 6, 1992. A political upheaval ensued that resulted in the dismissal of the state government even as a wave of communal riots swept India, killing thousands across the country.The construction of the Ram temple was cleared in a landmark verdict by the Supreme Court last year in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. A five-judge bench of the top court awarded the 2.77-acre disputed site to the representative of Ram Lalla and instructed the Centre to set up a trust to oversee the construction of a temple.It also gave the main Muslim litigant, the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, five acres of land at an alternative site in the district for a mosque.A separate criminal suit for the demolition of the mosque—where LK Advani and MM Joshi are accused—is being heard by a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lines-from-ramcharitmanas-to-congratulatory-messages-what-bjp-leaders-said-ahead-of-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-yDLhoNXpi0rzUKooHu4FkK.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Some moments are destined’: Kapil Sibal, Tharoor tweet ahead of historic Ram temple ceremony||Senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor tweeted ahead of the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram mandir in Uttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya on Wednesday. Congress MP Tharoor said that Lord Ram epitomises “justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness and firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude and courage”. These values are much needed in such dark times, Tharoor added. He said if these values spread throughout the land, “Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry”. Also read: PM leaves for Ayodhya to lay foundation stone of Ram templeLord ShriRam epitomises justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness&firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude &courage. These values are much needed in such dark times. If they spread throughout the land, Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry. #JaiShriRam!Sibal, on the other hand, did not directly refer to the bhoomi pujan event but wove his tweet around “matters of faith”. In his tweet, Sibal said some events are destined to take place.  Also read: Prayers, rituals and security ring to mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple todayMatters of Faithsome moments in history are destinedseedthe futurecourseof ourNation’s creed“Matters of Faith some moments in history are destined seed the future course of our Nation’s creed,” his tweet read. India woke up to a celebratory mood on Wednesday to witness the historic ceremony of Ram temple bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya. The momentous, much-awaited foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya was carried out by prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday noon. PM Modi first headed to the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlalla Virajman to perform rituals. The construction work for the grand temple will commence after the ceremony. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat were among the 175 eminent guests who had been invited to Wednesday’s groundbreaking ceremony.As per the prime minister’s itinerary, his presence in the temple town will span around three hours before he heads back to Lucknow at around 2.20 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-moments-are-destined-kabil-sibal-tharoor-tweet-ahead-of-historic-ram-temple-ceremony/story-WDk6gB38wnq8WHzfLPa4IP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Jai Shri Ram’: Arvind Kejriwal wishes the country ahead of Ayodhya event||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday congratulated the entire country for the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for a Ram temple.“Congratulations to the entire country on the occasion of Bhoomi Pujan. May we continue receving Lord Ram’s blessings. His blessings will help India end hunger and poverty and become the most powerful country in the world. May India show the path to the world in the future. Jai Shri Ram! Jai Bajrang Bali!” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. भूमि पूजन के मौक़े पर पूरे देश को बधाईभगवान राम का आशीर्वाद हम पर बना रहे। उनके आशीर्वाद से हमारे देश को भुखमरी, अशिक्षा और ग़रीबी से मुक्ति मिले और भारत दुनिया का सबसे शक्तिशाली राष्ट्र बने। आने वाले समय में भारत दुनिया को दिशा दे। जय श्री राम! जय बजरंग बली!The grounbreaking ceremony will begin after 12 pm on Wednesday.“It’s an emotional and historic moment. Wait has been worthwhile,” veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani, who was at the forefront of the party’s temple campaign in 1990s, said on Tuesday.Only 175 people, including 135 saits, have been invited for the ceremony where PM Modi will lay a 40-kilogramme silver brick to symbolise the start of construction of the Ram temple.Construction of the temple was made possible by a verdict last year from the Supreme Court.Barricades have been put up across the town with heavy police presence, as authorities try to limit the number of visitors to maintain social distancing in the wake of Covid-19. At least two priests in the area and four policemen have tested positive for the coronavirus disease.The grand affair will be beamed onto large screens in Ayodhya as well as many cities across the country. Devotees have also been asked to light diyas (earthen lamps).Soil from almost 2,000 holy sites around India and water of around 100 holy rivers will be used in the foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-shri-ram-arvind-kejriwal-wishes-the-country-ahead-of-ayodhya-event/story-6BsPs2cHmhxPx73zHoFPJN.html
05-08-2020||India||Ram dhun reverberates across continents, Indian community in US celebrates Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Not just across India but the excitement on the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya reverberated across continents as members of the Indian community in the United States were seen gathering in groups outside Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the groundbreaking occasion. While some members of the community were seen clad in traditional attire, others donned yellow and saffron-coloured clothes and went out on a march raising saffron flags and chanting ‘Jai Shree Ram’. The highlight of the celebration was the ‘Ayodhya Sri Ram Mandir Tableau’ that ferried between the US Capitol Hill and White House. The organisers told ANI that their celebrations are marking the beginning of the historic temple construction.  Also read: Prayers, rituals and security ring to mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple todayUSA: Members of the Indian community gathered outside the Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of #RamTemple in #Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/NofEWuM3E5Images of Lord Ram and 3D portraits of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is expected to be beamed across the giant billboards at the iconic Times Square on August 5 at 10 am EDT (local time). Temples across the US in states like California, Washington, Texas and Florida have announced special events to mark the historic event. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left New Delhi for Ayodhya and will reach the temple town for the momentous ceremony today noon. The event is likely to take place at around 12.30 pm today with several chief ministers, Union ministers likely to be in attendance. Before performing the bhoomi pujan, PM Modi will head to the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlalla Virajman to perform rituals.Ayodhya has been spruced up for the event while grand arrangements await the commencement of the much-awaited bhoomi pujan ceremony. PM Modi is likely to use a 40-kilogram silver brick during the ceremony for laying the foundation of the temple. The brick shall be removed after the ceremony. The construction work for the grand temple, which will be constructed in Nagara style of architecture, will commence after today’s ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-dhun-reverberates-across-continents-indian-community-in-us-celebrates-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-QgAAmuzaJaARKQU1CQKxjL.html
05-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.9 million, death toll at 39,795||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ballooned to more than 1.9 million after 52,509 new cases and 857 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry’s data showed on Wednesday.The country has been recording more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases for the last one week or since July 30 and has added more than 2 lakh infections since the beginning of this month. The number of active cases stands at 586,244 and the tally is at 1,908,254 till date.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the health ministry’s dashboard, 1,282,215 patients—51,706 people between Tuesday and Wednesday morning—have been cured of the viral disease and the recovery rate stands at 67.19%. The recovered cases in India are now double the active cases. The death toll has climbed to 39,795. The government has said that India has registered the lowest case fatality rate (CFR) since the first lockdown at 2.10% as compared to the global average.“The mortality analysis of the present data shows that 50% of deaths have happened in the age group of 60 years and above; 37% deaths belong to 45 to 60 years age group; while 11% deaths belong to 26-44 years age group,” the health ministry said on Tuesday. “This clearly highlights the people above the age of 45 belong to the high-risk group and the country’s containment strategy is focusing on this group. In the gender-wise distribution, 68% of people who died were men and 32% were women,” it said.Rajesh Bhushan, the secretary with the health ministry, said on Tuesday more than 20 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the country and more than 660,000 tests were done in the last 24 hours. The health secretary said 24 states and Union territories fared better on Monday than the national average of 15,119 tests per million. Goa leads with 84,927 tests per million, followed by Delhi having conducted 57,855 tests per million population. This indicates that many states and UTs have increased their testing capacities, Bhushan said. Also, 28 states and Union territories are performing more tests than the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) guideline of 140 tests per day per million population. The country, on an average, is conducting 479 tests per day per million population.Maharashtra continued to add to the country’s infection tally as it recorded 450,196 Covid-19, including 15,842 deaths, according to the health ministry. In Tamil Nadu, there were 263,222 cases of the viral disease and Delhi recorded 138,482 cases so far.Active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi dropped below the 10,000-mark for the first time in over two months on Tuesday, the same day that the number of daily deaths also touched a two-month low, data showed.The Capital recorded 674 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections in the Capital to 139,156, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. Globally, 18.4 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 699,575 have died, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-9-million-death-toll-at-39-795/story-siYV9QR661HyD4zh55gi4M.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi to be gifted headgear, silver crown at Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be gifted a headgear, a silver crown and a stole with the name of Lord Ram printed on it, said Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Ji Maharaj, head priest of Hanumangarhi temple said on Wednesday.“We also hope that Prime Minister Modi rings the 3.5 quintal bell and proceed towards Ram Janmabhoomi,” he added.The head priest of the temple further said: “Prime Minister Modi is coming and it is a matter of pride for Ayodhya. Many Prime Ministers took office but none apart from Prime Minister Modi came for laying the foundation stone for Ram temple.”After offering prayers at Hanumangarhi temple, Prime Minister Modi will offer prayers to ‘Ram Lalla’ at Ram Janmabhoomi today. It will be followed by the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat, Ram Mandir Trust Chief Nritya Gopaldas, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be on the stage for the event. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-be-gifted-headgear-silver-crown-at-hanumangarhi-temple-in-ayodhya/story-WPaqI9QZJOhUPrhQWhpImL.html
05-08-2020||India||‘August 5 is historical day’, says Ramdev on Ram temple ceremony||Yoga Guru Ramdev called August 5 a historical day ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday.The yoga guru, who will be attending the ceremony, reached Ayodhya on Tuesday afternoon.Ramdev visited the Hanuman Garhi temple in and morning and speaking to media persons, said, “This day (August 5) is historical and generations will remember the day with great pride.”Click here to follow all the live updates of foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya“A new history is being written in India and we should celebrate the day. I am confident that with the construction of Ram Temple, ‘Ram Rajya’ will be established in the country,” he said.Ramdev further said, “It will be an end of encroachment of all the cultural, financial and political issues. The establishment of Ram Temple will initiate a new culture in the country.”On being asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit, Ramdev said, “Our country is fortunate that we have a Prime Minister, who is a Ram and Hanuman ‘bhakt’. Prime Minister is the one who has made the ‘Hindu Dharm’ proud.”Meanwhile, security and Covid-19 protocol is being followed at Ayodhya’s Hanuman Garhi temple.Prime Minister Modi will offer prayers at the temple, ahead of foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-5-is-historical-day-says-ramdev-on-ram-temple-ceremony/story-i9kNCObWCHxeydfQKkqeGI.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya set for grand Ram Temple ceremony today||The sacred temple town is all set for a historical occasion on Wednesday afternoon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Mandir at around 12:44 pm on Wednesday after the 135-year-old dispute was settled following a favourable Supreme Court (SC) ruling on November 9, 2019. PM Modi will also create history, when he becomes the first PM to visit Ram Janmabhoomi and offer his prayers. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates here The PM’s chopper is slated to land at around 11:30 am at the makeshift helipad at Saket PG Degree College ground. Initially, the PM will offer his prayers at Hanuman Garhi temple, and later at Ram Janmabhoomi. Vedic rituals have started at Ram Janmabhoomi from around 9.30 am, where 21 priests are presiding over religious ceremonies. The three-day rituals that had started on Monday (August 3) will culminate with PM Modi performing bhumi pujan at the sanctum–sanctorum of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi by using a 40-kilogram silver brick. Also read: Hours before Ayodhya event, AIMPLB questions Supreme Court judgementThe brick has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant that was set up following the apex court ruling last year. However, the brick will not be used for the shrine’s construction.The PM is also slated to plant a parijat sapling after the bhumi pujan. Ayodhya is out of bounds for vehicular traffic and police personnel has been deployed across the town because of the dignitaries’ visit. Around 175 guests, including yoga guru Baba Ramdev, have been invited to attend the ceremony, who are expected to arrive by 10 am. Salil Singhal, the nephew of late Vishwa Hindu President (VHP) president Ashok Singhal, will be the host of Wednesday’s ceremony. Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP governor Anandiben Patel, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Baghwat and Mahant Nritya Gopal Das will share the dais with PM Modi in a bid to maintain social distancing norms because of the nationwide raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-set-for-grand-ram-temple-ceremony-today/story-wy5IydjETStCBP05Y7jY0I.html
05-08-2020||India||From PM Modi to 135 seers: Guest list for Ayodhya Ram temple’s bhoomi pujan||Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya is all ready for the foundation-laying ceremony for the Ram temple on Wednesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the 175 people, including religious leaders and eminent local citizens, in attendance.Prime Minister Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel will be the main guests during the bhoomi pujan.Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra, has said the small ceremony was being organised in Ayodhya view of the coronavirus pandemic.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates here “If it were normal circumstances, then we would have had all those who have been associated with the movement from the beginning. However, the circumstances are such that very few can come,’’ Rai has said.Here are the highlights of the guest list:* The trust has confirmed that 135 of the 175 guests will be seers from different spiritual traditions. * Apart from Hindu religious leaders, the chairperson of the Sunni Waqf board from Lucknow, Jathedars or Sikh priests, and other religious heads have also been invited to the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya.* The son of the oldest litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, a Padma Shri awardee and the chairperson of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) are three Muslim invitees among the 175 guests attending the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday.* Iqbal Ansari, 69, son of Hashim Ansari who died at of 95 in 2016, is the first invitee. * The second Mohammad Sharif, the 80-year-old who is known across the state for his work in holding final rites for at least 5,000 unclaimed Hindu and Muslim people.* Zufar Ahmed Faruqi, the chairperson of the UPSCWB that was the main Muslim party in the title suit and the head of the 15-member trust that is helming the construction of a mosque at a five-acre site in Ayodhya district, is the third.* The trust has also invited Purnima Kothari, the sister of two brothers from Kolkata who were kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, and died in police firing in Ayodhya on October 30, 1990, while on a procession to the 2.77-acre site.* The trust also invited family members of local kar sevaks in Ayodhya who died in the firing.* Former deputy prime minister LK Advani, the BJP leader considered by many as the face of the Ram Temple movement in the 90s, and K Parasaran, the lead counsel for the Hindu side in the title suit hearing in the Supreme Court are among those not invited to the bhoomi poojan because of their advanced age, which put them at greater risk of coronavirus infection.* Senior BJP leader and former education minister MM Joshi, others stalwarts from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) such as Kalraj Mishra and Kalyan Singh are also unlikely to attend.* BJP leader Uma Bharti has decided to stay away from the bhoomi poojan event and will visit the site after everyone will leave citing the safety of PM Modi and other guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pm-modi-to-135-seers-guest-list-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-s-bhoomi-pujan/story-qTRri9AaWVOGP1rFvn4R9K.html
05-08-2020||India||Sudarsan Pattnaik creates replica of Ram temple on Puri beach||Sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik on Tuesday said he has created a replica of Ram temple on Puri beach, on the eve of its ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya.Pattnaik said, he was keen to create a sand sculpture of the temple at Ayodhya during ‘bhoomi pujan’, but had to do it on Puri beach because of an outbreak of Covid-19.“In fact, I visited Ayodhya last year and conducted a study for the purpose. However, I had to change my plans due to the pandemic,” he said.The artist said, he has created a five-feet tall replica of the temple on the beach for which he used about four tonnes of sand.Click here to follow all the live updates of ground-breaking ceremony in AyodhyaIt took around five hours to create this sculpture.“We are very happy that after a long wait, the temple is going to be constructed. It is a historic day for us,” said Pattnaik.The August 5 ceremony will mark the beginning of the construction of Ram temple after a decades-long title suit over the site in Ayodhya was settled by Supreme Court last November.Recipient of many awards, Pattnaik has participated in more than 60 international sand art competitions across the world and won a number of prizes for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarsan-pattnaik-creates-replica-of-ram-temple-on-puri-beach/story-Sn1t42KsS1OCnusvfL44NI.html
05-08-2020||India||Covid-19 protocols in place as Ayodhya gears up for grand Ram Temple ceremony||The Saryu Ghat was seen decorated ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday.In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, sanitisation work was also done at the Hanuman Garhi temple in the morning ahead of the Prime Minister’s visit. Strict security and Covid-19 protocols will be followed at the temple.Follow Ram temple live updates here PM Modi will perform ‘pooja’ at Hanuman Garhi and Shree Ramlala Virajman before performing ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had informed on Tuesday.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Invitations have been sent to 175 people, including 135 saints of 35 religious organisations to attend the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-protocols-in-place-as-ayodhya-gears-up-for-grand-ram-temple-ceremony/story-YyfOjkrhSanFOTC2WaOFmM.html
05-08-2020||India||‘PM Modi undid decades of darkness’: Piyush Goyal on first anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||Union minister Piyush Goyal has marked the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 by posting a tweet which said that the move ushered in justice, peace and prosperity for common man.“Ushering in justice, peace & prosperity for common man. PM @NarendraModi ji undid decades of darkness to bring development & opportunities to Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Abrogating Article 370, HM @AmitShah ji unified nation & empowered people of these UTs to shape their future,” Goyal tweeted on Wednesday. Ushering in justice, peace & prosperity for common man.PM @NarendraModi ji undid decades of darkness to bring development & opportunities to Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.Abrogating Article 370, HM @AmitShah ji unified nation & empowered people of these UTs to shape their future pic.twitter.com/2XnqhGspz2Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, which stripped erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and split it into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.A year later, the security situation in the region has not only stabilised but also progressively improved with more support from the people, multiple army, police, and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers said.According to government data, the number of violent incidents in Kashmir was down to 120 from January to July, compared to 198 during the same time last year.The stone-throwing incidents - 102 - have also significantly reduced this year. Nearly 532 such incidents were reported in 2018 and 389 in 2019.Officials said terrorists are unable to carry out grenade attacks due to a robust presence and better coordination between security forces.Only 21 grenade attacks have been reported so far this year as compared to 52 during the same period in 2019.Officials said the influence of separatists or terror groups in calling for bandhs has also diminished with only four strike calls this year compared to 30 in 2019.In terms of strengthening the democratic apparatus, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday approved the creation of Block Development Fund of Rs 25 lakh which will be at the disposal of block development council chairpersons.Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said the decision has been taken by Lieutenant Governor Girish Chander Murmu with a view to strengthen and empower the panchayati raj system in Jammu and Kashmir.The administration last week announced a life insurance cover of Rs 25 lakh each to all elected members of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs) of the union territory in case of death due to a terror-related incident.The decision is aimed at strengthening the grassroots democracy by providing a sense of security to the elected members of local bodies who are under constant threat from terrorists, an official spokesman had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-undid-decades-of-darkness-piyush-goyal-on-first-anniversary-of-article-370-abrogation/story-Ygw7ZPl9J3ikpL1uR96XsK.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya Ram Mandir Highlights: May blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us, says PM Modi||Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath and Gopinath temples in ChamoliUttarakhand: Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath and Gopinath temples in Chamoli on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. Uttarakhand: Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath & Gopinath temples in Chamoli on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Pujan' of #RamMandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. pic.twitter.com/HwT8sK4KhVMaharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj BhavanMaharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj Bhavan, Mumbai to celebrate the occasion of the Bhoomi Puja ceremony performed at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya earlier today: Governor’s Office. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed the Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj Bhavan, Mumbai to celebrate the occasion of the Bhoomi Puja ceremony performed at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya earlier today: Governor's Office pic.twitter.com/2p8zxPjpJWMay the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us: PM ModiA blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous.  A blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous. @ShriRamTeerth pic.twitter.com/4JbHYcTv0bRam temple digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times SquareUSA: Ram temple digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times Square. USA: #RamMandir digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times Square. pic.twitter.com/MqklVfD2frPeople light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’Ayodhya: People light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple. #WATCH Ayodhya: People light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Poojan' of #RamTemple. pic.twitter.com/hkKe3TBKMbAyodhya district lit up on occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram templeAyodhya district lit up on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of Ram temple, earlier today. Ayodhya district lit up on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Poojan' of #RamTemple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of #RamTemple, earlier today. pic.twitter.com/Vxrvxpkt7nRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat performs ‘Aarti’ at the banks of Saryu riverAyodhya: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat performs ‘Aarti’ at the banks of Saryu river. Connected through Ram-Sita, relationship between the two countries is deep and strong: Nepal envoy to IndiaIndian PM Modi laid Ram Temple’s foundation stone in Ayodhya. Connected through Ram-Sita, relationship between the two countries is deep and strong. Ram-Janaki continues to inspire the relationship to become more cooperative and strong in modern times: N Acharya, Nepal envoy to IndiaHeeraben, mother of PM Modi watched the live telecast of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple earlier todayGujarat: Heeraben, mother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, watched the live telecast of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple earlier today, at her residence in Gandhinagar.Yogi Adityanath presented an idol of Lord Ram to PM ModiUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath presented an idol of Lord Ram to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram templein Ayodhya, earlier today.Lord Ram is loved by all and he is above any political consideration: Anand SharmaRam temple has been the demand of people from past many years. Congress welcomed the decision of Supreme Court with an open heart. Lord Ram is loved by all and he is above any political consideration. Politics and faith must be kept apart: Congress leader Anand SharmaRajasthan Governor congratulates people on Ram temple bhoomi pujanRajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday congratulated the people on the foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya while Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed hope that it would become a symbol of unity in the country.It is a historic day, says Ravi Shankar PrasadIt is a historic day. The construction of Ram Temple has started in Ayodhya today after sacrifices, wait and patience of generations. Indians and many people from across the world were waiting for this day for centuries: Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.Nitin Gadkari recited Ram Raksha and worshipped Lord Ram with his familyMaharashtra: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari recited Ram Raksha and worshipped Lord Ram with his family at Nagpur during the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in AyodhyaWe are proud of PM Modi who has fulfilled this dream: Assam CM Sarbananda SonowalIt’s a very important day for us. People were waiting from many years for a Ram temple on Ram Janmabhoomi. Today that dream has come true. We are proud of PM Modi who has fulfilled this dream. This temple will strengthen peace and humanity in country: Assam CM Sarbananda SonowalEmotional moment for entire country: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said the ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ event was as emotional moment for the entire country as a long wait has ended today. Yediyurappa greets people on bhoomi pujanKarnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his cabinet colleagues greeted people for the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. ‘A golden chapter in history of Indian culture’: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to laud the foundation laying ceremony on Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Today is a historic and proud day for India. Prime Minister on the birthplace of Lord Shri Ram @NarendraModiBhumi worshiped and laid the foundation stone of the grand Ram temple, which has written a golden chapter in the history of great Indian culture and civilization and has started a new era,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. Whenever humanity followed Lord Ram, development took place: PM ModiWhenever humanity followed Lord Ram, development took place; we have to take care of everyone’s sentiments, said PM ModiPM Modi reiterates social distancing mantraThe Prime Minister renewed his pitch for maintaining social distancing and wearing masks amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ram temple construction in Ayodhya will lift region’s economy: PM ModiAs the construction of Ram temple will begin in Ayodhya, the entire region’s economy will be lifted, the Prime Minister said in his speech at the foundation laying ceremony. No aspect of life where Ram does not inspire us: PM ModiPM Modi asserted that there is no aspect of life where Ram does not inspire us and that he is always present with us in some or the other form. “Ram is in everyone and he belongs to everyone,” he added.Ram temple will be modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said the process of Ram temple’s construction is an attempt to connect the nation. It will be a modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit, he added. ‘For years, Ram Lalla lived under makeshift arrangements’: PM Modi“For years, Ram Lalla lived under makeshift arrangements, work for a grand temple begins now,” PM Modi said in his address. “A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla . Today, Ram janmbhoomi has broken free from the cycle of being demolished and built again which had been going on for centuries,” he said. Entire world is witnessing history being made: PM ModiIn his address at the grand ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the entire world is witnessing history being made with the foundation of Ram temple and called for chants of Jai Shri Ram. “History is also is being repeated. The way boatmen to tribals helped Lord Ram, the way children helped Lord Krishna lift Govardhan mountain, similarly, with everyone’s efforts of temple construction will be completed,” he said. ‘Siyaram Ramchandra ki jai’: PM Modi opens his address at AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi opened his address at Ayodhya with chants of “Siyaram Ramchandra ki jai”. He congratulated devotees of Ram and said that he was honoured to be invited to Ayodhya. ‘Temple will be constructed soon, wishes of devotees will be fulfilled’: Nitya Gopal DasPresident of Ram Mandir Trust Nitya Gopal Das addressed the foundation laying ceremony in Ayodhya. “I have been asked many times when will Ram temple be constructed. Now, it will be constructed soon. The wishes of devotees will be fulfilled,” he said. A new beginning of a new India: RSS chiefRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said that India believes in ‘Vasudeva Kutumbakam’ i.e world is our guest and that Indians believe in taking everyone along. “Today is a new beginning of a new India,: he added. ‘Advani ji must be watching’: Mohan Bhagwat“Advani ji must be at his home watching this’, said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the Ram temple ceremony in Ayodhya. There are some people who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the Covid-19 situation, he said. ‘Some could not be here due to Covid-19’: CM Yogi Adityanath“Some people could not be here due to Covid-19 pandemic. They will be called for future events in Ayodhya’, said Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath during the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. West Bengal CM calls for unity in diversityOn the day the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of Ram temple in Ayodhya, West Bengal chief minister appealed for unity in diversity. “Countrymen should preserve the age-old legacy till their last breath,” she tweeted. .500 years-long struggle for Ram temple in Ayodhya: Yogi AdityanathWhile addressing the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said people struggled for 500 years for the temple and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for fulfilment of dream to build temple in Ayodhya.‘Symbol of modern India based on the ideals of Ramrajya’: President Kovind“Congratulations to all on the inauguration of the construction of Ram-Mandir! The temple of Maryada Purushottam Prabhu Ram is being constructed in accordance with the process of justice and with the enthusiasm of the public and with the support of social harmony. The temple complex, I believe, will become a symbol of modern India based on the ideals of Ramrajya,” President Kovind said in a tweet. PM lays foundation for Ram temple in AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi has laid the foundation of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. Ram temple bhoomi poojan concludesThe rituals of bhoomi poojan concluded at the Ram temple site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath participated in the rituals. Bricks sent by devotees in 1989 at Ram temple site: PriestDuring the bhoomi poojan rituals, one of the priests told the people about nine bricks at the spot that were sent by devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989. “There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. PM Modi performs arti of Ram LallaAt Ram Janmabhoomi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered dandavat pranam at pre-fabricated makeshift Ram Mandir and performed arti of Ram Lalla.  He then planted a sapling of Parijat tree and reached bhumi pujan venue, sanctum- sanctorum of the proposed Ram Mandir.  PM Modi takes part in Bhoomi Pujan ceremonyPM Modi offers prayers at the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony. Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes part in Ram Temple 'Bhoomi Pujan' at Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/Qal0jH3EdyPM Modi on en route to HanumangarhiPM Modi on his way to Hanumangarhi. PM Narendra Modi on his way to the 10th century Hanuman Garhi Temple, soon after his arrival in #Ayodhya. pic.twitter.com/VgeYkit8j9PM willpower makes him tallest leader of India in last 500 years: Shivraj Singh ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the tallest leader of India in the last 5 years because of his “willpower and resolve.” PM Modi arrives in AyodhyaPM Narendra Modi has arrived in Ayodhya for the grand foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. He will first visit the Hanuman Garhi temple and then head to Ram Janmabhoomi site.Token of justice after 400 years of struggle: VHP America“We’re celebrating ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram Mandir. After a struggle of over 400 years and several sacrifices, we finally have a token of justice. We thank PM,” Mahendra Sapa, president (Washington DC chapter), Vishwa Hindu Parishad of America, organiser of celebration in Washington DC was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.PM Modi’s first stop at Hanuman Garhi templePM Modi will first visit the 10th century Hanuman Garhi temple on arrival in Ayodhya. Premises of the temple were sanitised earlier today.The Prime Minister will then proceed to Ram Janmabhoomi site to offer prayers to Ram Lalla lay the foundation stone for Ram temple.‘A signature event’: Swami Chidananda Saraswati“This is a signature event. This event will give a glimpse of India’s ‘unity in diversity’. It will bridge gaps and bring people together. We all are one-’Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’”, Swami Chidananda Saraswati was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. UP CM, Anandiben Patel, Uma Bharti arrive at Ram Janambhoomi siteUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, governor Anandiben Patel and BJP national vice president Uma Bharti have arrived at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya on the occasion of ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple. PM Modi lands in LucknowPM Narendra Modi Modi landed has landed in Lucknow. He will now head to Ayodhya to lay the foundation of the Ram temple with a sliver brick. Ayodhya has united everyone: Uma Bharti“Ayodhya has united everyone. Now the people of the country keep hold their head high in pride and say that there’s no discrimination,” BJP leader Uma Bharti, who is present at the Ram Janambhoomi site, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. A look inside the venue of Ram temple foundation laying ceremony‘August 5 is historical day’, says Ramdev“This day (August 5) is historical and generations will remember the day with great pride,” yoga guru Ramdev who will be attending the Ram temple foundation laying ceremony today, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Ramdev paid a visit to the Hanuman Garhi temple in the morning and said that “a new history is being written in India and we should celebrate the day. I am confident that with the construction of Ram Temple, ‘Ram Rajya’ will be established in the country,” according to ANI. Pragya Singh Thakur says ‘heart filled with joy’In a tweet in Hindi, BJP MP Pragya Thakur said that she was very happy and her heart was filled with joy as she chanted Jai Shri Ram. आज मन बहुत आल्हादित है प्रसन्न है भाव विभोर है।मैं परमानंद में हूं निशब्द हूं बस इतना ही कह पा रही हूं -जय श्री राम,हो गया काम।जय श्री राम, जय श्री राम, जय श्री राम, जयश्रीराम, जय श्रीराम...........................Yogi Adiyanath greets Lord Ram devoteesप्रबिसि नगर कीजे सब काजा।हृदयँ राखि कोसलपुर राजा।।श्री अवधपुरी में दशरथ नंदन श्रीरामलला के भव्य-दिव्य मंदिर निर्माण की बहुप्रतीक्षित अभिलाषा को पूर्ण करने हेतु उत्तर प्रदेश की पावन धरा पर पधार रहे आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी को समस्त राम भक्तों की ओर से राम-राम!Mayawati lauds Supreme Court verdict on AyodhyaBSP chief Mayawati lauded the Supreme Court for the Ayodhya verdict in September last year. She credited the apex court for paving the way for today’s foundation laying ceremony. “Supreme Court ended the dispute. Along with it, it also put a stop on the parties which were doing politics on this issue. It is due to the honourable court’s verdict that the foundation of the Ram temple is being laid down today, a lot of credit for this goes to the court,” Mayawati’s tweet, roughly translated to English from Hindi, read.At Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya, PM to be gifted headgear, silver crownPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be gifted a headgear, a silver crown and a stole with the name of Lord Ram printed on it, said Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Ji Maharaj, head priest of Hanumangarhi temple said on Wednesday, according to news agency ANI.Security heightened ahead of PM Modi’s visitSecurity in the Ayodhya city has been heightened as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit shortly for the foundation laying ceremony of the much awaited Ram temple.RAF commandos took their position ahead PM Modi’s participation in the bhoomi poojan of the temple on Wednesday. PM Modi leaves for AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi has left for Ayodhya where he will lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple.  PM @narendramodi leaves for Ayodhya. pic.twitter.com/gIPyz7HCJJLocals rejoice at Saryu River bankIndian community in US gathers to celebrate Ram temple ceremonyMembers of the Indian community gathered outside the Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Sadhus worship at Ram ki PediSadhus were seen worshipping at Ram ki Pedi on the day of bhoomi poojan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on early on Wednesday. Who will attend Ayodhya Ram temple’s bhoomi pujanApart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ram temple trust has confirmed that 135 of the 175 guests will be seers from different spiritual traditions. The Prime Minister, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel are the main guests during the bhoomi pujan.Ahead of Ram temple event, Ravi Shankar Prasad shares sketch from Constitution“Original document of the Constitution of India has a beautiful sketch of Lord Ram, Mata Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya after defeating Ravan. This is available at the beginning of the chapter related to Fundamental Rights. Felt like sharing this with you all.#JaiShriRam,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted. Original document of the Constitution of India has a beautiful sketch of Lord Ram, Mata Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya after defeating Ravan. This is available at the beginning of the chapter related to Fundamental Rights. Felt like sharing this with you all.#JaiShriRam pic.twitter.com/jCV9d8GWTORam temple will be unique example of Indian architecture: Temple trustThe Ram temple to be built in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya will a unique example of Indian architecture, the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra said in a tweet on Wednesday. श्री राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर विश्व में भारतीय स्थापत्य कला का अनुपम उदाहरण होगा। जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के प्रस्तावित मॉडल के कुछ चित्र।Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir will be a unique example of Indian architecture. Here are some photos of the proposed model.जय श्री राम! Jai Shri Ram! pic.twitter.com/8kJ4qEYah2Ayodhya lit with diyas ahead of mega eventThe entire city of Ayodhya was lit with earthen lamps on Wednesday ahead of the mega event where the Prime Minister lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple. According to news agency ANI, people also lit diyas on the banks of Saryu river as part of the ‘deepotsava’ celebrations.Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is personally monitoring the arrangements for the Ram temple bhoomi pujan, said the ceremony is a “dream come true.” “I am overjoyed, our five-century-long struggle and wait is going to end --all because of the perseverance and reverence of the devotees,” he added. PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ram templeAt 12:40pm, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The city is all decked up for the groundbreaking ceremony. A total of 175 guests have been invited for the mega event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-ram-temple-groundbreaking-ceremony-janmabhoomi-pujan-live-updates-modi/story-6FmfO2QEJu84ZUteG6nHiK.html
05-08-2020||India||Former Maharashtra CM Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar passes away in Pune||Former Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar (89) died at a private hospital in Pune on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, family members and doctors, treating him for old-age-related ailments, said. Nilangekar, according to Ruby Hall Clinic authorities, was admitted on July 16, a day after he had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. “A confirmatory test result on July 31 showed him cured of the viral infection. However, he developed other health issues, including chronic renal failure and a heart condition,” said Dr. Kapil Zirpe, director, neurotrauma unit, Ruby Hall Clinic. Nilangekar, a Congress leader, who belonged to Latur in the Marathwada region, was Maharashtra CM between June 1985 and March 1986. He was compelled to resign from the CM’s post after the Bombay high court (HC) passed strictures against him following the detection of alleged fraud in the state medical college examinations in 1985. The fraud was allegedly perpetrated at his behest to help his daughter Chandrakala and her friend to get through the medical entrance examinations conducted by the Mumbai University. Nilangekar was succeeded by another Congress stalwart Shankarrao Chavan as Maharashtra CM. “Nilangekar’s demise has left the Congress party losing a veteran leader,” tweeted Congress’s Maharashtra unit. His last rites will be conducted at Nilanga in Latur, around 380 kilometres (km) east of Pune, in the Marathwada region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maharashtra-cm-shivajirao-patil-nilangekar-passes-away-in-pune/story-CR4iO50JQmUQx6XcfZ7XbO.html
05-08-2020||India||For generations, this Muslim family in Ayodhya making ‘Khadaus’ for Hindu saints||A Muslim family-based in Ayodhya has been making ‘Khadaus’ (wooden footwear) for Hindu saints for several generations that is also its primary source of income. Mohd. Azam said he is the fifth generation in his family who is carrying forward the making khadaus. Also read | Struggle and violence: The chronicle of a 167-year-long saga“I make Khadaus, which are used by Hindu saints, for a living. These are also worshipped by many people. I am the fifth generation in my family who is making this, and carrying forward the tradition which was started by my ancestors,” he told ANI.Khadau possesses a great significance in the Hindu religion, in particular. In the epic mythology Ramayana, Bharat, Lord Ram’s younger brother, placed ‘Khadaus’ of Rama on the throne as a symbol of the latter’s authority over the kingdom. It is thus an object of worship for many, even today.Also read | At mosque site, a hope for amityAzam, who is working with seven others to make these Khadaus, expects a rise in its sales after the construction of Ram Temple in the holy city.“As the Ram Temple is getting constructed, many people will come to Ayodhya and I expect more sales of Khadaus, which will improve our condition and livelihood,” he said.Ruling out any communal disharmony, Azam added, “Hindus and Muslims are not viewed differently here. We all work together and celebrate each other’s festivals. I have co-workers who are Hindus, and we all live peacefully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-generations-this-muslim-family-in-ayodhya-making-khadaus-for-hindu-saints/story-oODBygeY8NHoVR1nONgH2L.html
05-08-2020||India||Prayers, rituals and security ring mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on Wednesday to lay the foundation of the Ram temple, which will mark a closure to the 135-year religious conflict in the country, amid a massive security arrangement in the town spruced up for the event.The borders of Ayodhya, which nearly 130km from the state capital of Lucknow, have been sealed, thousands of security personnel have been deployed and 75 check posts have been put to block approach roads.Also Read: Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathPM Modi will be there for at least three hours in the temple town, which has been decked with 150,000 lamps, many buildings given a fresh coat of paint and murals from the epic Ramayana have been painted on walls. There will be as many as 5,100 urns decorated by local artists on the road that Modi will travel on.“Over 300 police personnel, who are younger, fit and healthy as well as tested negative for Covid-19 infection, have already been handpicked for deployment in VVIP security,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.Authorities have put in place a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing the wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site in the town where 16 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease and has 604 active cases. Also Read: Hours before Ayodhya event, AIMPLB questions Supreme Court judgement“Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” Anuj Jha, the district magistrate who is also a member of the temple trust, said.The temple trust had on Monday released the main invitation for the ceremony that listed PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel as guests.The guests will be allowed entry to the venue from 10am and they will have to undergo Covid-19 test before entering the venue. Rapid testing kits will be used which will give result in 15 minutes. According to officials, the district health department will deploy its team for carrying out the tests, officials said.Vedic rituals will start at Ram Janmabhoomi at around 9am on Wednesday. Before the PM’s arrival for bhumi pujan, priests will complete several Vedic rituals, including Maha Ganpati, Ambika pujan, Varun pujan, Shodash matrika, Sapath Grahan matrika, Ayush mantra jaap, Nav Prastar Khand Shila pujan and graha shanti puja.A water-proof marquee has been put up at the venue for the ceremony and a stage has also been set up from where PM Modi is expected to address the gathering. The government has urged local residents to remain at home and follow the grand event on television.Also Read: At mosque site, a hope for amityPM Modi is expected to reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at 12pm, where he will visit Ram Lalla or the infant Lord Ram for 10 minutes, according to his official itinerary. He will then participate in a tree plantation programme inside the premises. Modi will plant a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine before performing the ‘bhoomi pujan’. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.The main programme of bhoomi poojan will begin at 12:30pm and PM Modi will lay five silver bricks as the temple foundation amid the chanting of Vedic hymns at 12:40pm. Priests and religious leaders have said that the muhurat or auspicious moment will last only for 32 seconds.Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi and three from Kamikochi in Tamil Nadu are performing the rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi for the construction of the temple.The Prime Minister will use a 40-kilogram silver brick to lay the foundation of the temple. The brick, which has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairperson of the temple trust, will be removed after the ceremony. The groundbreaking ceremony will be telecast live and CCTV screens have been put across the town for residents to follow the ceremony. Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday, said trust officials. “Later, these silver bricks will be enchased and the money will be used for the construction of Ram Mandir,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to the trust chief, said.The Prime Minister will also meet Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust after the programme. He will leave for the helipad at 2:05pm and for Lucknow at 2:20pm.Around 100,000 lamps will be lit on the banks of the Saryu River on Wednesday.Prohibitory orders are in force in the town and not more than five people will be allowed to gather. Markets and shops will remain open but with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. Outsiders will be stopped from entering the city and residents of Ayodhya will be allowed in if they produce any identification document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayers-rituals-and-security-ring-to-mark-big-day-for-temple-in-ayodhya-today/story-iTXvL7bt3BEWuOFyDYfDDP.html
05-08-2020||India||Hours before Ayodhya event, Muslim body questions Supreme Court judgement||Ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony for Ram temple in Ayodhya, the All India Muslim personal Law Board (AIMPLB) questioned the Supreme Court judgement in Ayodhya. On Twitter, it told its followers that there is “no need to be heartbroken”.“#BabriMasjid was and will always be a Masjid. #HagiaSophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an unjust, oppressive, shameful and majority appeasing judgment can’t change it’s status. No need to be heartbroken. Situations don’t last forever,” the AIMPLB tweet said. #BabriMasjid was and will always be a Masjid. #HagiaSophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an unjust, oppressive, shameful and majority appeasing judgment can't change it's status. No need to be heartbroken. Situations don't last forever.#ItsPolitics pic.twitter.com/nTOig7Mjx6The tweet also carried a press statement as attachment.The AIMPLB was among the litigants which had filed a review petition against the Supreme Court judgement in the Ayodhya case in November last year. The court had also directed the central government to allot a five-acre plot of land in Ayodhya for construction of a mosque.AIMPLB said it will not accept the alternative five-acre land. Another Muslim body, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind (JUH), had also said that they opposed the unanimous Supreme Court decision.The AIMPLB was not a party to the case but had roped in three litigants - Mohammad Umar Khalid, a resident of Ayodhya town; Misbahuddin, a resident of Ayodhya district and Mehfusur Rehman, a resident of Tanda town in Ambedkar Nagar district - to file the review petition.However, all the review petitions were dismissed by the top court. The 136-year-old Ayodhya dispute ratcheted up communal tensions on December 6, 1992 when a mob scaled the Babri Masjid and demolished it, triggering a cycle of violence that killed at least 2,000 people across India. Many Hindus believe the site was the birthplace of warrior god Ram, and the 16th-century mosque was built after pulling down a temple dedicated to Ram.In 2010, the Allahabad high court ordered the land be distributed equally to the Nirmohi Akhara, Ram Lalla and the Sunni Central Waqf Board. But a five-judge Supreme Court bench, led by former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, unanimously set aside the high court ruling and awarded title of the land to Ram Lalla. It also ordered the government to set up a trust to oversee management of the site and the construction of a temple, and awarded five acres of land at an alternative site for a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-ayodhya-event-aimplb-statement-rests-hope-on-hagia-sophia-moment/story-geF754ICqa9P2My5YZOVIM.html
05-08-2020||India||Kerala physician among 3 Indian Islamic State operatives killed in Afghanistan prison attack||Islamic State operative from Kerala - Dr Ijas Kallukettiya Purayil, included in the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) “most wanted” list - was among three Indian-origin members of the terror group killed in a suicide attack in Afghanistan over the weekend. According to information and images released by the media arm of Islamic State’s Khorasan unit (ISKP) on Tuesday, Purayil alias Ijas, was among 11 terrorists who attempted to storm a prison at Jalalabad in Nangarhar province where IS prisoners were being held. Ijas was the only Indian attacker whose face was visible in photos released by IS, while the other two Indians were masked. People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity it was believed all three Indian terrorists were from Kerala, from where a sizeable number of men and women had travelled to Afghanistan to join the Islamic State in 2016. Ijas was part of 22-member Kasargod module led by Abdul Rashid Abdulla. Ijas, seen in a photo standing before the black IS flag and holding an assault rifle, was a physician from Kasargod district in Kerala. According to the NIA’s website, his status is listed as “absconding”. A charge sheet filed by NIA in 2016 states Ijas was wanted in connection with a case registered in 2016 on charges of criminal conspiracy, commission of unlawful activities, and membership and support to the banned IS. Ijas, his wife Reffeala and their minor child left India via Hyderabad airport in June 2016 to join ISKP in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province. Reffeala is currently in a jail in Kabul’s Badam Bagh prison along with her five year old son who they took with them in 2016 and an infant born in Afghanistan. She was caught along with 24 other Indians among nearly 900 Islamic State fighters in November 2019. Indian intelligence agencies had even questioned her. A NIA team was supposed to go to Kabul to questioned Indians captured there including Reffeala but the trip was delayed in the wake of cancellation of international flights. The agency is now exploring if it can use a special flight to go to Kabul. NIA officials who didn’t wish to be named said that they also have received report of Ijas’s death but a DNA test can only provide a confirmation. The attack on the prison in Jalalabad ended on Monday with the killing of all the attackers by Afghan security forces. Afghan officials said a total of 29 people were killed and 50 others injured. The Afghan defence ministry said in a statement that the attackers and two security personnel were among the dead. It added that five prisoners were killed by the attackers and 1,025 prisoners were rescued. ISKP’s media arm released a 20-minute audio message in which the group’s spokesman Sultan Aziz Azzam provided details of the attack. This was one of the rare occasions when ISKP has made a detailed claim for an attack. Azzam said the attack was carried out by 11 IS members - four Tajiks, three Indians, three Afghans and a Pakistani, who were divided into four groups. The assault was in keeping with a promise by new ISKP chief Shahab al-Muhajir to release the group’s prisoners. A suicide bomber detonated an explosives-laden vehicle at the gate of the prison while others entered the jail and freed hundreds of prisoners, Azzam claimed. Earlier this year, NIA had registered its first case related to an attack on foreign soil following the IS attack on a Gurudwara in Kabul in March. ISKP member Mohammed Sajid Kuthurimmal, who also belongs to Kerala, was allegedly involved in this attack that killed nearly 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-physician-among-3-indians-is-operatives-killed-in-afghanistan-prison-attack/story-mVJIpIGY6SAWXIiTAXWaKN.html
05-08-2020||India||Moradabad firm sends accessories to be used during Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Moradabad-based metal firm has supplied ‘Panchpatra’ and ‘Nag Achmani’ to be used for Puja during the Bhumi Pujan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Sanjeev Kumar Verma of RG metal Industries, said, “Our firm is RG metal industries. We have been associated with selling Puja articles for the past 35 years. One of our businessman in Ayodhya Devi Charan send us on WhatsApp that Panchpatra and Nag Achmani were required. It was ready as it was available in our stock.Also read: Ram temple is for everyone, says Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath“We have to give that on August 2 and we sent it on July 31 and it has reached the temple on August 2,” Verma said. The Achmani and Panchpatra will be used during Puja during the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Temple. It is our good fortune that we have been chosen by God and these goods have gone there. We have not earned any profit on this. It is sold on no profit-no loss.”Also read: 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ringSushil Babu from the RG metal industries said, “Aanchmani and Panchapatra has gone for Puja ceremony from here. Moradabad’s brass items are famous. We are hopeful that in future more of our items are sent to be used in the temple construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moradabad-firm-sends-accessories-to-be-used-during-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-8S2Ey2gpeEMiF1w8A2IjJP.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya lit with earthen lamps ahead of Ram temple’s foundation stone laying ceremony||Every street in Ayodhya was seen illuminated with earthen lamps ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday.People also lit diyas on the banks of Saryu river as part of the ‘deepotsava’ celebrations in the temple town which will see Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other dignitaries arrive today for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony of the Ram Temple.The entire Ayodhya has been decked up and massive preparations have been made for this occasion with a festive air.Also read: Ram temple is for everyone says Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi AdityanathEarlier chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that 11,000 diyas will be lit at Ram Ki Paidi on the banks of the Saryu river and that all houses and temples in Ayodhya will be celebrating with a ‘deepotsava’ (festival of lights) on the nights of August 4 and 5.Adityanath burst firecrackers and lit earthen lamps at his official residence on in Lucknow as part of ‘deepotsava’.The construction work of Ram temple will begin after the foundation stone laying ceremony, in which dignitaries from various political and religious fields have been invited to participate.Apart from Ayodhya other cities in like Kanpur were also illuminated to celebrate the grand event. Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) workers light earthen lamps in the city, as part of ‘deepotsava’.Also read: 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM Modi’s security ringChief Minister’s residence in Uttarakhand will be decorated with 5100 diyas filled with Ghee on Wednesday evening to celebrate the occasion of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya today by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Uttrakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has said that Lord Ram temple being built in Ayodhya is associated with “our belief”. He also appealed to people in the state to light diyas at their homes on the occasion.Earthen lamps were lit at Ujjain’s Mahakaleshwar temple in Madhya Pradesh and in Punjab too people lit lamps as part of ‘deepotsava’.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform ‘pooja’ at Hanumangarhi and Shree Ramlala Virajman before performing ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, informed Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Tuesday.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release Commemorative Postage Stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-lit-with-earthen-lamps-ahead-of-ram-temple-s-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony/story-eRNwONWnspj3t5PQqYATIK.html
05-08-2020||India||Rapid Antigen tests comprise about 25-30% of total Covid-19 tests, says ICMR||Out of total Covid-19 tests being conducted every day across the country, about 25-30% tests comprise of rapid antigen tests, informed the union health ministry on Tuesday. So far, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has reported over two crore tests, out of which 26.5 lakh tests are antigen tests. In the last 24 hours, ICMR has conducted over 6,61,892 Covid-19 tests. With more than two crore tests done till date, ICMR reports 15,119 tests per million (TPM). “When we started, antigen tests comprised only 5-6 per cent of the total tests being conducted in a single, but this proportion is consistently rising. Today, total antigen tests are nearly between 25-30 per cent tests of the total number of covid19 tests done so far,” said ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava while addressing media on Covid-19 updates in India. Also read: Covid-19 effect on students a catastrophe, may hurt decades of progress, says UNDr Bhargava said that rapid antigen detection test has a very high specificity, i.e., its ability to detect true negative from 99.3 to 100%. However, it has moderate sensitivity between 55 to 85%.“This means that--about 45-15 per cent of the positive cases could be getting missed. And that is why we have reiterated in our advisory that if the person is symptomatic, the rapid antigen test results are negative then it should be followed by RT-PCR test to confirm the diagnosis,” Bhargava said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage When asked about what are chances of asymptomatic cases getting missed out, Bhargava said once the virus enters the body, it takes about five days for the person to manifest symptoms of fever. “From 0 day to 5 day, you may not have any symptoms. And that point of time, even the RT-PCR tests may be negative and even the antigen test is also negative. So that problem is there.” “Once I get the fever, then we expect the test will be positive whether it is by antigen test or RT-PCR test, from that perspective both are similar. From 0-5 day one may not have any symptoms and at that point of time even the RT-PCR and antigen test may be negative,” he said. Regarding the number of asymptomatic people and what percentage that varies and it ranges between 20 to 28 per cent, said Dr Bhargava pointed out a paper published in Indian Journal of Medical. Also read: Vaccine candidates from India progressing well, says ICMR“Our advisory is clearly saying that if they are symptomatic then the RT-PCR test would be positive and the chances of antigen test being positive are very high. If the antigen test is negative in an asymptomatic person, RT-PCR may also be negative in a large percentage. So you need to look for symptoms and if a person develops symptoms in next two-three days, a definitely a repeat RT-PCT test may be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-antigen-tests-comprise-about-25-30-of-total-covid-19-tests-says-icmr/story-IMSdK4bRYXqbmP3h8eCmHN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Bangas Awaam Mela’ held in J-K’s Handwara to mark Article 370 abrogation anniversary||Locals in Handwara town celebrated the first year of abrogation of Article 370 by organising a two-day festival ‘Bangas Awaam Mela’.“Soundly rejecting the efforts of Pakistan to create a false narrative around the first Anniversary of Abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmiris on Tuesday celebrated the event by holding the Bangus Awaam Mela in District Handwara with great fanfare,” according to local administration officials.The Annual Festival saw the participation of hundreds of Gujjars, Bakarwals and other Kashmiri sightseers from Kupwara, Tangdhar and Handwara. The Mela was conducted over two days commencing on August 3 with the grand finale on August 4, as per the officials.The first day Village Games were held which saw competitions like Horse Racing, Sheep Shepherding Challenge, Tugs of War and Wood Chopping Competitions between the Gujjar Bakerwal Community from various Bhaiks who inhabit the beautiful meadows during the summer months.Officials said, on the request of the community members, a free Veterinary and Medical Camp was also organized by the local Rashtriya Rifles unit over the two days of the festival.The Veterinary and Medical Camp was organized with an aim to provide basic health care facilities along with medicines to the locals who are residing in the remote region of Bangus valley. A total of 679 patients including 49 children were given treatment, advice and free medicines by the doctors. The veterinary camp provided medical aid to 135 livestock in addition to surgical assistance to wounded. On the second day of the festival, the audience enjoyed folk songs by the Gujjar community, patriotic songs by the local children, dances and a karate display by the Handwara Kudo Association in addition to the finals of the village games.The event culminated by rousing participation in the recitation of the National Anthem and a vote of thanks by the community elders to the Army for its support, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangas-awaam-mela-held-in-j-k-s-handwara-to-mark-article-370-abrogation-anniversary/story-IOXpH4ZATS97R5B4ls7fpM.html
05-08-2020||India||Women soldiers deployed for first time in Kashmir make positive impact: Assam Rifles||‘Rifle Women’ deployed on duty for the first time in Kashmir have within a few days managed to make a positive impact on the local populace, the Assam Rifles said. “Women soldiers of #AssamRifles deployed for the first time in Kashmir make a positive impact on the local populace in a matter of days. Smiling faces of locals is a testimony of professionalism of the Riflewomen of Assam Rifles,” the Assam Rifles tweeted.The ‘Rifle Women’ is an unit of the Assam Rifles, the oldest paramilitary force of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-soldiers-deployed-for-first-time-in-kashmir-make-positive-impact-assam-rifles/story-Gp3EUo9UaT1iXBvwiAzLaL.html
05-08-2020||India||Confucius institutes review: Beijing asks for ‘objectivity’||Against the backdrop of New Delhi’s reported plans to review the setting up of Confucius Institutes in the country, China on Tuesday said India should handle collaboration in education in an objective and fair manner and “avoid politicising normal cooperation”.As reported by HT on Sunday, India’s education ministry plans to review the setting up of Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms in seven colleges and universities after security agencies alerted the government about growing Chinese influence in higher education.The ministry also plans to review 54 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed between Chinese institutions and prestigious Indian institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, and Jawaharlal Nehru University. Reacting to these developments, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said, “We hope Indian relevant parties can treat Confucius Institutes and China-India higher education cooperation in an objective and fair manner, avoid politicising normal cooperation, and maintain healthy and stable development of China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges.”The Chinese side has responded in an increasingly assertive manner to India’s actions amid the months-long border standoff between the two sides, which currently shows little signs of abating.After India imposed a fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps last month, China had said it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies.The Chinese embassy spokesperson said the two sides have cooperated on the Confucius Institute Project for more than 10 years, Ji added.All the Confucius Institutes in India were established by universities from the two countries “after signing legally binding cooperation agreement in accordance with the principles of mutual respect, friendly consultation, equality, and mutual benefit, and on the premise that the Indian side applied voluntarily and met the conditions for running the Institute,” Ji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confucius-institutes-review-beijing-asks-for-objectivity/story-ksjDRhwWYTtxkT5w3b0I8J.html
05-08-2020||India||PLA drags its feet over disengagement. Stalemate at Ladakh continues||The high-powered China Study Group (CSG) met on Tuesday afternoon to assess feedback from the August 2 meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders in Moldo-Chushul even as ground reports indicate that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is dragging its feet in restoring status quo in eastern Ladakh.It is understood that the military commanders’ marathon meeting ended in a stalemate with both sides holding their ground and the PLA commander asking for concessions for complete disengagement. Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishesThe CSG will convey to the Indian Army the next steps to be taken on the ground; restoration of the pre-April 20 positions at four frictions points in eastern Ladakh is a prerequisite for normalisation of bilateral ties. The meeting was attended by the senior most ministers and officials of the government.While the Narendra Modi government remains tight-lipped about the August 2 commanders meeting, but a Chinese spokesman’s statement trying to delink the boundary problem from overall bilateral ties is an indicator that the PLA is resisting moves to restore status quo ante. “The two (India and China) should place the boundary issue in a proper position in bilateral relations and make sure differences do not escalate into disputes,” the Chinese spokesman said.This is diplomatic jargon for saying that border problems and overall bilateral ties should be kept on different, parallel tracks. It comes at a time when India is trying to block Beijing’s influence in core sectors of India like telecommunication and power as well as higher education and media.Also read: India, China set to hold fifth round of commander-level talks today on LAC disengagementThis is contrary to the long-held position of the Modi government that peace and tranquility on the Line of Actual Control was at the heart of bilateral ties. The Indian army, on its part, is prepared for a long haul on the border not only to forestall further aggression by the PLA in the coming months, but also to put pressure on it to restore status quo ante.Although Indian and Chinese special representatives on boundary talks on July 5 charted out a map for disengagement and then de-escalation, the PLA is dragging its feet both at patrolling point 17 and 17A (General Area Gogra) and on the finger features on the banks of the Pangong Tso.On both 17 and Pangong Tso, the Chinese want the Indian Army to concede some ground despite being the first aggressor in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. “ It is trying to impose the 1960 map on East Ladakh and claiming the PLA new positions are well within his perception of the 1,597 km LAC along occupied Aksai Chin,” said a senior official.While the Indian army and the PLA are no longer face to face on any off the four friction points, the Chinese are trying to position themselves on dominating heights in order to add more depth to their bases in Aksai Chin area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-study-group-meets-to-assess-lac-talks-of-aug-2/story-s0ZTKutziRoDpDARugkdeL.html
05-08-2020||India||At Bhoomi Pujan, 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ring||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi lands at the Saket College helipad in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town at 11.30am on Wednesday, he will have a special ring of protection — local police personnel who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state’s deputy inspector general of police said on Tuesday. The PM will spend roughly three hours in the temple town for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple and authorities are confident that the group of 150 recovered personnel — who experts say develop antibodies to the disease and are therefore unlikely to contract the infection or spread it , at least for the next few months — will be crucial to protect him from the threat of Covid-19. Also read | Snippets from Ayodhya: How the city has prepared for Ram temple event“It’s in the protocol for protecting the Prime Minister that he must be guarded by healthy personnel. Now what can be healthier in these times than a Covid-19 warrior,” said UP deputy inspector general of police Deepak Kumar. The recovered personnel will form the first layer of protection for the PM in a city where the disease has claimed 16 lives and where there are still 604 cases. They will also be posted at key positions in spots the PM is expected to visit to ensure that all security personnel in Modi’s proximity are not an infection threat. Kumar said he wrote to the UP director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy on July 29 and made a special request that around 150 UP Police personnel who had contracted the disease and recovered by July 25 make their way to Ayodhya. The request was allowed immediately. “I had the entire list of all those impacted and the ADG (law and order) immediately okayed my request,” said Kumar. Most of the personnel are from Lucknow though some are from far-off districts such as Bareilly. The PM will visit the Hanuman Garhi temple, then make his way to the temple site where he will lay the foundation of the Ram temple and address 175 guests, plant a sapling and then meet members of the Shri Ram Janambhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust. Kumar agreed that 150 personnel were not enough to protect the PM in the high-profile event but added that the larger security detail will comprise 400 additional personnel who have tested negative for Covid-19 in the past 48 hours and then been isolated.Also read: Vedic rituals set stage for Ayodhya ceremony“Our aim is that every police personnel that the PM’s eyes fall on, is either a Covid-19 warrior or has been tested in the last 48 hours,” said Kumar. He said that the additional 400 personnel were isolated either at their own homes or a quarantine centre at the Ram Janambhoomi site. While 300 of those police personnel were administered Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) tests, the rest were given rapid antigen tests.The decision came a day after a second priest at the existing makeshift Ram temple tested positive for Covid-19 and authorities expressed concern that local residents were flouting social distancing guidelines. Last week, a junior priest and four other personnel were found to be infected with the virus that has claimed 1,800 lives in the state.To combat the threat of the infection, authorities have decided on a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site. The government has also appealed to local residents to remain at home and follow the event on television.”We are confident now that no one will be infected because we have tested anyone who will come within eight feet of a VIP,” said district magistrate Anuj Jha, who is also a member of the temple trust. Jha added that even people who put up the tents where the event will happen and the drivers of motorcades have been tested and found negative. ”Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” he said.People who have recovered from Covid-19 have increased immunity against reinfection because antibodies develop in their bodies that protect them in the event of any future exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, at least temporarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150-cops-recovered-from-covid-19-will-be-pm-s-security-ring/story-ONbE3SY3bROf4NibTuYRGJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Political absurdity: India on Pak’s boundary map||India on Tuesday described as an “exercise in political absurdity” a new map issued by Pakistan that lays claim to the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and Junagadh in Gujarat state, on the eve of the first anniversary of the scrapping of J&K’s special status.Releasing the political map during a meeting in Islamabad attended by his cabinet and senior officials, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said this was the first step towards a political struggle to achieve the right of self-determination for the Kashmiri people.Hours later, India’s external affairs ministry described the “so-called ‘political map’ of Pakistan” released by Khan as “an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian state of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and of Ladakh”. “These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility. In fact, this new effort only confirms [the] reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism,” the ministry said in a brief statement, repeating New Delhi’s assertion that Islamabad uses terror as an instrument of state policy. Over the past few days, the Pakistani leadership has pulled out all stops to rake up the Kashmir issue ahead of the first anniversary of the Indian government’s decision on August 5, 2019 to scrap Jammu & Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution, and split the state into two UTs. Pakistan’s new map includes the whole of the UT of Jammu & Kashmir as part of the country’s territory, describing it as “Indian illegally occupied Jammu and Kashmir” and a “disputed territory” whose final status is to be decided in line with UN Security Council resolutions. The boundary of Himachal Pradesh is depicted as the international border. In a nod to China’s sensitivities, the map does not depict the Ladakh region, with a legend stating “frontier undefined”. An annotation on the map states the boundary in this area will be decided by “sovereign authorities concerned after the final settlement of the Jammu & Kashmir dispute”. During the ceremony at which the map was unveiled, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi referred to the India-China border standoff in Ladakh and said Pakistan, too, has a view on the matter. Qureshi also said the map includes Siachen glacier as part of Pakistan to challenge the region’s “illegal occupation by India”. He further said the map depicts the boundary in the disputed Sri Creek region of Gujarat according to Pakistan’s stated position on the issue to challenge India’s claim. Khan described the unveiling of map as a “historic” move that he said was backed by his cabinet, the Kashmiri leadership and all of Pakistan’s political parties. “The move reflects the desires of the people of Pakistan and Kashmir and rejects India’s illegal action of August 5 last year,” he said, speaking in Urdu. The new map will be “used in schools and colleges and internationally” and the “only solution to the Kashmir issue can be found under the UN Security Council resolutions, which clearly give the right to the Kashmiri people to vote on whether to go with Pakistan or India,” Khan said. The map also depicts the Junagadh and Manavadar region of India’s Gujarat state as part of Pakistan. The nawab of Junagadh had opted to accede to Pakistan in September 1947, before fleeing from India with his family the following month. Junagadh voted overwhelmingly to stay with India in a plebiscite held in the region in 1948. Experts believe Pakistan has no legal ground for claiming the region. India’s move to nullify Article 370 last year had triggered a strong reaction from Pakistan, with whom India’s ties were then at an all-time low following the standoff over the Pulwama terror attack. It was also opposed by Pakistan’s “iron brother” ally China, which believed it would affect its territorial claims in Ladakh, especially after India included Aksai Chin region in new maps of the union territories. Pakistan plans to observe August 5 as “Youm-e-Istehsal” (day of exploitation) and Khan is scheduled to go to Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), to deliver a speech. On Monday, Pakistan’s foreign and defence ministers visited areas along the Line of Control (LoC) to raise the Kashmir issue. The Pakistani leadership has also attempted to mobilise support for its position on Kashmir from the country’s traditional allies, with only Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan assuring Khan and President Arif Alvi of his country’s backing on the issue. On Tuesday, Khan repeated his allegation that India is “trying to settle people from outside so that Kashmiris become a minority”. He added: “The map is the first step and we will launch a political struggle. We don’t believe in military solutions, we believe in political solutions.” Qureshi also said the Kashmir Highway in Islamabad has been named the Srinagar Highway. Solidarity walks, photo exhibitions and seminars will also be organised to protest against alleged atrocities in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Academic Happymon Jacob, who closely tracks India-Pakistan relations, said Islamabad should “stop mouthing the worn-out platitude that it supports the Kashmiris’ right to self-determination”. “It only seeks to wrest Kashmir from India,” he said, adding that making the LoC the international boundary “is the only solution available to either side”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-absurdity-india-on-pak-s-boundary-map/story-smyBHHSUAKdsuE2eU4uZIK.html
05-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Children in some of the Germany’s provinces returned to school this week, the first in Europe to do so. The schools are ensuring social distancing, hand hygiene, and proper ventilation, although masks are not mandatory in classrooms in some regions (they are in others, and are also mandatory in the corridors). Deutsche Welle reported that “schools are considered low-risk”, citing research by doctors at the University Clinic of Leipzig that showed that “fewer than 20” of the 2,600 students and teachers tested showed Covid-19 antibodies, an indication of past infections. The cup-half-empty way of looking at that finding (which, this writer believes, is the best approach to dealing with Covid-19; prepare for the first, and then take what comes your way) would be that students and teachers are vulnerable to infection given the low immunity in the study group, but Germany’s management of the pandemic, thus far, has been exemplary, so I will hold my criticism.There can also be no arguing with the fact that children will have to return to schools sooner than later. On Tuesday, United Nation secretary general Antonio Guterres said the world could face “a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities”. Guterres said a billion students across 160 countries have been affected and that the “decisions governments and partners now take will have lasting impact on hundreds of millions of young people, and the development prospects of countries for decades to come” (see front page). The UN chief’s reference to decisions is clearly about the reopening of schools and colleges – something that has challenged policymakers around the world, including in India where online learning disadvantages those students who are already disadvantaged, amplifying the divide between them and others , which the country can ill-afford.But the risks of opening too early are significant.Israel, for instance, opened schools in May, only to see a wave of cases which set off the country’s second wave of infections, and caused school closures (and mass quarantines). The country is now making plans to open in fall for the school year; like many other countries, Israel has decided that not opening schools this year is not an option.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageStill, the experience of Israel comes up in any discussion on school openings; indeed, in education and government circles, the country’s hasty reopening of schools has become a cautionary tale.Like Israel, the Australian state of Victoria reopened schools only when it looked like it had the pandemic well under control, but after a resurgence of cases – not linked to the schools, but the sharing of a cigarette lighter among guards at a facility where international travellers were being quarantined – the state finally decided, late last week, to close most schools again. What does science say? The most authoritative research on the subject is a paper published in JAMA Pediatrics by doctors from the infectious diseases and pediatrics departments of the Ann and Robert H Lurie Children’s Hospital, Chicago, and from the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago. The study found that very young children (younger than five years), with even mild infections, have more of the viral RNA of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 in their nasopharynx (the upper part of the pharynx, between the nose and the mouth) than “older children and adults”… and that while the “infectious virus” itself wasn’t measured “pediatric studies [have] reported a correlation between higher nucleic acid levels and the ability to culture infectious virus”.The study concluded that “young children can potentially be important drivers” of the infection’s spread in the “general population”. The study, which covered 145 patients, comes with caveats associated with any study of this size, but it pretty much rules out day-care or school for very young children. And more research is needed on older children and their role as potential super spreaders.Yet, as Guterres pointed out on Tuesday, the alternative isn’t acceptable.PS: India’s decision is made easier by the fact that Covid-19 cases are continuing to rise and spread across the country (India saw 1,852,668 cases cumulatively till Monday night, of which 584,674 were active), which pretty much rules out opening schools for now – although when the time comes to open them, it will be interesting to see how the country goes about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-eDYHscniVFi9OGncMlfTbK.html
05-08-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir’s elected legislature will happen at the right time: Lt Guv GC Murmu||In his first eight months as the first lieutenant governor of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the paradigm-shifting constitutional changes made on August 5 last year, Girish Chandra Murmu has steadfastly pursued the two-fold agenda he had set for himself: Pushing development projects and empowering democratic institutions at the grassroots. But his next challenges are more daunting as the former Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service officer wades into deeper waters to steady the volatile security situation and revive the frozen political process to pave the way for assembly elections. In a 45-minute interview by video conference from the Raj Bhawan in Srinagar, Murmu spoke to Ramesh Vinayak on a range of issues, from the mood on the street and release of mainstream Kashmiri leaders to the demand for restoration of statehood, and employment and investment. Excerpts: What has changed in Jammu and Kashmir since the effective abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year? After this (scrapping of Article 370), Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said there will be acceleration in development projects and overall growth. Our priority was to look into the deficiencies, particularly in road connectivity, electricity supply, drinking water and job opportunities. We concentrated our efforts on that and achieved tremendously. To illustrate, the Prime Minister’s Development Project was conceived in 2015 and it has big and small projects. Until a year-and-a-half ago, 27% of funds were spent and only seven projects were completed. Now, 17 projects stand commissioned and over 50% of funds have been used. These relate to hydro-electricity, highways, irrigation and power transmission. Similarly, we had 2,300 languishing projects since 2010. Of them, 606 have been completed in the past year. We have had a unique ‘back-to-village’ programme which, on the basis of the grassroots-level feedback, identified 20,000 small projects of which 7,000 have been executed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, an average of 1,600 km of road stretch is completed annually. J&K will do 5,000 km this year. All this is happening on the ground and is satisfying. When the government pushed through constitutional changes a year ago, a key argument it made was that this will deal a decisive blow to militancy in Kashmir. But there are continued reports of radicalisation; killings, including of political leaders; and the security situation still appears fragile. Has the government been unable to meet its objective on the security front? I think it is the other way around. Militancy has two aspects. One is to prevent or pre-empt people supporting or joining militancy. That we are addressing by focusing on youngsters, their empowerment, job creation and sports to bring them into the mainstream. This has minimised the recruitment (to militant ranks). The second piece is anti-militancy operations that have become effective due to synergy among security forces. One good thing in all these operations is that there is hardly any civilian casualty. So, there is public support to the peace process. It will definitely have an impact. This is a new narrative that will take its due course. How have the dynamics of militant violence changed in J&K in one year? There has been minimum violence. It was worse earlier. Desperation is there (in militants). Soft targets are there. Barring a few isolated incidents, they (militants) have not been able to do a big kind of thing. The overall security situation is very good. What is your reading on the mood on the street in Kashmir? Definitely people are enthusiastic and optimistic. They are looking forward to seeing development and creation of jobs in their areas. They want to prosper and have a better life. That is what I sense after visiting almost all districts and meeting a cross-section of people. Despite the release of detainees of mainstream parties, the political space in Kashmir remains in a freeze. What is the way forward to revive stalled politics? As there is President’s rule and the legislative assembly is dissolved, obviously there is some pause…some disruption. The parties’ activity as elected representatives is not there. But it is not true that there is complete absence of political activity. At the grassroots level, democracy is thriving and kicking. We have empowered panchayats and municipal bodies in the real sense. Now, (central) funds are directly going to them. We have to further strengthen them. Of course, an elected legislature has to be there. That would happen at the appropriate time. Why has the government not released all mainstream political leaders, including Mehbooba Mufti, who have participated in elections, peaceful politics and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution? All detentions are reviewed from time to time…now almost on weekly basis. The process looks into the circumstances under which people were detained. When the perception and situation changes, they are released. There is no discrimination. There appears to be a huge trust deficit between Kashmir’s mainstream politicians and the Centre. Well, I don’t sense that in my interactions with MLAs and MLCs. Though there is no elected legislature right now, we take their suggestions. The public has a lot of trust and confidence in the government .That is why it expects a lot more from us. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has spoken of how he will not participate in elections till J&K remains a Union Territory. Your view? This is his personal view and I won’t be able to comment. All I can say is that this UT has a legislature, unlike Ladakh, and will have an elected government. The view that only this (Article 370) would ensure political participation is a bit far-fetched.Both the Prime Minister and home minister have said J&K’s statehood would be restored. Is the government open to restoring statehood as a confidence-building step? Confidence building is already going on at levels of grassroots and public participation. Whatever the PM and HM have said, they mean it. I don’t subscribe that only this (restoring statehood) will bring confidence. Even a UT with a legislature can have confidence of the people. When will you be able to hold assembly elections? Right now we are addressing deficiencies in development works to see that people’s worries and woes are minimised and that they are empowered. On elections, a decision will come at an appropriate time. While the government spoke of how Kashmiris — after the constitutional changes — will enjoy the same rights as other Indians, there is a view that people in J&K actually now enjoy fewer rights, with restrictions on political activity, detention of leaders, and curtailment of internet services. How would you respond to this? That is a misnomer and a wrong perception. Regardless of Article 370, people here enjoy the same rights and liberties as citizens elsewhere. The special status was a temporary provision and involved certain things at the local level. Any interpretation that J&K residents have fewer rights now is wrong both constitutionally and legally. It is a blatant lie. There is apprehension about the new domicile law which is seen as a precursor to changing the demographic profile of the Muslim-majority state. (The domicile law allows the grant of a domicile certificate to an outsider (not born in J & K) provided he or she lived in the erstwhile state for 15 years and his/her children have passed 10th and 12th examinations in the state. A domicile certificate entitles a person to buy property and apply for a government job.) This again is a misleading narrative…a malicious propaganda. In Kashmir, a particular community is majority. How can such a huge population change take place? The domicile law is only empowering those deprived earlier and not recognised as equal citizens; like the displaced persons from West Pakistan, Valmikis who were brought here long back, and the Gurkhas who have been here since the Maharaja’s time. It is nothing like that there will be an influx of outsiders and the demography will change. The nullification of special status was expected to open up J&K to investments. How have things moved on this front? Article 370 was not a barrier for investments. That was a policy issue. We have identified 6,000 acres of government land to create industrial clusters. We are not going to touch agricultural land, which is scarce. Already, memoranda of understanding (MOUs) have been signed for investment worth R 20,000 crore. Once the corona pandemic eases out, we shall hold the investment summit that was to happen in May. How has the coronavirus crisis impacted your plans? Our biggest recruitment drive for 10,000 jobs which was to happen in March-April has slowed down for the time being. Another 20,000 jobs are lined up. The infra projects have been hit in a substantive way as most labourers and contractors are outsiders and they moved out after the virus outbreak. Also, elections to the remaining panchayats have been delayed. You have been a bureaucrat and bring in a set of administrative skills. But do you think Kashmir is an issue that requires political outreach and has this happened? Well, I am giving my 100% to development and public outreach. I will try to strengthen the political institutions at every level and not leave any stone unturned to do what I am supposed to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elected-legislature-will-happen-at-the-right-time-girish-chandra-murmu/story-oOLtj0iF9kRArQ2yK6AEVJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Aug 31 deadline for women officers to seek permanent commission in army||The Army on Tuesday set August 31 as the deadline for short-service commissioned (SSC) women officers to submit their applications for permanent commission. This comes days after the government on July 23 issued a formal sanction for granting the permanent commission following the Supreme Court’s February verdict in this regard.The court ruled that women officers, who have joined the Indian Army through SSC, are entitled to permanent commission. It added that women should be considered for command roles and that all women officers are entitled to permanent commission. The court asked the Army to give them permanent commission within three months in a major boost to gender parity.The Centre got a one-month extension on July 7 to implement the verdict after it moved an application before the apex court seeking the extension of the deadline by another six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread from March 25.“Detailed administrative instructions have been issued to all affected women officers giving out guidelines for submission of applications for consideration by a selection board,” an army spokesperson said on Tuesday. He said the Army headquarters was in the process of convening a special selection board for screening women officers for permanent commission.“Specimen formats and detailed checklists have been included in the administrative instructions in order to facilitate correct documentation.”The government’s July 23 order specified grant of permanent commission to women officers in 10 streams -- Army Air Defence, Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics, and Mechanical Engineers, Army Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate-General and Army Educational Corps. The selection board will be held after the receipt and verification of applications.The Supreme Court’s judgment was hailed for creating a new equality paradigm in the armed forces. It upheld a 2010 Delhi high court verdict. The Supreme Court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through SSC, are entitled to permanent commission even if they have more than 14 years of service. It also held that there cannot be an “absolute bar” on women officers being considered for command appointments, paving the way for their elevation to such roles. The case before the Supreme Court was only about permanent commission and command roles in the army’s non-combat streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aug-31-deadline-for-women-officers-to-seek-permanent-commission-in-army/story-iBYsmQ9GRQWEWgxXEpuWfO.html
05-08-2020||India||Intense rain likely in central, peninsular regions: IMD||A low-pressure area has formed over the North Bay of Bengal for the first this monsoon season since June 21, which is likely to cause intense rainfall in central and peninsular India over the next three to four days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. Northwest India, including Delhi which had a rain deficiency of 28% as on Tuesday, is likely to largely remain dry during the period.IMD said the monsoon is in its active phase over Konkan and adjoining areas of the western coast, Odisha, and West Bengal. A cyclonic circulation is also lying over south Gujarat, which has strengthened monsoon flow over the Arabian Sea. Most parts of Konkan and Goa, including Mumbai, have been receiving heavy rain.IMD scientists said 10 weather stations in Mumbai have recorded extremely heavy rain of over 21 cm since Monday. “The heaviest spell was between 11.30 pm to 5.30 am on August 3 [Monday] night,” said National Weather Forecasting Centre senior scientist RK Jenamani.The low-pressure area over the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast is likely to move overland and reach Gujarat on August 7 across central India. “It will bring extremely heavy rain on its path covering Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat. Gujarat is also getting moisture-laden winds from the Arabian Sea. The rain deficiency over central India will reduce this week,” said Jenamani. “We are not expecting rain in northwest India until August 8. Another low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal around August 9.”The low-pressure areas are the main rain-bearing systems during monsoon, which bring rain to parts of central and east India.IMD said the monsoon trough, which is presently near its normal position between Ganganagar and the Bay of Bengal, is likely to become active during the next two to three days.“The lower level south-westerly/westerly winds have strengthened over the Arabian Sea and over southern parts of Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. Due to these favourable conditions, monsoon will enter its active phase over central and peninsular India from Tuesday for the next 3-4 days,” an IMD bulletin said. It said widespread and heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was likely over Konkan, Goa, Mumbai, Madhya Maharashtra on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely at a few places over coastal Karnataka, over Kerala and Marathwada from August 4 to 7. Heavy rain is likely over parts of Gujarat on August 5 and 6 and over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh on August 4 and 5.”IMD has also issued a moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning warning for east Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Vidharbha on Wednesday.There was 2% rain deficiency across the country as on Tuesday with 10% in the east and northeast, 20% in the northwest, 7% in central India, and 14% excess in peninsular India. The country has recorded a 9.7% rainfall deficiency in July.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is crucial for the agriculture sector, on which at least 700 million people in India depend on for livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.Presently, strong squally winds with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph are prevailing over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off south Gujarat- Konkan-Karnataka coasts, over Mumbai and also over south and central Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to continue over these regions on Wednesday and over northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat Coast on Wednesday and Thursday. Fisherman are advised not to venture into Arabian Sea, along and off Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa coasts and into eastcentral and northeast Arabian Sea during August 4 to 6 and into south and central Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha and West Bengal coast Tuesday and Wednesday. Southwest monsoon currently is in active to vigorous phase over Konkan coast and adjoining area of west coasts including Mumbai and over east coast of India covering Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. IMD has issued a red category warning for Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, Saurashtra, Kutch on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday for heavy to extremely heavy rain and orange category warning for Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh for Tuesday and Wednesday. A red category warning implies that disaster management authorities should act immediately to control any heavy rain related disasters and an orange category warning indicates that they should be prepared to avert any rain related disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-intense-rain-likely-in-central-peninsular-regions/story-KRsTXcMwQrcwfhTPKTsnWK.html
05-08-2020||India||DU professor Apoorvanand questioned over Delhi riots, anti-CAA stir||Delhi University (DU) professor Apoorvanand was questioned by the Delhi Police’s special cell on Monday in connection with the ongoing probe into the north-east Delhi riots that took place in February. On Tuesday, Apoorvanand tweeted his statement that on Monday he was called by the special cell to appear for the investigation. He wrote, “I spent five hours there. The Delhi Police also considered it necessary to seize my phone for the purpose of investigation. While cooperating and respecting the rights of police to conduct a full, fair and thorough investigation, one can only hope that the probe would focus on the real instigators and perpetrators of the violence against a peaceful citizens’ protest and the people of north-east Delhi.”When contacted, the professor said Monday was the first time that he had been approached by the police.“ I am surprised if not shocked. I want to put it on record that I was not harassed.The interaction was very polite and courteous. But to even assume that I may have information about the murders and the robbery that took place as part of the riots is wrong. I have been a critic of the new citizenship law but, at the same time, I had also opposed the road blockade during anti-CAA (Citizenship (Amendment) Act) protests. Some of us went to Jafrabad, Khureji and other (protest) sites, asking people not to block roads. In Khureji, we succeeded in advising people to vacate the roads, but we failed in other places. It is on record (social media video recordings) that we had asked people not to block roads. That form of protest has exhausted its life. But it is equally erroneous to say that the protests were themselves a source of violence. In fact the violence was unleashed on them,” he said.Apoorvanand, a professor at DU’s department of Hindi, said an investigating agency is within its right to summon anyone for an investigation but it was “disturbing to see a theory emerging which treats the supporters of the protesters as the source of violence”. “I would urge and expect the police to be thorough, just and fair so that the truth prevails. The real perpetrators of the violence will be let off if one follows this narrative. Also, if police say the violence was planned at protest sites, then I would call it an abject failure of intelligence.”A Delhi Police spokesperson confirmed that the professor was summoned in a case relating to north-east riots and that he had arrived at the special cell office in Lodhi Colony on Monday. “As a part of the investigation, his mobile phone was taken into possession by the investigation team,” the spokesperson said, while refusing to comment on the ongoing investigation.On Saturday, the special cell had also questioned former JNU student Umar Khalid on his alleged role in the north-east riots in February, in which 53 persons were killed and over 400 injured. Police have alleged that Khalid, a prominent voice during the anti- CAA protests, was one of the main persons who orchestrated the riots along with local politicians and a few activists. Saturday was the first time that Khalid was questioned, though his name figures in multiple charge sheets filed in the riots cases.Apart from the 700 cases registered by the local police and the crime branch in the riots, the special cell (anti-terror unit) registered an FIR 59/2020 to probe the larger conspiracy behind the violence that raged from February 23 to 26. As part of the probe, police have arrested many who had led protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Some of these arrested persons, who were prominent faces of the protests, such as Jamia student Safoora Zargar, Sharjeel Imam, and Meeran Haider, among others, have accused the police of targeting anti-government voices under the garb of probing the riots. Police have said some leaders of the CAA protests had mobilised people, spread falsehood about the new law and orchestrated the riots. But Zargar, Imam and Haider have denied the police’s allegations and said they had only held peaceful demonstrations. Apoorvanand in his statement on Twitter also said the police investigation should not lead to further harassment and victimisation of the protesters who asserted their democratic right through constitutional means while expressing their dissent to the passage of CAA and the decision of the Union government to operationalise the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) all over the country.”“ They (police) haven’t placed any restriction on my travel or told me whether I would be called in again. I am ready to cooperate with the investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-professor-apoorvanand-questioned-over-delhi-riots-anti-caa-stir/story-eDEPCPgXUWXVEA64zmrLyI.html
05-08-2020||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan I-Day guest list cut to 90 people||No spouses, no live food counters, no freedom fighters and no free interaction with VIPs. When Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts the At Home function on the evening of August 15, these are among the restrictions that will be in place in a new protocol-wrapped ceremony that is being held against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The plan under consideration involved keeping the guest list to a maximum of 90 -- down from the normal gathering of 1,500 dignitaries. And the Independence Day event will last barely an hour; it usually lasts two-and-a-half hours.Also read: Rajasthan Guv cancels Independence Day event over Covid-19 situation“There will be minimum celebration for the sake of holding the event. We have applied a logic while selecting the limited number of guests, but as a large number of dignitaries cannot be called, the selection might still look like random, ” explained a Rashtrapati Bhavan official who asked not to be named.As a result, ministers of state are unlikely to be invited, and even all cabinet ministers may not get a chance to enjoy Rashtrapati Bhavan’s hospitality on August 15. “Apart from the Prime Minister, the members of the cabinet committee on security (defence, home, external affairs and finance) and a few senior cabinet ministers will be invited. The list of ministers may not go beyond 10,” added the official.Similarly, representatives from the judiciary may be limited to Chief Justice of India Sharad A Bobde, Delhi high court’s chief justice DN Patel and a few senior judges of the Supreme Court. In the past, all Supreme Court judges and many Delhi high court judges used to be invited to the event.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe list of bureaucrats may also to be pruned with only the cabinet secretary and a few senior secretaries being invited. “Last year, at least 70 secretaries with their spouses came for the event. This time no spouse will be invited,” said the official, adding that fewer than 10 key diplomats will be invited.While Rashtrapati Bhavan officials have almost finalised the guest list, the catering remains tricky. If live counters are involved, it would mean a lot of staff in the Rashtrapati Bhavan Convention Centre—the venue for the At Home—increasing the risk of infection.“We are still discussing how to serve food or if at all food should be served. Live food stations are risky affairs, so there is talk of simply placing food packets and water bottles at every seat for the guests,” said the official.The Union home ministry, responsible for the programme, plans to invite some doctors and nurses to stand in for their colleagues leading India’s fight against Covid-19. According to the official, they will be given special seats—close to the area for the VVIPS. A large area will be designated for President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, former PMs Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda and Congress president Sonia Gandhi will also sit there, maintaining strict social distancing norms. Other guests will not be allowed to enter that area.Freedom fighters, another regular feature of the At Home function, are unlikely to be called as they are too old to be exposed to the threat of the virus.At the entrance, guests will be greeted with digital infrared thermometers, sanitisers, and even masks. If a guest’s mask looks inappropriate, he or she will be provided with N 95 masks. “A senior minister who came to meet the President recently, had to change his mask at Rashtrapati Bhavan,” said a second Rashtrapati Bhavan official who asked not to be named.Kovind’s secretariat is also bracing for the eventuality where at least some invitees express their inability to attend the function due to Covid-related issues. “Many of the dignitaries are senior citizens. We fear some may opt out, taking abundant precautions. We have no plan to fill up their seats with other guests,” said the second official.The convention centre has been chosen to avoid holding an outdoor event in the monsoon. It will be divided into various sections and guests will be requested to stick to their area. Usually, the president and the Prime Minister go around the venue to greet the guests. This time, they will perform their duties with a distant namaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-i-day-guest-list-cut-to-90-people/story-wObkH5owzlYz9dmTBuakRN.html
05-08-2020||India||Economy recovering, rise in cases a risk: Report||India is on the path of economic recovery, but an increase in the number of Covid-19 infections and intermittent lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of the viral disease cloud its prospects, the finance ministry said in a report released on Tuesday.To be sure, the report, prepared by the department of economic affairs, is based on economic indicators until June. High-frequency indicators for July, such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing and the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), suggest that the nascent economic recovery has been interrupted -- a likelihood acknowledged by the report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“With India unlocking, the worst seems to be over for the economy as high-frequency indicators recovered in June from unprecedented troughs in April; however, risks on account of rising Covid-19 cases and intermittent state lockdowns remain,” it said. India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year (2020-21). The recovery until June was supported by proactive government and central bank policies, the report said. The government has unveiled a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has reduced its key interest rate by 115 basis points (one basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point) since March. How the Covid-19 infection curve evolves across the states of India will determine whether the recovery is sustainable, the report said, pointing to the emergence of new disease hotspots that has necessitated intermittent lockdowns. The 12 states that drive much of India’s economic growth account for 85% of the Covid-19 case load, with 40% of confirmed cases concentrated in the top two i.e. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it added. The report also highlighted the impact of Covid-19 on crucial industrial pockets. It said the June year-on-year increase in E-Way bills, or Electronic Way bills, which are required for movement of goods by Goods and Services Tax (GST)-registered entities, was weak in Covid-19 hotspots such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana.The report warned of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and said urban India will continue to fight the pandemic that will impact both public health and the economy.“At this juncture, the economic and health risk posed by rising cases of Covid-19 in India calls for further prompt policy measures and continuous facilitation by the government and RBI to support businesses and the economy,” said DK Aggarwal, president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry.Exhaustion of pent-up demand created by strict lockdowns in April and May may have led to the weak July indicators, HT reported on Tuesday. The IHS Markit India Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing fell to 46 in July from 47.2 in June. A PMI value below 50 signals a contraction. GST collections fell to Rs.87,422 crore in July from Rs. 90,917 crore in June. The weekly Nomura India Business Resumption Index was flat between the week ended July 26 and August 2. A Reuters poll of economists suggested that the economy could contract by 20% in the June quarter and remain in negative territory until the December quarter. “The removal of the strict lockdown restrictions in the cities has slowed the contraction of the economy, but it will be a while before overall growth can return, which will entirely depend on the containment of the viral spread,” said Anupam Manur, assistant professor at the think tank Takshashila Institution, said.The agriculture sector, which contributes about 15% of the total gross value added, is the silver lining for the economy in 2020-21 with the forecast of a normal monsoon. “A record procurement of wheat has enabled a flow of around Rs 75,000 crore to the farmers which will boost private consumption in rural areas,”the finance ministry report said. It also pointed to the government’s recent moves to deregulate and liberalise agricultural markets.,“With lower density of population and relatively stable disposable income levels, rural India will be the source of growth until the pandemic recedes,” said Manur.“Agriculture was saved as it bypassed the brunt of the lockdown,” added DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consulting firm EY India. “ A better-than-normal monsoon and continuously improving terms of trade in favour of agriculture supported rural demand.” He said that positive impact of agriculture would be supplemented by public and defence services. The public and defence services sector in fact grows faster than even agriculture in a normal year. In 2020-21, its growth is likely to be much higher than normal because of heavy expenditure on health and defence. Srivastava predicted that agriculture could grow by about 5% and public and defence services expand by nearly 15% in 2020-21. “Much will also depend on further policy stimulus, both fiscal and monetary, during the remaining part of the financial year, and the speed with which an effective Covid-19 vaccine becomes available and is introduced in India,” he said. The finance ministry report said $11 trillion of fiscal and monetary stimulus measures unveiled by global economies appear to have arrested a free fall in global output and crude oil markets are re-balancing after an unprecedented fall in prices in March and early April.“However, downside risks to global recovery stem from an over-leverage in the non-financial sector including external debt financing risks, simmering trade and geo-political tensions, and unprecedented Covid-19 induced unemployment losses, amid fears of second major wave of infections,” it said.According to th World Bank, the global economy is expected to shrink by 3.2% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-recovering-rise-in-cases-a-risk-report/story-wsK6gMG649BHSOO1Uv4pLL.html
05-08-2020||India||Outbreak may hit India’s poor enrolment numbers||UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres on Tuesday said getting students safely back to classrooms must be a top priority of the governments once local transmission of Covid-19 pandemic is under control. He said the world is facing a “generational catastrophe” that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities.India needs to be extra cautious in preventing its school enrolment rates from falling, particularly because many of those who stop going to school in the country do so because of financial reasons. A drop in school enrolment would not only cost the country in terms of upward mobility in education but also hit the nutrition levels of children who receive free mid-day meals in schools.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFindings from a National Statistical Office (NSO) survey on social consumption on education, conducted in 2017-18, show that India’s gross enrolment ratio (GER) was 99.2 between primary and middle school education level. GER is the ratio of the number of students currently enrolled in a particular level of education to the number of persons in the corresponding official age-group. For example, the ratio of 99.2 in primary to middle school level means for every 100 persons in the age group of 6 to 13 years, there are 99.2 students enrolled in classes 1st to 8th. To be sure, this does not mean nearly everyone in the age group of 6 to 13 is enrolled in schools because some of the students in classes 1st to 8th would be students from other age groups, particularly above the age of 13. The high enrolment ratio at primary to middle level is a promising figure, but it drops to only 78.8 at the secondary and higher secondary level.Also read: Brazil, hotbed for Covid-19 vaccine testing, may struggle to produce its ownA fall in GER from primary to higher levels of schooling means that students drop out. Nationally, 10% of students enrolled in primary school had dropped out, the survey found. A drop-out is defined as a person who did not complete the last level of education the person was enrolled in (for any reason other than completion of the desired level of education). The drop-out rate increases to 17.5% in upper-primary/middle school and to 19.8% in secondary school. This means nearly every fifth student was dropping out of secondary school in India.Among big states, the overall dropout rate from education institutions is the highest in West Bengal, 23.5%. Odisha, Assam, and Gujarat also have high dropout rates.Why do Indian students drop out? Financial constraints and engagement in economic and domestic activities were the leading reasons cited. Only 18.8% of men and 14.8% of women were not attending schools because of not being interested in education. As many as 61.2% of men cited financial constraints or engagement in economic activities as the reason for not attending schools while 47.9% of women blamed financial constraints or engagement in domestic activities.As India struggles to recover from the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, it would be a challenge to get people to prioritise education in times of financial difficulties and a need to engage in economic activities.In case there is a drop in school enrolment or an increase in the number of students dropping out, it would not only mean that India will suffer in terms of upward mobility in education, but also in terms of health. This is because India has a free mid-day meal scheme for school-going children. The NSO survey found that in government schools, nearly 97% of students attending primary level, nearly 87% attending upper-primary/middle level, and nearly 26% attending secondary level were receiving free mid-day meals. A majority of India’s students study in government schools – 74% of all primary school students, 76% of upper-primary/middle students and 68% of secondary and higher secondary level students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outbreak-may-hit-india-s-poor-enrolment-numbers/story-8gX5whFvNwSiS882UM5nAJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Vaccine candidates from India progressing well, says ICMR||India’s three Covid-19 vaccine candidates are progressing well, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. He added phase II/III clinical trials for the recombinant Oxford University vaccine candidate will begin within a week at 17 sites across India. Serum Institute of India, which is the local manufacturer of the vaccine, will conduct the trials.“Inactivated virus vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech and the DNA vaccine by Zydus Cadila have completed phase I studies in 11 sites and started phase II trials. Phase I and II trials are for safety studies and very early efficacy studies,” said Bhargava.At least 141 vaccine candidates are being studied globally, of which 26 are in different phases of clinical trials.Bhargava said India is making all efforts to ensure a vaccine is available whenever it is ready. He added it includes prioritising and fair distribution, maintaining the cold chain, stockpiling and training of people to administer vaccines. “Availability of the vaccine is the key but what is more important in managing the disease is sustained behavioural change that includes wearing of masks, maintaining hand hygiene, and observing social distancing.”Dr GC Khilnani, a former pulmonology department head at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said the vaccine will be the ultimate solution for curbing the outbreak. “Many vaccine candidates are showing promise in initial trials, but whichever makes it finally should reach masses in time.”Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan separately said India’s current case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.10% has been the lowest since the first phase of the lockdown (around 3.3%) that was imposed to check the Covid-19 spread from March 25.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“There has been a progressive decline in country’s CFR and it is now the lowest since lockdown began and also one of the lowest globally. The mortality analysis that we have done is broadly in line with the global scenario, although percentages may differ,” said Bhushan.The latest mortality analysis shows 68% of the Covid-19 deaths in the country are among men and 32% among women. Most deaths--50%- -are in the age group of 60 and above, followed by 37% among people between 45 and 60. About 11% of people, who succumbed to the disease, were between 26 and 44.“The death data tells us that not just the senior citizens, but also our population between 45-60 years is vulnerable and needs to take extra care,” said Bhushan.Jugal Kishore, who heads the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said elderly and those with co-morbidities are vulnerable and need special focus. “All our data points to that, and it is important for the country to achieve the target of CFR below 1%.”Increased testingBhargava said they have been doing intelligent and calibrated testing. He added remote areas with the inadequate testing facilities, or those districts with the high caseload, are being given priority. “We set up labs in areas where there were no labs or very few labs and deployed high throughput testing machines in special economic zones, where the public movement was higher and larger international airports. Our target is to go up to one million tests a day.” He added it is important for states to analyse the data well to deploy resources accordingly.”Homegrown ventilator industryEven though less than 1% of the country’s Covid-19 patients are on ventilator support at any given time, India has managed to establish full self-reliant ventilator manufacturing facilities and is even ready to export the machines. On Tuesday, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade issued a directive permitting the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators from the country.India has commissioned about 60,000 ventilators to some 20 odd domestic manufacturers.“There were just a few manufacturers of ventilators in India some four months ago and even those making them in India relied heavily on imported parts. When the outbreak started, many of those countries imposed restrictions for the export of ventilators and there was a surge in global demand. There was no option but to encourage domestic manufacturers to get into the fray, and we have managed it with great success,” said Bhushan.Public sector undertakings Bharat Electronics Limited and Andhra Med-Tech Zone are providing 43,500 ventilators. Maruti Suzuki opened its manufacturing lines and supported the production of about 10,000 ventilators.“From a price range of about Rs 10-20 lakh, the domestic manufacturers are selling a ventilator within Rs 1.5 and 4 lakh price range. Even the spare parts are being manufactured locally and it is a great achievement in four months,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-candidates-from-india-progressing-well-says-icmr/story-MUdNYi6t6dgw0RhvrSgsiI.html
05-08-2020||India||BJP leader fired at in Kulgam as curbs announced in Valley||Authorities in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir imposed restrictions but removed curfew in Srinagar even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced celebrations marking the first anniversary of the nullification of Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state.In Srinagar, the government said there were apprehensions of protests and “subversive activities” on Wednesday. Groups of policemen and paramilitary personnel patrolled the main roads and made people stay indoors. Only government employees with valid curfew passes were only allowed on the roads.Later, the government removed the curfew but said restrictions on assembly and movement of people will continue. At many places, roads were blocked with barbed wires. “We aren’t been allowed to come on the main road. The policemen are imposing the strict curfew without any relaxation,’’ said Ali Mohammad who lives at Abi Guzar.Muzzuffar Shah, nephew of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah said the road leading to their house was blocked and alleged that the restrictions were aimed at thwarting a meeting of mainstream political leaders called by Abdullah on Wednesday. Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, who was released last week, also made a veiled attack on the Centre.In Jammu, BJP unit president Ravinder Raina announced celebrations to mark the event. He requested all party leaders to avoid gatherings and asked all workers to hoist the Tricolour on their roofs. He also appealed to the common people to light earthen lamps. The Congress said it will urge people to discuss the impact of the effective abrogation of Article 370. Meanwhile, police said terrorists shot at BJP sarpanch Arif Ahmad in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said: “He was shifted to emergency hospital Qazigund. He had firearm injury in neck and condition is critical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-fired-at-in-kulgam-as-curbs-announced-in-valley/story-exFIGqpil6eRMMt9LZJOLI.html
05-08-2020||India||Elected legislature will happen at the right time: Murmu||On the eve of the first anniversary of the nullification of Article 370, the first lieutenant governor of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Girish Chandra Murmu, spoke to Ramesh Vinayak over video conference from the Raj Bhavan in Srinagar. Edited excerpts: What has changed in J&K since the effective abrogation of Article 370? After this (scrapping of Article 370), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there will be acceleration in development projects and overall growth. Our priority was to look into the deficiencies, particularly in road connectivity, electricity supply, drinking water and job opportunities. We concentrated our efforts on that and achieved tremendously. To illustrate, the Prime Minister’s Development Project was conceived in 2015 and it has big and small projects. Until a year-and-a-half ago, 27% of funds were spent and only seven projects were completed. Now, 17 projects stand commissioned and over 50% of funds have been used. These relate to hydro-electricity, highways, irrigation and power transmission. Similarly, we had 2,300 languishing projects since 2010. Of them, 606 have been completed in the past year. We have had a unique ‘back-to-village’ programme which, on the basis of the grassroots-level feedback, identified 20,000 small projects of which 7,000 have been executed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, an average of 1,600 km of road stretch is completed annually. J&K will do 5,000 km this year. All this is happening on the ground and is satisfying. Has the government been unable to meet its objective on the security front? I think it is the other way around. Militancy has two aspects. One is to prevent or pre-empt people supporting or joining militancy. That we are addressing by focusing on youngsters, their empowerment, job creation and sports to bring them into the mainstream. This has minimised the recruitment (to militant ranks). The second piece is anti-militancy operations that have become effective due to synergy among security forces. One good thing in all these operations is that there is hardly any civilian casualty. What is your reading on the mood on the street in Kashmir? Definitely people are enthusiastic and optimistic. They are looking forward to seeing development and creation of jobs in their areas. They want to prosper and have a better life. The political space in Kashmir remains in a freeze. What is the way forward to revive stalled politics? As there is President’s Rule and the legislative assembly is dissolved, obviously there is some pause…some disruption. The parties’ activity as elected representatives is not there. But it is not true that there is complete absence of political activity. At the grassroots level, democracy is thriving and kicking. We have empowered panchayats and municipal bodies in the real sense. Of course, an elected legislature has to be there. That would happen at the appropriate time. Why has the government not released all mainstream political leaders, including Mehbooba Mufti, who have participated in elections, peaceful politics and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution? All detentions are reviewed from time to time…now almost on weekly basis. The process looks into the circumstances under which people were detained. When the perception and situation changes, they are released. There is no discrimination. There appears to be a huge trust deficit between Kashmir’s mainstream politicians and the Centre. Well, I don’t sense that in my interactions with MLAs and MLCs. Though there is no elected legislature right now, we take their suggestions. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has spoken of how he will not participate in elections till J&K remains a UT. Your view? This is his personal view and I won’t be able to comment. All I can say is that this UT has a legislature, unlike Ladakh, and will have an elected government. The view that only this (Article 370) would ensure political participation is a bit far-fetched.Both the Prime Minister and home minister have said J&K’s statehood would be restored. Is the government open to restoring statehood as a confidence-building step? Confidence building is already going on at levels of grassroots and public participation. Whatever the PM and HM have said, they mean it. I don’t subscribe that only this (restoring statehood) will bring confidence. Even a UT with a legislature can have confidence of the people. When will you be able to hold assembly elections? Right now we are addressing deficiencies in development works to see that people’s worries and woes are minimised and that they are empowered. On elections, a decision will come at an appropriate time. While the government spoke of how Kashmiris — after the constitutional changes — will enjoy the same rights as other Indians, there is a view that people in J&K actually now enjoy fewer rights. How would you respond to this? That is a misnomer and a wrong perception. Regardless of Article 370, people here enjoy the same rights and liberties as citizens elsewhere. The special status was a temporary provision and involved certain things at the local level. Any interpretation that J&K residents have fewer rights now is wrong both constitutionally and legally. It is a blatant lie. There is apprehension about the new domicile law which is seen as a precursor to changing the demographic profile of the Muslim-majority state.This again is a misleading narrative…a malicious propaganda. In Kashmir, a particular community is in the majority. How can such a huge population change take place? The domicile law is only empowering those deprived earlier and not recognised as equal citizens; like the displaced persons from West Pakistan, Valmikis who were brought here long back, and the Gurkhas who have been here since the Maharaja’s time. It is nothing like that there will be an influx of outsiders and the demography will change.The nullification of special status was expected to open up J&K to investments. How have things moved on this front?Article 370 was not a barrier for investments. That was a policy issue. We have identified 6,000 acres of government land to create industrial clusters. We are not going to touch agricultural land, which is scarce. Already, memoranda of understanding (MOUs) have been signed for investment worth R 20,000 crore. Once the coronavirus pandemic eases out, we shall hold the investment summit that was to happen in May.How has the coronavirus crisis impacted your plans?Our biggest recruitment drive for 10,000 jobs which was to happen in March-April has slowed down for the time being. Another 20,000 jobs are lined up. The infra projects have been hit in a substantive way as most labourers and contractors are outsiders and they moved out after the virus outbreak. Also, elections to the remaining panchayats have been delayed.You have been a bureaucrat and bring in a set of administrative skills. But do you think Kashmir is an issue that requires political outreach and has this happened?Well, I am giving my 100% to development and public outreach. I will try to strengthen the political institutions at every level and not leave any stone unturned to do what I am supposed to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elected-legislature-will-happen-at-the-right-time-murmu/story-2P6eUdZPMg1vsBIWQrr0KK.html
05-08-2020||India||Decoding the J&K puzzle||New Delhi: A year ago, on the morning of August 5, when home minister Amit Shah walked into the Rajya Sabha with a pile of papers, the Opposition, the media, and most importantly, the Kashmiri street, did not know what to expect. There had, of course, been intense speculation in the run-up to Shah’s entry into the House. The security crackdown in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), abrupt cancellation of the Amarnath Yatra citing terror threats, the detention of Kashmiri leaders, restrictions on telecom connectivity, and an advisory to tourists and outsiders to leave the Valley all indicated that something big was in the offing.Also read: In Jammu and Kashmir, a year of loss and sufferingBut Shah surprised even the most astute of Kashmir-watchers in unveiling the entire political package of effectively nullifying Article 370 that conferred special status on J&K, removing Article 35A that enabled the state legislature to define permanent residents, dividing the state into two units of J&K and Ladakh, and converting both into Union Territories.The decision was met by contrasting responses. In Kashmir itself, there was, among political quarters, a sense of shock at the enormity of what had happened; there was apprehension about a possible demographic shift in the valley; there was resentment against what was seen as an effort to curtail the powers available to the political leaders of the erstwhile state; and there appeared to be sullen anger at the disruption this had caused to everyday lives, with education, health, mobility, connectivity and travel affected. In Ladakh, there was jubilation and pride at having finally got the Centre to concede what was a longstanding demand — a separate administrative territory which would not have to be under Srinagar’s control. In Jammu, where the desire for closer integration with the Indian Union is deep, the announcement was noted with relief and hope about a more equal and secure future where the subregion’s aspirations will be taken more seriously. But it was in the rest of India that the response was the most telling. There had been anger on the Indian street against what was widely perceived as the special treatment meted out to Kashmir; resentment against mainstream Kashmiri leaders for playing to both galleries and speaking a language of radicalism in Srinagar and of moderation in Delhi; hurt at the lives of soldiers lost and innocents killed due to terrorism. The decision, in this backdrop, was welcomed with applause by the masses — with the hope that this would, finally, resolve the “Kashmir question”, long seen as a problem created by Pakistan, with its use of terror and patronage of secessionists.Also read: Revoking Article 370 didn’t usher in any development in J&K: Farooq AbdullahAnd internationally, there was concern not at the decision itself — which was widely recognised as a sovereign right of Parliament — but at the restrictions which accompanied the decision, from arrests to suspension of the Internet, and at the implications of the move for the security situation in South Asia. A year later, it is in these contrasting responses that the puzzle of Kashmir can be reviewed, for the responses show the collision between nationalism and democracy, between the quest for sovereignty and international norms to which democratic countries are held, and between the aspirations of the people of India and the aspirations of the Indian citizens living in Kashmir.The nationalism puzzleThe central question in Kashmir is one of nationalism. And here two ideas collide — the notion of Kashmiri nationalism and the idea of Indian nationalism.The Indian State has for long recognised sub-national aspirations. Given India’s staggering diversity, the founders recognised that India was best served as a union of states. As regional aspirations grew, federalism became stronger and states articulated their own aspirations and resentments. But within this matrix, sub-nationalist aspirations — for the most part — did not clash with the idea of the Indian nation. As a model of dealing with diversity, India achieved what was considered impossible, with the coexistence of multiple political identities within a constitutional, federal system. You could be a proud Tamil, a proud Maratha, a proud Gujarati, a proud Assamese — and you could be a proud Indian. Kashmir, however, was unique, for here it was not just sub-nationalism. There was a strong strand of Kashmiri nationalism, which stood in contrast to Indian nationalism. This could be traced back to its religious complexion, the terms of accession, past agreements, the presence and role of Pakistan in its internal politics, the strong yearning for autonomy even among mainstream leaders, to a young generation radicalised by incessant anti-India propaganda, growing extreme Islamist influence, and excesses of the Indian State. You could be a proud Kashmiri without being a proud Indian. Also read: Curfew ordered in Jammu-Kashmir’s Srinagar till August 5 over intel reports of ‘violent protests’The Indian State recognised the uniqueness of Kashmir and accepted the idea of an asymmetric federal mechanism — where Kashmir had its own Constitution, its own flag, its own laws. To be sure, these special provisions were gradually whittled down. And New Delhi made its own share of mistakes, including by arresting popular leaders, managing elections, and giving security forces an excessively free hand. But the overall sentiment in Delhi, for long, was that it was only by allowing Kashmiri sub-nationalism within the Indian Union that Kashmiri nationalism could be defeated. Armed with a legislative mandate, and committed to its own core ideological beliefs, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) overturned this consensus. It believed that instruments which allowed Kashmir to be a unique case were the root of the problem, and the problem of Kashmiri nationalism had to be tackled with both a strong security offensive and a political re-imagination. Remove statehood — and send a message to those who wanted a separate country. Remove Article 370 in effect — and make it clear that J&K was just another Indian State. Remove Article 35A — and ensure that every Indian had the same rights in Kashmir that they had elsewhere. Remove Ladakh — and ensure Kashmir’s political leaders cannot speak for sub-regions with distinct identities. Ensure central control — and stop anyone from putting political obstacles in the manner in which security forces operated. In the quest to defeat Kashmiri nationalism, the Indian State — a year ago — decided it would not even leave the space available to other states and allow the conditions for sub-nationalism. Kashmir, the thinking went, had brought this on itself.The democracy puzzle This strategy — of integrating Kashmir with the rest of the country on the same terms — to defeat Kashmiri nationalism and the violence and terror that has often accompanied it, however, had one fallout , a democratic deficit. The government, to ensure peace and quell the possibility of protests which could turn violent and lead to an escalation from the security forces, detained political leaders, including those who had participated in elections and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution (a few prominent leaders continue to remain locked in). It curtailed civil liberties, restricting political activity and protests, enhancing surveillance, and depriving the Indian citizens in Kashmir of their right to connectivity (4G services have still not been restored). It held panchayat elections, but within a controlled environment where the space for open dissent was limited. It failed to hold elections to the assembly. And it enhanced control over the local media. The judiciary, too, was criticised for not being proactive enough in either judging the constitutionality of the Parliament’s decisions, or deciding on detentions and habeas corpus writ petitions. This had two implications. Domestically, Kashmiri separatists got ammunition to suggest that India could never be trusted, its claims of secularism were shallow, its democracy was selective, its institutions were not robust — and this view, it must be acknowledged, found a ready audience on the Kashmiri street. This view was encouraged by sustained Pakistani propaganda. Externally, it made western democracies, including Indian allies, worried about the erosion of rights and liberties. To be sure, what Pakistan does internally or what China has done consistently with its own people, is far worse than what India has ever done. But India was being held up to its own principles and record of being a proud multicultural, secular democracy. Resolving the puzzleA year later, therefore, India has to now resolve this fundamental puzzle. It must keep the national flag flying high in Kashmir. It must battle terrorism and the separatist infrastructure that has grown over decades. It must make it clear that separatism has no future. It must ensure that non-discriminatory legal provisions apply to J&K as much as it does to the rest of India. And it must defeat Pakistan’s designs. But this national project will not be complete without the democratic project, for it is true democracy in Kashmir that will restore India’s political currency both in the valley and internationally. It must release leaders committed to the peaceful path; it must lift restrictions on connectivity; it must allow peaceful protests; it must allow expressions of Kashmiri sub-nationalism (not to be mistaken with separatism) as it does elsewhere; it must initiate a political dialogue with all stakeholders; it must be open to restoring statehood in J&K, which may lead to mainstream parties returning to the democratic fold; and it must hold free and fair elections in J&K. It is only when both nationalism and democracy win that India will win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-j-k-puzzle/story-GJbmFSANJkqR7wpierXU3I.html
05-08-2020||India||Alkazi revolutionised theatre, brought regional languages to NSD||“He was not merely a teacher, he was a life coach,” says Shabana Azmi, of the theatre legend Ebrahim Alkazi. Initially in Bombay and later in Delhi, Alkazi — who died in his Delhi home on Tuesday, aged 95 — developed a reputation as a director who brought a new sense of realism and modernism to Indian drama. As a teacher, he nurtured some of the leading talents of the age, including Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri, Rohini Hattangadi and Manohar Singh, all of whom were students at the National School of Drama (NSD) when Alkazi served as director from 1962 to ’77. He was a truly exceptional teacher, says actor Neena Gupta, who joined the NSD to learn from him. “I was very unfortunate because Mr Alkazi left as I enrolled. But I remember watching Alkazisaab directing Satish Kaushik in a play and thinking to myself, I want to learn to act from this man someday.” Alkazi revolutionised theatre, bringing a visual approach to the form when most others were concerned with a literary approach. He dazzled with lavish productions and minute attention to detail. He brought regional languages to the NSD. In Bombay, Alkazi did powerful renditions of Greek tragedies, Shakespearean plays, works by Ibsen, Chekov and Strindberg, the global greats of theatre. When he moved to Delhi, he realized that the language of his presentations would have to change to Hindi. He began looking for contemporary Indian plays, and these were the grand spectacles that he would come to be known for. His most renowned of these productions included Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq, Ashadh Ka Ek Din and Dharamvir Bharati’s Andha Yug. For his contributions to the field, he was conferred a Padmashri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. Alkazi was also a painter and avid art collector and, at 50, he set up the Art Heritage gallery with his wife Roshan, focusing on building up his archive of art, photography and books. “What he taught me was to think trans-nationally,” says Rahaab Allana, Alkazi’s grandson and curator and publisher of what is now the Alkazi Foundation for the Arts. “When it came to curation, he was always looking for cross-cultural and interdisciplinary strains. I would say he represents that kind of trans-generation that went through analog and arrived at digital. And then also went back to analog after the digital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alkazi-revolutionised-theatre-brought-regional-languages-to-nsd/story-4aDM3F6xNaphcAvakmX12L.html
05-08-2020||India||Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been personally monitoring the arrangements for Wednesday’s foundation-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In a telephone interview to Sunita Aron, Adityanath said the ceremony is a “dream come true.” Edited excerptsHow do you feel on the eve of bhoomi pujan?I am overjoyed, our five-century-long struggle and wait is going to end --all because of the perseverance and reverence of the devotees. I am also elated, euphoric for tomorrow’s bhoomi pujan by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It’s a dream come true and an exceptionally emotional and exciting moment for us. Did you ever think your dream will become a reality and at that moment you will be at the helm of affairs in the state? From the very beginning, we were optimistic about the construction of the temple. The Prime Minister will do bhoomi pujan at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949 . It’s all because of the struggle of the saints and Ram bhakts [devotees]. But though I was involved in the Ram temple movement from my early days, I never ever thought I will be at the helm of affairs (when it is actually built). It is indeed a matter of pride for me. This is the first time when invites have been sent to Muslims also. Your comment.This is a beginning of a new ‘yug’ (epoch) -- Ram Rajya -- in which there will be no caste or community, something which the Prime Minister has displayed in his functioning during the last six years.Whosoever has faith in Ram will come and contribute. I don’t foresee any tension or disturbance. The people were misguided, but now with the installation of BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} governments at the Centre and in the state, communal harmony prevails. This was clearly reflected at the time of the apex court judgement {in November 2019 in favour of a Ram temple) . Peace prevailed. Even the opposition has realised that the issue was resolved after years of litigation. Nonetheless, law and order has been my government’s priority and it will be maintained. If Muslims invite you for the construction of the mosque, will you or others in the BJP accept the invite?The trust is right now engaged in the construction of the Ram temple which they want to complete within the stipulated time period. Let me clarify. The state government has not organised tomorrow’s function. It has been organised under the aegis of the trust. They have sent the invites, made arrangements and are accepting donations in a fair and transparent manner. The state is only taking care of security and is engaged in developing the area as a modern and aspiring city while retaining its ancient glory and traditions. The local people know the resolve of both the Centre and state to transform the holy city as a unique pilgrim centre.Why are [BJP veterans] LK Advani and MM Joshi not coming for the event?Because of the pandemic and their age , they were advised to watch it live on the [television] channels. Was it necessary to hold the bhoomi pujan now?  According to the saints, this was the auspicious time. But we are abiding by the pandemic protocol from the very beginning, social distancing will be maintained and it will be followed in the future also.Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati has demanded an invite for a Dalit saint.Saints don’t have any caste or community. Once they wear the saffron robe, they sacrifice everything. Nonetheless, all saints mahamandleshwars {spiritual leaders} participated. Shri Kamleshwar Chaupal is a member of the Sri Ram Janmaboomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. He will be present at the bhoomi pujan. What about invites to the opposition? It is for the trust to decide.Why is the opposition in silent mode?After continuous and severe drubbing by the people, the opposition has perhaps woken up to the fact that remaining in conflict with the cause of a Ram temple in Ayodhya will further jeopardise their prospects in future polls. Hence, they are in a silent mode. Anyway, Ram temple is for all.PM Narendra Modi accompanied LK Advani on his “rath yatra” {journey by chariot} in the 1990s. Where were you? The three generations of Gorakhnath mutt have been associated with or spearheaded the temple movement since 1934, starting with Mahant Digvijaynath ji. The BJP-VHP {Vishwa Hindu Parishad} created an atmosphere in favour of liberation of Ram’s birthplace. I was always with my guruji , Mahant Avaidyanath, and watching their commitment and determination. I was always confident that their efforts would reach a logical conclusion. I remember, in 1989 when Rajiv Gandhi was Prime Minister and ND Tiwari chief minister, my guru had flown to Delhi by a chartered flight for discussions with the Union home minister and others. Congress leaders said PM will lay the shilanyas. But discussions failed as Mahant Avaidyanath insisted that the shilanyas of the proposed Ram temple will be held at the sanctum sanctorum and not 100 metres away,.After all, the entire struggle was for the birthplace of Ram. Later, saints did shilanyas. The first person to pick the axe was Mahant Kameshwar Chaupal. I was serving my guru, who was in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-is-for-everyone-yogi-adityanath/story-yhu9lXjYPLsoY5wczwJ7MI.html
05-08-2020||India||Struggle and violence: The chronicle of a 167-year-long saga||When tens of thousands of kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, packed trains, trucks and buses to descend on the Uttar Pradesh town of Ayodhya in 1990, few carried the conviction that their dream of a Ram temple rising from the sanctum sanctorum of the disputed 16th-century structure would ever translate into reality. The Ram Janmabhoomi movement was at its zenith and the lanes of Ayodhya rang with chants of “Mandir yahin banayenge” (the temple will be built here), but the contentious issue was caught in a legal tangle and a political consensus looked impossible. The country was vertically divided between maintaining status quo at the disputed site and the Hindutva demand for the “liberation of Ram Janmabhoomi.” Also read: 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ringAt a press conference, journalists even asked former Vishwa Hindu Parishad chief Ashok Singhal, who was leading the mass movement, if the temple would ever be built. The firebrand leader was not amused. Sitting in Karsewakpuram, the nerve centre of the temple movement in Ayodhya, he told them, “Yes, Ram temple here at the sanctum sanctorum will turn into a reality --(although) it may not happen in our lifetime.” Some others, including former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, Ramchand Paramhans, the chief of the influential Digamber Akhara, and current UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, shared the conviction that a temple would arise at the spot. Despite the efforts of these leaders, enthusiasm around the movement cooled by the 2000s. The VHP and its rival group, the Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC), kept the issue simmering by marking December 6 as‘ “shaurya diwas” (day of valour) and day of mourning, respectively, after the Babri Masjid on the site was demolished on that date in 1992. Public attendance at Ayodhya events was thin. Also read: Vedic rituals set stage for Ayodhya ceremonyEven visits by senior leaders of the VHP and its parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), dwindled and local firebrand voices fell silent after the death of Paramhans in 2003. Hindu seers continued to raise the emotive issue, especially before elections, but public gatherings were replaced by debates, discussions, negotiations and the legal case. The fight moved from the streets to the court, and in Ayodhya, life returned to normal. Over the years, common people also started doubting the effectiveness of the temple movement in extricating the issue from the legal web, as regional powerhouses, the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, dominated state politics.All that changed with the rise of Narendra Modi to power at the Centre in 2014 and Yogi Adityanath becoming UP chief minister in 2017. The documented history of the dispute is 167 years old. It goes back to 1853, when the first report of communal violence at the site was recorded. In 1885, a local priest unsuccessfully petitioned a local court to start prayers at the site and in 1949, idols of Ram appeared under the central dome of the Babri Masjid, triggering one of the longest legal battles over land ownership, which finally concluded in November 2019 in the Supreme Court. There were three major turning points– appearance of idols of the deity in 1949, the order of the Faizabad sessions judge allowing “darshan” of the deity by unlocking the gates in February 1986, and the demolition of the disputed structure in December 1992. It was in 1983 when the RSS and the VHP first raised the emotive issue of Ram temple. At a public meeting in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar town, Dau Dayal Khanna, Dinesh Tyagi, Gulzari Lal Nanda and Rajju Bhaiyya  spoke about constructing a temple at the disputed site. Khanna, a former state minister, and Singhal later visited Ayodhya where they met Paramhans. At a meeting of 50 saints, a decision was taken to form the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mukti Yojana Samiti under the chairmanship of Mahant Avaidyanath, a Lok Sabha member, the head of the Gorakhnath mutt and the spiritual guru of current UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. By October 1985, the VHP, which was constituted in 1964, launched its first formal “Rath Yatra” demanding the unlocking of the disputed structure, which had been out of bounds for the public since 1949. In February 1986, the Faizabad district court ordered the unlocking of the disputed structure on the petition of a 28-year-old local Hindu lawyer, pushing the dispute into the national spotlight and triggering communal tension across India. The BMAC, a key Muslim party in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, was also born that year. Soon after the locking, the VHP and various Hindu groups intensified their public mobilization campaigns. The first big event was the “Ram Shila Puja” held in thousands of villages across the country. About 250,000 consecrated “shilas” or carved stones reached Ayodhya in a matter of months and were stored near the disputed structure. After lying idle for three decades, these will finally be used for the Ram temple, whose foundation laying ceremony is on Wednesday. In 1989, a shilanyas (foundation ceremony) was performed near the disputed structure, the permission for which was granted by the Congress government in the state. In a balancing act, a confused Congress wanted to win over Hindus without losing Muslims. Before the 1989 Lok Sabha election, then Union home minister Buta Singh flew to Lucknow in the early hours of the morning and drove straight to the chief minister’s residence at Mall Avenue in Lucknow. Senior VHP leaders were already present there. Then chief minister, ND Tiwari of the Congress, walked out in a huff after signing an agreement. The permission for shilanyas was conditional, binding the VHP to a court ruling, the leaders said. Weeks later, prime minister Rajiv Gandhi launched his election campaign from Faizabad, four kilometres away from the shilanayas site. He spoke about Ram Rajya and not Ram temple. But while the Congress attempted to maintain ambivalence, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) doubled down on Hindutva. When the results were announced, the Congress’s tally from Uttar Pradesh fell from 15 to five seats. The BJP won eight of the 85 seats and its tally in the Lower House soared from two to 85 seats. This momentous election marked the fall of Congress in UP politics, the rise of BJP and the dominance of two regional powerhouses who would go on to become multi-term chief ministers: Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati. SHOCK AND SILENCEAs the 90s dawned on India, the country was vertically divided on the issue politically. The shilanayas activated the opposition parties, which came together under the banner of Janata Dal before the 1989 polls. Former Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh along with leaders belonging to left parties gave a call for “ Ayodhya chalo.” Members of the National Integration Council, a body of politicians and intellectuals set up in 1961, went on an inspection that left them more confused as the disputed structure appeared like a mosque with an idol of Ram inside. Some members paid obeisance inside. Perplexed, some asked, “But where is the Babri mosque?” In December 1989, Mulayam Singh became the chief minister of UP for the first time, but he was dependent on the support of Congress, which was also backing the Chandrashekhar government at the Centre, albeit for few months. Mulayam’s relations with VP Singh had soured after a split in the Janata Dal as both wanted to be the messiah of Muslims in UP. In September 1990, BJP veteran LK Advani embarked on Somnath-Ayodhya yatra. In October 1990, he was arrested in Samastipur in Bihar by then chief minister Lalu Prasad. But kar sevaks had reached Ayodhya in millions by then and started gathering near the disputed structure. Such was the frenzy that despite heavy deployment of security forces, the crowds kept moving towards the site in great waves, with one group managing to reach the dome. The Mulayam Singh government ordered the police to fire at the crowd, resulting in a pitched battle, in which around 20 people were killed. The government fell. Assembly elections followed. The BJP grew from 57 to 221 members in the 425-member House in 1991. Kalyan Singh became chief minister. When the Lok Sabha election results were declared, no party was close to a majority but the BJP reaped rich dividends, bagging 51 Lok Sabha seats – its highest tally in the state until then. DEMOLITIONThe BJP government quickly changed the complexion of the disputed area. The government acquired 2.77 acres of land around the 0.313 acre disputed shrine through a notification, ostensibly to promote tourism and provide amenities to the pilgrims. The acquisition was challenged in the court that disallowed transfer of the land or construction of a permanent structure thereon. Next, the Kalyan Singh government demolished various temples and buildings - Sankat Mochan, Sakshi Gopal Mandir, Falahari Baba, Sumitra Bhawan notable among them - to level the ground as the court had not banned demolitions. The entire area was levelled. In early 1992, the government gave 42 acres of land to the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas, a key Hindu party in the case, on a 99-year lease on an annual rent of Rs 1 per year for the construction of Ram Katha Park. The trust also bought some additional six acres of land. It is in this 48 acres of land where kar sevaks congregated in December 1992 for roughly a week before marching towards the disputed site. On December 6, 1992, the disputed structure was demolished. PV Narasimha Rao, the then Prime Minister, dismissed the Kalyan Singh government. The Centre acquired 67 acres of land, including the one belonging to the trust. The demolition also pushed Congress to the margin of state politics as Mulayam Singh, supported by left parties and the Janata Dal, projected himself as the saviour of Muslims. Some senior BJP leaders feared losing a potent public issue in the political arena. Senior state minister Azam Khan, who was closely associated with BMAC, had then said: “The BJP’s deterioration started slowly after December 6, 1992 and that’s why LK Advani never wanted the mosque to go. They wanted to keep the issue alive.” For the next 25 years, the BJP came close to power but never won a majority in Uttar Pradesh. In the 1993 and 1996 state assembly elections, it won 177 and 174 seats, respectively. Its numbers sharply fell to 88 in 2002, and 51 in 2007. It only returned to power in 2017 with a thumping majority of 300-plus seats. The BJP continued to perform strongly in Lok Sabha elections from UP- from eight in 1989 to 51, 52 and 59 seats in 1991, 1996 and 1998 elections. But these number started slipping; in 1999, the party won just 29 seats, which plummeted to 10 in 2004, when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government took power at the Centre. A NEW CHAPTER From August 5, a new chapter will start in Ayodhya. The city is geared up for the ground-breaking ceremony. Bhajans have replaced the frenzy; and reconciliation appears set to triumph over anger and agitation. Muslims are forming a trust to build a mosque five kilometers away from the disputed site. Religious sentiments are palpable but communal amity prevails with even firebrand BJP leaders talking about Muslim participation in the construction of the temple, reminding many of Kalyan Singh’s words, “Let Muslim brothers participate in building the Ram temple, I will lay the first brick of their mosque.” While thousands of kar sevaks who might have wanted to be there will be missing due to the raging pandemi, global celebrations are all set to mark the mega event. The temple city has been painted in saffron. Groups have surfaced in every corner to sing bhajans. The tone of the “Jai Shri Ram” slogans has changed from combative to celebratory. The streets are already reverberating with microphones playing Ram dhun or Akhand Path. In the words of a Ram devotee, “Ram’s vanvas [exile] was 14 years. But the fight for his temple at his birth place has been 572 years old.” The Babri Masjid was built in 1528. In 2020, the Ram temple is finally on its way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struggle-and-violence-the-chronicle-of-a-167-yr-long-saga/story-82qVk1n1MacGMzgjIevTrK.html
05-08-2020||India||At mosque site, a hope for amity||Last weekend, days before the cornerstone- laying ceremony for a Ram temple, the administration of Ayodhya fulfilled another aspect of the November 2019 Supreme Court verdict that cleared the way for the shrine to be built. About 30 kilometres away from what was once a disputed site, five acres of land was handed over to the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation on Saturday for the construction of a mosque. Also Read: Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathWhile the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is preparing for the formal launch of construction of a grand Ram temple with Wednesday’s ceremony, members of the fledgeling foundation are yet to meet , leave alone draw up a plan for the kind of structure they want to build “Please don’t compare us to them,’’ said Athar Hussain, a spokesperson for the foundation. “They have had decades to plan for the temple and we were only informed that we would have to plan for an alternative site in November last year. By the time they identified the Dhanipur land for us, Covid hit us and so we haven’t even had a physical meeting just yet. ‘’The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, spearheaded by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Waqf Board, may not have firmed up a plan for the construction of a mosque in lieu of the of the Babri Masjid that was demolished by Hindu activists in 1992 in an act that the Supreme Court termed as “illegal act,”’ but it does have some ideas .Also Read: At Bhumi Pujan, 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ring“The new mosque may be around the same size as the Babri masjid, but the land allotment is much larger and so we want to make sure that we play a much larger role in the community,”’ said Hussain. “We are planning to have a hospital to take care of the health needs and also, a museum and a research centre in the area.’’For the 9,000 odd residents of Rounahi town, the attention it is attracting is all very new. District officials say they were bound by the court order to allot land that would be within the Ayodhya city limits and would sit harmoniously with its surroundings. Rounahi fit the bill because of its predominantly Muslim population and its accessibility, just off the Lucknow-Faizabad highway.“Earlier we were famous for this mazaar which hosts a three-day mela every year in April,’’ said resident Sohrah Khan. “10,000 people would head here for the qawwalis, the horse racing and other festivities.’’ And now, Khan is hoping, Rounahi gets the same kind attention and development that Ayodhya does.That’s the best that most of its agrarian residents can hope for. The allotted land is now a lush green area, covered by rice paddy and come Wednesday, many of the farmer residents are hoping that the foundation-stone laying ceremony for the Ram temple means an end to communal bitterness. Being 30 kilometres away, there’s no one who has offered prayers at the original Babri masjid, but there are those who followed the legal dispute and came away disappointed.“I just hope they make a lasting structure now, taki masjid kayam rahe (so that the mosque lasts),’’ said one woman resident, refusing to be identified. ``We all know the reality of why this moque had to come here,’’ said farmer Naim Khan. “Now that the court has ordered it, so be it’’That’s a sentiment that many others echoed. Like Abdul Khaliq, a resident of Ayodhya who was also involved in the court case. Khaliq, unlike litigant Iqbal Ansari, refuses to accept the land swap for the mosque.“They took advantage of the fact that we in the Muslim side said we would accept whatever the Supreme Court said,’’ he said. “That’s fine. But I don’t have to accept this five acres. I don’t care what happens to that land.’’ Another litigant, Haji Meboob, too said that he wasn’t supportive of the decision to accept the land.These sentiments reflect the deep divide in the community over the resolution of the dispute. “`A new mosque was never asked from the Supreme Court,’’ said lawyer MR Shamshad. “A constitutional issue was finally decided by granting restitution. This is not justice, and hence the community had taken the stand to distance themselves from the land.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-mosque-site-a-hope-for-amity/story-4qHKmBZ1yquqOvRMXkyZ5O.html
05-08-2020||India||Dream big and train well-Alan Kapoor||Hailing from the city of Taj Mahal, actor Alan Kapoor feels that how much ever one plans life takes its own course and you’ll end up exactly where you’re suppose to be.“I remember I had come down to Mumbai for my summer training after completing mechanical engineering. I was putting up with a cousin who was interested in acting and was regularly auditioning for some project or the other. He just took me along one day and in fun I too auditioned for a few commercials and actually got selected. Then I realised ‘Arre yeh mazak toh serious ho gya!’ When I called my parents they were like are you sure this is what you want to do and I was like I want to give it a try,” said the UPite over the phone.Alan who has been part of films like ‘Rama Rama Kya hai yeh Drama,’ ‘Singh Saab the Great,’ shows such as ‘Palampur Express,’ ‘Diya Aur Baati Hum’ and ‘Sasural Simar Ka’, is currently essaying the lead role in a TV daily.“I’m the newest addition in the show ‘Pyar Ki Luka Chuppi.’ I play the role of a businessman, Angad, who is a loving son, a guy who has head over his shoulders and cares for relationships in life. At present I am happy to be part of the show that has already crossed hundred episode milestone. Also I am waiting for more good projects coming my way once things are in control.”Talking about how different it is to shoot in the current scenario, Alan admits that initially he was scared to start shooting for the show amid coronavirus crisis. “It is a totally different situation now. Social distancing has brought us mere ‘hi’, ‘hello’ and ‘namaste’ that too from one hand distance. During break time, the entire crew used to eat together, but now, we have quiet lonely lunches. As for me, I eat in my makeup room. There are only a handful of people on the sets now. One person has to take multiple responsibilities, unlike earlier times when we had multiple people around. It’s sad that many people have lost work, I wish all gets well soon.”Alan believes to dream big and train well. “When I joined the industry I tried hand in ads and got a film too but soon I realised that I need to work on myself and also train to sharpen my acting skills. So, I took a break and I worked on my personality. I also joined theatre and acting workshops. This did provide me the right balance that’s why I ask all youngsters coming from any small town to dream big yet brush up your skills because like all other professions here too you need to train yourself first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dream-big-and-train-well-alan-kapoor/story-a73IvkfiBVU70G2OC5MmNI.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Political absurdity’: India roasts Imran Khan over Pakistan’s new ‘political map’||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday unveiled a new “political map of Pakistan” that counts Jammu and Kashmir and Junagadh in Gujarat as its territories. “This is the most historic day in Pakistan’s history,” Khan said at a news conference after getting cabinet approval for the map.India’s foreign ministry dissed Imran Khan’s Pakistan for its obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism.“This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian State of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and of Ladakh. These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a brief statement.“In fact, this new effort only confirms reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism,” Srivastava said, referring to the ‘so-called political map’ released by Imran Khan.An Indian official had earlier described Islamabad’s effort to publish the document as a “cartographic hallucination”. Imran Khan’s move comes a day ahead of the first anniversary of the Indian government tabling in parliament the legislation to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and splitting the erstwhile state into two centrally-administered territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.Imran Khan’s government has already worked out a long list of programmes to commemorate the first anniversary, including requests to its partners such as China and Turkey to issue statements, or tweets that criticise India.Also Read: Pak’s troubled economy is hurting more than Imran Khan wants to believe | OpinionOver the last one year, Pakistan has made several attempts to raise the change in Jammu and Kashmir’s status from a state to a union territory at several international fora but hasn’t been able to get much traction. Khan’s government, nevertheless, counts its effort as a huge success. Imran Khan counted it as his government’s biggest success.A Pakistan watcher in New Delhi said Imran Khan’s decision to issue the map reflected a desperation at some level to show his constituency back home that he was making progress. It also suits Imran Khan’s ‘iron brother’ Xi Jinping’s China who feels that India is getting aggressive and the rise of India needs to be monitored and checked, he said.The new map also comes at a time the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is coming under increasing pressure.Also Read: With CPEC in mind, China wants Pakistan to pitch Baloch outfit as terror group in UNThere are reports that Baloch and Sindhi separatist groups in Pakistan have announced they are forming an alliance to attack Chinese interests. On July 25, Baloch Raji Ajoi Sangar, or BRAS, a consortium of four Baloch separatist organizations, announced in a media release an alliance with the Sindudesh Revolutionary Army, or SRA, a little known separatist group operating in southeastern Sindh province. Balochistan is another province in the southwest. This development could increase security costs for Belt and Road Initiative projects in Pakistan.At his news briefing on Tuesday, PM Khan said the newly-launched map is backed by all political parties of the country which he said support the principled stance of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “This map also opposes the Indian government’s illegal act of August 5 last year,” he added.Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi described the map as an “unprecedented step”.“For the first time in history, our government has openly presented its stance before the world,” he said.In the same vein, Qureshi informed that the Kashmir Highway in Islamabad is being named Srinagar Highway. Solidarity walks, photo exhibitions and seminars will be arranged with coronavirus related SOPs in consideration to raise voices against Indian atrocities in Jammu and Kashmir, said Qureshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cartographic-hallucination-pakistan-issues-a-new-political-map-to-needle-india/story-aPhCQ2HSkCaIB0uPucYHJL.html
05-08-2020||India||Double the size, 5 domes and 3 years to build: Here’s how Ram temple will look||Ahead of the ground-breaking ceremony of the foundation stone-laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the temple trust, Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra on Tuesday shared images of the proposed model of the grand temple. In a Twitter post, the Trust described the temple as “a unique example of Indian architecture”. Chandrakant Sompura, the architect of the grand temple, had stated that the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya will be almost double the size of what was originally proposed after its design was modified following the Supreme Court verdict last year.“The design of the temple was modified after the Supreme Court verdict. Now it will be almost double the size of what was originally planned,” Sompura told news agency PTI. Also read: In PM Modi’s 3-hour Ayodhya visit, Hanuman Garhi darshan and tree plantation driveश्री राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर विश्व में भारतीय स्थापत्य कला का अनुपम उदाहरण होगा। जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के प्रस्तावित मॉडल के कुछ चित्र।Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir will be a unique example of Indian architecture. Here are some photos of the proposed model.जय श्री राम! Jai Shri Ram! pic.twitter.com/8kJ4qEYah2Sompura added that the temple will be constructed in Nagara style of architecture and will have five domes instead of two. The project is likely to be completed in the next three years once the construction work commences following the bhoomi pujan event on Wednesday.The prime minister is scheduled to be in the temple town for around three hours on Wednesday. According to the official itinerary released on Tuesday, PM Modi will start from Delhi at 9:35 am and will reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at noon. The main programme of bhoomi pujan will begin at around 12:30 pm. After the ceremony, the prime minister will return to Lucknow at 2.20 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-example-of-indian-architecture-temple-trust-tweets-photos-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-Um6yPf2CZNaQAcyDwbYAOI.html
