06-08-2020||India||Manoj Sinha is new L-G in J&K change of guard||Former Union minister Manoj Sinha, the newly appointed lieutenant governor (L-G) of Jammu & Kashmir, hit the ground running on Thursday, receiving a briefing on the situation in the Union Territory soon after reaching Srinagar.Sinha, 61, a three-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian, is expected to take his oath of office on Friday on the lawns of Raj Bhavan in the city. He is the second L-G of the Union Territory (UT), which was formed last year after the bifurcation of the erstwhile state of J&K. The appointment of a political personality at the helm of the UT is being seen as an indication of the Centre’s will to initiate the political process in J&K, according to a person aware of the details.Sinha takes over from Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Girish Chandra Murmu, who resigned on August 5, exactly a year after the government announced the nullification of Article 370, which conferred special status on Jammu & Kashmir, and bifurcated the state into two UTs — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — on August 5, 2019.Murmu was appointed the Comptroller and Auditor General of India “with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office”, the government said.In Srinagar, chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam and director general of police Dilbagh Singh welcomed Sinha at the airport, where he landed at around 3pm on Thursday and received a guard of honour. He went straight to the Raj Bhavan and was briefed about the ground situation in the politically sensitive region.“The new lieutenant governor was given first-hand account of the situation by officials... He will be chairing a review meeting of officials only after the oath ceremony,” said a senior J&K official privy to the details.Senior BJP leaders welcomed Sinha’s appointment and hoped that he will usher in economic development. “A gentle, erudite and experienced leader with loads of administrative experience as a minister to head J&K administration. J&K to progress on path of development with renewed vigour,” BJP general secretary Ram Madhav tweeted. Jitendra Singh, minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office, said: “...He [Sinha] carries with him a rich combination of both political as well as administrative experience.”Sinha’s political career began when he was elected the president of Banaras Hindu University students’ union in 1982. He became a Lok Sabha member for the first time in 1996 from Ghazipur, and won election from the seat in 1999 as well.Sinha was elected to the Lower House for a third time in 2014, when the BJP came to power at the Centre with a landslide win, and Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. Sinha held the portfolio of minister of state for railways between May 2014 and July 2016, and was later given the independent charge of the ministry of telecommunications.“Let’s see how things will unfold once he takes over,” said National Conference (NC) parliamentarian Hasnain Masoodi. Earlier in the day, a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said Murmu’s resignation had been accepted. Murmu, who held the post for just over nine months, left for Delhi from Jammu on a plane around 11am. Murmu’s resignation came in the backdrop of his suggestions to allow 4G telecom services in the Valley and his comments about the timing of elections in the UT that prompted a terse note from the Election Commission of India reminding him to respect the poll body’s remit.Former J&K chief minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah termed Murmu’s exit unceremonious. “In a strange coincidence, both the last Governor of J&K state [Satyapal Malik] & the 1st Lt Governor of the Union Territory of J&K have been removed when they least expected it. They both had a full schedule of meetings planned when they got the order to pack & leave rather unceremoniously,” he tweeted.Noor Ahmad Baba, a political analyst, said the developments are another “experiment” by the Union government. “They begun with a bureaucrat [Murmu], and after one year, when things did not change much on ground, they have experimented with a person with a political background who may try to create his own space and think independently.”He said only time will tell if Sinha is able to make a difference. “Kashmir is not that simple...It is not going to be that easy,” Baba said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manoj-sinha-is-new-l-g-in-j-k-change-of-guard/story-OP2bE65vCaun0kkvrQaCYI.html
06-08-2020||India||In time of Mandir politics, Mandal appeal faces critical crisis||As August 5, 2020, is etched in Indian political history as the day when the politics of mandir (temple) reached its climax after three decades of political mobilisation, August 7, 2020, marks an equally important, and related, anniversary. It was 30 years ago, on this day, that the VP Singh government implemented the Mandal Commission report, which gave 27% reservations in government jobs for Other Backward Classes (OBCs).As the votaries of the politics of kamandal (an oblong water pot used by sadhus), a term often used to describe the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Hindutva politics, celebrate, the advocates of the politics of Mandal confront their most serious challenge. The two political streams had a fundamental tension — and in fact, many attribute the rise of each as a response to the other. The Ram temple at Ayodhya was one of the main tenets of kamandal politics, through which the BJP sought to consolidate Hindus across castes. Mandal sought to emphasise caste identities, and construct a political imagination based on an alliance of the socially marginalised with religious minorities, particularly Muslims. But 30 years later, the line between mandir and Mandal have blurred — and the advocates of the former have won over a significant segment of the natural constituency of the latter. How did this happen? For one, the BJP tapped into the heterogeneity within OBCs, and leveraged the resentment against dominant OBC groups who are seen as having cornered the benefits that came with reservation and political power. Data shows that intra-OBC inequality is real. In Uttar Pradesh for instance, it is by consolidating the non-Yadav communities that the BJP has scored three consecutive electoral triumphs — in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 assembly polls. The most tangible manifestation of the BJP seeking to leverage this faultline is the formation of the Commission to Examine Sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes for OBCs. But it is not just social engineering. A mix of aggressive welfare delivery to members of these communities, substantive legislative positions to portray the party’s commitment to the subaltern, and the co-option of historical figures integral to identity of specific backward groups into a larger Hindutva pantheon — note Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reference to Suheldev in his speech at Ayodhya — has helped BJP cement its base among this section. It is not clear if the politics of mandir has decisively prevailed over the politics of Mandal, for social equations can change, inter-caste contradictions can grow, the ability to reconcile these contradictions may not last, and issues of political representation may once again emerge more sharply. But what is clear is that 30 years later, the politics of mandir and the politics of Mandal have come a full circle in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-time-of-mandir-politics-mandal-appeal-faces-critical-crisis/story-s4xmQXkwno3RMPU0CbcUoL.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Reassure people if error in population count in Ayodhya inadvertent’: Tharoor to PM Modi||Citing United Nations data, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought a clarification about his omission of 8 crore people yesterday during his speech when he had congratulated 130 crore Indians on the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.“PM Modi congratulated 130 crore Indians when he spoke at the Ram Mandir yesterday. But India’s population is estimated at 1,38,00,04,385 in mid-2020, a/c to UN data. An omission of 8 crore people is worrying to many, after CAA/NRC. If inadvertent, a correction would be reassuring,” Tharoor said in a tweet, hinting that the omission may not be a mistake. He stressed that after the new and controversial citizenship law, which had triggered large-scale protests across India; such an omission may be a cause of worry for a part of the country’s population. He urged the Prime Minister to reassure people if the figure had been inadvertent. A day before, the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, had also lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said that neither Lord Ram nor the philosophy of Hinduism belonged to the ruling party alone and the appeal of both was universal. The articulate Congress leader emphasized that Lord Ram belonged to all of humanity and had also invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of the legendary Hindu king, who was born in Ayodhya, according to the epic Ramyana.“He is the ideal man whose image is deeply etched in the hearts & minds of millions. Gandhiji always sang his hymns & died w/ “Hey Ram” on his lips. He talked about a Ram Rajya where all would live in peace & prosperity. Can’t let His name be hijacked!” Tharoor had tweeted on Wednesday.The Congress leader had also clarified that the Congress party had never been opposed to the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, but it was against the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992. A day earlier, India witnessed the historic ceremony of the Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya with celebrations panning out across states. The much-awaited foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was concluded by PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reassure-people-if-error-in-population-count-in-ayodhya-inadvertent-tharoor-to-pm-modi/story-7Jdn1BcwW0NMaoAwmEwIqN.html
06-08-2020||India||100-year-old woman and 2-month-old baby beat Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh||Two Covid-19 patients - a 100-year-old woman and the other a two-month-old baby - were cured of Covid-19 in two different regions of Madhya Pradesh, the state government said in a statement Thursday night. The two-month-old baby in Khajuraho town of Chhatarpur district who tested positive for Covid-19 in the third week of July was breastfed during illness by his mother as per doctor’s advice to boost his immunity. His mother was already Covid-19 positive when she had delivered the baby in Delhi where her husband worked. The family returned to Chhatarpur after the birth of the baby, according to the statement.The 100-year-old woman who belongs to Badwah town of Khargone district also suffers from ovarian cancer. She was kept in home isolation after she tested positive for coronavirus on July 21. During the treatment at home she continued her yoga practice. The state health department was informed of her recovery on Thursday, the statement said.Click here for Covid-19 full coverage.Meanwhile, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who is in home quarantine since Wednesday after his recovery from Covid-19, instructed officials during a review meeting through video conferencing on Thursday night that lockdown will be imposed on districts only on Sundays and the night curfew will remain in force from 10 pm to 5 am instead of 8 pm to 5 am. With his announcement those districts which have lockdown on Saturdays too will have just one-day lockdown on Sundays, the statement said.“The CM directed that efforts should be made to minimize death rate by ensuring best treatment in all Covid hospitals. At present, Corona death rate of the state is 4.32%. Advice must be sought from non-governmental subject experts on how to reduce the death rate of Corona”, the statement said.Chouhan also directed that special attention must be paid to the districts of Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Jabalpur which have the high numbers of Covid-19 patients.On Thursday Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally stood at 36,564 out of which 946 people have died. A total of 26,902 have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-year-old-woman-and-2-month-old-baby-beat-covid-19-in-madhya-pradesh/story-AIK3VkBeZzUgizYokbqC6M.html
06-08-2020||India||Former JK lieutenant governor GC Murmu appointed India’s new CAG||Former Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu has been appointed the new Comptroller Auditor General of India (CAG) by the President of India, announced a notification released by the finance ministry on Thursday night. Murmu will replace Rajiv Mehrishi, who is set to retire from the key constitutional post on August 8.“By virtue of the power vested in him by clause 1 of article 148 of the Constitution of India, the President has been pleased to appoint Shri Girish Chandra Murmu to be the Comptroller and Auditor General of India with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office,” the finance ministry notification signed by joint secretary Rajiv Kumar Mishra said.Rajiv Mehrshi was appointed India’s top public auditor in 2017 after his retirement from the civil services. Mehrishi - a former IAS officer of the 1978 batch – has previously been India’s finance secretary and home secretary.Murmu had assumed the charge of Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor on 31 October, after the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir got official recognition as a Union Territory. Murmu was the expenditure secretary in the Union finance ministry when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah decided to elevate him to the new Union Territory’s Raj Bhawan. Murmu had then resigned from the IAS a month before his retirement in November-end 2019. Murmu, who is said to have the trust of PM Modi and Shah, had worked with them in Gujarat when he was posted in the home department. After PM Modi came to Delhi in 2014, Murmu moved to the Gujarat chief minister’s office as principal secretary to Anandiben Patel who had succeeded Modi in the state. He joined the central government less than a year later as a joint secretary in the finance ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-jk-lieutenant-governor-gc-murmu-appointed-india-s-new-cag/story-dcWT1btOmHIQWvDPGG6X4I.html
06-08-2020||India||At FATF meet, India likely to highlight Pak’s inaction to curb terror funding||India is likely to highlight Pakistan’s inaction on curbing terror financing in the upcoming Financial Action Task Force (FATF) plenary scheduled to be held in October this year.With deadlines looming, Pakistan is yet to comply with 13 conditions out of the 27-point Action Plan of the FATF including curbing terror financing, enforcement of the laws against the proscribed organisations and improving the legal systems.New Delhi may raise Islamabad’s inaction in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack and Pulwama terror attack cases. It may also raise the Daniel Pearl murder case.Pakistan has been on the FATF grey list since June 2018.Last month, Financial Monitoring Unit Director-General Lubna Farooq told the National Assembly Standing Committee on Finance that the country is still fully compliant on 14 out of the 27-point Action Plan and said it will have to submit an implementation report on the remaining points in the next eight days, reported Express Tribune.Islamabad also has to comply with 30 recommendations of the FATF. The committee expressed serious concern over the non-serious attitude of the government to settle matters relating to the FATF. Pakistan will have to demonstrate the effectiveness of sanctions including remedial actions to curb terrorist financing in the country, it will have to ensure improved effectiveness against terror financing by financial institutions particularly for banned outfits. It is yet to take actions against illegal Money or Value Transfer Services (MVTS) such as hundi-hawala.Pakistan will have to place the sanction regime against cash couriers. The country will have to ensure a logical conclusion from the ongoing terror financing investigation of law enforcing agencies (LEAs) against banned outfits and proscribed persons.Pakistani authorities need to ensure international cooperation based investigations and convictions against banned organisations and proscribed persons.Earlier, India had said that Pakistan continuing to be in FATF ‘Grey List’ vindicates its position that Islamabad has not taken appropriate action against terror financing and safe havens which exist in that country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-fatf-meet-india-likely-to-highlight-pak-s-inaction-to-curb-terror-funding/story-bRbYxLBsJqjzZNu8ijgoZM.html
06-08-2020||India||‘La Martiniere hostel days helped me in my craft!’||Actor Amit Sadh of late has been doing notable amount of work. Be it OTT series, web or feature films, he is enjoying working across mediums and entertaining his fans. Hailing from Delhi and who went to school in Lucknow, the ‘Sultan’ and ‘Breathe’ actor credits his schooling here for shaping him as a person he is today!“I was a boarding student at La Martiniere College, ‘wahin parvarish hui hai aur jo seekha hai wahin seekha hai — tameez, adab, sharafat aur ladai-jhagda bhi’ (I have grown up here and whatever I have learnt is from school...). It was there I learnt to help the less-fortunate, to stand to wrong and respect elders,” said the actor over the phone. He believes all this has contributed to him in playing diverse characters. “The school upbringing helps us throughout our lives. The principle and philosophy of life help you in your craft. I consider myself lucky that I went to such a school and the atmosphere at that point of time was so wonderful that I was able to learn so much as a student.” Remembering one of his favourite cities, Amit said, “One very good thing about Lucknow is that elders there still have upper hand and they take care of youngsters and guide them too. In Mumbai its completely opposite things are not what they should be as relationships are all muddled up. I feel proud coming from such a place and time where elders behave like the way they should and youngsters respect them.” Amit is all over the place with his back-to-back films and series release — series ‘Breathe: Into the Shadows’ and ‘Avrodh: The Seize Within’ and films like ‘Yaara’ and ‘Shakuntala Devi’. Despite having multiple releases, he is most upbeat about his latest series. “I wanted to go into Indian Army but for some reason or other I couldn’t go. Maybe it was not my calling so when I got this opportunity to live my dream, I was absolutely thrilled. With this series, I was able to fulfill my dream and my father’s dream who wanted me to join the armed forces. Wearing a uniform was a dream for me. My father passed away when I was very young so I consider this opportunity as a gift from him.” The actor confesses that this time he got bit nervous about its release. “As it’s based on a best-seller book on Uri attack and special force (surgical) strike so I am bit nervous this time. The nervousness is because of the expectations of the audience that he will do something good. I guess its okay to have such feeling as it’s much better than being overconfident.” Four releases in a month make him happy. “It’s a blessing for your work to come out as we all work so hard every project. I am very fortunate to be part of four different teams and more fortunate that it came at a time when people needed some distraction, fun and objectivity. I hope I am spreading some smiles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/la-martiniere-hostel-days-helped-me-in-my-craft/story-ihIYdlhbhcCLDIcKkpkylM.html
06-08-2020||India||Helipad, 360 degree camera: Nepal’s actions at India borders raises concern||The West Champaran districts officials in Bihar said that the Nepal government has started construction of a helipad at a disputed location on the Indo-Nepal border near Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district.At the same time, Indian officials in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand objected to Nepal authorities installing 360 degree CCTV cameras in no-man’s land between the borders of the country countries.The discontent, simmering on the border, has been growing since Nepal decided to include certain parts of Uttarakhand in its new map inviting strong objections from India with New Delhi dismissing Kathmandu’s fresh territorial claims as untenable and without any historical evidence.“To the best of our knowledge, construction of the helipad meant for small choppers started a few days back on the disputed area,” said Commandant Rajendra Bhardwaj of 21st SSB Battalion.Also Read: Nepal starts construction of helipad on disputed border area in BiharThe helipad is near completion at Narsahi village, a short distance from Thari border outpost of Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) near VTR, 80 km from Bettiah, headquarters of West Champaran district, he said, adding that he would send a report to the headquarters soon.In the western part of India-Nepal border in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district, the authorities on Thursday raised objection to the installation of omni-directional CCTV cameras by Nepalese personnel near the disputed land and asked Nepal officials to remove them, said Indian officials aware of the development.District magistrate Champawat, Surendra Narayan Pandey, who attended the meet with Nepal officials on Tuesday, said, “The Nepalese side had installed CCTV cameras a few days ago at the border. When the meeting was held, the SSB from our side raised the issue before Nepal since omni-directional CCTV cameras pose an obvious risk of monitoring of Indian security agencies.” Also Read: China became ‘more aggressive’ during Covid-19; deployed troops along LAC: US defence chief“The Nepalese authorities reasoned that the cameras were meant to keep an eye on activities on their side of the border but we asked them to replace the 360 degrees cameras with uni-directional CCTV cameras, placed away from the Indian side of the border. They said they will consider the request,” said Pandey.RK Tripathi, SSB Commandant near the Indo-Nepal border confirmed the development and said, “We raised several issues in the meeting but didn’t get any assurance from their side. They just said that they will try to solve them by dialogues.” The informal meeting was attended by district magistrate of Champawat, superintendent of police (SP), Champawat and commandant of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) from the Indian side. The Nepalese side comprised chief district officer (equivalent to DM in India) of Kanchanpur district adjoining the border in Nepal, SP Kanchanpur and SP Armed Police Force (SSB’s counterpart).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helipad-at-one-place-and-360-degree-camera-at-other-nepal-s-actions-at-india-borders-raises-concern/story-liH7dFEiQIhjD91Uqz43DI.html
06-08-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan spars with Capt Amarinder Singh over GI tag for Basmati rice||Madhya Pradesh chief minister (CM) Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday condemned his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh’s reported letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him not to allow geographical indication (GI) tagging of basmati rice produced in MP for which the state has been fighting a legal battle for several years. The Punjab CM wrote to the PM on Wednesday requesting him to intervene in the interest of Punjab and other Basmati growing states which have GI tag for the agriculture produce. Besides Punjab the other states which have GI tagging for basmati include the states in Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) below the foothills of Himalayas that include Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, as per government reports. Captain Amarinder Singh in his letter reportedly underlined the export of basmati every year worth Rs 33,000 crore from India and also All India Rice Exporters’ Association’s opposition to MP’s claim. He said if MP was provided the GI tagging it would have serious negative impact on Indian export potential and any such dilution in registration of Indian Basmati might give advantage to Pakistan which also produces Basmati. Chouhan, now in home quarantine after being released from hospital on Wednesday following treatment for Covid-19, said the Punjab CM’s letter was a politically motivated one.“I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab. I wish to question the chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh, as to what hostility he has with the farmers of Madhya Pradesh? It is not a matter of Madhya Pradesh or Punjab, it is a matter of farmers of the entire country and their livelihood,” he said in a statement.Chouhan said, “The case of Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) with Pakistan has no connection with the claims of Madhya Pradesh because it comes under the GI Act of India and has no connection with the claims of basmati rice within the country. Basmati exporters of Punjab and Haryana are buying basmati rice from Madhya Pradesh. The central government’s export data confirms this. The central government has been supplying ‘Breeder seed’ of basmati rice to Madhya Pradesh since the year 1999.” Chouhan went on to say, “It is recorded in the then ‘Scindia State’ records that in the year 1944, seeds were supplied to the farmers of the state. The Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad has recorded in its ‘Production oriented survey report’ that basmati rice is being produced in Madhya Pradesh for the last 25 years. The GI tagging to Madhya Pradesh will stabilize the prices of India’s basmati rice in the international markets and boost the country’s export. Basmati is produced in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh since the year 1908 and has been registered in history. Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh is considered very tasty and is famous both in the country and abroad for its flavour and fragrance.” The state government also issued a statement saying Chouhan has also written to the Prime Minister in this context “referring to the historical connection of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh. He urged him to grant GI status to the state’s basmati rice to encourage farmers and basmati rice based industries”. Madhya Pradesh has been fighting a tough battle on the GI tagging. On May 28, the state government approached the Supreme Court to challenge a Madras high court’s judgment that rejected the MP government’s appeal and another appeal by a Basmati growers association in March this year. The petitions were filed to challenge exclusion of the 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh from a map submitted by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), a part of union ministry for Commerce and Industries for GI tags.Basmati rice is grown in about 75,000 hectares in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh as compared to 2.6 lakh hectares in Punjab. The total basmati production in Punjab in 2018 was 1.7 million tonne, almost six times of total basmati production in Madhya Pradesh, according to data provided by the two state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-spars-with-capt-amarinder-singh-over-gi-tag-for-basmati-rice/story-yfzC8aEP7IvUyIiLJz7yxK.html
06-08-2020||India||Missing Covid-19 positive patient in Uttarakhand found dead in hospital’s washroom||A 58-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who went missing from Susheela Tiwari government hospital (STH) Haldwani on Wednesday, was found dead in the hospital’s washroom on Thursday. His body has been sent for post mortem, said police. “A 58-year-old resident of Ramnagar had been admitted to the hospital on August 1 after he tested Covid-19 positive. He went missing from the hospital on Wednesday. The hospital staff informed the police about the incident. Police and hospital staff were involved in a search operation to locate him,” said Kashmir Singh, senior sub-inspector of Haldwani police station. Also Read: After 100 prisoners test Covid-19 positive, Uttarakhand jail admin mulls release of inmates on paroleHe added that the actual cause of death will be known after the post-mortem report is received. There have been several instances of Covid-19 patients jumping quarantine or escaping from hospitals when undergoing treatment. However, this case doesn’t appear to involve any attempt to escape the hospital facility.Uttarakhand has registered close to 8.5 thousand Covid-19 cases so far including about 5.3 thousand who have been discharged after treatment. This means the state has around 3 thousand active cases of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-covid-19-positive-patient-in-uttarakhand-found-dead-in-hospital-s-washroom/story-9ChlguY5MVVHGQrj4ZVOVM.html
06-08-2020||India||Telangana offers incentives to private industries providing reservations for locals||Telangana has joined other states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in insisting that private industries in the state should provide reservations to locals for employment. A new draft policy to this effect was approved by the state Cabinet at its meeting held till late on Wednesday. “The Cabinet felt that the locals should have more opportunities in the industries being set up in the state. The cabinet decided to extend incentives to the industries which provide more job opportunities to locals,” an official release from the chief minister’s office said. At present, in Maharashtra, 50 per cent of the jobs among the supervisory staff and 80 per cent of the total jobs in private industries are reserved for locals. Similarly, the reservations for locals in all jobs in private industries are 75 per cent in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and 70 per cent in Madhya Pradesh. However, the Telangana Cabinet decided to adopt a two-pronged strategy to create a favourable environment to ensure that the local youth are employed in industries. First, the government shall ensure availability of skilled manpower through institutions like the Telangana Academy of Skill and Knowledge (TASK), tagging core industries with industrial training institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics to ensure continuous availability of skilled man power. Secondly, the industries are classified into two categories-- in category-1, industries could employ 70 per cent of the semi-skilled manpower and 50 per cent of skilled manpower from locals; and in category-II, industries could have 80 per cent of the semi-skilled manpower and 60 per cent of the skilled manpower from locals. “It was decided that industries established in the state need to be facilitated with the employable local manpower through synergy between the government, industry and the academia,” the official note said. The Cabinet proposed that industries which followed this policy of reservations to the locals would be extended additional incentives like VAT, GST, SGST, and lower electricity tariffs and investment subsidies, among others. The Cabinet also decided to decentralise the IT industry in Hyderabad and adopt a grid policy so that the IT companies could spread all over the city. It was decided to give incentives to the IT companies being set up in other areas other than only in Cyberabad in the western parts of Hyderabad. The Cabinet also decided to encourage and promote the use of electrical vehicles to decrease the air pollution in Telangana. It was also decided to encourage the production of electric vehicles in the state by giving them incentives. The Cabinet approved the Telangana State Electronic Vehicle and Energy Storage Solution Policy. The Cabinet has also approved the construction of the New Secretariat Complex and approved the designs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-offers-incentives-to-private-industries-providing-reservations-for-locals/story-ZgbUH01SrC54YheYEnmV4J.html
06-08-2020||India||CBI team that probed Vijay Mallya to investigate Rhea Chakraborty for Sushant’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a case in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput naming his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other family members or known associates apart from ‘unknown persons’ as accused, officials said. The investigation has been handed over to the Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is currently investigating the high profile AgustaWestland scam and bank fraud case against fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya. The SIT, also known as Anti-Corruption-6, is headed by Gujarat cadre IPS officer Manoj Shashidhar. It was formed in June 2016 in the CBI under then Special Director Rakesh Asthana to expedite probe against Mallya and in VVIP Chopper scam.A team of SIT will station itself in Mumbai to begin questioning people connected with the late actor including Rhea Chakraborty, Bollywood producers and others who have given statements after his death or know about the circumstances related to his death of June 14, officials familiar with development said. The decision to hand over the probe to the SIT was taken as CBI’s Special Crimes unit, which usually investigates such cases, currently has its hands full. “The Special Crimes unit is currently probing high profile cases related to custodial death of father-son duo of P Jayaraj and J Bennicks in Tamil Nadu in June as well as the suicide of SHO, Vishnudutt Vishnoi in Churu, Rajasthan, on May 23. In the SHO case, the CBI had last month questioned Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s OSD – Devaram Saini,” an official said requesting anonymity. Also, around eight officials of CBI’s special crimes unit who had gone to investigate Tamil Nadu’s custodial deaths are in quarantine right now as a couple of them contracted Covid-19 disease last month. Known for thorough probes in mysterious death cases, suicides, murders and custodial deaths, the CBI is likely to take the help of medical experts from reputed institutions to study the post mortem report of Sushant Singh Rajput, another official said, explaining the investigation techniques and procedures in the agency. If it feels at a later stage that Rhea Chakraborty or others are misleading, then it may even consider conducting lie-detection tests on them as has been seen in the past in several high profile cases investigated by CBI, the officer added. The case was handed over to the CBI by Bihar government after Sushant’s father K K Singh and Bihar police alleged a cover-up by Mumbai police to save ‘influential’ people. They have accused Mumbai police of destroying evidence and deliberately ignoring leads in the case in an attempt to derail it, an allegation rejected by the Maharashtra police even as it questioned the jurisdiction of Bihar police in the matter.K K Singh has alleged that Rhea Chakraborty and her family drove his son to suicide and embezzled his funds. Apart from Rhea and her brother Showik, CBI has named her family members – Indirajeet Chakraborty, Sandhya Chakraborty, Shruti Modi and Sushant’s house manager, Samuel Miranda - as accused for criminal conspiracy, cheating and abetment to suicide. Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde didn’t respond to HT’s calls.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also investigating the case as it suspects there has been money laundering by some suspects. The ED questioned Samuel Miranda on Thursday while Sushant’s former chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar was examined on Tuesday. Rhea Chakraborty has been asked by the ED to appear before it on Friday 11 am. The Mumbai police has been probing the death since Sushant’s body was found at his apartment on June 14 but it is yet to register a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-that-probed-vijay-mallya-to-investigate-rhea-chakraborty-for-sushant-s-death/story-tcsaSvRLjObfL4NvQ9xDYK.html
06-08-2020||India||PM Modi phones Sri Lankan counterpart, congratulates him on conduct of polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday congratulated his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on the conduct of parliamentary elections, saying early results indicate an “impressive” performance by the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party. The two leaders agreed to remain in close touch as both countries address the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and also to take “bilateral relations to newer heights in the coming days”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry on a phone conversation between Modi and Rajapaksa. The counting of votes began on Thursday and SLPP has said it is confident about a “historic victory” with a two-thirds majority in Parliament. Modi commended the government and the electoral institutions of Sri Lanka for effectively organising the elections despite the constraints of the pandemic. He also appreciated the Sri Lankan people’s participation in the elections, and said this reflected the strong democratic values shared by both countries. “Prime Minister Modi noted that the incoming results of the elections indicate an impressive electoral performance by the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party, and conveyed his congratulations and best wishes to...Mahinda Rajapaksa in this regard,” the readout said. The two leaders reiterated their shared commitment to strengthen the multi-dimensional bilateral relationship, and “stressed the significance of early progress in all spheres of bilateral cooperation”, the readout added. PM Modi also informed Rajapaksa about the establishment of an international airport in the Buddhist pilgrimage city of Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh, and said the city looked forward to welcoming visitors from Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-phones-sri-lankan-counterpart-congratulates-him-on-conduct-of-polls/story-SBYSB4dWbndlJJo94fZLyN.html
06-08-2020||India||Centre may allow Aadhaar authentication for social welfare schemes||The Centre may allow Aadhaar authentication for delivery of the social welfare benefits by government entities to ensure “good governance” and for “prevention of dissipation of welfare benefits” to the people, a government order has said.Till now, the government has allowed seeding of Aadhaar number for delivery of social welfare benefits under some programmes such as Public Distribution System. However, for delivery of the benefit such as food grains under the public distribution system or money under pension schemes, Aadhaar authentication was not needed.This could, however, change with the new rules called the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, 2020.“The Central government may allow Aadhaar authentication by requesting entities in the interest of good governance, preventing leakage of public funds, promoting ease of living of residents and enabling better access to services for them,” the rules notified by the ministry of electronics and information technology on Wednesday said.To be sure, the rules are in consonance with the 2016 Supreme Court judgment that struck down section 57 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, which did not allow private entities to use Aadhaar database for authentication.Social welfare activists, however, said the move could lead to further exclusion of the poor people from getting benefits under the various social welfare schemes without putting any check on corruption and leakages from these schemes.“There is already so much evidence to show that Aadhaar has led to exclusion of poor people in disbursement of subsidised ration in Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. The decision could lead to further exclusion as in rural areas there is very poor connectivity and biometrics of many people don’t work,” said Reetika Ghera, a development economist working at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.Abdul Lateef Jamil Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) study done in 10 districts of Jharkhand by economist Karthik Muralidharan in 2019 had found that the Aadhaar seeding in the PDS had lead to many genuine persons getting excluded from the PDS scheme without very little benefit of plugging food grains leakages.About six percent of total ration cards in these 10 districts were cancelled between 2016 and 2018, as they could not be linked to Aadhaar. However, after a lot of hue and cry by activists, physical verification of ration card holders was done and many ration cards were restored. “About 88% of the cancelled ration cards were real and qualified to receive ration,” the study had found.According to the new rules, the Central government could allow requesting government entities --- Central and state government departments --- to carry out Aadhaar authentication.For availing authentication services, individual departments will have to seek approval of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which is the statutory body to manage Aadhaar and runs Aadhaar-based services.A Central government official privy to the development said that the purpose of the order is to ensure that “genuine” beneficiaries get benefits of the government schemes in real-time without any delay. “Authentication will also help in plugging the leakages, if any, in the schemes. The rules provide government agencies a framework to seek UIDAI’s authentication services,” the official said.The rules say authentication will be allowed for three purposes --- to ensure good governance, prevention of dissipation of social welfare benefits and enablement of innovation and spread of knowledge. However, innovation and knowledge has not been defined in the rules. The rules say Aadhaar authentication will be voluntary.“If the department says that people will not get the welfare services without authentication, voluntary becomes mandatory,” said development economist Jean Dreze, who has been arguing against making Aadhaar mandatory to avail social welfare schemes.Under the authentication mechanism, the UIDAI from its database verifies whether the Aadhaar number or biometric details given are of a particular person or not. The UIDAI server replies only in “Yes” or “No” without providing any demographic details of the person, whose identity is being verified. Through the Aadhaar seeding system, the verification is done through the department’s database, not Aadhaar. According to Aadhaar Act, a requesting entity means “an agency or person that submits the Aadhaar number, and demographic information or biometric information, of an individual to the Central Identities Data Repository for authentication”.The new rule makes it clear that only the government agencies would be allowed to use Aadhaar authentication services, not any private entity. This is in line with the 2016 Supreme Court judgment that upheld the Aadhaar law but struck down section 57 which allowed private entities to use Aadhaar database for authentication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-allow-aadhaar-authentication-for-social-welfare-schemes/story-0OcD8u2QceEptk2VRzWsyK.html
06-08-2020||India||Address basic issues for review of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s death sentence, India tells Pakistan||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to address several basic issues, including unconditional consular access, so that former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav could seek a review of the death sentence given to him for alleged involvement in spying. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said no communication has been received so far from the Pakistan government regarding the order by the Islamabad high court to inform India about appointing a lawyer for Jadhav so that a review petition can be filed against his conviction. “Pakistan needs to address the basic issues which pertain to an effective review in implementation of the ICJ [International Court of Justice] judgement, and these basic issues pertain to making relevant documentation available to us, as well as providing unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. A two-judge bench of the Islamabad high court directed the Pakistan government this week to again inform Jadhav, 50, of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the ICJ order of 2019, which stayed his execution and called for a review of his conviction. The judges also ordered the formation of a larger bench to hear the case when it is taken up again on September 3. India had said last month that Pakistan has blocked all its efforts to seek legal remedies for Jadhav, who was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. It has also accused Pakistan of violating the ICJ’s judgement. New Delhi has rejected all allegations levelled against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/address-basic-issues-for-review-of-kulbhushan-jadhav-s-death-sentence-india-tells-pakistan/story-ViXXGyzgXZOZRsg0WxJ8xN.html
06-08-2020||India||Railways set November deadline for cadre merger plan||The unification of eight major cadres of the Indian Railways into one single service the Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) has been set a target of being completed by November this year, according to officials aware of the development.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and railway board chairman VK Yadav on Wednesday held a consultation with railway unions and representatives from some of the railway services.The Union cabinet in December 2019 approved the restructuring -- trimming the Railway Board’s strength to half (from 8 to 4) and unifying its eight railways services into a central service in a bid to reform the 150-year-old Railway Board of the Indian Railways.“We met with the minister to discuss the issue of IRMS…The official side mentioned that they were contemplating uniform promotion for all services till HAG based on best performing service in the grade for Senior Administrative Grade (SAG)/ Higher Administrative Grade (HAG)…Future recruitment of IRMS through a CSE while technical specialists will be recruited through RDSO (The Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO),” said one of the officials who attended the meeting.RDSO is the national transporter’s research and development organisation.Three of the existing railway services are recruited through the civil service exam while the rest five are technical services which are recruited through the Engineering Services Exam.“The merger is targeted to be completed before November. All the posts of merged cadre will be open for all members of IRMS. Fresh recruitment to IRMS will be done from the UPSC Civil service exam. Posts requiring technical expertise like those in RDSO will be filled up by different process like the way it is done in ISRO/DRDO,” another official said requesting anonymity.“Formula for integrated seniority is still under discussion and it is expected that the scheme suggested by the Debroy committee will be adopted…However CRB clearly mentioned that seniority will not be that significant for deciding key positions and some element of merit is being introduced,” the official added.The unification of services had earlier been proposed by various committees that studied ways of reforming the Indian Railways including the Prakash Tandon Committee (1994), Rakesh Mohan Committee (2001), Sam Pitroda Committee (2012) the and Bibek Debroy Committee (2015).In the meeting several services raised concerns over career growth and promotions. According to officials present in the meeting the railway board chairman communicated that seniority will not be that significant for deciding key positions and some element of merit will be introduced adding that “career growth will be liked with the organisation’s growth.“The Railways have also hired consultancy firm, McKinsey, to finalise the modalities of the cadre merger.The modalities and unification of the services will be worked out by the rail ministry in consultation with the Department of Personnel and Training. The process was scheduled to be completed within a year.The proposals will be finalised by an eight-member committee constituted last month by the railway board for looking into re-skilling of the staff. Separately, the Centre had also formed a group of secretaries headed by the cabinet secretary for implementing the exercise of restructuring the board; this committee includes the Chairman, Railway Board, the DOPT secretary and the secretary of the department of expenditure. This committee will assist the group of ministers constituted by the government for formalizing the restructured railway board. The GOM will be formed after the recommendations of the committee.The chairman said that there is a need to change organisational structure and work culture as well as work profile at senior levels. It was pointed out that service specialisation has not been very effective as even with specialists in the railway board and RDSO; we are nowhere near Korean or Japanese Technology. Supervisory cadre needs to be strengthened, while the focus should be on bringing down manpower cost of maintenance,” the official quoted above said.The proposed organizational reforms were aimed at ending the division of the mammoth organisation into different departments. The Indian Railways employs nearly 1.3 million people and its trains carried 2.3 million passengers every day before the lockdown. The government has said the move was aimed at ending a legacy marked by inefficiency in work, infighting over control of assets and resources, and delays in decision-making.Indian Railways is also mulling merging several junior and mid-level posts as part of its plans to rationalize the organisation and making it leaner, following the Union Cabinet’s nod for merging its eight major cadres into a central service-- Indian Railway Management Service, Hindustan Times had reported on June 10.The rail ministry has drafted a proposal based on recommendations from all railway zones for merging key posts in the accounts, commercial, electrical, mechanical, engineering, medical, personnel, operating, stores, and signal & telecommunication departments, and also other miscellaneous posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-set-november-deadline-for-cadre-merger-plan/story-xg7LX9Ss1VnwdK4ddVUMcM.html
06-08-2020||India||On Friday, two Odisha villages will be first in the country to get Tsunami-Ready certificate||More than 15 years after one of the devastating Tsunamis of history killed over 10,000 people in southern India, two coastal villages of Odisha would be declared ‘Tsunami-Ready’, the first in India as well as the Indian ocean region.Officials of Odisha State Disaster Management Authority, the state government body responsible for managing different kinds of disasters, said Venkatraipur village in Ganjam district and Noliasahi village in Jagatsingpur district would be the first two districts in India to get tsunami-ready certificate on Friday in a function.“As these two villages have fulfilled the 11 parameters of being Tsunami-Ready, the local communities of these two villages would get certificate of recognition from Unesco through a virtual event on Friday afternoon. Officials of the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System secretariat in Australia and Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre at Jakarta along with the National Disaster Management Authority would be present during the event,” said Satya Ranjan Sahoo, chief general manager of OSDMA.The Indian ocean Tsunami, triggered by an earthquake of 9.1–9.3 magnitude on the Richter scale on December 26, 2004, swept through 14 different countries in Indian ocean region killing over 2.3 lakh people, most of them in Indonesia.Also Read: ‘Do we even have an existing govt?’: Siddaramaiah on flood situation in K’takaRecorded as one of the strongest and the deadliest of all time, the Tsunami led to setting up of Indian Tsunami Early Warning System to detect Tsunami-producing earthquakes and to monitor Tsunamis.Sahoo said the ‘Tsunami-Ready’ tag is a community performance-based programme initiated by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO that promotes Tsunami preparedness through collaboration of public, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. To implement and monitor the implementation of ‘Tsunami-Ready’, Ministry of Earth Sciences had established a National Board that went around the country and selected 6 villages in Odisha for a pilot programme.Also Read: Mumbai braces for more rains, 16 NDRF teams deployedTsunami-Ready parameters include conduction of community Tsunami-risk reduction programme, designation and mapping of Tsunami hazard zones, public display of Tsunami information, easily understood Tsunami evacuation maps, outreach and public education materials, participation in mock drills, community emergency plans and presence of reliable 24 hours early warning systems, said Dr Ajay Kumar, scientist of INCOIS, Hyderabad.Though Odisha has 328 villages on the coast that are vulnerable to Tsunamis, the OSDMA had chosen 6 coastal villages of which 2 were found to be ready for the ‘Tsunami-Ready certification after a visit by the national board that supervises and monitors the implementation of Tsunami Ready Recognition programme in December last year.“These two villages in Odisha have signages and symbols forewarning its residents about an impending Tsunami. These two villages also have evacuation routes as well as safe places that are clearly marked and made known to all residents of villages. Being aware of these routes and location of safe places will ease the evacuation process in the event of an actual Tsunami hitting the coast,” said Dr Kumar.OSDMA officials said the tsunami hazard zones and mapping of these two villages have been completed.“In order to determine the areas that might become inundated, inundation maps have been developed. The development of these maps are based on Tsunami scenarios that takes into account the location, its surrounding environment, total population, critical services and facilities and possible wave heights, amplitudes and speed. The demarcation of Tsunami hazard zones will serve as a pre-warning to the general public including residents residing within these zones,” said BN Mishra, an official of OSDMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-friday-two-odisha-villages-will-be-first-in-the-country-to-get-tsunami-ready-certificate/story-Ph0LJQ7OewiYey0NDrOhlL.html
06-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot may have turned rebel in heat of the moment, says Congress MLA||A Congress legislator loyal to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Thursday that former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot could have had 40-45 MLAs with him if his suggestions were considered. The MLA also said Pilot may have taken the decision to go to Gurugram in the “heat of the moment”. Prashant Bairwa, Congress MLA from Niwai, told a local TV news channel that Sachin Pilot didn’t realize he had a big team. “It would have been better that he took advice from us. Somebody else was playing the games for him. He had a big team but he didn’t realize that,” Bairwa said. The Niwai MLA is considered a Sachin Pilot loyalist and was among the four legislators who returned from Manesar to Gehlot camp on July 11. The four – Danish Abrar, Rohit Bohra, Prashant Bairwa and Chetan Dudi – addressed a press conference at the CM’s residence the same day to pledge their support to Gehlot. Bairwa said the people Pilot is trusting will be the first ones to desert him. “He has well-wishers here also but all of us are with the Congress,” he said. The Congress legislators said the BJP was involved in turning Pilot against the government. “If BJP was not involved, why were they staying in Gurugram under the watch of Haryana police? Now they have gone to Gujarat, which is also a BJP-ruled state,” he said. Pilot has denied moving to Gujarat.Bairwa claimed that some legislators from the Pilot camp were also keen to return to the government but they are not allowed. “The dissident MLAs have no freedom. It is possible that they want to return but are being stopped.” When asked why Pilot did what he did, Bairwa said Pilot is short-tempered. “Even we were scared of him when he got angry. He may have taken the decision in the heat of the moment,” he said. “The Congress made him a Union minister and a big leader. He may have felt helpless.” The MLA said he had an emotional attachment with Pilot and it will always be there “but when it comes to politics, he made his moves, I made mine.”Govind Singh Dotasra who succeeded Pilot as the Congress chief in Rajasthan said, “What Bairwa is trying to say is that when Pilot was the state party chief all were with him but now that he joined hands with BJP, those who left with him are regretting.” He also claimed that Pilot took the decision in anger and BJP is behind it.BJP spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said the allegations are baseless and the opposition party has nothing to do with the problem in the Congress. “It’s an internal fight resulting from lack of coordination among them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-may-have-turned-rebel-in-heat-of-the-moment-says-congress-mla/story-cCIjJwzf8a3mex0SGavmAL.html
06-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Delhi records 1,299 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 1,41,531 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi adds 1,299 new Covid-19 cases as threat of dengue looms over 30 patientsNational capital Delhi on Thursday added 1,299 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count to 1,41,531 while the death toll touched 4,059, the state health department data indicated. Read more‘Babar Azam has totally shifted Joe Root out of the way’: Michael Vaughan on Test cricket’s ‘Fab 4’Star Pakistan batsman Babar Azam has become the talk of the town after his flamboyant knock in the first Test against England on Wednesday. Babar slammed an unbeaten 69 runs off 100 balls on Day 1 of the first Test at Old Trafford. He has been getting plaudits from all over the cricket community for his exquisite knock which consisted of 11 boundaries. Read moreUnderargument: Lingerie brand that ‘blindly’ picks its models based on their stories, not their looksAt this turning point in history, we are seeing a major change in the fashion industry when it comes to the representation of different types of people on mass media. To further shift the dynamic of online representation, Maïna Cissé, the founder of a lingerie brand ‘The Underargument’, has come up with a foolproof method of casting their models which guarantees diversity without being purposefully so. Read moreSameer Sharma had shared moving note on mental health after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘A pain so unbearable yet inexplicable’Actor Sameer Sharma, who was found dead at his home on Thursday at the age of 44, had shared excerpts from a book to spread awareness about depression post the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sameer captioned the post, “Read this if you cared about Sushant Singh Rajput.” Read moreTimex brings back the 80s with the TM80 PAC-MANCelebrating 40 years of Pac-Man, Timex has gotten us feeling all warm and nostalgic about the 80s with the TM80 PAC-MAN digital watch. Join us as we take a closer look. Read more‘I am taking the kitten home’: Man rescues cat amid heavy rainfall in MumbaiA heartwarming video of a man rescuing a kitten amid heavy rainfall in Mumbai has now tugged at the heartstrings of many. There are also several who are applauding the man for his actions and rightly so. Read moreJ&K situation explained as LG Murmu quits on Art 370 dilution anniversaryFormer Union minister Manoj Sinha has been appointed as the new Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. The news was announced a day after incumbent LG Girish Chandra Murmu tendered his resignation. He quit on the anniversary of revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-delhi-records-delhi-adds-1-299-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-1-41-531-and-all-the-latest-news/story-U6KDIcnvqp2FVDPxZKZhpM.html
06-08-2020||India||Punjab ministers seek immediate expulsion of MPs Bajwa and Dullo from Congress, Delhi watches||Two days after Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar sought strict action against party MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, the entire Punjab cabinet on Thursday pitched for the duo’s immediate expulsion for their alleged anti-party and anti-government’ activities, which they termed as gross indiscipline.The actions of the two Rajya Sabha MPs call for immediate and strict action against them by the party high command, said the cabinet ministers, seeking dismissal of Bajwa and Dullo for attacking their own Congress government in the state over the hooch tragedy that has taken over 110 lives.The duo had slammed Amarinder Singh government over the tragedy and suggested complicity of government officials in patronising the illicit liquor mafia. They also demanded a CBI probe into the incident that recently killed at least 110 people in three districts of the state. The ministers, in a joint statement, called for cracking the whip on the two MPs without any laxity or delay. “Indiscipline could not be tolerated at any time, least of all when Assembly elections in the state are less than two years way,” their statement said, pointing to the MPs’ repeated attacks on the state government, including chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Also Read: Punjab hooch tragedy: Suspects will be probed irrespective of political affiliation or rank, says officerThe ministers said the two MPs had never, in their Rajya Sabha term, bothered to raise any issue of the interest of the state they represented. “Why did they not press for the completion of the ED probe into the drugs issue during the Akali regime? Why did they not protest in the House against the anti-farm Ordinances of the Union Government? Why did they never speak about the CBI’s failure to probe the sacrilege cases?” the ministers asked.The ministers alleged that the two MPs had bypassed all party and government forums to protest against the handling of the hooch tragedy and by approaching the governor seeking a CBI and ED probe into the matter. The ministers’ joint statement also pointed out that a CBI probe is needed only in cases when the police fail to deliver, which was definitely not true in this case at present. The ministers further alleged that CBI had been inefficient in investigating the sacrilege cases, which is eventually being solved by the state police.The rift within Punjab Congress has again come to the fore in the aftermath of the tragedy and the Punjab Congress leadership is hoping that party high command in Delhi will sanction the two MPs for their alleged dissidence. Also Read: Punjab Cabinet approves smartphone distribution to all Class 12 govt school students by NovemberThe statement accuses both Bajwa and Dullo of being intent on destabilising their own party’s government for either serving their own interests or of those who want to derail the Congress in Punjab.The ministers claimed that the duo had continued their offensive against the government without being even remotely apologetic.The party high command in Delhi has not taken a position on the demand so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-ministers-seek-immediate-expulsion-of-mps-bajwa-and-dullo-from-congress-delhi-watches/story-vvxGpd1RlKF5h7aN34DExI.html
06-08-2020||India||Foreign Tablighi members free to leave India after apologising: Centre to SC||Foreign nationals against whom criminal proceedings are pending in India for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation during mid-March in Delhi, are free to leave India after tendering an apology, the Central government told the Supreme Court on Thursday in a plea by 34 foreign nationals seeking deportation to their home countries.The pendency of criminal cases in India will not bar them from returning to their home countries but it will be subject to orders passed by the concerned trial court where the criminal case against them is pending, the Central government through Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted.“Solicitor General has, in all fairness, submitted that if the concerned petitioners tender an apology in the concerned criminal case, they can be permitted to leave India despite the pendency of the criminal case but subject to such orders that may be passed by the concerned trial court,” the apex court recorded in its order.The petitioners had approached the top court challenging revocation of their visas and praying that they be deported to their home countries. Criminal cases had also been slapped against them for violation of visa conditions. On July 27, the Central government had informed the apex court that out of 34 petitioners, 10 had decided to contest the criminal cases against them while the rest had opted for plea bargaining.The procedure called plea bargaining allows the accused to plead guilty in exchange for lesser punishment. The foreign nationals who agreed to plea bargaining have been let off with nominal fines and there is no embargo on them to leave India, Mehta had told the court on July 27. However, no solution was reached as regards the remaining petitioners who had not opted for plea bargaining.The court had adjourned the case that day asking Mehta to work out a mechanism with regard to the 10 petitioners who were not ready to go for plea bargaining.Mehta informed the court, on Thursday, that look-out notices against the 10 petitioners have been withdrawn.“Solicitor General has fairly submitted that as of today only 10 petitioners have decided to contest the criminal cases pending against them and are not willing to exercise the option of plea bargaining. In that case, we deem it appropriate that the criminal cases concerning these ten petitioners pending in different trial courts in the NCT of Delhi be brought before the same court so that all the cases can be disposed of expeditiously,” the bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said.The court then proceeded to direct the transfer of criminal cases pending before different trial courts in Delhi to one single court and also ordered completion of trial within 8 weeks.“We direct transfer of stated cases to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, South-East Delhi, Saket Court Complex, Saket and direct the said court to dispose of all the cases expeditiously preferably within eight weeks from today,” the bench which also comprised Justice Dinesh Maheshwari ordered.The Centre, in its affidavit filed before the Supreme Court in June, had claimed that the foreign nationals who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event violated the provisions of visa rules and the Foreigners Act since they had arrived in India on limited tourist visas and Tablighi Jamaat activities were not covered by tourist visas.The Nizamuddin area in Delhi was sealed on March 30 after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March at Nizamuddin by a Muslim organisation called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with Covid-19. At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.The Union Home Ministry (MHA) had initially, in April, blacklisted 960 foreign nationals who had attended the religious event.It was later submitted by the Centre that 205 FIRs were filed against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members in eleven states and 2,765 foreigners had been blacklisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-tablighi-nationals-free-to-leave-india-after-apologising-centre-to-sc/story-r3iq0F4jkFJsjfQPbaa3mJ.html
06-08-2020||India||70% Covid-19 related deaths in Bengal due to delayed admission in hospitals||Nearly 70% of the Covid-19 related deaths in West Bengal happened due to delayed hospital admissions, the state’s top bureaucrat said on Thursday. “We are analysing each and every Covid-19 related death on a daily basis. Nearly 70% of the deaths took place because people delayed in reaching the hospital,” said Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal. Over the past few months multiple allegations have surfaced against both state-run and private hospitals that they have refused to admit patients because of various reasons including shortage of beds, resulting in the death of some patients. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Sinha, however, said that there is no shortage of hospital beds. At present there are 11,560 beds in 83 Covid-19 designated hospitals out of which 60% are still vacant. In all there are 23,500 beds in hospitals and safe homes. “There is demand for a particular category of hospital which can’t be guaranteed in a pandemic situation. What we can guarantee is a kind of hospital where patients would be provided with adequate treatment by the best experts,” he said. The state government said that the case fatality rate has dropped to around 2.2% in West Bengal. The National CFR stands at 2.7%. At present only 1,144 patients in the state are in critical condition while 1,043 and 1,946 are with moderate and mild symptoms. “This means only two out of 100 Covid-19 patients have died. Out of this, 87% of the deaths were because of comorbidity,” he added. The chief secretary was addressing media persons at the state secretariat. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was also present. The Covid-1- pandemic has claimed 1,846 lives in Bengal till Wednesday which also saw the highest single-day casualties at 61. On Thursday West Bengal crossed the 25,000-mark of daily swab tests. The state has already done more than one million tests. Veteran CPI (M) leader Shyamal Chakraborty, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in Kolkata on Thursday. Banerjee and West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-covid-19-related-deaths-in-bengal-due-to-delayed-admission-in-hospitals/story-iRAOq6rhpy943GYSTHbRKO.html
06-08-2020||India||5 including chief priest of Talacauvery temple missing after floods, landslides hit Karnataka||At least five people including the chief priest of the Talacauvery temple in Kodagu district of Karnataka were missing after landslides caused by heavy rainfall across coastal, northern and Malnad areas of the state.Talacauvery is said to be the birthplace of River Cauvery and a small pond and a temple mark the spot. Chief priest Narayana Achar, his wife, elder brother, and two assistant priests are all said to have been either swept away or buried under the debris after landslides in the Brahmagiri hills adjoining the temple.Rescue teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NRDF) have been battling inclement weather and torrential rains to try and respond to the situation at Talacauvery. According to district officials, neighbouring Bhagamandala alone received a record 486 mm of rain in the 24 hours between August 5-6, as recorded by IMD.Both Cauvery and Lakshma Teertha rivers in the district were in spate, marooning several villages and hampering rescue and relief operations. Kodagu, however, was not alone as across Northern Karnataka districts of Hubli, Dharwad, Belgavi and coastal districts of Udupi, Mangalore, and Karwar also witnessed heavy rains leading to floods.In Uttara Kannada district, for instance, a bridge in Manchikere of Yellapur taluk was washed away due to the heavy inflow of water into the Bedthi River. Leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly Siddaramiah hit out at what he said was inaction and apathy of the government in ensuring rescue and relief efforts following the heavy rains and landslides across the state.Siddaramiah who is in hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 said in a series of tweets. “There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people. The government has failed to come to their rescue. Do we even have an existing government?”Asking the government to immediately take decisions to ease the burden on people during these floods, he called upon it to identify shelter homes and relocate people from risky areas. He also asked CM Yediyurappa who is also Covid-19 positive and being treated in the same hospital to distribute work to ministers and officers. Senior JDS leader and former minister Basvraj Horatti also hit out at the government saying “nobody believes that a government exists in the state”. He also said that the CM should immediately direct his cabinet colleagues and the administration to provide relief measures to those affected.Meanwhile, CM Yediyurappa said that Rs 50 crore has already been released for rescue and relief measures and if necessary more funds would be made available. In a statement, he said that ministers had been instructed to tour the damaged areas and undertake relief distribution as well as other necessary measures.Yediyurappa also said that Rs 10,000 would be provided to those families affected by floods and if the full house has been damaged Rs 5 lakh would be paid to help rebuild the houses.Revenue minister R Ashoka said that there was no shortage of funds to undertake relief measures. He said that till now at least 375 homes across the state have been damaged due to rains and floods, also there were 262 people at the 12 relief centres opened across the state. A red alert continues in several districts across the state as rains are expected to only intensify over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-including-chief-priest-of-talacauvery-temple-missing-after-floods-landslides-hit-karnataka/story-R2QOIdok0NatVMgaNtZvqN.html
06-08-2020||India||Centre orders salinity test of Mahadayi after Goa complains about Karnataka’s projects||The Ministry of Jal Shakti has asked the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee to take up the study of salinity of river Mahadayi in view of the concerns raised by the Goa government that Karnataka’s Kalasa Banduri River Diversion project will adversely affect the availability of fresh water in the state “Taking into account the concerns raised by you regarding the issue of salinity in Mahadayi River, this Ministry has assigned National Institute of Hydrology. Roorkee to take up the study of salinity of river Mahadayi and submit a report to this Ministry,” Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, said in a letter to Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Sawant had written to Shekhawat in March expressing apprehensions about Karnataka’s plan to fast track the Mahadayi project and had asked Shekhawat not to process any permissions until the matter was finally decided by the Supreme Court where it is now pending. “Karnataka may attempt to seek your approval for such diversion outside the basin relying upon the Award of the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal dated 14.08.2018 In this regard. We wish to state that the Award dated 14.08.2018 is pending before the Hon. Supreme Court of India,” Sawant said in his letter. “Such proposal should not be considered in view of above-mentioned reasons as the same is going to have far reaching consequences on the State of Goa. In any case, if any proposal is submitted by Karnataka, we must be given a copy of the same and our objections should also be considered. Kamataka is likely to submit the proposal which may not be even in consonance with the Award of the Tribunal,” Sawant also said. Shekhawat has, however, declined to specifically assure Goa that no permissions will be processed. “The Government of Karnataka has recently submitted feasibility report of Kalasa Nala Diversion Scheme and Bhandura Nala Diversion Scheme to Central Water Commission (CWC), and these are under appraisal as per the existing CWC guidelines and as per the directions given in the Report cum decision of MWDT (Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal),” Shekhawat said. Quoting the Tribunal itself, Shekhawat said that “the upper riparian States of Karnataka and Maharashtra, though do require requisite clearances and approvals, as required by law and from the Central Government, and the Planning Commission (Now Niti Aayog), but they do not require any prior consent of the lower riparian State of Goa.”But he agreed to share Karnataka’s proposal with Goa since “any project proposed in the river basin for which no tribunal award or inter State agreement exists, will be circulated to the co-basin States by the Project Authority Central Water Commission (CWC).”Goa has opposed any diversion of waters of the River Mahadayi which originates in the Western Ghats in Karnataka takes a detour via Maharashtra and enters Goa as the Mandovi. The Mahadayiriver basin drains an area of 2,032 sq.km., out of which an area of 375 sq.km. lies in Karnataka, 77 sq.km. in Maharashtra and rest in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-orders-salinity-test-of-mahadayi-after-goa-complains-about-karnataka-s-projects/story-M2Kn47vxWuU1ieSsvDYhIN.html
06-08-2020||India||700 tonnes of Chemical stored in Chennai safe, to be e-auctioned: Customs||Customs authorities on Thursday sought to allay fears over safety regarding the storage of nearly 700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate at a container freight station near here.The storage of the chemical here became a cause for serious concern in the backdrop of the explosion of the chemical in the Lebanese capital city of Beirut on Tuesday, which killed 135 people and injured around 4,000.The chemical worth Rs 1.80 crore was seized from a Tamil Nadu-based importer in 2015 who had allegedly declared it as fertiliser grade although it was an explosive grade, a Customs official said.However, the consignment, imported from South Korea, was safe and an e-auction process was on to clear it, he said.The Customs’ clarification comes in the wake of reports in a section of media that huge quantities of the chemical substance being stored here could be a risk, even as political party Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) sought the government to ensure its safe disposal.“The goods are safe and pose no danger” a senior Customs department official told PTI when asked about the fears of safety in the backdrop of the devastating Beirut explosion.Elaborating, the official, on condition of anonymity, said the sleuths had in November 2015 seized 697 tonnes of ammonium nitrate in 37 containers valued at Rs 1.80 crore from the importer.“The importer had misdeclared the goods as ammonium nitrate of fertiliser grade whereas on examination it was found to be of explosive grade and that (the importer) had not followed the Ammonium Nitrate Rules, 2012,” he said.The containers were seized then and were since lying at a container freight station in the city while the licence of the importer had been cancelled.While seven tonnes of the chemical got spoilt during the deluge in December 2015, the remaining 690 tonnes were under process of e-auctioning, he said.Earlier during the day, PMK founder S Ramadoss urged the government to take immediate steps to safely dispose of the ammonium nitrate, saying a possible Beirut-like incident should be avoided.Expressing concern over the reported huge quantity of the seized chemical kept at the freight station here since 2015, he said the uncleared substance could be a risk and that it should be safely disposed of and utilised for purposes like composting.Tuesday’s explosion in Lebanon’s port city of Beirut killed 135 people and injured about 4,000.Buildings were damaged for miles around the city after 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive chemical used in fertilisers, stored at the facility for six years, reportedly caused the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/700-tonnes-of-chemical-stored-in-chennai-safe-to-be-e-auctioned-customs/story-jtxJzzSwtRVPdkXYlukmQL.html
06-08-2020||India||Tiger reserve in Goa: HC directs Goa govt, NTCA to respond by August 24||The Bombay high court (HC) at Goa has directed the Goa government, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and other authorities to respond by August 24 after Goa Foundation, an environmental non-governmental organisation (NGO), filed a petition that pleaded for setting up of a tiger reserve in the tiny coastal state. The NGO has sought that the state government act on the NTCA’s directive to set up a tiger reserve in the state that was earlier put forth in 2011 and 2016, but the trail went cold, as “no further steps were taken”. In 2011, Jairam Ramesh, the then minister of state (independent charge) of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change (MoEFCC) --- and in his capacity as the NTCA chairperson --- had written to the then Goa Chief Minister Digambar Kamat to declare the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary as a tiger reserve. While in 2016, the inspector-general of forests, had written to the then Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF), Goa, to set up a tiger reserve in Goa. Several successive committees have recommended the setting up of a tiger reserve in Goa. An NTCA panel was also set up to probe the death of four tigers due to poisoning in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. The panel had suggested that the declaration of the tiger reserve would provide much-needed technical and financial help in monitoring the sanctuary. “In view of the unfortunate death of tigers, the state government may take immediate steps for enhancing the legal status of Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary to that of a tiger reserve. Declaring the sanctuary as a tiger reserve will provide much-needed access to technical, financial and monitoring support from the NTCA for safeguarding the conservation values of the sanctuary,” the NTCA panel had said in its report earlier this year. “It will also empower the local communities residing inside the sanctuary by giving access to development opportunities, as they will be able to utilise the voluntary resettlement scheme for joining the mainstream society. Further, after conducting a scientific assessment of remaining protected areas of the state by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), the state government may consider bringing the potential tiger habitat of Goa within the tiger reserve network of Western Ghats,” the panel had added. Earlier, the NTCA, in its report titled, Status of tigers, co predators and prey in India, 2010, had described the Goa stretch of the Western Ghats as an important tiger corridor between the Anshi-Dandeli Tiger Reserve and the Sahyadris. The report had stated that Goa could potentially become the home to a small breeding population of tigers that would be sustained by immigrants from Anshi-Dandeli and Sahyadris. Goa Foundation has pointed out that in a document titled, Connecting Tiger Populations for Long-term Conservation the National Tiger Conservation Authority, in collaboration with WII, 32 major tiger corridors inside and outside protected areas (PAs) across the country have been mapped in a bid to formulate a long-term conservation strategy for the big cats. Among the tiger corridors in the Western Ghats landscape, eight have been identified, including the Sahyadri-Radhanagari-Goa corridor, which is adjacent to the Dandeli Anshi-Sharavathi Valley corridor in neighbouring Karnataka. HC will hear the case next on August 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-reserve-in-goa-hc-directs-goa-govt-ntca-to-respond-by-august-24/story-o0E8WhXdfFT26PrFbExT7N.html
06-08-2020||India||No communication from Pakistan on Kulbhushan Jadhav case, says India||Islamabad has not reached out to New Delhi after the Islamabad high court’s order on Monday to the Pakistani government to give another chance to India to appoint a counsel for former Indian navy commander Kulbhushan Jadhav who is on death row.“We haven’t received any communication from Pakistan on Kulbhushan Jadhav case. Pakistan needs to provide unhindered, unimpeded consular access to him,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.The Islamabad high court on Monday had directed the government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav in order to file a review petition against his conviction. He is facing a death sentence for alleged spying.A two-judge bench of the Islamabad high court headed by chief justice Athar Minallah also directed the Pakistan government to again inform Jadhav, 50, of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) order of 2019 staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction.India had recently said Pakistan had blocked all its efforts to seek remedies in the case of Jadhav, who was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with spying.India maintains Jadhav is not a spy was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-communication-from-pakistan-on-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-says-india/story-uhHlZgxvLiF2hbt98g3T4H.html
06-08-2020||India||Heavy downpour adds to Kerala’s Covid-19 woes||Heavy rains that pounded many parts of Kerala have put an additional burden on pandemic-scary people and overworked health workers even as the state reported 1,298 new virus cases and three deaths on Thursday.Red alert has been declared in three districts, Kozhikkode, Wayanad and Idukki, and orange alert in five other districts. At least five persons were killed in rain-related incidents in the state. North Kerala bore the maximum brunt as many rivers are in spate after heavy downpour. State irrigation department said shutters of some dams including Idukki will be opened if the wet condition continued. The state had witnessed fast floods and landslides in last two years.The Met office said a low pressure was brewing in the Bay of Bengal and it is expected to gain speed by Saturday triggering heavy rains till Sunday. The National Disaster Response Force has rushed six teams to Wayanad and Idukki. In hilly area many families were shifted fearing landslides and health authorities said Covid-19 protocol will be in force in all relief camps. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked people to be more vigilant in view of twin threats of inclement weather and pandemic situation.Meanwhile the state has reported 1,298 new cases and three deaths on Thursday, said the office of the health minister K K Shailaja. Out of 30,448 total cases recovered are 18,337 and active cases 11,983. With three more casualties death toll went up to 99. Cases spiked in the state in last three weeks and at least 80 per cent of new cases are locally-transmitted. There are 511 hotspots in the state now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-downpour-adds-to-kerala-s-covid-19-woes/story-uHynEIRpdKwlBIIBTGGehM.html
06-08-2020||India||Nearly 9.5 lakh Indians return under Vande Bharat Mission: MEA||Nearly 9.5 lakh Indians stranded abroad have returned under Vande Bharat Mission so far, announced Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Addressing a weekly briefing, MEA’s spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Vande Bharat Mission has become the largest sustained operation of repatriation of stranded Indians. “We are nearing 1 million-mark in Vande Bharat Mission making it the largest sustained operation of repatriation of stranded Indians. As on date nearly 9.5 lakh Indians has returned home under this mission,” Srivastava said.India is in phase five of the mission which was operationalised from August 1, Srivastava said. “Based on the assessment of demand received from our mission. Scheduled has been augmented with the 60 more flights. This takes the total number of flights scheduled this month to 746,” the spokesperson added. Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-9-5-lakh-indians-return-under-vande-bharat-mission-mea/story-8MrEitnPhKQaIvR0jc5qCO.html
06-08-2020||India||Delhi adds 1,299 new Covid-19 cases as threat of dengue looms over 30 patients||National capital Delhi on Thursday added 1,299 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count to 1,41,531 while the death toll touched 4,059, the state health department data indicated.At least 15 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 4,059. On Thursday, 1,008 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals. A total of 1,27,124 patients have recovered, migrated or been discharged while the number of active cases in the capital currently stand at 10,348.Delhi has witnessed a sharp decline in the number of coronavirus cases over the last week of July and in August. The national capital, last week had recorded 613 new coronavirus cases, the lowest in the last two months. The data of 613 Covid-19 cases was the lowest since May 27, when 1,024 fresh cases were recorded. The city’s recovery rate has improved and is hovering around the 90 per cent mark. But, despite the encouraging trend of patients recovering from the viral infection, the national capital has now reported over 30 cases of dengue till August 1 this year. Civic agencies have set up separate fever clinics to attend to patients infected with the vector-borne disease, authorities said on Thursday.ALSO READ | Over 56,000 cases in last 24 hours push India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 2 million Awareness campaigns have also been started as the dengue season has now coincided with the Covid-19 pandemic the city is reeling under since March. According to data shared by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the nodal agency that tabulates data on dengue for the entire city, 31 cases of dengue have been recorded in Delhi till August 1. The number of cases of malaria and chikungunya in the same period, stands at 45 and 18 respectively, it said.A total of 5,737 RT-PCR and 14,699 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours to detect Covid-19 infections, the health department data showed. A total of 11,20,318 Covid-19 tests have been conducted till date, the Delhi government data read.The total number of recovered Covid-19 patients in India has jumped to 13,28,336, pushing the recovery rate to 67.62 per cent on Thursday, while the case fatality rate has dipped to 2.07 per cent, the Union health ministry said.The recoveries have now exceeded active cases of the coronavirus infection by 7,32,835. There are 5,95,501 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which as a percentage of the total cases has seen a “significant drop from 34.17 per cent on July 24 to 30.31 per cent as on date”, the ministry indicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-adds-1-299-new-covid-19-cases-as-threat-of-dengue-looms-with-over-30-patients/story-rzIWSC2LRxVsdQNhTOetUI.html
06-08-2020||India||Used PPE kits dumped in the open at Patna hospital ring alarm bells||Personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, used by healthcare workers attending to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, can be seen littered on the campus of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), ringing alarm bells about the spread of the contagion and underlining the blatant violation of the latest state government’s guidelines. The thunderstorm that struck Patna on Wednesday evening did not help the cause either, as the litter flew all over the place on the hospital campus. HT has sourced pictures of disposable PPE kits lying strewn in the open such as outside the autopsy room of the forensic medicine and toxicology department, PMCH, on Wednesday morning, barely two days after the Bihar health department’s principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, gave a pep-talk to the state medical college and hospital administrative authorities on Monday (August 3). Safe disposal of medical waste related to Covid-19, sterilisation of waste and incineration are among the 21-point guidelines that the state health department has recommended to tertiary healthcare institutions and medical colleges treating Covid-19 patients. The guidelines suggest a separate set-up for the disposal of PPE kits for private ambulance drivers ferrying Covid-19 patients to the hospital. It has been specifically instructed to keep separate rooms for wearing PPE kits for the hospital’s nurses, ward boys, and hospital attendants. However, the photographs conveyed contrary to what Amrit has prescribed. “I have personally seen drivers of private mortuary vans, who ferry bodies for autopsy, discard their PPE kits at the corner of the autopsy room. We have discussed the issue with the probationary IAS (Indian Administrative Service) and IPS (Indian Police Service) officers deputed for the control room at PMCH and have requested them that armed police personnel is deployed there. I have also urged the medical superintendent to persuade the civic authorities to lift the garbage from there twice a day,” said Dr. Vidyapati Chaudhary, principal, PMCH. At present, the PMCH incinerator, where PPE kits are to be disposed of, is dysfunctional. “We have asked the private agency, which operates the incinerator, to repair it soon. Else, we will dock its charges,” Dr. Chaudhary added. Dr. Bimal Karak, superintendent, PMCH, was not available for comments. On August 2, the state government had sanctioned Rs 252.54 crore as an incentive — equivalent to a month’s basic salary for doctors and employees of the healthcare department, who are at the frontline battling the Covid-19 pandemic. “This (incentive) will boost the morale of the doctors, healthcare, and frontline workers and its good effects will be visible,” said a communique of the state information and public relations department (IPR), quoting Anupam Kumar, secretary, IPR. The PMCH, which is Bihar’s oldest medical college, has earmarked 100 isolation beds for Covid-19 patients.Besides, the hospital has another 1,900 beds for non-Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/used-ppe-kits-dumped-in-the-open-at-patna-hospital-ring-alarm-bells/story-YM8gwCv4hjwvZowGMDcIgK.html
06-08-2020||India||CBI files FIR over Sushant Singh’s death, names Rhea Chakraborty as accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday registered an FIR in Sushant Singh Rajput death case, after a Central notification on Wednesday handed over the case to the agency on the recommendation of the Bihar government, said agency officials.The FIR filed by the agency is based on the one registered by Bihar police in Patna and names Rhea Chakraborty, her parents, her brother Showik apart from two others for suspected offences of criminal conspiracy, abetment of suicide, wrongful restraint, wrongful confinement, theft, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal intimidation.“The investigation of FIR No. 241/2020 dated 25.07.2020 registered u/s 341, 342, 380, 406, 420, 306, 506, 120B IPC, PS- Rajiv Nagar, District-Patna, related to death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has been transferred to Central Bureau of Investigation for investigation,” the CBI FIR says.The agency had earlier said that it was in touch with Bihar police, which had first registered the FIR against Sushant’s former live in partner Rhea Chakraborty and his family members on his father’s complaint.“A regular case is therefore registered u/s 341, 342, 380, 406, 420, 306, 506, 120B IPC against (1) Rhea Chakarborty and her family members (2) Shri Indarjit Chakarborty, (3) Smt. Sandhya Chakraborty, (4) Sh. Showik Chakraborty, (5) Sh Samuel Miranda, and (6 ) Mrs Shruti Modi and others,” the CBI FIR states further. Officials added that CBI’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is currently investigating the AgustaWestland scam and bank fraud case against Vijay Mallya, will probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput case.The development comes amid Maharashtra government’s strong opposition to handing over the case to the CBI claiming it was being done for political reasons including the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar. Maharashtra has raised issues of jurisdiction to claim Bihar government or police had no locus standi in the case since Sushant’s death took place in Mumbai.Also Read: Sooraj Pancholi dismisses reports linking him to Sushant Singh Rajput’s deathHowever, the case was handed over to the CBI after Sushant’s father and Bihar police alleged a cover-up by Mumbai police to save ‘influential’ people. They have accused Mumbai police of destroying evidence and deliberately ignoring leads in the case in an attempt to derail it.The Mumbai police and Maharashtra government have vehemently denied the allegations.Mumbai police have been probing the circumstances of Sushant’s death since his body was found at his Bandra flat on June 14 but has not registered an FIR in the case.Sushant’s death has been shrouded in conspiracy theories including him being a victim of an alleged culture of nepotism in Bollywood which shuts out outsiders forcing them to take extreme steps.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput couldn’t sleep for 4 nights waiting for Sanjana Sanghi to clear Me Too allegationsAnother theory points to an alleged role of his former girlfriend and live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused by Sushant’s family of abetting his suicide by harassing him and diverting his money among other offences.The focus of CBI’s case will also be on Rhea Chakraborty since the agency has taken over the case registered against her in Bihar. The Enforcement Directorate has also summoned her on Friday for questioning for alleged financial misconduct in the Sushant case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-probing-vijay-mallya-case-to-take-over-sushant-rajput-case-fir-soon/story-67nE9Hy6uYJXaZhLo2a1ON.html
06-08-2020||India||Day after bhoomi pujan, curious devotees throng Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya||A day after the bhoomi pujan, curious devotees turned up in large numbers at Ram Janmabhoomi site on Thursday to worship Ram Lalla at the pre-fabricated temple. The people who queued up outside Ram Janmabhoomi, waiting for their turn to enter, were mostly from neighbouring areas, though some locals were also present. Devotees also visited Hanuman Garhi temple, a few metres from Ram Janmabhoomi. The grand bhoomi pujan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation were the talk of the town on Thursday. With pictures of PM Modi performing bhoomi pujan still fresh in their minds, some of the devotees were expecting major changes at the Ram Janmabhoomi. Diwakar Maurya, 51, who came from adjoining Gonda district, could not wait for his turn to enter the Ram Janmabhoomi. “I saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi performing bhoomi pujan on television (on Wednesday). It was a grand ceremony. Some changes might have been made at Ram Janmabhoomi. Out of curiosity I am here today (Thursday) to see those changes,” he said. Also Read: PM Modi’s Ayodhya ceremony widely watched across the world, highest viewership from US, UKThere were many others like Maurya in the queue who expected something grand at Ram Janmabhoomi. However, Saket Kureel, 55, from neighbouring Basti district, wanted to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at the pre-fabricated temple in which PM Modi had performed ‘aarti’ before bhoomi pujan. When he last visited Ram Janmabhoomi, Ram Lalla was residing inside the makeshift temple inside a tent. “I want to see the temple where Ram Lalla is residing at present. I saw PM Modi performing the deity’s aarti on Doordarshan (national broadcaster),” said Kureel. Next to Hanuman Garhi temple, a group of devotees from adjoining Gonda district were spotted. After paying obeisance to Lord Hanuman, they also planned to visit Ram Janmabhoomi. “Yesterday we watched Modiji on Doordarshan performing bhoomi pujan. My family and relatives wanted to visit Ram Janmabhoomi today (Thursday) itself,” said Radhey Shyam Varma, in his 50s. Also Read: India rejects Pakistan’s criticism of Ram Mandir in AyodhyaThe festivities and celebrations at Ayodhya post bhoomi pujan were also the talking point among people. However, in Faizabad, (locals differentiate between old Ayodhya and Faizabad for their convenience), there was business as usual and life was back to normal. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had renamed Faizabad district as Ayodhya during Deepotsav in November 2018. While moving from Faizabad toward Ayodhya, one can still see decorations on the roadside with big hoardings put up by local MLAs and BJP MP Lallu Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-bhoomi-pujan-curious-devotees-throng-ram-janmabhoomi-in-ayodhya/story-jvIq6HrAA0wDfFRjhSNA6I.html
06-08-2020||India||Indians anywhere can access Covid-19 lab in 3 hours: Harsh Vardhan||India has ramped up its Covid-19 testing facility from one lab in January this year to 1,370 labs today and citizens anywhere can access a lab within three hours of travel time, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said.Addressing a virtual meeting of regional directors of World Health Organisation (WHO) South-East Asia on Thursday, the minister said that India’s proactive and graded multi-level institutional response to Covid-19 made it possible to have very low cases and deaths per million.He said India had been preparing for the pandemic as soon as China informed WHO on January 7.The minister said the daily handling capacity of Covid-19 cases in hospitals has increased to almost 35 times.“India’s proactive and graded multi-level institutional response to Covid-19 made it possible to have very low cases per million and deaths per million in spite of having a high population density and low fractional GDP spending and per capita doctor and hospital bed availability as compared to other developed countries,” the minister said.Earlier viral outbreaks like avian influenza, H1N1pdm09 influenza, Zika and Nipah had provided institutional memory in designing containment and management strategies using “whole of government” approach, the minister said.He said the coronavirus-induced lockdown was utilised to quickly augment healthcare infrastructure in the country to fight rising Covid-19 cases. “The lockdown period was utilised to quickly augment our healthcare infrastructure to support the growing number of Covid-19 cases. We were able to increase our isolation beds more than 34 times and ICU beds over 20 times. From one lab in January, India has 1,370 labs today. Indians anywhere can access a lab within three hours travel time. Thirty-three of the 36 states and UTs exceed WHO’s recommendation of testing 140 people per million per day,” he said.The minister said that telemedicine facilities at AIIMS Delhi helped identify the root causes of mortality and made high-impact interventions possible that significantly curbed the mortality rate from 3.33 per cent on June 18 to 2.11 per cent on August 3.“Within 10 to 20 days, with the help of DRDO, we were able to create 1,000 to 10,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. Right now, on evaluation, we find that the daily handling capacity of Covid-19 cases in our hospitals has increased to almost 35 times,” he said.The meet focused on maintaining essential health services and public health programmes in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-anywhere-can-access-covid-19-lab-in-3-hours-harsh-vardhan/story-PxQ937mA74NUpAPxlqXYpO.html
06-08-2020||India||Draft EIA notification not yet finalized, says Prakash Javadekar||The Centre has not yet finalised the draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 (EIA), Union environment minister said Thursday.In a letter to Congress MP Jairam Ramesh who heads the Parliamentary standing committee on science and technology, environment, forest and climate change, Javedekar wrote, “It has not been finalised yet as public consultation is underway.”Earlier in the day, Ramesh had written to the minister saying, “The Parliamentary Standing Committee has been inundated with requests from various stakeholders to give them an opportunity for presenting their views. I am sure you will agree that this is both desirable and necessary. Further meetings of the committee will call non-official witnesses. The Notification may, therefore, be kept in abeyance till the committee completes its deliberations.”Last month, Javadekar had termed Ramesh’s suggestions as “unfounded” and based on “misinterpretation” after the Congress leader raised strong objections to the draft EIA notification.On Thursday, Javadekar maintained that there is no danger that public hearing will be excluded.“Draft environment impact assessment notification does not relax the process of public hearing, but makes it more meaningful,” the minister wrote.He also said that the provision of ex-post facto approval in draft EIA will bring violators under regulatory regime by imposing heavy penalties.“Every project expansion will require submission of an environmental management plan,” Javadekar said in his reply to Ramesh.The Union environment ministry plans to do away with conditions for environmental clearances that cannot be monitored and make the approval time for projects as short as possible.Government documents show that the current auction of coal mines across the country would open up pristine and contiguous forests for mining in parts of central India.In June, the Chhattisgarh government asked the Centre not to allow auction of coal blocks which fall under Hasdeo Arand, Lemru elephant reserve and the Mand river catchment area which are biodiversity-rich forests.Five of the nine coal blocks that will be up for auction for commercial mining fall under this area which includes Morga -2, Morga (South), Madanpur north, Shyang and Fathehpur (east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-eia-notification-not-yet-finalized-says-prakash-javadekar/story-E8xO9Al3vOksYvNDirWlDI.html
06-08-2020||India||Plasma therapy trial didn’t show benefit in reducing Covid-19 mortality risk: AIIMS||Convalescent plasma therapy did not show benefit in reducing mortality risk among Covid-19 patients, according to an interim analysis of a randomised controlled trial done at AIIMS here to assess the efficacy of this mode of treatment.The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into an active coronavirus infected patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight back the infection.AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told PTI on Thursday no clear mortality benefit of convalescent plasma therapy was seen during a trial conducted among 30 Covid-19 patients.During the trial, one group of patients was given convalescent plasma therapy along with the standard supportive treatment while the other group only received standard treatment. The number of fatalities recorded in both the groups was equal and there was not much clinical improvement in the condition of patients, he said.“However, this is just an interim analysis and we need to do a more detailed evaluation to see if any sub-group may benefit from plasma therapy,” Dr Guleria said.He also underlined that plasma has to be tested for its safety and should have sufficient antibody to be useful to Covid-19 patients.The efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus-infected patients was discussed in the third National Clinical Grand Rounds (CGR) on Covid-19 held on Wednesday.“Plasma is safe. As far as its efficacy is concerned, we do not have a green signal yet. So the clinical use has to be very judicious and within the ambit of national guidelines,” Dr Monish Soneja, additional professor in the Medicine department at AIIMS, said at the webinar.Convalescent plasma therapy has been listed as an investigational therapy for off-label use in coronavirus infected patients because as of now there is no conclusive evidence for its efficacy, Dr Soneja said.About the initial findings of the randomised controlled trial, Soneja said, “Convalescent plasma is not a magic bullet.” It may be used particularly in early moderate stage of the disease. There may be a subset of patients with certain characteristics who may benefit from plasma, he said, adding, “This is a work in progress as we do not know those characteristics.” The findings highlight that relatives of the patients should not insist on plasma therapy until and unless the treating doctor considers the patient fit for it and where he may think that the mode of treatment would be beneficial, Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate Professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, said.He said even if the therapy has some role, then that is in the early stage of the disease. But for plasma therapy to be effective, plasma must contain a sufficient amount of neutralizing antibody against that infection, the doctor said.“This therapy also carries risks such as inadvertent transfer of blood-borne infections and reactions to serum constituents, including immunological reactions such as serum sickness, that may worsen the clinical condition,” Dr Nischal said.According to the Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19 issued by the Union Health Ministry, off-label convalescent plasma may be considered for Covid-19 patients with moderate disease who are not improving, which means oxygen requirement is progressively increasing, despite the use of steroids.The use of off-label convalescent plasma for treating coronavirus patients in the moderate stage of the illness has been included under “investigational therapies”.ABO compatibility and cross-matching of the donor plasma is a prerequisite while considering convalescent plasma, the health ministry has said.The recipient should be closely monitored for several hours after transfusion for any adverse events and its use should be avoided in patients with immunoglobulin A deficiency or immunoglobulin allergy.“The dose is variable ranging from 4 to 13 ml/kg -- usually 200 ml single dose given slowly over not less than two hours,” the Clinical Management Protocol stats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-trial-didn-t-show-benefit-in-reducing-covid-19-mortality-risk-aiims/story-xSaKnSQi6GSzkGM8k7bA4I.html
06-08-2020||India||Six days after 1st rejection, Kejriwal govt resends LG proposal to reopen weekly markets and hotels in Delhi||Delhi government led by Aam Aadmi Party’s Arvind Kejriwal has sent a fresh proposal to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal recommending reopening of hotels, gyms and weekly markets, citing the decline in the number of Covid 19 cases in the national capital. The new proposal has been sent almost a week after the rejection of a similar proposal by the government bringing the differences between the government and the LG’s office into sharp focus.Delhi has witnessed a steady decline in the number of active coronavirus cases and the sharp rise in new cases, which was a cause of worry back in June, has stabilized, easing the pressure on medical facilities and giving the government confidence to seek wider relaxations for further resumption of economic activities. However, the LG’s office has indicated that relaxations such as allowing local weekly markets and gymnasiums to operate may lead to a resurgence in the number of cases and has therefore spurned Kejriwal government’s insistence on that count.The issue has become the latest point of stand-off between the two power centres in the city-state that have often been at loggerheads over various issues.Kejriwal’s deputy Manish Sisodia, had last Saturday, sought home minister Amit Shah’s intervention to force LG Anil Baijal’s hand to allow reopening of weekly markets and hotels citing a need to give economic activities in the capital another shot in the arm.Also Read: Covid-hit private bus operators demand relief from Delhi governmentIn his letter to Shah, Sisodia had cited statistics to claim eight per cent of Delhi’s business and employment was suffering due to the coronavirus disease outbreak.“Due to the closure of weekly markets, five lakh families are sitting at home. Now when they are hopeful that with control over coronavirus in Delhi they will get an opportunity to restart their business, binding them under the decision of closure is unfair to Delhi’s economic situation and hopes of lakhs of people,” Sisodia had written.He had indicated that the Delhi government will resend the proposal to Baijal on Tuesday.“If traders start their business, jobs will be generated, and that the condition of the economy will improve,” the deputy chief minister wrote in his letter.Baijal had rejected the first proposal a day earlier on Friday describing capital’s Covid 19 situation as “fragile” and stating that the threat was still “far from over”.Baijal’s office had claimed that CM Kejriwal had agreed with the LG’s assessment advocating adoption of “a cautious and conservative approach”.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe AAP government has been looking to give further impetus to economic activities in the Unlock 3 phase and has accused LG’s office and the Centre of adopting two yardsticks for Delhi and the rest of the country.A Union home ministry notification has allowed opening of gymnasiums in Unlock-3 while sustaining the restrictions on mass activities including social, political and religious functions. It has also not allowed metro rail services, swimming pools, cinema halls, entertainment parks among other activities that lend itself to mass participation.The Kejriwal government is also pushing for resumption of metro rail services in its bid to revive the Capital’s economy and complete pending projects.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 1,076 fresh coronavirus cases and 11 deaths in the 24 hours period, taking the total number of active cases to 10,072. Delhi had reported less than 1,000 new cases for three consecutive days on July 2 (961), July 3 (805) and July 4 (674).The Kejriwal government has instructed officials to take steps to bring deaths to zero in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-days-after-1st-rejection-kejriwal-govt-resends-lg-proposal-to-reopen-weekly-markets-and-hotels-in-delhi/story-3zjPHiq3WRHTchbVrTrhfN.html
06-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 67.62%, Case Fatality Rate at 2.07%||The recovery rate has reached a record high of 67.62% amongst Covid-19 patients and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stands at 2.07, said Union Health Ministry on Thursday.“The total recoveries of Covid-19 patients have jumped to 13,28,336 with 46,121 Covid-19 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. With such consistent increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has reached 7,32,835. The recovery rate has continued its upward journey to reach another record high of 67.62% amongst Covid-19 patients,” Ministry said in a statement.The actual case load of the country is the active cases is 5,95,501 which is 30.31% of the total positive cases. The active cases as a percentage of total cases have seen a significant drop from 34.17 per cent on July 24 to 30.31 per cent as on today.The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has been low when compared to the global scenario and it has been progressively falling. The Case Fatality Rate stands at 2.07 per cent today, said the Ministry.According to the World Health Organisation, CFR is a measure of the severity of a disease and is defined as the proportion of reported cases of a specified disease or condition which are fatal within a specified time.With a single-day spike of 56,282 new Covid-19 cases and 904 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 tally reached 19,64,537 on Thursday.With the increase of 904 deaths, the toll due to the disease now stands at 40,699 in the country, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).The Covid-19 count includes 5,95,501 active cases and 13,28,337 cured/discharged/migrated patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-to-67-62-case-fatality-rate-at-2-07/story-OJ1YYh7WMBwimwkRpxABiO.html
06-08-2020||India||6 policemen injured in clash with flood-affected locals in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||At least six policemen of the Sakara police station in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district were injured in a violent clash with the local residents affected by floods, late on Wednesday night .The injured cops who were first rushed to the Sakara referral hospital, were later taken to Muzaffarpur’s Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH). The condition of the station house officer, admitted at the ICU is stated to be critical while three others are being treated for broken legs and hands. Two other jawans were released after first aid.The incident took place at around 10 PM when some residents of Bishunpur Baghnagari village blocked the NH 28, demanding immediate relief and ready- to- eat food stuff amid heavy flood situation. “When we reached there to clear the blockade, the locals attacked us with bamboo batons, iron rods and other weapons. My left hand has been broken in the scuffle, while three other jawans’ legs have been broken. The SHO received severe head injuries. We all are being treated at the SKMCH,” said Ramji Singh, a SAP jawan. Confirming the incident, the SSP of Muzaffarpur Jayant Kant said that he himself reached the spot on Thursday morning to control the situation.“When I reached the spot, the locals were in no mood to listen to the officials. They were agitated over the mismanagement at the relief camps for flood victims and demanded to talk to senior district officials,” said the SSP, adding that he managed to bring the situation under control with great difficulty.Fifteen people have been taken into custody in connection with the incident.“Later, we took 15 persons into custody. They are being quizzed at the Maniyari police station. Legal action will be initiated against those people after their involvement is ascertained,” said SSP Kant. Wednesday night’s clash isn’t the first such incident between the flood-affected locals and the district officials or police personnel in the last few days.Earlier, agitated over the breach in Tirhut canal left flank, the locals attacked them in the presence of the DM Chandra Shekhar Singh and the SSP Jayant Kant. In another incident, flood victims taking shelters along the NH 77 on Muzaffarpur Sitamarhi section, had a heated argument with officials on Thursday morning, when the officials reached to clear a road blockade.The flood situation in Bihar has affected over 66 lakh people in 16 districts. According to the state disaster management department, 19 people have died so far in flood-related incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-policemen-injured-in-clash-with-flood-affected-locals-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur/story-TBDv7Anhk6lRvOMcC6paHL.html
06-08-2020||India||After logging highest rainfall of the season, Mumbai braces for more; 16 NDRF teams deployed||With Mumbai receiving the highest rainfall of the season in the span of a few hours on Wednesday and Thursday, the Maharashtra government swung into action and deployed 16 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in various parts of the state to brace for more inclement weather.“Five NDRF teams have been deployed in Mumbai, four in Kolhapur and two in Sangli. The Panchganga is nearing its danger mark in Kolhapur after excessive rain. The local authorities have been put on alert, in case it overflows,” Vijay Wadettiwar, Relief and Rehabilitation minister said on Thursday.The city recorded 331.08 mm rainfall, followed by 101.9 mm in the eastern suburbs and 76.03 mm in the western suburbs. Mumbai also saw strong winds at a speed of 106 km per hour while in other districts it was 70 to 80 kmph of nearly cyclonic intensity.ALSO READ | Monsoon fury leaves Mumbai battered, bruised and waterloggedIncessant heavy rainfall led to water-logging in several areas, with reports of houses collapsing and trees uprooted coming in from several areas of Mumbai. A section of a road caved in at Peddar Road near Kemps Corner in Mumbai, while a portion of the second floor in a ground plus four building in Dadar West collapsed earlier on Thursday afternoon. However, nobody was hurt. In another incident, a part of a building collapsed in Prabhadevi area of South Mumbai, which also reported several trees being damaged. South Mumbai remained the worst-hit with many localities being inundated.After very heavy rainfall on Wednesday in Thane and Palghar districts, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted “generally cloudy sky with heavy rain in Thane throughout Thursday”. IMD has also predicted intense rainfall over Mumbai city over the next few hours today.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday evening had appealed to people to stay indoors and venture out only for essential work. The chief minister also directed civic agency-- the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to coordinate with the police and railway authorities, health machinery and the NDRF to ensure the safety of the people. He also spoke to the officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a statement by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said.ALSO READ | Coast Guard rescue 16 fishermen off Mumbai coastThe Maharashtra chief minister has directed Konkan and Pune divisional commissioners to focus on shifting people to safer areas for those living near the rivers, whose water levels were rising due to heavy rainfall, in Kolhapur, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts. Thackeray asked the authorities concerned to remain alert since the water level in the Panchganga (Kolhapur), Kodavali (Ratnagiri) and Kundalika (Raigad) rivers were flowing close to the danger mark and there were no signs of the rain abating.Of the 16 NDRF teams deployed in rain-hit areas of the state, at least four have been sent to Kolhapur.One person has been killed so far as very heavy rainfall battered Mumbai city. A railway employee was electrocuted when he touched a motor pump in Masjib Bunder while another person suffered injuries when a tree suddenly fell on him in Kurla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-logging-highest-rainfall-of-the-season-mumbai-braces-for-more-16-ndrf-teams-deployed/story-FAwsLCgODZrlZZkCCdrbgP.html
06-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On Ram Temple construction, India tells Pakistan not to interfere in internal affairs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India rejects Pakistan’s criticism of Ram Mandir in AyodhyaNew Delhi on Thursday rejected Islamabad’s condemnation of the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, with the ministry of external affairs (MEA) saying Pakistan should not interfere in India’s internal affairs and refrain from “communal incitement”. Read MorePM Modi’s Ayodhya ceremony widely watched across the world, highest viewership from US, UKThe live telecast of the Ram temple event in Ayodhya on August 5 was widely watched across the world. It was broadcast by television stations in UK, USA, Canada, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Nepal and several other countries. Read MoreRajasthan HC orders notices to be served to 6 BSP MLAs who merged with CongressA division bench of Rajasthan high court on Thursday disposed of the petition seeking an immediate stay on the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers with the Congress in 2019 with a direction to a lower court to serve the notices to six MLAs issued earlier by a single bench last week. Read MoreBCCI and VIVO suspend partnership for IPL 2020The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Chinese smartphone maker Vivo Communication Technology Co’s Indian arm Vivo India on Thursday decided to suspend their partnership for the 2020 season of the Indian Premier League. Read More‘Sushant didn’t sleep for 4 nights during Me Too’: Pavitra Rishta directorSushant Singh Rajput’s Pavitra Rishta director Kushal Zaveri has talked about the actor’s state of mind when he faced harassment allegations during India’s Me Too movement of October 2018. Zaveri said that Sushant could not sleep for four nights during the time. Read MoreGoogle to launch a foldable Pixel smartphone next yearGoogle is reportedly planning to launch three Pixel smartphones in the fall next year. While two are believed to be Pixel 6 series smartphone, the third one is expected to be the foldable Pixel smartphone. Read More ‘Drug smuggler’ cat detained in Welikada, Sri Lanka’s high-security prison, escapesA cat was detained at a high security prison of Sri Lanka on the charge of smuggling illegal contraband material inside the prison but it has since escaped. Read MoreIt’s Viral: Elderly woman surrounded by rubble from Beirut blast plays Auld Lang Syne on pianoA video of an elderly woman playing a piano while sitting in a room surrounded by broken walls, shattered glasses, and debris in her apartment after the Beirut blast has touched millions of hearts. Her act is being seen as a sign of hope and resilience amid the chaos. Read More‘Every country but China backed India’s stand on Kashmir’: Indian envoy to UNIndia’s permanent representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti has called out Pakistan’s bluff on the Kashmir issue. He said that contrary to claims made by Pakistan, the issue has not been discussed at the United Nations since 1965. Watch the full video for all the details||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-tells-pak-not-to-interfere-in-internal-affairs-on-ram-temple-construction-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Dr4BRE8aJw84zx4U5SBqQI.html
06-08-2020||India||Frequent tectonic activities, climate change causing landslides in Pithoragarh, say experts||Frequent tectonic activities combined with changing weather patterns due to global warming are causing natural calamities including landslides in the Himalayan region especially Pithoragarh which has been the worst affected district in Uttarakhand this year, say experts.At least 21 people have died in the hill district of Pithoragarh since April due to various natural tragedies including landslides caused by heavy rains. Over 60 villages in its Munsiyari area were cut off due to heavy rains last month. Pradeep Kumar assistant geologist, Pithoragarh district said, “The reason behind the natural tragedies in Pithoragarh seems to be a combination of tectonic activities beneath the ground and incessant rains in the higher reaches due to changing weather patterns.” Kumar had conducted a geological survey of the villages that were hit hard by heavy rain in the last one month.He added, “The areas of Dharchula, Bangapani and Munsiyari which houses most of the affected villages come under earthquake-prone areas in the Himalayas. These areas suffer small earthquakes round the year because of which the soil becomes loose. And when heavy rains lash these areas, landslides happen leading to severe damage to property and life.” Scientists at GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (NIHE) in Almora corroborated Kumar’s contention and said the changing weather pattern has also contributed to the number of natural disasters happening in Pithoragarh. “The increase in global surface temperature has increased the frequency of cloudbursts and incessant rains in the area. Unfortunately, this seems set to increase in the near future,” Dr RS Rawal, director of GB Pant NIHE. Dr Rawal, however, said that the scientific community needs more time to study and analyse the changing weather pattern in the Himalayan region including that of Pithoragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frequent-tectonic-activities-climate-change-causing-landslides-in-pithoragarh-say-experts/story-CVwNidq01STl9m765gDJjP.html
06-08-2020||India||Article 370 nullification India’s internal matter, other countries should not interfere: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday advised nations, including those in India’s neighbourhood, to refrain from commenting on its internal matters and asserted that the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir was taken in the larger interest to protect the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country. He also said that India was a parliamentary democracy and the decision to abrogate Article 370 provisions, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was taken after detailed discussion in Parliament and with the support of majority of the members. He made these remarks while delivering the first Sushma Swaraj Memorial Lecture, organised by Panjab University, according to an official statement. His comments come close on the heels of China making fresh attempt to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council. The Ministry of External Affairs has said that New Delhi “firmly” rejects Beijing’s “interference” in the country’s internal affairs. According to the statement, “Naidu wanted other nations to mind their own issues rather than interfering in the affairs of other countries.” Referring to the feelings expressed by the late Sushma Swaraj on Article 370 before her death, the vice president said that as the external affairs minister, she used to articulate India’s position quite efficiently and in a “sweet and sober manner”. “But at the same time, she used to convey the stand of the country in a firm manner,” the statement said quoting him. Paying tributes to Swaraj, he described her as an ideal Indian woman. She was an able administrator who left an indelible imprint on every position she had held, he said. Urging young politicians to look up to her as a role model and emulate her qualities, Naidu said Swaraj was a wonderful human being, who was always considerate and prompt in her response to any request, be it friends, supporters or people at large. “The fact that she was elected to Lok Sabha on seven occasions and to the assembly thrice shows how immensely popular she was with the people,” he said. Referring to her qualities, he said her wit, humane nature and promptness in responding to any problem were in full display on the social media when she was the external affairs minister. The vice president said she was loved by millions of countrymen and was one of the most popular Indian foreign ministers in recent times. Naidu said she was a passionate nationalist and always expressed her views in a forthright manner. Describing Swaraj as an epitome of Indian culture, the vice president said she was a blend of modern thinking and traditional values. The vice president said Swaraj used to be like a family member and recalled how she used to visit him and tie rakhi on Raksha Bandhan. “Remembering our cherished bonding, I became emotional when the country celebrated the festival a few days ago,” he said. Swaraj’s daughter Bansuri Swaraj was present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/article-370-nullification-india-s-internal-matter-other-countries-should-not-interfere-naidu/story-aB2GNVrFZagM6rG1k5KFfN.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Do we even have an existing govt?’: Siddaramaiah on flood situation in K’taka||As flood situation looms large in several parts of Karnataka, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday accused the state government of having ‘failed’ to come to the rescue of those affected and raised questions about its very existence.In a series of tweets, the former Chief Minister, who is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital here urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to immediately distribute the work to ministers and officers. “There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people. The govt has failed to come to their rescue. Do we even have an existing govt?” Siddaramaiah tweeted. There is heavy downpour in various parts of Karnataka, disrupting livelihoods of many people.The govt has failed to come to their rescue.Do we even have an existing govt?1/3#KarnatakaFloodsNoting that the government should immediately take decisions to ease the burden on people during these floods, he said, they should identify shelter homes and relocate people from risky areas, and the Chief Minister should immediately distribute the work to ministers and officers.“Govt had failed to provide relief to the people who had suffered from floods during last Aug-Oct. Inspite of our repeated protests, govt had turned a deaf ear.But innocent people are paying the price,” he said in another tweet.Battered by torrential rains, several parts of the state are facing a flood like situation for the third consecutive year, putting lives and properties at risk.Several districts of the state’s coastal, malnad and north interior regions are getting heavy rains and the showers are expected to continue, there are reports of landslides in hilly areas of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts. Yediyurappa, who has ordered the release of Rs 50 crores for emergency relief purposes, has directed the district in- charge Ministers to take precautionary measures in the wake of heavy rainfall across the State.He has instructed the ministers to remain in their constituencies and tour the damaged areas, his office said in a statement, adding that he has also directed them to undertake relief distribution and other necessary measures.Yediyurappa is currently under treatment for Covid infection at a city hospital.In August 2019, Karnataka had witnessed one of its worst natural calamities when heavy floods affected 103 taluks in 22 districts, killing more than 80 people and displacing nearly seven lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-we-even-have-an-existing-govt-siddaramaiah-on-flood-situation-in-k-taka/story-sg6onlrxb5yl4jwT9t0ZkM.html
06-08-2020||India||Amit Shah’s tribute to Sushma Swaraj underlines qualities that will ‘inspire generations’ to come||Home Minister Amit Shah has paid his tribute to former foreign minister and senior BJP leader, late Sushma Swaraj, on her death anniversary by calling her an outstanding parliamentarian and a brilliant orator who dedicated her life in the service of the nation.Shah’s tribute comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembering Swaraj as “an articulate voice for India at the world stage”.Tributes to Sushma Swaraj ji on her punyatithi. She was a towering figure of Indian polity, an outstanding parliamentarian & a brilliant orator who dedicated her entire life in service of the nation. Her ideals will continue to inspire the generations to come,” Amit Shah tweeted on Thursday.Sushma Swaraj was just 67 years old at the time of her death last year following health complications that made her stay away from taking any ministerial responsibility in the second term of the Narendra Modi government. The Prime Minister had earlier today said that Swaraj served India selflessly recalling her tenure as the external affairs minister in the first term of his government between 2014 and 2019.“Remembering Sushma Ji on her first Punya Tithi. Her untimely and unfortunate demise left many saddened. She served India selflessly and was an articulate voice for India at the world stage,” PM Modi tweeted earlier today.Also Read: PM Modi remembers Sushma Swaraj on her death anniversaryHours before she died of cardiac arrest, Swaraj had tweeted her praise for Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir.Vice President Venkaiah Naidu threw light on her helpful nature and said she was a wonderful human being.“Sushma ji was a member of our family. We used to turn to her for advice & help when we first came to New Delhi. She was a wonderful human being, who was prompt in her responses for any request or solution,” Naidu tweeted on Sushma Swaraj’s first death anniversary.He added that Swaraj’s wit, human nature and prompt response to any problem were in full display on social media when she was the minister. Naidu also called her one of the most popular Indian foreign ministers in recent times.Sushma’s successor to the post, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said she was remembered fondly. “Today, more than ever, remember her fondly. Always an inspiration,” he tweeted and posted a picture with the former minister.Swaraj was the youngest cabinet minister in the Haryana government who later became the first woman chief minister of Delhi and the first woman spokesperson of a national political party in the country.She was the information and broadcasting minister in the first BJP government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 1996 and also later in 1998.Her speeches in the parliament as the leader of the opposition in the Lok Sabha between 2009 and 2014 are often remembered for its sharpness, wit and impact.Swaraj was a seven time MP and was thrice elected as an MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-s-tribute-to-sushma-swaraj-underlines-qualities-that-will-inspire-generations-to-come/story-jbS0KBeTg4iCwinQtf8KPN.html
06-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling accused had good rapport with CM’s office: NIA||In a new development in the sensational gold smuggling case the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday told a special court in Kochi that prime accused in the case Swapna Suresh had a strong connection with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. Assistant Solicitor General P Vijaykumar informed this in the NIA court in Kochi while opposing the bail plea of Swapna Suresh. He said she had established a good rapport with the CM’s office through suspended senior bureaucrat M Sivasankar with whom she enjoyed a good rapport and he had helped her get good postings. However, the Assistant Solicitor General said investigation so far showed Sivasankar did not interfere in the release of the consignment when Customs blocked it due to some suspicion despite repeated pleas from Suresh. The case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized from the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. P Sarith, a former employee of the consulate who came to receive the consignment, was arrested by the Customs immediately and two other accused Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was later suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Though Sivasankar’s alleged ties with Suresh were doing the rounds for some time this is the first time the NIA has come on record about this. Similarly her ‘close links’ with the CM’s office is also coming out for the first time. Due to this proximity, Sivasankar had gone out of his way to appoint Suresh in a key post in the Space Park controlled by the state government, the counsel told the court. But Suresh’s counsel Joe Paul said she was made a victim in the tug of war between the Centre and state governments. He said a month after the investigation began, the NIA had failed to produce any fresh evidence against the accused. The court later observed it will decide the bail plea on Monday. Earlier the court had asked the NIA how provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) can be invoked against the accused. But it said a good portion of the proceeds from the smuggling were diverted to fund anti-national activities. It also said after preliminary investigation it found one of the accused K T Ramees, who is under NIA custody now, was in touch with some fundamentalist organizations. He also undertook many foreign trips, including to Africa and he was suspected to be a part of an international smuggling and drug racket, the NIA said. When Suresh’s two bank lockers were opened by the probe team ten days back it reportedly found Rs one crore in cash and two kg of gold. These lockers were in the joint name of Suresh and a chartered accountant. The latter reportedly told the team that he was allegedly asked by Sivasankar to help Suresh to open lockers three years ago. After the NIA affidavit came out, the opposition Congress and BJP stepped up pressure seeking the resignation of the CM. “The CM can’t get away by sacrificing his secretary. He should resign at least now,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The CM is expected to comment during the daily press briefing later in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-had-good-rapport-with-cm-s-office-nia/story-VQMgPg9Hg5XlK0RDYjjIHM.html
06-08-2020||India||Nepal starts construction of helipad on disputed border area in Bihar||Even before the administration could act on intelligence reports, the Nepal government has begun construction of a helipad at a disputed location on the Indo-Nepal border along West Champaran district of Bihar, officials said Thursday. The helipad is nearing completion at Narsahi village, a short distance from Thari border outpost (BOP) of Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) near Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district, 80 km from Bettiah, headquarters of West Champaran district. “To the best of our knowledge, construction of the helipad meant for small choppers started a few days back on the disputed area,” said Commandant Rajendra Bhardwaj of 21st Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) Battalion.On August 4, HT had reported that Nepal was planning to construct a helipad at Narsahi village which is a disputed land on Indo-Nepal border and a tender for which had been floated. The SSB had updated the headquarters about the development. However, much to their amazement, SSB officials on Thursday came across the construction of a circular cemented structure at Narsahi village. “We are trying to gather the other related information such as the total area of the helipad and the date on which it came up,” said the commandant. “The construction is at a disputed location. We will update the headquarters with photographs and other details,” said commandant Bhardwaj. Officials blame the changing course of the Gandak river for the controversy around Narsahi. SSB officials said the central part of the Gandak river forms the international boundary between Nepal and India. But with the river changing its course in the 1970s, Narsahi shifted to the other side of the river and later the Indian citizens living there moved to this part of the Indian territory. A video clip of the site in HT’s possession shows the construction with a yellow border around it at a place near an agricultural field. Bricks and water tanks are seen lying on the site and pieces of iron rods and wet ground point it to be newly constructed. The development comes after the relationship between India and Nepal has become strained particularly after the latter’s Parliament approved a new political map, claiming Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand as its territory.There are also speculations about the proposed construction of two more helipads along the Indo-Nepal border. These include one at Triveni near Valmikinagar (West Champaran) and other in Ujjaini (Nawalparasi district of Nepal) sharing border with Uttar Pradesh.“There is a concentrated effort being made by a handful of KP Sharma Oli supporters to provoke us whereas a larger section of the Neplese are in favour to protect their age-old relationship with us. It is high time when New Delhi should break its silence and do the needful,” said Mahesh Agrawal, president of Seema Jagran Manch, Bihar, which works in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-starts-construction-of-helipad-on-disputed-border-area-in-bihar/story-aDtxpzp0GOf9gR5nY6ULjL.html
06-08-2020||India||One killed in boiler mishap at agro-chemical factory in Kurnool, 2nd accident in 40 days||A 62-year-old worker died and two others received injuries in a boiler burst accident at an agro-industries factory at Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district. The accident occurred during the early hours of Thursday, the police said. Nandyal deputy superintendent of police M Chidananda Reddy said the accident happened at around 2.45 am at SPY Agro Industries Limited, a subsidiary of Nandi Group of Industries, at Udumalpuram on the outskirts of Nandyal town. “The deceased was identified as Lakshmana Murthy. The exact cause of the accident will be ascertained after the arrival of the inspector of factories. We have booked a case of accidental death and are investigating the case,” the DSP told Hindustan Times. Also read: Senior TRS lawmaker S Ramachandra Reddy dies of cardiac arrest in HyderabadSPY Agro Industries Ltd is a modern grain-based distillery, producing 150,000 litres of grain neutral spirit (Extra Neutral Alcohol) per day from a variety of grains. Besides, it also manufactures dry ice and cattle feed.  The company was promoted by former Nandyal parliamentarian late SPY Reddy. This is the second such incident in the same factory in the last 40 days. On June 27, there was a major leakage of ammonia gas, resulting in the death of a 50-year old general manager of the company. According to a senior official of the company, who preferred anonymity, the incident happened at the captive power plant of the factory when the workers were conducting some repairs to the boiler.  “Due to high pressure, the boiler burst and boiling hot water fell on the workers. One of the workers, Lakshmanamurthy, suffered serious burn injuries and two others sustained minor burns,” he said. The victim was rushed to Kurnool Government Hospital where he was pronounced brought dead. The other two injured workers were discharged after being given the treatment in the morning. On receiving the information about the accident, the police and revenue officials reached the spot and examined the cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-in-boiler-mishap-at-agro-chemical-factory-in-kurnool-2nd-accident-in-40-days/story-6Hp2R65xbwsQCvIfpfyaiP.html
06-08-2020||India||After 100 prisoners test Covid-19 positive, Uttarakhand jail admin mulls release of inmates on parole||The Uttarakhand jail administration in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in jails has written to the State Legal Services Authority to grant bail and parole to a few inmates so as to ease the congestion in jails, officials said. The bail and parole would be granted to those inmates who are “not dangerous criminals and pose no danger to society,” officials said. There have been about 100 cases of Covid-19 infection among the jail inmates so far. PVK Prasad, Additional Director General (Jail), said, “We have written to the State Legal Services Authority to seek their permission to initiate the process for the same. It is being done to ease the congestion in the jails which at present have about 5,000 inmates against the total capacity of 3,800.” “Once we get permission from the authority, we will initiate the process of identifying the suitable inmates for parole and bail. In this, only those inmates who are not dangerous criminals and are not a danger to society, would be considered,” Prasad said. He said the jail administration is looking to include 500-1000 inmates for the bid to decongest jails.“It will somewhat ease the number of prisoners in jails which is important for proper implementation of the Covid-19 precautions to curb the spread. So far, 100 inmates have tested positive for the virus. We are taking all precautionary measures to prevent the infection from spreading,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-100-prisoners-test-covid-19-positive-uttarakhand-jail-admin-mulls-release-of-inmates-on-parole/story-dIYhrIVFxCNKeVy1iKBaYN.html
06-08-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s criticism of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya||New Delhi on Thursday rejected Islamabad’s condemnation of the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, with the ministry of external affairs (MEA) saying Pakistan should not interfere in India’s internal affairs and refrain from “communal incitement”. Pakistan’s foreign ministry had on Wednesday condemned the building of the temple and described the judgement by India’s Supreme Court (SC) that paved the way for the construction as “flawed”. Responding to these remarks, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have seen the press statement by the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on a matter internal to India. It should desist from interfering in India’s affairs and refrain from communal incitement.” Also read: Ayodhya basks in Diwali-like glow after temple ceremonyHe added, “While this is not a surprising stance from a nation that practices cross-border terrorism and denies its own minorities their religious rights, such comments are nevertheless deeply regrettable.” The development came against the backdrop of Pakistan mounting a campaign on the Kashmir issue on the first anniversary (August 5) of India’s move to scrap the special status of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and to split the erstwhile state into two union territories (UTs). India-Pakistan ties have been at an all-time low since last year’s stand-off over Pulwama terror attack on February 14 blamed on the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), an outlawed outfit. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Pakistan’s Foreign Office had said: “The flawed judgement of the Indian Supreme Court paving the way for construction of the temple not only reflected the preponderance of faith over justice but also the growing majoritarianism in today’s India, where minorities, particularly Muslims and their places of worship, are increasingly under attack.” Also read: Ayodhya marks the twilight of the first Republic | OpinionThe statement said the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) had passed resolutions condemning the demolition of the Babri mosque in Ayodhya and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was constructing the Ram temple as part of an agenda “of converting India into a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ ”. It criticised the haste in starting construction of the temple amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the controversy over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), as well as measures that “demonised, dispossessed, marginalised and subjected” Muslims to targeted violence. It also criticised what it described as India’s “systematic human rights violations” in J&K and a “design to change the demography” of the region. India and Pakistan have had several testy exchanges in recent months over the treatment of minorities in both countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-criticism-of-ram-mandir-in-ayodhya/story-mBHI5NjxnxWx8mZ5MmjFUP.html
06-08-2020||India||Pakistan trying to sneak weapons into J-K using UAVs: DGP Dilbag Singh||Pakistan has adopted a new technique of sending arms and ammunition to Jammu and Kashmir using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and several such incidents have been detected in the recent past, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said on Thursday.He also said less than 200 militants are currently active in Jammu and Kashmir, and just 26 terrorists could enter the Union Territory from across the border so far this year.“Pakistan has been trying to send arms and ammunition to militants through drones (UAVs). We have detected several such incidents in the past,” Singh told PTI here.The police chief said such incidents of Pakistani UAVs carrying weapons were detected in Kupwara, Heera Nagar, Kathua and Rajouri.Another modus operandi of Pakistan to dispatch weapons through trucks to Jammu and Kashmir was unearthed in Punjab in the past, he said.“There has been a huge shortage of weapons for the militants operating here,” the police chief said.The DGP said Pakistan has intensified cross-border firing this year so that terrorists could be pushed into Jammu and Kashmir.“There has been 75 per cent more firing from across the border in the first seven months of 2020. There were 487 incidents of firing from Pakistan till July this year in comparison to 267 such incidents in the same period in 2019. The firings are cover to infiltrate militants. So far, just 26 militants could infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.Singh said due to sustained anti-militancy operations, the security forces have been able to curtail the number of active militants in Jammu and Kashmir to less than 200 now from 300 to 350 terrorists a few years ago.Referring to local youths joining militancy, the DGP said 80 such youths have joined different terror groups this year of which 20 are now active and the self-life of such militant is now a maximum of 90 days.“Eighty local youths have joined militancy this year so far of which 38 were killed and 22 arrested. Just 20 of those who have joined militancy are active now,” he said.The police chief said as many as 150 militants were killed in 2020 so far, of which 30 are foreigners and another 39 are top commanders. “The terrorist groups are leaderless and facing a huge shortage of weapons,” he said.Claiming success of the anti-militancy operations in last two years, the DGP said it has happened as the security forces have gone against the terrorist support structure -- the Jamaat-e-Islami (JK), Hurriyat and their members and the Over Ground Workers (OGWs).Most of the leaders of the Jamaat and Hurriyat and OGWs are under custody and their funding has been halted, he said.Singh said a Terror Monitoring Group (TMG) has been set up with representatives from the Jammu and Kashmir Police, Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department and a few other organisations, and the body is continuously working to curb funding of terrorists and their supporters.“Almost all links of sending money through hawala, western union money transfer and in tiffin boxes of couriers were shut,” he said.The police chief said security grade has been improved along the International Border and the Line of Control and as a result, six encounters have taken place along the borders so far this year.He said there were 76 casualties and 107 injuries in the security forces in first seven months of 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, while there were just 36 casualties and 102 injuries in the security forces in the same period in 2020.Terror incidents were also down by 70 per cent -- from 198 in first seven months of 2019 to 124 in the same period in 2020, the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-trying-to-sneak-weapons-into-j-k-using-uavs-dgp-dilbag-singh/story-oMYIEqPDEGhuNTQBmvQ7iL.html
06-08-2020||India||No foul play in Disha Salian’s death, satisfied with Mumbai police probe, says her father||The father of Disha Salian, former manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has said he does not suspect any foul play in her death and he is “completely satisfied” with the probe being conducted by Mumbai Police in the case, an official said.In a letter sent to assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Malvani, on Wednesday, Satish Salian alleged that media persons were harassing his family by repeatedly questioning their faith in Mumbai Police and their way of inquiry into her death, the official said.According to police, Disha Salian, 28, allegedly committed suicide by jumping from a high-rise building in Malad area here on June 8.Also read| Disha Salian’s mother on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘How can there be a connection after meeting him just once?’Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.An accidental death report (ADR) was registered in connection with Disha Salian’s death at Malvani police station.Her father in his letter to police said his family does not suspect any foul play in her death and they are satisfied with the investigation conducted by the Mumbai Police and have faith in them, a senior official said.He alleged that his family was being harassed by journalists and media by repeatedly questioning their faith in the Mumbai Police, the official said.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radarSatish Salian, who mentioned Naigaon, Dadar, in central Mumbai as his address in the letter, said he had already submitted a written complaint at the Malvani police station and the ACP’s office on July 13 against “derogatory” posts and forwards being shared by people that defamed his deceased daughter and his family.According to the official, in his letter he alleged that “news about her (Disha’s) involvement with any politician or attending parties with big names of the film fraternity, rape and murder are all stories cooked up by media people just to sell it to channels and these stories hold no truth.” He also requested the police to take action against the journalists, influencers, politicians and media concerned for their insensitive act towards his family, the official said.Also read| ‘Let her rest in peace’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-manager Disha Salian’s family issues statementThe Mumbai Police, who are probing Rajput’s death, have so far recorded statements of more than 50 people, including those from the late actor’s family, his cook and people from the film industry.A team of Bihar Police is also probing a separate ‘abetment to suicide’ case on the basis of a complaint filed by Rajput’s father in Patna.An official from the Bihar Police earlier said they will also probe the alleged suicide of Disha Salian.Apart from Rajput, she had also managed the work of actors like Bharti Singh, Rhea Chakraborty and Varun Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-foul-play-in-disha-salian-s-death-satisfied-with-mumbai-police-probe-says-her-father/story-wAh8dkqCSUmrnVsAeGzODI.html
06-08-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 890 crore as 2nd tranche of package for Covid-19 health system preparedness||The Centre has released Rs 890.32 crore as the second instalment of the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness package to 22 states and Union Territories, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. The amount of financial assistance to each state and Union Territories is based on their Covid-19 caseload.Those who received financial assistance in the second instalment include Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim, the ministry said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the Rs 15,000 crore package as part of the ‘Whole of Government’ approach wherein the Centre is leading the Covid-19 response and management, and supporting the states and UTs through technical and financial resources.The second instalment of the aid will be used to strengthen public health infrastructure for testing, including procurement and installation of RT-PCR machines, RNA extraction kits, TrueNat and CB-NAAT machines, bolster infrastructure for treatment and development of ICU beds, installation of oxygen generators and procurement of bedside oxygen concentrators among others.It would also be used for engagement, training and capacity building of necessary human resources and incentives to healthcare workforce and volunteers, including ASHA workers on Covid-19 duties, the health ministry said, adding that wherever necessary, volunteers registered on the Covid Warriors portal may also be engaged in coronavirus duties.The first instalment of Rs 3,000 crore was released in April to all states and UTs to aid and enable them ramp up testing facilities, augment hospital infrastructure, conduct surveillance activities along with procurement of essential equipment, drugs and other supplies, the health ministry said. As part of this package, states and Union territories have been strengthened with 5,80,342 isolation beds, 1,36,068 oxygen-supported beds and 31,255 ICU beds. Also, 86,88,357 testing kits and 79,88,366 Vial Transport Media (VTM) have been procured by them. As many as 96,557 human resource has been added and incentive has been given to 6,65,799 human resources. The package has aided provision of mobility support to 11,821 staff, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-890-crore-as-2nd-tranche-of-package-for-covid-19-health-system-preparedness/story-AShKo5gfXmWLDfYi2I1D8L.html
06-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC orders notices to be served to 6 BSP MLAs who merged with Congress||A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Thursday disposed of the petition seeking an immediate stay on the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers with the Congress in 2019 with a direction to a lower court to serve the notices to six MLAs issued earlier by a single bench last week.A single bench of the high court had earlier sought replies from Speaker C P Joshi and the six lawmakers by August 11 after the BSP and BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar moved the court against the Speaker’s order upholding the merger. On Tuesday, the BSP and Dilawar filed review petitions seeking a stay on the merger.Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for speaker CP Joshi said that the special appeal filed by the petitioner Madan Dilawar and BSP is not maintainable.“The HC has disposed of the appeal filed by the BSP and BP MLA Dilawar. The court directed the district judge to get the notices served the BSP MLAs as well as if required to take assistance of the Jaisalmer superintendent of police to serve the notices. The court had also directed to publish the notice in a local newspaper and at the same time it is redirected to the single beach that it should give its decision on August 11 on the petition filed earlier,” Kasliwal said.On August 4, the BSP and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar filed a petition in the division bench of the High Court seeking immediate stay on the merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress last year.The BSP had prayed to the division bench to accept the special appeal and to suspend the effect of the order of assembly Speaker dated September 18, 2019 whereby he declared that six elected representatives of the BSP have merged with Indian National Congress.The BSP had maintained that the merger was unconstitutional because the party did not merge with the Congress neither at the national level nor state level. As per law, parties merge, not legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-orders-notices-to-be-served-to-6-bsp-mlas-who-merged-with-congress/story-sOQuhU26CdeOSG1nKA4cvN.html
06-08-2020||India||Bank fraud case: ED raids former J-K minister’s son Hilal Rather||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday launched multiple raids in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged bank fraud probe against Hilal Rather, son of former Jammu and Kashmir minister Abdul Rahim Rather, officials said.They said the raids are being conducted at 16 locations in Kashmir, Jammu, Delhi and Ludhiana.The central probe agency has field a money laundering case against Hilal Rather and others, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), taking cognisance of a CBI FIR and Income Tax Department probe against him and pertains to a Rs 177-crore alleged bank fraud scam.The raids are aimed to gather more evidence, they said.The CBI has alleged that Hilal Rather entered into a criminal conspiracy with the then officials of the J and K Bank to get loans of Rs 177.68 crore(approx) in violation of rules and guidelines.  His father, a former finance minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, is a National Conference (NC) leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-fraud-case-ed-raids-former-j-k-minister-s-son-hilal-rather/story-wY2RYDAIarZ8k1Wvo2RxGK.html
06-08-2020||India||Bihar floods: 33 NDRF, SDRF teams deployed in 16 districts, toll rises to 19||Over 30 teams, including those of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF have been deployed to tackle the floods which have affected multiple districts in Bihar, according to the Disaster Management department of the state government.According to the data released by the department on Wednesday, 16 districts in the state have been affected by the rising waters.This has resulted in the loss of 19 human lives and affected a combined population of 66,60,655. A total of 12,202 people have been shifted to relief camps as of Wednesday.Earlier chief minister Nitish Kumar had expressed his condolences over the loss of lives of people in three different incidents of capsize of boats in flood-hit districts of Khagaria, Saharsa and Darbhanga in the state and instructed the district administration to provide ex-gratia amount to the kin of the deceased.“Incidents of boat sinking in Khagaria, Saharsa and Darbhanga are sad. I have instructed the district administration to provide the ex-gratia amount to the dependents of the deceased,” the Chief Minister said in a tweet roughly translated from Hindi.Kumar also put a press release of the Bihar government dated August 5 with his tweet. The press release reiterated about incidents of boat sinking in Khagaria, Saharsa and Darbhanga. According to the statement, the chief minister directed the district administration to provide the ex-gratia amount to the dependents of the deceased.The chief minister also conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas of the state on Wednesday. Kumar also visited a flood relief camp and a community kitchen for flood victims in Darbhanga, one of the districts worst affected by floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-floods-33-ndrf-sdrf-teams-deployed-in-16-districts-toll-rises-to-19/story-kSrRyDBWAdZAVVkUdGt2yH.html
06-08-2020||India||Senior TRS lawmaker S Ramachandra Reddy dies of cardiac arrest in Hyderabad||Senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader and four-time lawmaker Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy died of cardiac arrest, after a brief illness, at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Thursday morning. He was 57.Reddy is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. He was keeping unwell for quite some time after he underwent a surgery for his leg due to a diabetic infection.Hailing from Chittapur village of Dubbak block in Medak district in Telangana, Reddy had been associated with the Naxalite movement during his college days in ’80s before joining the mainstream to take to journalism as a profession. Also read: PM Modi remembers Sushma Swaraj on her death anniversaryHe worked for a vernacular daily while actively fighting on the local issues. He was also booked under Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA). Reddy headed the Medak district unit of Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists (APUWJ) in the 1990s.He had been associated with the TRS since its inception in 2001. He was first elected to the legislature in the year 2004 from Dubbak assembly constituency and again in the by-elections held for the seat in 2008 following the resignation of all the TRS MLAs. He, however, lost the elections in 2009.After the formation of the Telangana state in 2014, Reddy was back in the state assembly from the same constituency and continued the winning streak in 2018 elections as well. He was made a member of the Estimates Committeee of the Telangana assembly.TRS president and chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao expressed deep shock over the sudden demise of the senior MLA. Recalling his association with Reddy as a fellow Telangana activist, the chief minister conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-trs-lawmaker-s-ramachandra-reddy-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-hyderabad/story-Gt1umukX3IHqdgtFKcjQQL.html
06-08-2020||India||India-UK project to study impact of drug-resistant bacteria in Musi, Adyar rivers||The release of antibiotics into India’s rivers by manufacturers and its impact on the spread of potentially fatal drug-resistant infections is the focus of a new £1.2 million research project, the University of Birmingham announced on Thursday.The project, jointly funded by the UK and India, will be conducted by the university with experts at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad. An estimated 58,000 babies die in India every year from superbug infections passed on from their mothers.The project is part of a £8 million package of UK-India government-backed research aimed at deepening existing scientific research collaboration with five new programmes to tackle anti-microbial resistance (AMR).Supported by the UK’s Natural Environment Research Council and India’s Department of Biotechnology, the cross-disciplinary team also includes researchers from Newcastle University, the James Hutton Institute in Scotland, IIT Gandhinagar and IIT Madras.Experts will sample and model the two contrasting river networks in India, the Musi river in Hyderabad, which has high concentrations of antibiotics released from production facilities, and the less polluted Adyar river in Chennai.The team aims to learn how far resistant bacteria travel before they die or are eaten by other organisms in a unique combination of experiments, field sampling and mathematical modelling of resistance dynamics and water flows.Jan Kreft from the University of Birmingham said: “We don’t know how quickly antibiotics are degraded in the environment and how much they are diluted by rainfall and by entering larger rivers.”“In our AMR flows project, we will learn how antibiotics from manufacturing and the resistant bacteria they select will flow through river networks and how far they can be transported in rivers, from where they can spread onto fields and into communities during floods - allowing us to make a quantitative risk assessment to help create environmental standards for safe concentrations of antibiotics in water bodies.”Indian project lead Shashidhar Thatikonda of IIT Hyderabad added: “We know from previous research that the River Musi is now a factory of superbugs. Modelling water flows will be crucial in predicting the fate of resistant bacteria in the environment and we aim to create models that will be applicable in other rivers and countries.”The scientific advances will also allow the team to compare the effectiveness of different interventions such as separate treatment of waste streams from manufacturing of antibiotics, decentralized sewage treatment or containment reservoirs, the university said.“The recommendations we will produce will help bring down the levels of resistance in the environment. This will contribute to reduce the abundance of resistant pathogens that make infections untreatable,” Thatikonda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-project-to-study-impact-of-drug-resistant-bacteria-in-musi-adyar-rivers/story-zH4SEnbBs4keUTkiPN2zJN.html
06-08-2020||India||Trust for building mosque on five-acre land in Ayodhya in process of setting up office||The Trust constituted by the Uttar Pradesh State Sunni Central Waqf Board to construct a mosque on five acres of land in Ayodhya is in the process of setting up an office in the state capital, an official said on Thursday.He said the office of the Trust -- Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) -- will be functional in 10 to 12 days.“Our Trust has been formed. As per rules, we have applied for a PAN card in its name and awaiting its delivery, after which we will be meeting online and pass a resolution for opening a bank account of the Trust,” IICF Secretary Athar Hussain told PTI.“We had met last month online. As of now, we have identified office space and renovation work is going on there. It will take 10-12 days for the work to complete. After which our office will be functional,” he said.The state government has allotted five acres of land in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the Supreme Court. The IICF will oversee the construction of a mosque, Indo-Islamic research centre, library and hospital in the land.A member of the Trust said, “Ayodhya District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha has formally handed over the possession of the land for the mosque to the Trust members. We have got a certified copy of the revenue record.” The Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.The residents of Dhannipur, where the land has been allotted, are eagerly waiting for the Trust to start construction of a mosque.Mohammad Izhar, a resident of Dhannipur village, said, “It’s good that the land was allotted here. We are happy and hope that the work will start soon. Finally, our village will develop. We hope so.” Another resident, Mohammad Imran also expressed similar views saying it is good that besides a “mosque we will also get a hospital”.The Trust will have 15 members, of which names of nine have been declared and rest will be finalised soon. “We will co-opt the remaining six trustees. The secretary of the Trust will also be its official spokesperson,” a member of the Trust said.Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday laid the foundation of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. The programme was organised by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-for-building-mosque-on-five-acre-land-in-ayodhya-in-process-of-setting-up-office/story-mlyMMnZWuT1Wdt5UkW8gxK.html
06-08-2020||India||Complete lockdown in some areas in West Bengal’s Nadia from Friday midnight||The Nadia district administration in West Bengal on Wednesday announced a complete lockdown at some places for a week starting Friday midnight to contain the spread of Covid-19, a senior official said.Comprehensive lockdown will be imposed in some areas of Sadar and Tehatta subdivisions of Krishnanagar Police District at Kalyani and Ranaghat sub-divisions of Ranaghat Police Districts, Nadia District Magistrate Vibhu Goel said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Shops and market complexes will be shut, and public and private transport, except long-distance ones, will be off the roads, he said.Marriages and funerals are permitted, but in strict adherence to the prescribed number of people who can participate, the DM said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Nadia has so far reported 12 Covid-19 deaths and at least 1,231 positive cases, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-lockdown-in-some-areas-in-west-bengal-s-nadia-from-friday-midnight/story-WbiZVkfbuAkPrd1RiRxI9N.html
06-08-2020||India||SC to hear on August 20 Vijay Mallya’s review plea on transfer of $40 million to his children||The Supreme Court Thursday said it would hear on August 20 the petition filed by businessman Vijay Mallya, who has sought review of its 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children.The matter came up for hearing through video-conferencing before a bench comprising Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, which adjourned it as one of the documents was not available on the record.The apex court had in June directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya’s review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years.It had directed the registry to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years.The fugitive businessman had filed the petition seeking review of the apex court’s May 9, 2017 order by which he was held guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children in violation of the order.Mallya, who is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is presently in the United Kingdom.The apex court’s 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred $40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in “flagrant violation” of various judicial orders.It was dealing with pleas of lending banks seeking contempt action and a direction to Mallya to deposit $40 million received from offshore firm Diageo respectively.The banks had then alleged that Mallya concealed the facts and diverted the money to his son Siddharth Mallya and daughters Leanna Mallya and Tanya Mallya in “flagrant violation” of the orders passed by the Karnataka High Court.Mallya had in May lost his application seeking leave to appeal his extradition to India in the UK Supreme Court, setting a 28-day clock on his removal from the UK.The UK top court’s decision marks a big legal setback to the 64-year-old flamboyant businessman, who had earlier lost his high court appeal against an extradition order to India on charges of alleged fraud and money laundering related to unrecovered loans to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-on-aug-20-mallya-s-review-plea-on-transfer-of-usd-40-mn-to-his-children/story-WxN1DC2lzbMMLG4uurMYiM.html
06-08-2020||India||Record 978 new cases in a day push Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally to over 15,000||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported highest ever single-day spike of Covid-19 cases after 978 new patients, including 22 staff of chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence, contracted the disease.The state also reported seven deaths, including three in Ranchi, and one each in East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Giridih and Khunti districts.With discovery of these cases, the state’s total count reached 15,048. This included 9,086 active cases, 5,826 recovered cases and 136 deaths.According to state health department’s bulletin released on Wednesday night, Godda district reported 339 cases, the highest ever single-day spike in any district.Ranchi recorded second-highest number of cases after discovering 141 new patients, including 22 staff of chief minister’s residence.“Of the over 50 samples taken from people associated with CM house, 22 were found infected with coronavirus on Wednesday,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad.On Tuesday, chief minister Soren along with his family members and several staff of his office and residence had undergone Covid-19 test - second time in less than a month. While test reports of Soren and his family members came on the same day in evening and turned to be negative, other reports came on Wednesday.Earlier on August 2, 17 people working at the chief minister’s residence, including some cooks and security guards, were found infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus.Samples of these people were collected after two staff members, including the driver of chief minister’s wife Kalpana Soren, were found infected with this respiratory disease on July 30.Early in July, Soren had placed himself in home quarantine after coming in contact with a minister and his party’s legislator who were found infected with the virus.The entire chief minister’s office (CMO) had been temporarily shut down and officials were sent to home quarantine.Samples of the chief minister and several other officials were also collected for testing but reports turned negative.With addition of 141 new cases on Wednesday, Ranchi has so far reported 2,724 cases including 1,813 active cases, 883 recoveries and 28 deaths.Besides, East Singhbhum and Bokaro districts reported 72 and 71 cases respectively.According to the bulletin on August 5, the pandemic’s seven days growth rate stood at 5.97% and disease’s doubling period was 11.95 days. The recovery rate was 38.71% and mortality rate was 0.90%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-978-new-cases-in-a-day-push-jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-15-000/story-j9fGwdnVfX9Oc4kKBfUVQL.html
06-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Trustee, ward boy detained in Ahmedabad hospital fire incident and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahmedabad hospital fire: Trustee, ward boy detained; police say blaze caused by short circuitThe Gujarat Police on Thursday detained a trustee and a ward boy of Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad, where a fire broke out on Thursday killing eight people, news agency ANI reported. Read moreSC calls for charge sheets in Palghar lynching case to be produced before itA Supreme Court bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to produce the charge sheets filed in the two FIRs relating to the Palghar lynching case within three weeks. Read moreAll you need is WiFi: How Covid-19 could bring in the era of the digital nomadDigital nomads are defined as professionals who live in a nomadic manner and work remotely, usually operating out of coffee shops, co-working spaces and even, while staycationing in another country. Read moreCoyote with glass jar stuck on its head rescued, video shows howIn today’s edition of animal rescue story, here’s a tale of how conservation officers helped a coyote that had a glass jar stuck on its head. Chances are that the heartening story will leave you with a smile on your face. Read moreWatch how MS Dhoni’s mantra helped Manipur boy clear UPSC civil services examFormer Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has been an inspiration to many. His leadership skills have had an impact on people from all walks of life. Manipur’s Parikshit Thoudam is one of them. Read moreCareless and false information: Brian Lara quashes rumours, confirms being tested negative for Covid-19Legendary West Indies batsman Brian Lara late on Tuesday took to Twitter and Instagram to quash rumours doing rounds on social media and confirmed that he has tested negative for Covid-19. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister shares positive WhatsApp chat from less than a month before his death: ‘You loved us so dearly’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, has shared a screengrab of their conversation on WhatsApp, remembering the positivity that Sushant used to spread. The actor died by suicide on June 14, at the age of 34. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-trustee-ward-boy-detained-in-ahmedabad-hospital-fire-incident-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QIxgeMw3BwWuajSSlZFbZK.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Mumbai Police unprofessional, may go to court’: Bihar Police chief on officer’s quarantine||The Bihar Police chief said on Thursday that its officer Vinay Tiwari has still not been exempted from home quarantine and that the department may consider taking the legal route on the issue.Tiwari had gone to Mumbai in connection with an FIR registered by actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh. But as soon as he landed at Mumbai airport, Tiwari was quarantine.“IPS Vinay Tiwari has still not be exempted from quarantine, it is like house arrest. We’ll decide what action to take after consultation with the advocate general. Going to the court is also an option,” Bihar’s Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said.“Mumbai police’s move of quarantining Bihar Police officer is unprofessional. The Supreme Court has given its observation in the matter,” he added.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had defended its decision to quarantine the IPS officer because of the spread of Covid-19. But Pandey said he has been “forcibly quarantined”.He had appealed to the Maharashtra Police on Wednesday to exempt the IPS officer from quarantine.“We will wait for one more day, after which we will be taking action against them (Mumbai Police). We are taking advice from the Bihar government and might even pursue court in this regard,” he said.An FIR was filed by the Patna Police against Rhea Chakraborty on a complaint filed by KK Singh under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including abetment of suicide. A team of Bihar Police is in Mumbai to probe the case.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14, after which Mumbai had registered a case and are investigating the matter. The Bihar government has already given its nod for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the recommendation has been acepted by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-unprofessional-may-go-to-court-bihar-police-chief-on-officer-s-quarantine/story-v7B7TuneBDhJYp0mPKPV0J.html
06-08-2020||India||Ahmedabad hospital fire: Trustee, ward boy detained; police say blaze caused by short circuit||The Gujarat Police on Thursday detained a trustee and a ward boy of Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad, where a fire broke out on Thursday killing eight people, news agency ANI reported.“Hospital’s trustee Bharat Mahant and a ward boy has been detained by Navrangpura Police,” ANI quoted LB Zala, Assistant Commissioner of Police (B-Division), as saying.This comes hours after Joint Commissioner of Police (Sector 1) Rajendra Asari said that a trustee is being interrogated.The police said that the fire broke out due to a short circuit in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on the fourth floor of the hospital.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed sadness and anguish at the incident, and said that Centre is providing all the assistance to the affected.“Saddened by the tragic hospital fire in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to CM Vijay Rupani and Mayor Bijal Patel regarding the situation. Administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected,” PM Modi tweeted.He also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister National Relief Fund (PMNRF).Home Minister Amit Shah also expressed his condolences to the affected families and wished for the speedy recovery of those injured.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the eight victims. The chief minister’s office (CMO) said that Rs 50,000 would be given to those injured in the incident.Rupani has also ordered a probe in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-hospital-fire-trustee-ward-boy-detained-police-say-blaze-caused-by-short-circuit/story-rfWCm0SP7vfWE2rWi49JdJ.html
06-08-2020||India||Goa: Incessant rains damage tunnel along Konkan railway; six trains diverted||Incessant rainfall over the past 48 hours has damaged a tunnel along the Konkan railway route in Goa, leading to the diversion of six trains that were en route to and from Kerala. The six trains have been diverted via the Madgaon-Londa-Miraj-Pune-Panvel line. Konkan railway officials said the Pernem tunnel, located between Madure station in Maharashtra and Pernem station in Goa, collapsed at 3 am on Thursday that led to the suspension of train services on the route. No casualties or injuries have been reported. The rail authorities said an early restoration of the train service is in progress. The Pernem tunnel, one of the most treacherous tunnels on the Konkan railway route, is also the longest in Goa. Earlier in the 1990s, six workers had died during the tunnel’s construction. This was the second rail-related incident that affected rail traffic in and around Goa on consecutive days.On Wednesday, a landslide had disrupted the movement of a Karnataka-bound train at Castlerock, which is located beyond the state’s border on the Konkan coast. India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Goa observatory has recorded over 100 millimetres (mm) of rainfall on Wednesday, which is only the second time to have breached the 100-mm mark since 2013. Large parts of the coastal state have reported flooding, as rivers breached their banks washing away coconut groves, fields, and farms. However, the IMD forecast has said the intensity of rains would lessen on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-incessant-rains-damages-tunnel-along-konkan-railway-six-trains-diverted/story-mJ5JSJAZAuJKB4KoUyibyM.html
06-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Financial assistance package for Non-Resident Keralites stranded in state||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced a financial assistance package for Non-Resident Keralites, who could not go back to their place of work abroad and are stranded in the state since the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Briefing the media, the Chief Minister said, “In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, it has been decided to allot Rs 50 crores from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund to Norka Roots to provide financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each to expatriates who are unable to return home to work abroad. This is in addition to the Rs 8.5 crores given earlier.”The Chief Minister also declared that the remuneration of National Health Mission (NHM) employees, both on contract and on a daily basis will be increased in addition to incentives and risk allowances.“Since the remuneration of NHM employees who are involved in Covid activities work is limited, those on contract and also those employed on a daily basis will be provided additional benefits. Incentives and risk allowances have been introduced. There will incur an additional expenditure of Rs. 22.68 crores per month”, the Chief Minister said.The minimum wage for Grade I (medical officer and specialists) will be raised from Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per month with a risk allowance of 20 per cent. Grade II (senior consultants, dental surgeons and Ayush Doctors) will be given a 20 per cent risk allowance. The minimum monthly salary of Grade III (staff nurses, junior health inspectors, pharmacists and technicians) will be increased from Rs 13,500 to Rs 20,000 along with a 25 per cent risk allowance. Last grade employees will be given a 30 per cent risk allowance in addition to their daily wages.Incentives and risk allowances will be given to all newly hired employees engaged in Covid-related work. The Covid Health Policy packages for various ailments will also be provided to employees who are not covered under the KASP scheme.It was decided to give a Chief Minister’s certificate of appreciation to all the members of the Covid Brigade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-financial-assistance-package-for-non-resident-keralites-stranded-in-state/story-O9cqNxEc5id398tQp0KmGJ.html
06-08-2020||India||SC calls for charge sheets in Palghar lynching case to be produced before it||A Supreme Court bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to produce the charge sheets filed in the two FIRs relating to the Palghar lynching case within three weeks. The bench further directed the state to bring on record the enquiry conducted against the policemen allegedly involved in the offence and the action, if any, that was initiated against them. The matter has been posted for hearing after 3 weeks.The order came on a petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha who demanded a CBI probe into the incident. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, pointed out that if the court comes to a conclusion stating police’s involvement in the offence, it must order a CBI probe.Other seers of the Juna Akhara, to which the deceased sadhus belonged, also approached the apex court seeking a fair probe in the case.Earlier in July, two charge sheets were filed in the case before a Dahanu court. A total of 126 accused were named in the two charge sheets.According to the charge sheets, the incident took place amid rumours of kidnapping for illegal sale of organs and child-lifting in the area which led to the mob mistaking the seers and their driver as child-lifters. The case relates to the incident that took place on April 16 when two sadhus and their driver - who were heading towards Surat to attend a funeral - were stopped at Palghar, Maharashtra, and beaten to death on suspicion of being thieves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-calls-for-charge-sheets-in-palghar-lynching-case-to-be-produced/story-w4m7vyxupvYau61k6fTNBL.html
06-08-2020||India||India again rejects China’s interference in internal affairs||New Delhi on Thursday rejected Beijing’s interference in the country’s internal affairs after China backed a move on behalf of its traditional ally Pakistan to discuss the Kashmir issue at a closed-door meeting of the UN Security Council. China’s pushed for the discussion at the UN Security Council to coincide with the first anniversary on Wednesday of India’s decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and to split it into two union territories. Pakistan had pulled out all stops to rake up the Kashmir issue and observed Wednesday as a “day of exploitation”. The external affairs ministry said in a statement that “China initiated a discussion in the UN Security Council on issues pertaining to the Indian Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir”. “We firmly reject China’s interference in our internal affairs and urge it to draw proper conclusions from such infructuous attempts,” the statement said. The statement further noted that this “was not the first time that China has sought to raise a subject that is solely an internal matter of India”. It added, “As on such previous occasions, this attempt too met with little support from the international community.” The statement came a day after New Delhi tersely asked Beijing on Wednesday to keep out of the internal affairs of other countries after China contended that India’s “unilateral” changes to the status of Jammu and Kashmir were “illegal and invalid”. Responding to comments by the Chinese foreign ministry’s spokesperson, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said: “The Chinese side has no locus standi whatsoever on this matter and is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations.” This was the third time within a year that China raised the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council using what is known as the “any other business” (AOB) item of the agenda, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. China brought up the issue in August last year and in January. Prior to this, the last time the Kashmir issue was on the Security Council’s agenda was in 1971. Such items are taken up during informal, closed-door consultations of the Security Council and there are no records of the discussions or formal outcomes, the people said. However, such moves by China in the past have been opposed by France, the US and other permanent members of the Security Council, who have said Kashmir is a bilateral issue between India and Pakistan. India’s permanent representative to the UN, TS Tirumurti, tweeted: “Another attempt by Pakistan fails! In today’s meeting of UN Security Council which was closed, informal, not recorded and without any outcome, almost all countries underlined that J&K was bilateral issue & did not deserve time and attention of Council.” The people cited above said members of the Security Council usually do not oppose AOB items as they produce no outcomes. This was the route adopted by Security Council members to discuss the situation in Hong Kong in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-rejects-china-s-interference-in-internal-affairs/story-SfvaRBmV2WewBr8Kcx9OvI.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Took proactive, graded action against Covid-19 from start’: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||India took timely action against the Covid-19 pandemic and gave a graded response to the evolving situation of the virus spread, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan noted during the virtual meeting with regional directors of WHO South-East Asia on Thursday.“India has had a graded response to Covid-19 from the start and issued advisories and restrictions even before the first case was reported in January,” the health minister said. Vardhan informed the WHO team about various measures that the government took to battle the Covid-19 pandemic and challenges that lie ahead.  Also read: Over 56,000 cases in last 24 hours push India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 2 million#WatchNow!! @WHO Executive Board Chairman & Hon'ble Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan participating in a virtual meeting with RD, @WHOSEARO & Health Ministers of Member States @PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA https://t.co/e39e3Me2NJHe said that India started screening passengers at country’s four main airports from January 18. “All passengers were being screened at various airports from March 6 while incoming flights were suspended by 22nd March,” he added.“The world’s biggest, severest lockdown was put in place on 25th March,” Dr Vardhan stated.The minister noted that India has a high population density and less support in terms of GDP expenditure on healthcare. “Yet we have been able to keep the number of deaths due to Covid-19 well below as compared to other countries,” he stated. India was able to create 10,000 beds for Covid-19 patients from just 1,000 previously in the matter of 10-20 days with the help of the DRDO, he said. “We are ensuring mental well being of the populace amid pandemic,” Dr Vardhan added. He said that the lockdown is being lifted in a graded manner starting June 1, while ensuring social distancing and restrictions on mass gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-proactive-graded-action-against-covid-19-from-start-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-4id9PejPZctC1poAojMynL.html
06-08-2020||India||Landslide in Karnataka’s Mudigere due to heavy rains||Heavy monsoon rains in Karnataka caused landslides near Mudigere in the Chikmagalur district, Annies Kanmani Joy, the deputy commissioner informed.“A landslide occurred yesterday near Mudigere due to heavy rainfall. No loss of life or property has been reported so far,” she told said.Meanwhile, heavy rains lashed parts of the Udupi and Kodagu districts on Wednesday.Visuals from Kodagu showed a flood-like situation, with houses and vehicles submerged under rainwater.The India Meteorological Department tweeted earlier, “Isolated extremely heavy falls likely over Coastal Karnataka on August 5, 8 and 9, over South interior Karnataka on August 5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-in-karnataka-s-mudigere-due-to-heavy-rains/story-0MpqIGHhUmBzQGj3y3OV0M.html
06-08-2020||India||Gujarat: CM Vijay Rupani orders probe in hospital fire incident||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani ordered a probe in the fire incident at Shrey hospital in Ahmedabad on Thursday in which eight people lost their lives.The police are required to send the report to the chief minister within three days, the chief minister’s office (CMO) office said. The probe will be led by Sangeetha Singh, additional chief secretary of the home department of Gujarat.“CM Vijay Rupani has ordered a probe in the incident of fire at Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad. Sangeeta Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Home Department) will be leading the probe. The CM has ordered for a report within 3 days,” the CMO said.Rupani also announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of those killed and Rs 50,000 to the injured.As many as eight people including five men and three women, lost their lives on Thursday morning after a fire broke at the hospital Gujarat’s commercial hub. News agency ANI quoted additional chief secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta as saying that the fire broke out in the ICCU due to short circuit.“The hospital has been sealed now and the 41 patients have been shifted to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital,” ANI further quoted him.Meanwhile, the police are interrogating a trustee of the hospital, Rajendra Asari, joint commissioner of police, Sector 1 Ahmedabad said.“We are taking the help of fire and forensic experts in the investigation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-orders-probe-in-hospital-fire-incident/story-IKIApyxnlD9R1OJCyDIJGL.html
06-08-2020||India||Chinese aggression increasing, LAC standoff likely to be prolonged: Defence ministry||Chinese aggression along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) has been increasing and the current standoff is expected to be prolonged, a defence ministry document noted, with specific reference to the Galwan Valley where 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed in a brutal brawl on June 15. In an official document listing out the major activities of the department of defence in June, the ministry said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed into the Indian side in the areas of Kugrang Nala, Gogra and the north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-18. It was uploaded on the ministry’s website on August 4. Also read: No compromise on territorial integrity, says India in 5th round of military talks with China“Consequent to this, ground level interactions were held between armed forces of both sides to defuse the situation. Corps Commander Level Flag Meeting was held on 6th June. 2020. However, a violent face-off incident took place between the two side s on 15the June resulting in casualties of both sides,” it said. The document, which refers to only the month of June, said subsequent military talks took place on June 22 to discuss modalities of the de-escalation process. “While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged,” it said. Also read: China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signalThe ministry said the situation in Eastern Ladakh arising from unilateral aggression by China was sensitive and required close monitoring and prompt action based on evolving situation. Top Indian and Chinese military commanders on Sunday met in eastern Ladakh to discuss the next stage of disengagement along the LAC with negotiations entering a critical phase due to serious differences between the two armies in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims to be Indian territory. Also read: Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troopsThe Finger Area --- a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake --- has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-document-says-lac-standoff-likely-to-be-prolonged/story-21H5bLR1V5bDoy6XmlGlwI.html
06-08-2020||India||On first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370, Jammu and Kashmir witnesses sudden exit of GC Murmu||With sudden exit of Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu in a late night development on Wednesday, President Ramnath Kovind has appointed former Union minister and three-time BJP MP Manoj Sinha as the new incumbent to the constitutional post.Sinha is considered to have a close rapport with National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.“The President has accepted the resignation of Girish Chandra Murmu as Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir,” said an official spokesman of the Rashtrapati Bhawan.“The President has been pleased to appoint Manoj Sinha, to be the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office vice Girish Chandra Murmu,” he added.It is not the first time that Murmu, a 1985-batch IAS officer from Gujarat cadre, has resigned ahead of his tenure.He was the expenditure secretary in the finance ministry when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah decided to elevate him to the new union territory’s Raj Bhawan. Murmu had then resigned from his post a month before his retirement last year in November.Lieutenant Governors of union territories, quite like governors of states, are appointed for a five-year term.Murmu, who is said to have the trust of PM Modi and Shah, had worked with them in Gujarat when he was posted in the home department. After PM Modi came to Delhi in 2014, Murmu moved to the Gujarat chief minister’s office as principal secretary to Anandiben Patel who had succeeded Modi in the state. He joined the central government less than a year later as a joint secretary in the finance ministry.Varied reasons are being attributed to Murmu’s sudden exit. Recently, the Election Commission had taken exception to his comments to the media on the timing of assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir.The EC had said that all decisions on the conduct and timing of elections are its “sole remit” and that L-G should refrain from commenting on issues that are not in his domain. Another reason being cited is Murmu’s statement on restoration of 4G network in the union territory. Murmu had reportedly said that he didn’t see any problem in the restoration of 4G network Jammu and Kashmir.The apex court is adjudicating a writ petition over continued suspension of 4G internet in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5 last year when Centre had revoked its special status and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories.People aware of the developments in Jammu and Kashmir said that since there had been differences between Murmu and chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, administrative work was not hassle free.“Then there was a lobby in the bureaucracy, which had not been working the way Murmu wanted. He wanted the entire machinery to reach out to the people in right earnest and ensure speedy development which was not the case,” they said.On Wednesday, Murmu had reviewed security scenario in a meeting with Northern Army commander, Lieutenant General YK Joshi.Murmu had assumed charge in October last year and his stint in Jammu and Kashmir lasted just nine months.There is speculation that he may take over as the next Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) of India this week after present incumbent Rajiv Mehrishi attains superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-first-anniversary-of-abrogation-of-article-370-jammu-and-kashmir-witnesses-sudden-exit-of-gc-murmu/story-ZoXwBhTpcKO8emEwLu53mM.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Don’t interfere’: India pans China after UNSC rebuffs bid to raise Kashmir||India on Thursday lashed out at China after its failed attempt to raise Kashmir at the United Nations Security Council on behalf of Pakistan, rejecting the attempted by Beijing to interfere in India’s internal affairs.China had backed Pakistan’s request to the UNSC to discuss Kashmir on Wednesday to coincide with the first anniversary of the revocation of the special status extended to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. But four of the five permanent members — the US, UK, France and Russia — sided with India.In a statement, the external affairs ministry underlined that this wasn’t a first for China.“This was not the first time that China has sought to raise a subject that is solely an internal matter of India. We firmly reject China’s interference in our internal affairs and urge it to draw proper conclusions from such infructuous attempts,” the ministry statement said.TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, said “almost all countries at the UNSC underlined that J&K was a bilateral issue and did not deserve time and attention of Council”.“Another attempt by Pakistan fails!” he tweeted after a high-profile joint effort by Pakistan and China - their third over the last one year - to discuss the Kashmir issue at UNSC was blocked.Back home in Islamabad, Pakistan got down to celebrating its third attempt to raise Kashmir at the UNSC as a huge achievement. “This 3rd meeting in a year by the UN Security Council serves as a stark repudiation to the Indian claim that Jammu and Kashmir is an ‘internal matter’,” tweeted Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, the message directed at its domestic audience.Prime Minister Imran Khan and Qureshi’s narrative in Pakistan around its campaign on Kashmir is that Islamabad has globally suceeded in isolating New Delhi over the Kashmir issue. At a recent sitting of its parliament during the budget session, PM Khan told lawmakers that he considered Pakistan’s foreign policy its biggest achievement.At the UNSC meeting, China and Pakistan did initially appear to have the support of Indonesia, which holds UNSC’s rotational chair for August. In the end, however, Indonesia came through for India and agreed with others that the dispute needed to resolved bilaterally between India and Pakistan, people familiar with the development said.This was an informal consultation that was held behind closed doors and no records were kept of who said what, which would have happened in a formal and open meeting. Pakistan has sought open and formal meetings of the council to grandstand its Kashmir case, but has had to settle for these closed-door versions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-interfere-india-pans-china-after-unsc-rebuffs-bid-to-raise-kashmir/story-Kh07JDTfvSfMLmO7t8UHlO.html
06-08-2020||India||Pay compensation to activists, lawyers who were falsely implicated: NHRC tells Chhattisgarh govt||National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) authorities have ordered compensation of Rs 1 lakh each for 13 human rights activists and lawyers, including Delhi University (DU) Professor Nandini Sundar, who were falsely implicated by Chhattisgarh Police for raising the issue of tribals’ rights violations in the Bastar region in 2016. The NHRC made its observation on the basis of two cases filed by the Chhattisgarh Police in the Bastar region in 2016 – one at Tongpal police station and another at Kishtaram police station of Sukma district. The order was issued by NHRC on March 13, 2020 and was received by the complainant on July 7. As per order, the Chhattisgarh government was directed to submit the compliance report along with the proof of payment within the next six weeks.Altogether, 13 rights activists and lawyers were booked in the two cases, including Professor Sundar and others from the Telangana Democratic Front (TDF), who had tried to enter Chhattisgarh on a fact-finding mission about alleged human rights violations in December, 2016. The NHRC order is directed to the director-general of police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi, and the state chief secretary, RP Mandal. The rights panel stated that it took suo motu cognisance of the alleged harassment and intimidation to the human rights activists and lawyers by the Chhattisgarh Police. The state government was also directed to inform the status of the probe being conducted about the burning of effigies of human rights activists and lawyers by the Chhattisgarh Auxiliary Police (CAP). The NHRC order cited “trumped-up” first information reports (FIRs) registered against Professor Sundar and others, including the fact-finding team of lawyers from Telangana and Dr. Lakhan Singh, who was the president of the Chhattisgarh chapter of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), one of the largest human rights bodies in the country, and also the arrest of a local journalist Santosh Yadav. “As regards to the registration of FIRs against Professor Nandini Sundar and others, the DGP has submitted that during the investigation, no evidence was found against her, Archana Prasad, Vineet Tiwari, Sanjay Parate, Manju, and Mangla Ram Karma. Hence, their names have been removed from the FIRs,” the NHRC said. “We recommend and direct Chhattisgarh government through the chief secretary to pay a sum of Rs 1 lakh each as monetary compensation to Nandini Sundar, Archana Prasad, Vineet Tiwari, Sanjay Parate, Manju and Mangla Ram Karma, whose human rights were violated by the Chhattisgarh Police. The chief secretary shall submit the compliance report along with the proof of payment within six weeks,” it added. DGP Awasthi submitted that all the other seven accused -- CH Prabhakar, B Durga Prasad, B Rabindranath, D Prabhakar, R Lakshimaiya, Mohammad Nazir and K Rajendra Prasad -- were acquitted of all the charges by the chief judicial magistrate, Sukma. Professor Sundar reacted to the NHRC’s directives to the Chhattisgarh government. “We are yet to receive any compensation. But, as and when I receive it, I plan to share the sum as legal aid for innocent tribals, who are falsely implicated,” she said. RP Mandal, chief secretary, Chhattisgarh, told HT that the state government has received NHRC’s directives. “We have received the directives from NHRC. The state government is taking appropriate steps about them,” Mandal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-compensation-to-telangana-democratic-front-members-nhrc-tells-chhattisgarh-govt/story-gyJSK4GVtdsDEguUc5zgmJ.html
06-08-2020||India||Villagers tie ‘rakhis’ to trees in protest against setting up of IIT-Goa campus||In a unique symbolic protest, villagers in Goa’s Melaulim opposed the setting up of an IIT campus in a thickly forested stretch of land and tied rakhis to the trees that are earmarked to make way for the project.The protest against the IIT campus has been gaining momentum since February after it became clear that the government was planning to finalise 10-lakh square metres of land in Melaulim village for the IIT campus.Located in Goa’s eastern corner at the foothills of the Western Ghats, the land chosen is thickly forested, interspersed with cashew trees that the villagers claim to have sustained them for generations. The locals have been demanding a new proposed site for the IIT campus, one which will come at less of an environmental cost.“Around 300 villagers in batches tied rakhis to the trees that have been marked or enumerated by the government for felling for the proposed IIT Goa project. It’s not that we don’t want the IIT in Goa, we want it but just not at this location,” Shubham Shivolkar, one among many who have been opposing the move, said.Also read: Goa launches online ITI admissions, student data management systemThe IIT Goa, which was allocated to the state in 2014, has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College. Two sites previously identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub-districts, for the setting up of a permanent campus but were scrapped on account of protests from local residents and pressure from the Opposition. The Opposition had alleged a land scam in shortlisting of sites for the top technology institute.“The local communities of Melaulim village are totally dependent on the economic and environmental resources provided by the lands. The lives and livelihoods of the 2,500 local people is directly dependent on their agricultural, grazing and forest lands as well as local water resources,” the villagers stated in their letter marked to various representatives. A copy was also sent to the President of India.Goa’s Melaulim village falls in an eco-sensitive zone but hasn’t been formally declared so. The land on which the IIT campus is scheduled to come up is a revenue land belonging to the government but the villagers have said that the situation has persisted only because they did not have the required documentation to prove that they have rights over it.“The indigenous local communities of Sattari taluka are the most oppressed in Goa. Most of the people of the villages surrounding Melaulim don’t have any documentation of their rights over the lands on which they live and cultivate. Most of the lands in this region are wrongly recorded in government records as occupied by the ruling class families or by the Government of Goa, though the indigenous communities have lived on these lands, cultivated them and occupied them continuously and without any interruption for thousands of years,” Shashikant Sawardekar who leads the opposition said in a letter addressed to MLAs in Goa.The villagers further added that besides helping them sustain their families, the area is rich in biodiversity with populations of bison, leopards, pangolins, slender loris, species of deer civets, giant squirrel, flying squirrel all kinds of rare birds and other fauna endemic to the Western Ghats.Villagers have been drumming up support for their cause with the vruksha bandhan protest being the latest in a series of protests. Previously, the villagers had organised a ‘mandd’, or a traditional gathering of villages, in an open space to denounce the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-tie-rakhis-to-trees-in-protest-against-setting-up-of-iit-goa-campus/story-gE2q5mCbId7E1yh5FvlNeM.html
06-08-2020||India||BJP sarpanch Sajjad Ahmad shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Quazigund||A sarpanch of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) died in South Kashmir’s Qazigund area, in Kulgam district, after being attacked by terrorists.According to the police, the attack took place on Thursday morning. The sarpanch has been identified as Sajjad Ahmad.The police said that terrorists fired upon Ahmad outside his residence. He was rushed to the hospital where authorities declared him brought dead.This was the second attack on a sarpanch by terrorists in the last three days.Earlier, the terrorists had attacked BJP sarpanch from Akhran in the same district. Sarpanch Arif Ahmad was critically injured in the attack.Last month, former BJP district president Waseem Bari, his father and brother were killed inside their shop after militants fired on them from close range. Bari had a 10-member police security and all of them were suspended and arrested because they were not with him when he was attacked.In June, Congress sarpanch Ajay Kumar Pandita was killed outside his house at Lokbhawan in Anantnag district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sarpanch-sajjad-ahmad-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-quazigund-area/story-iHn0Ixz9436yePdFXlAiqI.html
06-08-2020||India||Over 56,000 cases in last 24 hours push India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 2 million||India saw another big jump of 56,282 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Thursday which pushed the nationwide tally closer to two million (1,964,536 to be exact).According to Union heath ministry data, there are 5,95,501 active cases in the country and 13,28,336 patients have been discharged. The number of fatalities has reached 40,699 after 904 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said that the total number of Covid-19 samples tested has reached 2.21 crore, out of which 6,64,949 samples were tested on Wednesday.The tests per million has also seen a sharp increase to 15,568.The country saw its recovery rate rise to 67.19 per cent on Wednesday after 51,706 patients recuperated from Covid-19. The case fatality rate further dropped to 2.09 per cent, the health ministry said.The high recovery rate has also reduced the number of active cases, which are a little over 30 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload.The recovery rate has improved from 63 to 67 per cent in the last 14 days. The number of cured/discharged patients now exceed the active cases of Covid-19 by over seven lakh.Meanwhile, pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila has said that it will start phase 2 clinical trials to establish the efficacy of its anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate from Thursday.It further said that ZyCoV-D was found to be safe and well tolerated in the phase 1 clinical trial. It was able to elicit a high level of neutralising antibodies in animal studies.The company received the central drugs controller’s approval for human trials on July 2.Another drugmaker Cipla said that it is working with government agencies to develop a treatment for Covid-19. “Cipla is collaborating with the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Ministry of Health to develop medications for the treatment of COVID-19,” company’s chairman YK Hamied said.The Mumbai-based drug firm is also ramping up manufacturing of essential drugs required in the fight against the pandemic, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-56-000-cases-in-last-24-hours-push-india-s-covid-19-tally-closer-to-2-million/story-VcUvqeXnM7BZYznm34WVlN.html
06-08-2020||India||China became ‘more aggressive’ during Covid-19; deployed troops along LAC: US defence chief||The world has seen China become “more aggressive” during the Covid-19 pandemic, US Defense Secretary Mark Esper has said, asserting that the country has deployed troops along the Line of Actual Control with India and is acting out in a way that is “inconsistent” with international norms. Esper said Beijing was trying to use the coronavirus tragedy to their advantage for “propaganda purposes”. “What we have seen with regard to what happened in the last seven months coming as part of Covid, if you will, we’ve seen China become more aggressive, trying to use the tragedy, of Covid-19 to their advantage for propaganda purposes. They have really overplayed their hand and we’ve seen them continue to try and exercise this muscle in the South China Sea,” he said on Wednesday. Beijing claims almost all of the 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory. China has been building military bases on artificial islands in the region also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam. Beijing has impeded commercial activity like fishing or mineral exploration by countries like Vietnam and the Philippines, claiming that the ownership of territory belonged to China for hundreds of years. Responding to a question during Aspen Security Forum discussion, Esper said that the Chinese sank a Vietnamese fishing vessel a few months ago. “They continue to twist the arms of others. They’ve deployed troops along the line of actual control in India. We see them acting out in a way that is inconsistent with, you know, international norms, rules of behaviour, if you will, and many of our allies and partners are reacting as well,” he said. His remarks came amid the border face-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed during the clashes with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties in the clashes but it is yet to give out details. The number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35, according to a US intelligence report. The Defense Secretary praised Australia and the UK for pushing Huawei out of their systems or lauded the Australians for a brand-new defense strategy that has long-term commitment to funding. According to Esper, the best way to take on the Chinese aggression is to multilateralise efforts against Beijing. “...The US being unable to travel, we found new ways to communicate and to do it in a multilateral way. We need to continue to advance that. We need to multilateralise those. Maybe not officially, right? But in terms of knitting things up so we talk more as a group,” he said. “That’s the best way to push back against China and its bad behaviour in the Pacific. And I see that as another positive outcome, if you will, of us being unable to travel. We found new ways to communicate and to do it in a multilateral way, and I think we need to continue to advance that,” Esper said. The threat posed by China is not region, but global, he said. “The China competition, by the way, is not limited to Indo PACOM, it is a global competition so we see them in all parts of the world. So it’s multifaceted and it requires tough decisions and look, we are making those tough decisions as best we can,” Esper said. Responding to another question, Esper said that he did not see China right now as an inevitable threat that the US is going to have a fight with. “But we do have to compete, and we have to be much more vigorous in all domains if you will whether it’s again diplomatic, informational, military, political,’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-became-more-aggressive-during-covid-19-deployed-troops-along-lac-us-defence-chief/story-CVDGF9KzDf9Yqs7r3JsfcO.html
06-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: All eyes on RBI MPC’s stance on policy rates and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All eyes on RBI MPC’s stance on policy ratesThe Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India is expected to keep its policy stance accommodative when it announces the decisions of the panel on Thursday. Read morePM Modi condoles death of patients in fire at Ahmedabad’s Covid-19 hospitalPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the tragic loss of lives in a fire that broke out at a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. At least eight patients have been killed in the accident. Read moreHello Kitty Land in Tokyo welcomes visitors back, spread Covid-19 awareness through cute videoHello Kitty, Cinnamoroll, Pompompurin, Kiki, Lala and the other adorable characters at Tokyo, Japan’s Hello Kitty Land are welcoming visitors back amid their company in the amusement park’s partial reopening phase. The park was closed for operations until June this year. Read moreWatch: Ram temple digital billboard runs in New York’s Times SquareA billboard of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple was seen at Times Square in New York. The billboard appeared on day of temple’s foundation stone laying ceremony. Read moreTwitter warns users of a vulnerability in the Android app that might have allowed access to DMsTwitter users were greeted by a security warning that stated that the platform had recently discovered a vulnerability in its Android app that might have impacted users. Read moreIPL 2020 | ‘MS Dhoni is all pumped up, you’ll see his helicopter shots in UAE’: Suresh RainaAfter spending almost five months in lockdown, the IPL will be the first opportunity for Suresh Raina---like the rest of Indian cricket playing fraternity---to get his competitive juices flowing again. Read moreWild tiger fights safari park tiger, video leaves netizens awestruckIt’s not always certain that one would catch a glimpse of a tiger during a safari. But there are enough instances in which people get to see a big cat slurping some water or walking around with its cubs. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-all-eyes-on-rbi-mpc-s-stance-on-policy-rates-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gWG9ejQx12UpwN6UQ23NWM.html
06-08-2020||India||PM Modi ‘saddened’ by fire at Ahmedabad Covid-19 hospital that killed 8||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the loss of lives in a fire that broke out at a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. At least eight patients have been killed in the accident. “Saddened by the tragic hospital fire in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon,” the prime minister tweeted.  Saddened by the tragic hospital fire in Ahmedabad. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to CM @vijayrupanibjp Ji and Mayor @ibijalpatel Ji regarding the situation. Administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected.The prime minister said he has spoken to chief minister Vijay Rupani regarding the situation and assured all possible assistance to the affected. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has ordered a probe which will be led by Additional chief secretary (home department) Sangeeta Singh. The CM has asked for a report on the matter within three days. Rupani also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakhs each to the family of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured. Union home minister Amit Shah also expressed grief on the accident and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured. Deeply anguished by the loss of lives due to a tragic fire accident at a hospital in Ahmedabad. My condolences and thoughts are with the affected families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured.“Deeply anguished by the loss of lives due to a tragic fire accident at a hospital in Ahmedabad. My condolences and thoughts are with the affected families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured.” Shah tweeted. The Prime Minister’s Office has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives. Rs 50,000 as compensation will be given to those injured in the accident. Eight patients in the ICU ward of private Covid-19 designated hospital in Ahmedabad died after a fire broke out on Thursday, a fire official said.The fire broke out at Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura area of Ahmedabad during the early hours of Thursday, the official said.Around 40 other Covid-19 patients at the facility were rescued and moved to a civic hospital in the city, the official added. The cause of the fire is being ascertained. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Gujarat , said that the hospital has been sealed and around 41 patients have been moved to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital. The bodies of the deceased have been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-patients-in-fire-at-ahmedabad-s-covid-19-hospital/story-JmaSMOLMta2kHETfWZdI0J.html
06-08-2020||India||Tripura doctors stage protest over suspension of colleague posted at Covid Care centre||A doctor posted at a Covid-19 Care Centre of Govind Ballabh Panth (GBP), the only dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Tripura, was suspended on Tuesday. The move invited protests from the doctors and medical staff.Dr Uttam Bhattacharjee, an assistant professor of Ophthalmology department of the Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC), was suspended under sub-rule (I) of Rule 10 of the Central Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 and a disciplinary action is contemplated against him, according to an order served by joint secretary Debasish Das. Dr Bhattacharjee was asked not to leave the capital city without permission of the concerned authority. Doctors from Indian Medical Association (IMA), Tripura chapter, AGMC Teachers’ Forum and All Tripura Government Doctors Association (ATGDA) termed the suspension as “unjustified”. They demanded immediate withdrawal of the suspension order.“We don’t know why Dr Bhattacharjee was suspended. But this kind of decision is an attack on the medical community. His suspension is unjustified,” said Dr Rajesh Choudhury, secretary of ATGDA.However, he added that there was a rumour that Dr Bhattacharjee was suspended in connection to a recent visit of a legislator to the Covid care centre. “We have heard about the rumour. But we don’t know whether it is true or not,” he said. A case was lodged against BJP legislator Sudip Roy Barman for entering a Covid care centre in Agartala on Sunday “without any authorisation” and thus violating Epidemic Diseases Act and under Section 3 of Tripura Medical Service and Protection of Property Damage Act.Dr Bhattacharjee could not be contacted for his reaction, but an official of hospital claimed that he is yet to receive his suspension order. Moreover, Dr Bhattacharjee was on duty at the Covid care centre entire day on Sunday, the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-doctors-stage-protest-over-suspension-of-colleague-posted-at-covid-care-centre/story-j3GtH60vkhtx0hvFHoPeTO.html
06-08-2020||India||Curfew imposed in Assam’s district after clashes over Ram Mandir celebrations||Curfew has been imposed in parts of Sonitpur district in Assam after several persons were injured in clashes between two communities over a rally organised to celebrate the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. “Curfew imposed in Sonitpur district in areas falling under Thelamara and Dhekiajuli police stations. Movement of persons without special permission from the district magistrate shall not be permitted with effect from 10 pm of August 5,” Sonitpur deputy commissioner Manvendra Pratap Singh tweeted. Also read: Why Opposition is caught in a bind on the Ram Mandir issueThe decision to impose the curfew was taken after the locals in Thelamara, belonging to a particular community, objected to a bike rally being taken out by Bajrang Dal activists to mark the Ram Mandir event, an official said refusing to be quoted. “The bikers were playing loud music and were headed to a temple in Thelamara when local residents objected to the rally being organised at the time of Covid-19 pandemic and when there was a ban on such activities,” he said. This led to arguments and clashes in which several persons were injured and some bikes were damaged. The police had to resort to firing in the air and bring in additional forces to bring the situation under control. “I am of the opinion that there exists a grave law and order situation due to present scenario… whereas the groups are trying to indulge in violence in the name of protest and in view of the present event, there is apprehension of grave risks and danger to human lives and properties if persons are allowed to move freely,” Singh said in his order. The curfew will continue till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-imposed-in-assam-s-district-after-clashes-over-ram-mandir-celebrations/story-5EzJ6YeQWh9hiAYuDCXghJ.html
06-08-2020||India||Mumbai rains highlights: Several areas face flood-like situation after incessant rainfall||Mumbai received the highest rainfall of the season within just 12 hours of times on Wednesday. The city recorded 215.8 mm rain, followed by 101.9 mm in eastern suburbs and 76.03 mm in western suburbs.Heavy rain leads to waterlogging, tree collapses, partial house collapses, signages of prominent buildings flying away.Among the worst affected areas was South Mumbai where many new locations were inundated and were heavily waterlogged. No injuries were reported. Instances of house collapse were also reported from the various parts of the city. No injuries were reported. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has opened temporary shelters for stranded passengers and others at its schools.Follow all the highlights here:Part of dilapidated building collapses in Mira-BhayandarA portion of a dilapidated four- storey building collapsed due to incessant rainfall in Mira- Bhayandar city of Maharashtra’s Thane district, a civic official said on Thursday.Mumbai’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre saved lives of 16 fishermen at sea about 70 km west of Arnala coast, ThaneMumbai’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) successfully saved the lives of 16 fishermen in distress at sea about 70 km west of Arnala coast, Thane. The boat was caught up in very rough sea conditions and very high-speed winds prevailing at sea: Indian Coast Guard, reports ANI.Uddhav Thackeray reviews Maharashtra’s preparedness for heavy rainsMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday took stock of the state administration’s preparedness in the wake of the incessant heavy rains in Mumbai and other parts of the state, including Kolhapur where the Panchganga river was flowing close to the danger mark.Watch: A portion of a house collapsed in Dadar after heavy rains battered the area #WATCH Mumbai: A portion of a house collapsed in Dadar today, following heavy rainfall in the city. #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/csaWccHS3vHigh tide hits Mumbai’s Marine Drive amid heavy rainfall34 roads closed for traffic movementIn Maharashtra, 34 roads including 9 state highways were closed for traffic movement due to flooding in Kolhapur, district administration said.Rajaram dam currently flowing above danger level.Parts of Maharashtra face flood-like situation after incessant rainfallAfter incessant heavy rainfall, different parts of Maharashtra are facing severe waterlogging and flood-like situation. Mumbai’s Colaba received 331.8mm rainfall in the last 24 hoursMumbai’s Colaba received 331.8mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. A high tide of 4.33mtr expected at 1351 hours today, said India Meteorological Department. 16 NDRF teams positioned in MaharashtraIn view of the evolving situation in Maharashtra due to the incessant rains, 16 NDRF teams have been pre-positioned in Maharashtra for rescue efforts. Five teams are positioned in Mumbai, four at Kolhapur, two in Sangli, and one team each in Satara, Thane, Palghar, Nagpur, Raigad, NDRF said in a statement.Watch: Mumbai’s Nair hospital flooded after heavy rainfall Mumbai's Nair Hospital flooded as the city received heavy rainfall yesterday. As per IMD, Colaba received 331.8mm & Santacruz received 162.3mm rainfall in last 24 hours.Mumbai city & suburbs very likely to receive few spells of moderate to heavy rainfall during next 3- 4 hours. pic.twitter.com/Rzd0ufnJMVModerate to heavy rainfall expected in Mumbai and nearby suburbsMumbai city and nearby suburbs are “very likely” to receive moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 3-4 hours, India Meteorological Department said on Thursday.The rains will be accompanied with strong winds reaching 60-70 kmph. Possibility of thunder and lightning in some areas, IMD said.Vihar lake overflowsVihar Lake that supplies water to Mumbai residents is overflowing after incessant rainfall in the area. Water that entered JJ hospital after incessant showers now cleared: BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed that water entered JJ Hospital due to incessant rainfall, was cleared. “There is no water accumulation in the hospital now,” the civic body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/mumbai-rains-latest-updates/story-kEEHBvsHpvkZH7oFmAvDxL.html
06-08-2020||India||Mutilated carcass of leopard in Odisha triggers suspicion of poaching||The mutilated carcass of a leopard was found in Odisha’s Sundergarh district on Wednesday, triggering suspicion of poaching by villagers.Forest officials in Sundargarh district said the caracass of the leopard with its lower limb severed was found near a railway track at Badarampia village under Hemagir forest range. Sundargarh District Forest Officer (DFO) Sanjay Swain said as the leopard had attacked and injured five villagers of the area on Tuesday evening, there is possibility that the locals killed the animal.“We are investigating into the issue and would take action against anyone who is found to have killed the leopard,” he said. The Hemgiri Forest Range is reportedly home to many big cats including leopard, tiger and black panther. Leopards are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Over the last 10 years, at least 155 leopards have been poached across Odisha. The killing of the leopard came days after the all India Tiger Census 2018 conducted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority revealed that the number of tigers in Odisha have remained static between 2014 and 2018. Wildlife conservationists of Odisha blamed poaching for the lack of rise in tiger numbers.In last two months, forest department as well as special task force of Crime Branch of Odisha Police have seized five leopard skins indicating its largescale poaching. Last month, a joint team of Chhattisgarh Police and Odisha forest department had arrested a person on charges of leopard skin trade in Nuapada district on the Odisha-Chhattisgarh border. A bag containing leopard skin was seized from his possession.In June, the Special Task Force of Odisha Crime Branch has seized four leopard skins and arrested three people in Nayagarh district who were engaged in trading of leopard skin.“Odisha has been losing both tigers and leopards due to poaching despite the state having excellent habitat and vast forests for the big cats to flourish. The forest department has miserably failed to control poaching even in tiger reserves like Simlipal and Satkosia,” alleged wildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mutilated-carcass-of-leopard-in-odisha-triggers-suspicion-of-poaching/story-lAGVUQajbfAioinkzfuDVK.html
06-08-2020||India||Two sloth bears killed by poachers in Chhattisgarh, 4 arrested||Two sloth bears, including a female, were killed by electrocution by the four poachers in Chhattisgarh’s Mahasamund district, forest officers said on Wednesday. Four people of Beldih village of the district were arrested by the forest department and were booked under Wildlife Protection Act. “The accused laid live wires in which electricity was flowing in Chhindauli village under Pithora forest range. Two sloth bears came in contact with the wire and were killed,” Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey told Hindustan Times. The officers said that the incident took place on Monday evening and forest department started investigating the case after the carcasses were found. “The wire was laid to hunt wild animals just outskirts of the village. We were suspicious about some people of the same village and hence we called sniffer dogs to locate the accused. On Sunday with the help of dogs, the department raided some houses and found some wires. Four persons were arrested and were booked under Wildlife Protection Act,” said Pandey. The accused were identified as Ramji Nishad (65), Nainsingh (38), both from Chhindauli, Devlal Chakradhari (30) and Jaiprakash, natives of Beldih. Meawwhile, a deer was also killed in Garyiband district on Tuesday evening with arrows and the department has started investigating the case. “We have some leads and dog squad has been sent on the spot on Wednesday,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-sloth-bears-killed-by-poachers-in-chhattisgarh-4-arrested/story-TDcxMBIBvztYRAHNCJPHAN.html
06-08-2020||India||Closer India-US ties important amidst Chinese ‘aggression’: US lawmakers||Throwing their weight behind the India-US relationship which enjoys the bipartisan support, two top American lawmakers have said that close partnership between the two countries assumes significance in view of the “aggression” that New Delhi faces from Beijing. Writing jointly to demonstrate the strong bipartisan support for the US-India relationship, the chairman and ranking member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs in a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar said members of both the parties recognise the impact that a strong US-India partnership will have on the trajectory of the 21st century. “As Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi said in February of this year, our ties ‘are no longer just another partnership. It is a far greater and closer relationship’“, said the letter signed by Eliot Engel, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Michael T McCaul, its ranking member. “This closer relationship is all the more important as India faces aggression from China along your shared border, which is part of the Chinese government’s consistent pattern of unlawful and belligerent territorial aggression across the Indo-Pacific,” the two powerful Congressmen said. Their remarks came amid the border face-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed during the clashes with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties in the clashes but it is yet to give out details. The number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35, according to a US intelligence report. The United States will remain steadfast in support of India’s efforts to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity, said the letter dated August 5 and was tweeted by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “As champions of the US-India relationship, we have been delighted to see our countries’ close cooperation on issues from defense to climate change. It is because of our support for the bilateral relationship that we note with concern that conditions in Jammu and Kashmir have not normalised one year after India’s repeal of Article 370 and the establishment of Jammu and Kashmir as a Union Territory,” they wrote. “We acknowledge the ongoing serious security and counterterrorism concerns in the region and look forward to working with your government to address these concerns while upholding our shared commitments to the democratic values and freedoms on which our countries’ bond was built,” the lawmakers wrote. “As Prime Minister Modi said earlier this year, ‘Unity in diversity and unity’s vibrancy is the key to a strong relationship between India and America’. We look forward to working with you to continue to strengthen and advance this vibrant and consequential relationship,” Engel and McCaul wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closer-india-us-ties-important-amidst-chinese-aggression-us-lawmakers/story-0gLgluXcYkPtoLc6yMrKJM.html
06-08-2020||India||PM Modi uses silver brick to lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir||Loud cheers of Jai Shri Ram, the chanting of Vedic hymns and the blowing of conches greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi as stepped into the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Uttar Pradesh Ayodhya town at 12.07pm on Wednesday. Inside, 175 guests waited patiently in chairs spaced two-feet apart under a waterproof canopy in shades of red, gold and yellow. Outside, in the temple town, people thronged shops with television sets to watch the event, and rooftops of houses near the temple site became vantage viewing points as people jostled to get a glimpse of the Prime Minister. “Bhoomi pujan (the ground breaking ceremony) is a new beginning for us and end of a bitter past,” said Sujeet Bahadur, 65, a local resident who is old enough to remember the movement for the Ram temple. Dressed in a traditional silk dhoti and gold-coloured kurta, Modi offered prayers to the infant deity, Ram Lalla, at the makeshift temple and performed a circumambulation, before planting a sapling .He then participated in the ground breaking ceremony. The Vedic ceremony, presided over by Senapati Shastri of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham in Tamil Nadu, began with prayers to Ganesha, the Hindu god of beginnings. Hymns dedicated to Lord Hanuman, Kaal Bhairav and Goddess Kali, the clan deity of Ram, were also recited. A 40kg silver brick donated by temple trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, was used for the ritual.The main foundation-laying event began at 12.45pm, a pre-ordained time decided by astrologers and seers. The priests dug a pit in the sanctum sanctorum of the proposed temple, the silver brick was removed and nine other bricks, engraved with the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’ [Hail Lord Ram], placed instead. All the bricks were donated by devotees around the world in 1989, when Hindu groups started mass mobilization to build the temple in what they believed is the birth place of Lord Ram.A lotus and the PM’s personal offering, a kalash (holy pitcher) made of five metals sacred in Hindu traditions (gold, silver, copper, iron and zinc) was placed on the bricks. A copper plaque donated by Shankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham, one of Hinduism’s holy seats, inscribed with Sanskrit hymns was also laid at temple’s foundation. As the PM offered prayers, Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Salil Singhal, nephew of late Vishwa Hindu Parishad chief Ashok Singhal, and his wife looked on. All were wearing masks.Soil from at least 2,000 Hindu holy sites and water from at least 100 sacred rivers were used for purification and other rituals. The 175 guests included 135 seers from various spiritual traditions and eminent people from Ayodhya. “Nine bricks are kept here... these were sent by devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989. There are 2,75,000 such bricks, out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” said a priest officiating the ceremony.The ceremony lasted 40 minutes, after which the PM released a postage stamp on the Ram temple designed by the Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, an organisation of the Uttar Pradesh government’s culture department. Adityanath presented a three-feet high statue of Kodanda Ram carved from rosewood to PM Modi. Kodada (literally, with bow) Ram represents the deity from the period during which Ram was looking for Sita after her abduction in the epic Ramayana.In the evening, fireworks lit up the sky and tens of thousands of earthen lamps glittered across the town as locals said they hoped the ceremony marked a new beginning. Authorities said 100,000 lamps were lit along the banks of the Saryu river. “Lord Ram belongs to everyone. Ram temple will also bring overall development to Ayodhya,” said Iqbal Ansari, son of the oldest litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit decided by the Supreme Court last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-uses-silver-brick-to-lay-the-foundation-stone-of-ram-mandir/story-SdjaznicaNTMBh4WSxk8OK.html
06-08-2020||India||Manoj Sinha appointed as new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday appointed former Union minister Manoj Sinha as the next Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. He will replace Girish Chandra Murmu who resigned on Wednesday.In a release confirming the same, the President house said, “The President has been pleased to appoint Shri Manoj Sinha, to be the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office vice Shri Girish Chandra Murmu.”President Kovind accepted Murmu’s resignation on Thursday. There is buzz that he is going to be the next Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India.The move to appoint Sinha as the next Lieutenant Governor is aimed at reaching out to the people of the union territory with a soft political touch, something that Murmu, a former bureaucrat, could not achieve during his nine-month tenure.After Satyapal Malik, who was governor of erstwhile J&K state, Sinha is the new political touch to the Valley - both Malik and Sinha are grassroot politicians with the latter an alma mater of IIT-BHU, Varanasi. He lost the last Lok Sabha election to strongman and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Afzal Ansari.Sinha has represented the parliamentary constituency of Ghazipur in eastern Uttar Pradesh thrice in the Lok Sabha. He has also served as minister of communications and minister of state for Railways.After the stunning victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, Sinha’s name was among the contenders for the post of chief minister. He eventually lost the post to Yogi Adityanath, a five-time MP from Gorakhpur.He was elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 1999. During his student days, Sinha was the students’ union president in the Banaras Hindu University.As minister of state for Railways, Sinha handled key assignments including the task to connect several cities in eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manoj-sinha-appointed-as-new-lieutenant-governor-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-KB2e86D0DRNUdneNrTmhTI.html
06-08-2020||India||From habeas corpus to 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir: Pleas in Supreme Court||August 5 marks the first anniversary of the effective abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status on Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and the reorganisation of the state into two Union territories. Numerous petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court against the changes. Here is a look at where those cases stand.Challenge to revocation of Article 370At least 23 petitions are pending before the Supreme Court challenging the Centre’s decision to end the special status of J&K by revoking the article. These petitions were heard in December 2019 and January 2020 by a five- judge constitution bench headed by justice NV Ramana.Certain intervenors in the case then requested that the case be referred to a larger bench. This, they argued, was because two earlier SC judgments, Prem Nath Kaul (1959) and Sampat Prakash (1968), are in conflict with regard to the scope and intent of Article 370 and whether the provision was intended to be a temporary or a permanent one. Since both those judgments were delivered by benches of five judges, the intervenors asked the court to refer the issue to a bench of seven or more judges.Also read: J&K decision a strategic blunder for India, says Pak PM Imran KhanThe central government and the Union territory of J&K opposed the reference and submitted that there was no conflict between the two judgments.The Constitution bench heard the parties with regard to the reference and delivered its verdict on this limited aspect on March 2. It declined to refer the matter to a larger bench. The case has not been heard after that.Petitions against lockdownThe abrogation of Article 370 was accompanied by a total shutdown of Kashmir to forestall protests. Telephone lines, mobile communication and internet services were stopped and restrictions imposed on the press and transport within the valley.A slew of petitions were filed before the SC challenging such restrictions, which the petitioners argued were in violation of their fundamental right to speech and expression and the right to move freely under Article 19 of the Constitution. The petitioners included editor of Kashmir Times newspaper, Anuradha Bhasin, and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad.A three-judge top court bench comprising justices NV Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and BR Gavai heard the case and ruled on January 10 that all restrictive orders should be reviewed by the government.Also read: In a rebuff to Pakistan, UNSC says again Kashmir should be resolved bilaterallyImportantly, it held that freedom of speech and expression and freedom to carry on trade or profession through the internet was a fundamental right under Article 19 of the Constitution and any order suspending internet services can be only for a temporary duration and not for an indefinite period. Such orders should indicate the reasons for the necessity of such a shutdown and they should be put in the public domain, the court ruled.While the court did say that prohibitions on free speech and movement will be violative of fundamental rights, it did not strike down such prohibitions. Instead, it asked the government itself to review such restrictions. The practical impact of this judgment was little although the government subsequently eased many restrictions in the Valley.Plea for restoration of 4G servicesA petition was filed before the SC in April challenging the order issued by J&K administration in March restricting the internet speed in mobile data to 2G. The petition by the NGO, Foundation for Media Professionals, prayed that 4G internet services be restored in J&K taking into account the Covid -19 pandemic.The Supreme Court, in a judgment delivered on May 11, refrained from passing directions to restore 4G mobile internet services in J&K, instead constituting a special committee to take a call on the issue and examine the necessity to allow faster internet in certain areas of the newly formed UT. Subsequently, a contempt of court petition was filed by the petitioner in June pointing out that no action had been taken yet to comply with the SC’s judgment. The Centre told the SC that a special committee was constituted to review restrictions on mobile internet in J&K and it decided against offering any relaxation for the time being. The case is due to come up for hearing on August 7.Habeas Corpus petitionsVarious Habeas Corpus petitions were also filed before the SC against detention of individuals. Four such petitions:Omar Abdullah: Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah’s detention was challenged in February by his sister Sara Abdullah Pilot. The top court on February 14 issued notice to the J&K administration but the petition became infructuous (pointless) after Abdullah was released on March 24.Mehbooba Mufti: Iltija Mufti , the daughter of former CM Mehbooba Mufti challenged Mufti’s detention under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) Act, saying that it was based on vague and slanderous grounds that demonstrated personal and political bias against her.In her petition, Iltija Mufti said that the February 5 order shifting her mother from preventive custody to detention under the PSA was based on a dossier prepared by the superintendent of police, Srinagar, replete with personal remarks and in bad taste. The court issued notice to the Centre on February 26 but the matter has not been heard after that. Saifuddin Soz: This would be the most noteworthy of all the Habeas Corpus pleas from J&K in Supreme Court.Congress leader and former union minister Saifuddin Soz’s detention was challenge before the Supreme Court on June 1 by his wife Mumtazunnisa Soz.Soz, an octogenarian, has been under detention since August 5, 2019.When the petition came up for hearing on June 8, the SC sought the response of the Centre and J&K. The Centre filed an affidavit in July stating that Soz was never under detention and the petition was frivolous. It was stated that Soz has been given security personnel for his protection and he is free to go anywhere.The SC disposed of the case on July 29 after recording the centre’s stance. There was a twist in the tale as Soz was captured on video by TV channels stating that he was under house arrest. Interestingly, the order passed by the Supreme Court on July 29 disposing of the petition is yet to be uploaded on the website of the court.Mian Abdul Qayoom: President of the J&K high court bar association, Mian Abdul Qayoom was detained on August 5, 2019 under the PSA. He was subsequently shifted to Agra the same month and then to Tihar jail in January 2020.Qayoom’s plea challenging his detention was turned down by the J&K high court on May 29. The high court held that Qayoom’s ideology was like a live volcano. Qayoom then appealed to the top court. A three-judge bench ordered Qayoom’s release on July 29 after the central government agreed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-habeas-corpus-to-4g-services-in-jammu-and-kashmir-pleas-in-supreme-court/story-Oxo1KT4fACr1N3XCPk1UWK.html
06-08-2020||India||J&K decision a strategic blunder for India, says Pak PM Imran Khan||Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi’s action to scrap the special status of J&K was a “strategic blunder” based on four miscalculations.Addressing a special session of the legislative assembly of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in Muzaffarabad on the first anniversary of India’s action, Khan said the first mistaken assumption was to expand his Hindu vote base by revoking Kashmir’s status. The second assumption, he said, was that Pakistan would remain quiet “because we were trying to become friends with them”. The third assumption was the world would stay silent because other countries want to use India to counter China, he added. The fourth miscalculation, he said, was that India thought it would be able to crush the Kashmiris by posting hundreds of thousands of troops in the Kashmir Valley and then change the region’s demography. All these assumptions had proved wrong, Khan said.Also read: In a rebuff to Pakistan, UNSC says again Kashmir should be resolved bilaterallyThere was no immediate reaction from the Indian side to Khan’s comments, which came a day after Islamabad issued a new political map that depicted the Indian union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and parts of Gujarat state as Pakistani territories.India had dismissed the map as an “exercise in political absurdity” with no legal backing.Khan told his audience that his government had reacted strongly to India’s actions last year. “The UN discussed the Kashmir issue thrice during the last year for the first time since 1965. It also published two reports on human rights abuses in...Kashmir,” he said.He said he personally spoke to world leaders about the issue. “I explained to [US President Donald] Trump twice how Kashmir was a flashpoint. I talked to [German Chancellor Angela] Merkel, [UK Prime Minister] Boris Johnson, [French President Emmanuel] Macron, explained to them, made them understand,” he said.“Today, Modi is exposed in front of the world, the biggest result of which is that people are [now] looking towards [the situation in] Kashmir. India is now in a blind alley and there’s no way out from this situation,” he said.Explaining the reasoning behind the new map of Pakistan, Khan said he wanted to show to the world Kashmir is a disputed area. “We have said at every forum the Kashmir issue should be resolved according to resolutions passed by the UN Security Council and we have written this on the map as well,” he said.He announced his government will confer its highest civilian award, the Nishan-e-Pakistan, on Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani.Also read: Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is whyMeanwhile, Pakistan’s foreign ministry clarified that the new map reaffirmed the country’s commitment to finding a solution to the Kashmir through “the realization of the Kashmiris’ inalienable right to self-determination through a free and impartial plebiscite” under the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-decision-a-strategic-blunder-for-india-says-pak-pm-imran-khan/story-Qy90EKUzAwl43eUkGJDuIN.html
06-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, the number of cases in Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu, which drove up the number of India’s coronavirus disease infections for much of April, May, and June, accounted for just 26.5% of the total 50,777 cases in the country, according to the HT dashboard. On Monday, the corresponding proportion was 31% of 49,401 cases. On Sunday, it was 30.7% of 53,112 cases. And on Saturday, it was 30% of 55,617 cases.This writer has been saying it for some time, but the epicentre of the pandemic in India is moving further into the hinterland and to parts of the peninsula where it did not previously seem to be very prevalent. To be sure, while Delhi has seen a sharp fall in cases, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have not – so the new wave is being driven largely by states such as Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. On Saturday, these five states accounted for 43.4% of all cases in India; on Sunday, this proportion was 44.17%; on Monday, it was 44.6%; and on Tuesday, 47.6%. Also read: Zydus to start second phase of Covid-19 vaccine candidate trials todaySome final numbers to close the argument: while these five states account for 29.7% of all cases, they account for 40.7% of active ones currently; and while they account for just about a fifth of all deaths, over the past four days, they have accounted for a third of the deaths (which are continuing to rise). There are other states whose numbers are also a cause for concern (Telangana, for instance, where the testing is also low), but these five are the states where immediate intervention is required.New Delhi, we have a problem – and it is not in New Delhi.The trajectories – of the two states and the Capital ravaged by the virus through April, May, and much of June, and of the five states that are now seeing a spike in cases – are telling.Of the five states, three have already crossed the 100,000 mark in terms of number of cases. The others will, especially as they increase testing (indeed, the efforts to fight the pandemic, of at least three of these five states, have been hobbled by inadequate testing). Some of these states are looking at antigen testing as a quick fix. Uttar Pradesh, for instance, has conducted large-scale testing camps using these testing kits that give results within the hour. Many of them are simply following the Delhi model, one element of which was a sharp increase in testing using rapid antigen tests. These tests respond to the protein on the surface of viruses (unlike molecular tests, which respond to viral RNA, or antibody tests, which respond to antibodies generated by the body to fight the virus), and their biggest advantage is that they are quick. As this column has suggested previously, it makes sense to use them when a large number of people have to be tested in a very short time – for instance, in a containment zone where cases are peaking, but it definitely does not make sense to use them as a substitute for gold-standard molecular tests such as the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) one.Indeed, given that other parameters (such as the occupancy of hospital beds) clearly establishes that the Capital is on the mend, Delhi should probably stop using antigen tests altogether and use only RT-PCR ones. Neither time nor capacity is a constraint (the first is reason enough to use antigen tests; the second, not so – the only way to deal with inadequate testing capacity is to rapidly acquire it).If antigen tests have to be used – they have to be used the way they were meant to be. Scientists recommend that negative antigen tests be followed up by molecular tests. The Indian Council of Medical Research also suggests that this be done. That’s because these tests are very accurate in identifying positive cases, but some of the cases they identify as negative are positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0uoJjdHgCYn7GpHeIvOjwO.html
06-08-2020||India||Ayodhya basks in Diwali-like glow after temple ceremony||Diwali-like scenes were witnessed in Ayodhya as fireworks and earthen lamps lit up the temple town on Wednesday evening after bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple was performed earlier in the day.The foundation laying ceremony marked a new beginning and the end of a bitter past, locals said. People across all sections of the society said they felt construction of Ram temple would bring development not only to Ayodhya but also to the adjoining regions.After sunset, Ayodhya’s skyline was aglow with fireworks. All houses were illuminated with earthen lamps, candles and rangoli. Temples across the town were decorated.The entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus and Hanuman Garhi temple shimmered in the light of earthen lamps.The majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat on the Saryu riverbank looked splendid when over a lakh earthen lamps were lit. Students of the Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University and volunteers of several organisations worked hard to light earthen lamps at the ghat and make the evening special. The stairs of the ghat were decorated too.Also Read: Artis, prayers: Maha BJP celebrates Ayodhya Ram Mandir bhoomipujanLocals thronged to the ghat to be a part of the celebrations.Dashrath Mahal, Kanak Bhawan, Rang Mahal and other prominent places associated with Lord Ram were also illuminated.Locals burst fire crackers on roof-tops, streets and in narrow lanes, greeting each other with ‘Jai Shri Ram’.“Bhoomi pujan of Ram temple is a new beginning for us and the end of a bitter past. We are hopeful that Ram temple will also bring development to Ayodhya and its adjoining districts,” said Sujeet Bahadur, aged around 65. Bahadur is a resident of Rakibganj area of the temple town.Hari Shanker Soni, 50, who runs a small jewellery shop at Babu Bazar, was also optimistic about possible development of Ayodhya.Also Read: Have asked PM to ensure early completion of the Ram Mandir: Mahant Nritya Gopal Das“Ram temple will bring development to Ayodhya. Now, devotees from all across the county will come to Ayodhya. More footfalls will ensure more economic activity,” said Soni.Muslims of Ayodhya were also optimistic.Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim litigant in Ayodhya title suit, said: “After the Supreme Court verdict in favour of Ram temple, the dispute is over. I will honour the court verdict.”Ansari had disassociated himself with the Babri Masjid Action Committee’s decision to file a review petition in Supreme Court against its November 9, 2019, judgment in the Ayodhya title suit. The Supreme Court had rejected the review petition.Ansari attended the bhoomi pujan ceremony at the invitation of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.“Lord Ram belongs to everyone. Ram temple will also bring overall development to Ayodhya,” said Ansari.Athar Jamal, 25, of Tedi Bazar, who is studying in Saket PG Degree College, said: “The younger generation in Ayodhya wants development. Now, with construction of Ram temple, I think big companies will also set up their offices in Ayodhya, generating job opportunities for youths.”Jamal’s friend Amzad Ali wants to start his own business.“I want to do my own business. In the coming days, Ayodhya will witness a lot of activity. I am unable to decide what business I should do. But I will not seek a job. Instead, I will run my own business,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-basks-in-diwali-like-glow-after-temple-ceremony/story-Qi5ujGQCK7URMPp3WGessI.html
06-08-2020||India||Ayodhya’s tryst with destiny||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick of the Ram Mandir at a grand “bhoomi pujan” ceremony in Ayodhya on Wednesday, and said that August 5 will stand as a symbol of the commitment of several generations that devoted their lives to the construction of the temple, just as August 15 symbolises the sacrifices of countless Indians for Independence.Modi spoke of Ram as a thread of India’s unity in diversity, referring to the multiplicity of Ramayanas across the country, highlighting Ram’s appeal across the world, and distilling Ram’s messages — of social harmony, non-discrimination, care for the poor, protecting those who seek refuge, and commitment to the motherland. He also said that the more power a nation has, the greater is its capacity for friendship. These were all messages widely read in sync with India’s contemporary governance and security priorities.Also read: For once, saffron cuts across political divide with Ram temple event celebrations in MPIn the backdrop of the protracted political, social and legal dispute that has marked the issue of the Ram temple, Modi added that the temple should be constructed on the foundation of mutual love and brotherhood, and it was only through everyone’s participation (“sabka saath”) and with everyone’s trust (“sabka vishwas”) that India can achieve development for everyone (“sabka vikas”). He also pointed to the economic benefits of the temple for the wider Ayodhya region, where pilgrims from across the world would come to pray. The beginning of the construction comes after a 135-year-old legal dispute culminated when the Supreme Court, last November, awarded the disputed land to Hindu parties. It also comes in the wake of a three-decade-long mobilisation by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological affiliates, and the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 -- an act declared illegal by the same SC verdict -- that led to communal violence and deaths in various parts of the country. The event was preceded by days of preparation and festivities in Ayodhya. Modi landed in the town on Wednesday morning, visited the Hanuman Garhi temple, planted a tree, participated in the rituals associated with bhoomi pujan, and then released a special postal stamp on the occasion. He then addressed a select audience, carefully curated due to pandemic-related restrictions, but his speech was beamed across the country. The event also saw the participation of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat as a special guest — a rare occasion when the PM and the RSS chief shared the stage and spoke on the same platform. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the head of the Ram Temple trust, Nritya Gopal Das also spoke at the function following the bhoomi pujan ceremony.Also read: Golden chapter, says PM Modi after laying foundation stone for Ram templeAdityanath welcomed the guests, highlighted how this day had arrived after waiting for five centuries, and emphasised that it had come through peaceful, constitutional and democratic methods. The wishes of India’s 135 crore [1.35 billion] people and the Sanatan Dharma followers have been fulfilled,” he said. Bhagwat spoke of a sense of satisfaction and joy at seeing the temple being constructed. “Today is a new beginning of a new India,” he said. “There is a wave of joy in the country now...” Modi used a 40kg silver brick, donated by Das, for the ceremony and presented a kalash (holy pitcher) made of five metals for the ceremony. The event happened under a canopy decorated in shades of red, yellow and gold. In the audience sat 175 guests, drawn from 135 spiritual traditions and eminent citizens from Ayodhya. Of the three Muslim invitees, only Iqbal Ansari -- the son of the oldest litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, Hashim Ansari -- attended the event. “Lord Ram belongs to everyone. Ram temple will also bring overall development to Ayodhya,” said Ansari. In his address, Modi spoke of how it was an emotional day for all Indians, many of whom could not believe that they could see this moment in their own lifetime. He said that “Ram Lalla” (the child deity), living in a tent, will finally find a home in a grand temple, and Ram Jamnabhoomi would finally be free of the cycle of breaking and rebuilding. The PM spoke of the power of Ram, and in what appeared to be a reference to the belief that a temple was demolished to construct the Babri mosque, he said, “See the power of Ram. Structures got demolished; every effort was made to erase his existence; but Ram is still etched in our minds. He is the basis of our culture.” The Ram temple, Modi said, was a “modern symbol”, a symbol of faith, a symbol of national sentiment, a symbol of the collective power of the people, and the process of temple construction was a process of bringing together and uniting the people of the nation, and connecting the past with the present. Alluding to the diverse appeal of Ram, he referred to the different Ramayanas read and recited across the country, and the intersection of Ram with Sikhism, Buddhism and Jainism. Modi spoke of Ram’s following globally, spanning from the Muslim-majority Indonesia to neighbours such as Nepal and Sri Lanka and even Iran and China. He said, “Ram belongs to everyone; Ram is present in everyone.” The PM highlighted Ram’s qualities of truthfulness and bravery, and claimed social harmony constituted the basis of his rule, and there hadn’t been an ideal ruler such as Ram in the world. He said Ram had espoused the values of mutual love and brotherhood — and this should be the basis of the construction of the temple. He praised the dignity with which everyone had followed and abided by the SC verdict last year, and the need to respect everyone’s sentiments. Chronicling the messages of Ram’s rule, Modi spoke of how this was Gandhi’s ideal of Ram Rajya and it was what India was following. These included how no one should be left poor or unhappy; how men and women should be equally happy, without discrimination; how farmers and those engaged in livestock farming should be happy; that elders, children and medical personnel should be protected (a message he said was reinforced by the coronavirus pandemic); that those who seek refuge must be protected — a possible reference to CAA; and that through power and fear, the capacity for peace increases. “That is why the stronger our nation becomes, the more secure it will be and there will be peace and friendship.” The Congress said it was a day for people to come together. “Congress consistently believed in resolving the Ayodhya issue either through dialogue or through acceptance of the verdict of the court. That’s the only way in which mature democracies and multicultural societies resolve conflict...today is a historic day when India is witnessing a closure to the issue,” said Congress’s Pawan Khera.Also read| Bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya will establish self-confidence for making India self-reliant: Mohan BhagwatWhile Congress president Sonia Gandhi did not comment on bhoomi pujan, she asked party leaders to speak on it on all media platforms so that the party’s message reaches out to the people, people familiar with the development said. “Moreover, the CWC resolution is already there and that is the official stand of the party,” a party leader said on the condition of anonymity.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said he hoped future generations would tread the path shown by ‘maryada purushottam’ (an adjective for Ram referring to his commitment to justice and dignity for all). Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati said it was unfortunate that Ayodhya, a city of many religions, was in the news for the dispute for years.“However, it is nice that the Supreme Court ended the dispute and this also, to some extent, stopped politics that some parties were indulging in,” she tweeted. All India Muslim Personal Law Board secretary Zafaryab Jilani said the ceremony won’t change the reality and that, for the board, the site would continue to be treated as mosque land. “We are quiet because we had said that we would respect the law of the land and go by the court’s verdict,” Jilani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-s-tryst-with-destiny/story-KZEJAHsUK1CWUAmw4iZZjJ.html
06-08-2020||India||Mumbai gets highest rainfall of season in 12 hours: Report||Mumbai received the highest rainfall of the season within just 12 hours on Wednesday besides the highest-ever wind speed, the city civic body said.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the island city recorded 215.8 mm rain, followed by 101.9 mm in eastern suburbs and 76.03 mm in western suburbs.The ‘D’ civic ward, that includes upscale areas like Malabar Hill and Peddar Road, received 309 mm rainfall, while the maximum wind speed of 101.4 kmph was recorded at Marine drive around 4.15 pm, the civic body said.“The Fire Brigade and its flood rescue teams are deployed at half a dozen Regional Reconciliation Centres with th required manpower and equipment.“Three units of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were also active and they have been asked to be ready for immediate help in case of an emergency,” the BMC said.The civic body has opened temporary shelters for stranded passengers and others at its schools.Meanwhile, several roads like Mahapalika Marg and Colaba Causeway Road in south Mumbai were blocked and closed for traffic after trees collapsed due to high-velocity winds in the evening.According to sources, several roads and areas in south Mumbai, which never witnessed water-logging in the past, were flooded and scores of vehicles, including BEST buses, were stranded on roads.Many motorists abandoned their vehicles in flooded streets due to breakdown, which badly affected the traffic movements.A BEST spokesperson said the civic body-run transport undertaking operated nearly 90 buses from outside various railway stations for various parts of the city.He, however, said no BEST bus suffered any major damage due to collapse of trees, but several breakdown of buses were reported.Several videos of rain havoc in Mumbai went viral on social media on Wednesday, showing floodwater inside shops, building compounds and slums.Meanwhile, the BMC said the Vihar lake, one of the reservoirs supplying water to Mumbai, overflowed on Wednesday at 10 pm due to incessant rains in its catchment areas since Tuesday.The lake has water capacity of 26,968 million litres.According to the BMC spokesperson, last year the lake had overflowed on July 31, 2019.Vihar is the second lake after Tulsi which has overflowed.Mumbai gets water from seven dams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-gets-highest-rainfall-of-season-in-12-hours-report/story-MMLGxmhtJn3UTikjGTSC8I.html
06-08-2020||India||Congress looks to alter perception on Ram Mandir issue||The apparent shift in the Congress’s stand on Ayodhya -- evident in its bid to outdo political rivals in hailing the construction of Ram temple -- is widely attributed to its attempt to change the perception of being a pro-Muslim party -- one reason for the party’s poor performance in the 2014 general elections according to a panel led by former defence minister AK Antony. The panel’s report concluded that fighting elections on the plan of secularism (versus communalism) hurt the Congress because it identified the party as pro-Muslims, resulting in substantial gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress, which has since been trying hard to change the image, maintained , in the run-up to the 2019 elections, that it would will abide by the Supreme Court’s verdict on the Ayodhya issue or support any negotiated settlement. The party was accused of practising soft Hindutva during this campaign, with then party President Rahul Gandhi’s temple runs seemingly proving this point. Still, the Congress has never really been vocal in its support for the temple construction. Now, barring a few Congress leaders who have expressed reservations, albeit in private, most have struck a conciliatory tone. In a tweet (in Hindi) on Wednesday, Rahul Gandhi called Lord Ram the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values and said that he stands for love, mercy and justice. He did not mention the bhoomi pujan (ground breaking) ceremony that marked the beginning of the temple construction in Ayodhya on Wednesday.Rahul Gandhi’s sister and Congress general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on Tuesday hoped the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya would be a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony.In November, the Congress welcomed the Supreme Court verdict that paved the way for the temple construction and also sought to take credit for it. It insisted the Congress government at the Centre in 1993 acquired 67-acres of land near the disputed 2.77-acre site in Ayodhya. The Congress also highlighted that it was the Rajiv Gandhi government that allowed a shilanyas (ground-breaking ceremony) for the temple at an undisputed site close to Babri Masjid and also opened its doors in 1986.The Congress’s stand was in line with a view of a section of leaders, especially from North India, that the party should talk openly about the 1986 shilanyas and the acquiring of the land to counter the BJP.The PV Narasimha Rao government acquired the disputed site and the 67 acres around it through the passage of a law in 1993 after the demolition of the Babri Masjid.The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, in November unanimously passed a resolution, welcoming the Supreme Court judgment for the temple construction.The issue came up for discussion at a meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and the party’s Rajya Sabha members on July 30. Deepender Singh Hooda, a Rajya Sabha member, cited the sentiments of millions of Indians at the meeting and argued Congress leaders should speak in one voice and stick to the CWC resolution.Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and Congress workers across the state recited Hanuman Chalisa, or devotional hymn to Lord Ram’s companion Hanuman, on Tuesday. The Congress government in neighbouring Chhattisgarh announced the development of three tourist circuits linked to Ram’s exile.A Congress leader, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, dismissed the suggestion that the party has moved from soft- to hard-Hindutva, saying Lord Ram “is a unifier, the protector and the voice of the oppressed and the deprived and assimilation of all cultures, castes, class and religions”.“The nation and its people must now decide who depicts these values – the assimilating, cohabitating, all-inclusive ideology of the Congress party or the inherently divisive, hateful and parochial ideology of the BJP-RSS,” he addedPolitical analyst Professor Rajendra Sharma said the Congress lacks consistency in its stand. “The best course for the Congress should have been to stick to the CWC resolution which seemed to be well balanced. But it wants to be a part of majoritarian politics and was feeling left out,” said Sharma who heads the political sciences department at Rohtak-based Maharishi Dayanand University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-looks-to-alter-perception-on-temple-issue/story-Wf6QsKu40HJwgTUmUABmfL.html
06-08-2020||India||RSS aims to cast Ram Temple as symbol of cultural revival||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is making a conscious effort to project the Ram temple as a symbol of cultural and national renaissance, functionaries aware of the matter said, asking not to be named. In line with this attempt, Mohan Bhagwat, the RSS chief, on Wednesday said the temple construction in Ayodhya is the beginning of a new India and will serve to establish the self-confidence needed for making India self-reliant. Bhagwat’s speech at the temple’s groundbreaking ceremony sought to de-link the shrine from religion and focused on Lord Ram’s values and teachings and how imbibing those could help India regain the past glory.“It is a matter of joy that the auspicious beginning of building a Bharat [India] which is prosperous and ensures the welfare of all, starts at the hands of those who are at the helm of affairs in a system that is entrusted with the responsibility to bring this change.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the first brick of the temple at a grand bhoomi pujan (ground breaking ceremony) in Ayodhya on Wednesday.The reference to the temple as a cultural icon and a unifying edifice, and Bhagwat’s assertion that Ram belongs to everyone are a continuation of the RSS’s outreach, the functionaries added. RSS does not want the issue to be seen as communal or polarizing, they said.Ahead of the Supreme Court’s verdict in November that paved the way for the construction of the temple, the RSS launched a massive exercise to reach out to Muslims. Bhagwat met Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Arshad Madani to ensure peace and harmony following the verdict. Other senior leaders travelled across the country to meet a cross-section of people. After the verdict, Bhagwat said it should not be seen as a victory or defeat for anyone.Referring to the temple’s cultural connotations, Manmohan Vaidya, RSS’s joint general secretary, said it will help people connect with their roots. “Till now the realization of the self was not allowed.”Vaidya said the Ram temple, besides a holy shrine, is a symbol of India’s “glorious past, the epitome of cultural values and economic prosperity”. He added it “will help people connect to our cultural roots to prosper economically and expand culturally as a model to guide humanity how to live together in harmony, peace, and prosperity in this ethnic, religious, culturally diverse world”.RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi last week said the groundbreaking ceremony at Ayodhya marks the completion of one part of the struggle but is also “a new beginning of a new era.”BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Rakesh Sinha said Ram transcends the limits of geography and time and RSS’s definition of secularism consists of culture, which is historic and progressive in nature.Still, it is difficult to overlook the religious aspect of the event an expert said. According to Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Ajay Gudavarthy: “Construction of a temple does bring a sense of cultural celebration among a large section of the Hindus but one cannot deny a sense of humiliation among the Muslims and this is what makes religion a political ideology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-aims-to-cast-temple-as-symbol-of-cultural-revival/story-g060wM09ne4Vsi0CbB1c7O.html
06-08-2020||India||Conches, lamps mark festivities across India to celebrate laying of foundation stone of Ram Mandir||People lit earthen lamps in different parts of the country to celebrate the laying of the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, as government functionaries, irrespective of political affiliations, termed the event as a “historic moment” for every Indian.There was an air of accomplishment as workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Rashtryia Swayamseval Sangh, and other affiliates of the latter blew conches when Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed ceremonial rituals at the sanctum sanctorum of the makeshift temple and placed a silver brick as the foundation for the new one. BJP offices in various states were decorated and large screens were installed outside the offices to show the telecast of the ceremony -- carried live by almost every news channel in the country. Party workers raised Jai Shri Ram and Jai Siya Ram slogansand after the ceremony, ladoos were distributed among people in several statesRam temples across India were done up for the occasion too, with even the streets leading to some in the country’s Hindi heartland decorated; special prayers were held in most. Rains in several parts of the country including Ayodhya on Wednesday dampened the celebrations but not the sentiments. In Raj Bhavans (the residence of the governors) in l states such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, earthen lamps were lit and special prayers were held.Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, a former BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh, hosted a recitation of the Sundara Kandam, one of the books of the Ramayan, and Sundarkand with his family members and lit 101 earthen lamps at the Raj Bhawan in Jaipur. He said the commitment to build the Ram Temple has been fulfilled. “The temple will be established as a symbol of cultural and national unity and with the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family)’.”Governors of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Anandiben Patel and Baby Rani Maurya congratulated the Prime Minister. “The dream of all Hindu believers has moved towards reality today,” Maurya said.Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot expressed hope that the temple would become a symbol of unity in the country.“His (Ram’s) life teaches us the importance of truth, justice, equality of all, compassion and brotherhood. We need to focus on establishing an egalitarian society based on the values espoused by Lord Ram,” Gehlot tweeted. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also tweeted a congratulatory message and said the temple would bring unit and prosperity in the country.West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who ordered complete lockdown in the state on Wednesday, citin the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic said, “Our country has always upheld the age-old legacy of unity in diversity, and we must preserve this to our last breath!”West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that several of its workers were arrested when they violated the lockdown restrictions to visit local temples in Bengal. At Kharagpur in West Midnapore district police resorted to lathi charge after minor clashes with BJP workers. “Mamata Banerjee is anti-Hindu,” Ghosh added. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan termed the day , historic. “This happy moment is historic for every Indian,” Khatter said; Chouhan added that the “dream of 500 years” has come true.The Ram temple will strengthen peace and humanity in the country, said Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. “There was a long and hard struggle for 500 years. But the power of Indian democratic values, judiciary and executive, under the leadership of PM Modi, has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found peacefully through democratic and constitutional means,” said UP chief minister Yodi Adityanath.(With state bureau and agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conches-lamps-mark-festivities-across-india/story-4sWZf5fsVIjbX60pL9k6DN.html
06-08-2020||India||BJP, RSS hope for consensus on Uniform Civil Code||The Bharatiya Janata Party has fulfilled two of the three-long-standing items on its manifesto and on the wish list of its ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh -- the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya and the revocation of Article 370 that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir. Now, there is just one item left -- a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) -- and the leadership if both the BJP and RSS are clear that a “consensus” should emerge before this can happen, people familiar with the matter in both organisations said.In the case of Article 370, the BJP pushed the move through parliament. In the case of the temple, a Supreme Court ruling set the stage for it. But the UCC, people in both the Sangh (RSS) and the BJP say, is different. The demand for a UCC, which had been articulated by the Sangh and later the Jan Sangh, the BJP’s political precursor, was made part of the BJP’s election manifesto starting 1998. In that document, the party sought to entrust the Law Commission with the task of formulating a code that would ensure property rights for women and incorporate the right to adopt children and equal guardianship rights; and remove discriminatory clauses in divorce laws apart from making the registration of all marriages mandatory. One of the directive principles of the Constitution, the UCC has been a core issue of the RSS . The bill to outlaw the Muslim practice of itriple talaq, which allowed a man to divorce his wife by uttering the word talaq thrice, which was passed by Parliament last year, is seen in some quarters as a precursor to the UCC . . In the case of Jammu and Kashmir, Parliament gave its nod, and the government received the support of several opposition parties as well. As for the Ram temple, it was a long-drawn legal battle, which was resolved by the highest court of law. As far as the UCC is concerned, while it is the need of the hour; there is a clear understanding that all sections of society must agree to it and their concerns{should be} addressed,” said a senior functionary of the RSS, requesting anonymity. The All India Muslim Personal Law Board, for instance, has expressed concern over the proposed UCC and in a statement last year said India has a multicultural and multi-religious society and each group has the constitutional right to maintain its identity. It referred to the concept of UCC as a threat to the diversity of India. Objection to the UCC does not come from Muslims alone. The RSS functionary said while the government will take measures to introduce a bill on the UCC, it also has to carry along with civil society organisations and address misgivings about the proposed code. “We are aware that even among Hindus there are some sections who have concerns. But just as their concerns were addressed when reforms such as the Hindu Marriage Act, the Succession Act and the adoptions and maintenance laws were changed; there is a need to address their current concerns as well,” the RSS functionary said. BJP MP Kirori Lal Meena’s attempt to introduce a private member’s bill on the UCC in the Rajya Sabha last year was stalled by the opposition on the grounds that it could lead to communal tensions at a time when protests were being staged against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), which intends to fast-track the grant of Indian citizenship to minorities from Muslim-majority Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Pakistan . But the BJP has been unambiguous about wanting to pursue the issue. Union home minister Amit Shah said in an interview to a television channel in January that UCC is a part of the party’s manifesto and how and when it will be implemented will be decided in consultation with everyone. “I believe any country should not have any law based on religion and there should be a single law for all the citizens,” he said. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Rakesh Sinha said there is a need to address the “delusion” that some people have “encouraged” that UCC is against the rituals and core practices of any religion. “It is a scientific and modern way of achieving the goals of gender justice. The law ministry has made progress on the issue but how it will be implemented will depend on the emerging consensus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rss-hope-for-consensus-on-ucc/story-ASFagZCCQPEIfQT59HMgkK.html
06-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand BJP MLA tests positive for Covid-19, third legislator to contract infection||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Saurabh Bahuguna has tested positive for Covid-19. He is the third legislator to test positive for the coronavirus infection. Bahuguna, the MLA from Sitarganj in US Nagar tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi. He is under treatment at a private hospital in Delhi. Also, he has advised those people who came into contact with him, to quarantine themselves and conduct their Covid-19 test. Bahuguna said, “On having fever I left for Delhi on Saturday and underwent a medical check-up where my report revealed that I had Covid-19. Now, I am at a private hospital for treatment.” Bahuguna also shared the information regarding him testing positive on social media. He was under home quarantine at his Sitarganj residence in May when he had returned from Delhi. Earlier two legislators had tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. On July 30, Raj Kumar, Congress MLA from Purola in Uttarkashi district had tested positive. He was admitted to the Government Doon Medical College Hospital. In June, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-third-legislator-to-contract-infection/story-8MDoipr3y8YZUPrOQkwphJ.html
06-08-2020||India||Respect Supreme Court’s order, but mosque demolished illegally: AIMPLB||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), a key Muslim party in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, said on Wednesday that the Ram temple ground-breaking ceremony wouldn’t change the reality that the 16th century mosque was illegally demolished even as another litigant in the suit held out hope for communal amity.AIMPLB secretary Zafaryab Jilani said that, for the board, the land on which the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992, would continue to be mosque land.“We are quiet because we had said that we would respect the law of the land and go by the court’s verdict. The SC verdict came on November 9, but it’s also a fact that the Supreme Court had held that Babri mosque was illegally demolished and that it was a shameful act and the same view was repeated on November 9,” Jilani said.He was referring to the November 2019 judgment of the top court on the title suit that cleared the way for the Ram temple. “As far as we are concerned, we also didn’t agree with the Prime Minister and the chief minister participating in the event,” Jilani said.But another litigant – Iqbal Ansari, the only one among three Muslim invitees who attended the event – said he respected the top court’s judgment and that the dispute was over. “Lord Ram belongs to everyone. Ram temple will also bring overall development to Ayodhya,” he added.In Ayodhya, a section of Muslims said they were ready to leave behind decades of communal strife and move forward.Athar Jamal, a 25-year-old student at the city’s Saket PG Degree College, said his generation yearned for development. “Now, with construction of Ram temple, I think big companies will also set up their offices in Ayodhya, generating job opportunities for youth.”Another local resident, Amzad Ali, hoped the temple will usher in opportunities for him to start his own business. “I want to do my own business. In the coming days, Ayodhya will witness a lot of activity,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respect-sc-order-but-mosque-demolished-illegally-aimplb/story-oOnXGfrDjv9WzVGn2nxHSK.html
06-08-2020||India||Have asked PM to ensure early completion of the Ram Mandir: Mahant Nritya Gopal Das||For chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the long wait for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya ended with the bhoomi pujan on Wednesday. But the Mahant, who is not keeping well, wants Ram Mandir to come up at the earliest. In his address after the ground-breaking ceremony at Ram Janmabhoomi on Wednesday, the Mahant mentioned the speedy construction of the temple several times. He repeated this to Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the latter came to take his leave after the ceremony. How do you feel? After a long struggle of 500 years bhoomi pujan for construction of Ram Mandir has been conducted. The ceremony got delayed due to the pandemic. Had the situation been normal, we would have conducted bhoomi pujan much earlier in March or April this year. What is your priority now? It is my dream to see the Ram Mandir come up . I have requested everyone, including Prime Minister to ensure early completion of Ram Mandir. The trust is working hard and I am hopeful of early completion of construction work of Ram Mandir. Has there been any change in the existing model of Ram Mandir? No. Basic model of Ram Mandir is still the same. Some changes have been made to make the temple more grand as we have more land now. Instead of three domes, now the temple will have five domes. Due to a pandemic the Trust was not able to invite a large number of people, including kar sevaks (Hindu religious workers) . Do you plan to invite them in the future? After the pandemic is over, the trust will organise ‘Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nirman Yajya’ to which all kar sevaks and devotees of lord Ram will be invited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-asked-pm-to-ensure-early-completion-of-the-ram-mandir-mahant-nritya-gopal-das/story-gmx9QWb84ExxvMdUMunSjK.html
06-08-2020||India||Ram Temple marks the end of 500-year wait : UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the ground breaking ceremony, or bhoomi pujan, that marked the beginning of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya on Wednesday has ended a 500-year-long wait and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for paving the way for it through a democratic and constitutional process.“A 500-year-long wait for this historical day has come to a culmination today because of Prime Minister Modi. The wishes of India’s 135 crore [1.35 billion] people and the Sanatan Dharma followers have been fulfilled,” said Adityanath in his address at the ceremony. He added the power of Indian democracy and the judiciary has shown the world how solutions to problems could be found through democratic and constitutional means.The Supreme Court in November ended the decades-old dispute over the contested Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya by allowing the temple to be built there after years of litigation. The Babri Mosque at the site, which Hindus believe is the birthplace of Lord Ram, was built in 1528 and demolished in 1992.Adityanath said Modi’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for a peaceful resolution of the issue. “In this 500-year-long struggle, many brave men and women laid down their lives. The struggle went on for this goal [of temple building]. Prime Minister Modi showed that the resolution of the problem through peaceful means was possible. We could fulfill the dream of Ram temple because we abided by the constitution.”Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat called the ceremony the beginning of a new India. “Our country believes in Vasudev Kutubhkam that is the world is one family. We believe in taking everyone along. Today is a new beginning of a new India,” he said in his address to the gathering. “There is a wave of joy in the country now...”Bhagwat referred to late former RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras and said the latter told him around 30 years of hard work was required for the temple’s construction. “The Ram temple construction is not like the construction of any other temple.”Bhagwat recalled the sacrifices of people such as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) patriarch L K Advani for the cause. “So many people sacrificed [for the cause but] they could not be here physically [for the ceremony]. There are some who could not come here. Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should have come but could not because of the situation [Covid-19],” he added.Advani was the face of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and is an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. On Tuesday, Advani said he feels humbled that during the movement, destiny made him perform a pivotal duty in the form of the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath (Gujarat) to Ayodhya for the temple construction.Bhagwat also remembered late Vishva Hindu Parishad president Ashok Singhal and late Mahant Ramchandra Paramhans Das for their roles in the movement.Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the head of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust that is overseeing the temple construction, spoke about its early completion. “The wishes of Ram bhakts [devotees] living across the globe have been fulfilled with the Shree Ganesha [beginning] of the construction.”Champat Rai, the Trust’s general secretary, presided over the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-marks-the-end-of-500-year-wait-says-yogi/story-oEgWPZpEmTRjkx8svKCifP.html
06-08-2020||India||Bishop Franco Mulakkal to face rape charges as Supreme Court dismisses plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday cleared the way for deposed Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal to stand trial in a rape case involving a Kerala nun. The Court dismissed his plea seeking discharge from the case on a claim that he was being falsely implicated after he initiated disciplinary proceedings against the nun for financial irregularities. Appearing for Mulakkal, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi sought to convince a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde that his client was being made a victim for action taken against the nun. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was not convinced.“You don’t have a case, We do not see any merit in your petition,” the bench said, dismissing the plea filed by Mulakkal, who now must stand trial. Mulakkal, while serving as Bishop of the Jalandhar Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church, was accused of raping a nun belonging to the Missionaries of Jesus congregation in a complaint filed with the Kerala Police in June 2018.Mulakkal was accused of raping the 43-year old nun on 13 occasions during his visits to the Kerala convent between 2014 and 2016. Mulakkal was later removed from the charge of the Jalandhar diocese. He first approached a local court in Kerala praying for his discharge. In his plea, he claimed that he was being falsely implicated by the victim after he initiated disciplinary proceedings against her for alleged financial misdemeanour. His plea was dismissed in March this year following which he approached Kerala high court. His petition before the HC stated, “Due to the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the petitioner (Mulakkal) against the sister, she has maliciously and falsely implicated him with an ulterior motive to wreak vengeance on him and cooked up this story just because of her personal grudge towards him, without any justification.” After examining the evidence against him, on July 7, the high court dismissed his petition, noting, “Rape is the most revolting, cruel and hated crime to a woman… Thus when the records indicate that prima facie materials are available to show that the Sister was subjected to sexual assault including rape from the hands of the superior authority who is the Bishop of the Diocese, it is not possible to infer that this Bishop was falsely implicated by the Mother Superior of the Home functioning under him, on mere enmity as contended by him.”  The Kerala government had filed a caveat in Supreme Court anticipating an order on his plea. The state police filed a charge-sheet in April 2019 naming Mulakkal. Even the Kerala high court had said that the antecedents of the victim do not make out a case to doubt the prosecution story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mulakkal-to-face-rape-charges-as-sc-dismisses-plea/story-I25kW2M5YmZlNwhcXjcUJP.html
06-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty asked to appear before ED this Friday||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Rhea Chakraborty, actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend, to appear before it on Friday for questioning, officials familiar with the developments said. Chakraborty, a film and TV actress, has been told to present herself at the agency’s Mumbai office at 11am on Friday along with documents pertaining to her investments, said the officials. The summons is linked to a case by ED — which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations — on July 31 on the basis of a Bihar Police FIR that followed a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh. He accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor’s suicide and siphoning of his money. The ED case was registered under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA). The development comes on the day the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) got approval to join the investigation into the 34-year-old actor’s suspected suicide. The Mumbai Police, too, are probing the case. Officials said as CBI takes over, the probe by the Bihar Police will be null and void since it was Bihar that recommended the CBI probe. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has responded to a Bihar Police letter seeking relaxation of the home quarantine period of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vinay Tiwari, who has been put in isolation by Mumbai civic authorities after he reached there to supervise a Bihar Police investigation. While Bihar says Tiwari is “forcibly quarantined” for 14 days, BMC says it is just following the Maharashtra government’s guidelines. On Wednesday, BMC advised Tiwari to use digital platforms to interact with Bihar officials, for now. Further, BMC also said the IPS officer will have to follow all rules and regulations in Maharashtra. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, confirmed issuing such a letter to the Bihar Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakraborty-asked-to-appear-before-ed-this-friday/story-6jxDsXh3Br7mzdZWtUVgEK.html
06-08-2020||India||China calls article 370 move illegal; keep out of our internal affairs, says MEA||The government on Wednesday tersely asked Beijing to keep out of the internal affairs of other countries after China contended that India’s “unilateral” changes to the status of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir were illegal and invalid. As the Pakistan government observed Yaum-e-Istehsal, or a “day of exploitation”, to protest India’s decision last year to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and split it into two union territories, Beijing called on New Delhi and Islamabad to resolve the dispute over Kashmir through dialogue and consultations. India’s decision on August 5, 2019, had triggered a strong response from China, mainly because it believed the move would affect its territorial claims in Ladakh region. Responding to a query from Pakistan’s state-run APP news agency about the impact of India’s move, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a regular news briefing that Beijing is closely following the situation in Kashmir. He said: “Any unilateral change to the status quo is illegal and invalid. This issue should be properly resolved peacefully through dialogue and consultations between the parties concerned.” China’s position on the Kashmir issue, Wang said, is “clear and consistent”. He added: “This issue is a dispute leftover from history between Pakistan and India. That is an objective fact as laid out by the UN Charter, UN Security Council resolutions and the bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India.” External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded to Wang’s remarks though a brief statement: “We have noted the comments of the Chinese MFA spokesperson on the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Chinese side has no locus standi whatsoever on this matter and is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations.” Wednesday’s developments also came against the backdrop of the months-long India-China border standoff in Ladakh, which has taken bilateral relations to a new low. India has accused China of failing to deliver on commitments to withdraw its troops from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and asked it to sincerely implement measures for disengagement and de-escalation.Wang described Pakistan and India as neighbours who “cannot be moved away”. He said China hopes the two sides can properly handle differences through dialogue, improve relations and jointly safeguard peace, security and development of both countries and the wider region. “Coexistence serves the fundamental interests of both and the common aspiration of the international community,” Wang added. Pakistan on Tuesday released a new “political map” in which it claimed all of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and parts of Gujarat – a move that India described as “an exercise in political absurdity”. In August last year, China had described the move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status as “unacceptable”, and urged India to respect Chinese territorial sovereignty and uphold peace and tranquillity in the border areas. China had referred to the disputed territory of Aksai Chin, which China controls but India claims as part of the new union territory of Ladakh. India had then rejected China’s criticism, saying the proposal to form new union territories was an “internal matter” that had no implications for the country’s external borders. New Delhi also pointed out that India and China had agreed to maintain peace along their disputed border until a mutually acceptable solution is found. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, during a visit to Beijing last August, explained India’s position, saying the change in administrative status of the region wouldn’t impact the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-calls-art-370-move-illegal-keep-out-of-our-internal-affairs-says-mea/story-M26DdQNqclN1rZju0iIwfP.html
06-08-2020||India||CBI to probe Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: Centre to Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it has accepted Bihar’s recommendation for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, which has sparked a debate on mental health issues, how the film industry treats outsiders, and also the circumstances that led to his suspected suicide on June 14.The court was hearing a plea by Rajput’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, who sought the transfer of a first information report (FIR) against her from Patna to Mumbai in the wake of a jurisdictional dispute between police forces in Bihar and Maharashtra. The July 25 FIR — based on a complaint by KK Singh, Rajput’s father — accused Chakraborty of abetting the 34-year-old actor’s suicide.A single-judge bench of the Supreme Court, which observed that the truth behind the death of the “talented artist” should come out, asked Maharashtra and Bihar as well as Singh to file their replies on Chakraborty’s plea within three days. Justice Hrishikesh Roy did not pass any protective order in Chakraborty’s favour.The court also asked Maharashtra to inform the court about the status of investigation by the Mumbai Police. The case will come up for hearing next week.During the hearing through video-conferencing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre, told the court: “The Union of India has in principle accepted the request by Bihar to have a CBI probe.” Later in the day, the department of personnel and training issued a notification to this effect.At the heart of the case is a question of who the case originally belongs to — Maharashtra or Bihar. Chakraborty’s legal team says the Bihar government cannot recommend a CBI probe since police from that state do not have any jurisdiction to even investigate the case.On Wednesday, the Maharashtra government, through senior counsel R Basant, too, contested the Bihar Police’s jurisdiction to first register an FIR, and then to recommend a CBI probe. He argued that the Bihar government’s actions went against the principles of federalism and that the state where the incident took place had the authority to investigate. “The cause of action was in Mumbai and Mumbai Police are investigating [the matter]. This person [Rajput’s father], without even filing a complaint before Mumbai Police, says Mumbai Police are not investigating properly. Mumbai police have done very professional job,” Basant argued. The incident is being used to score political points, he added.The court told Basant that it was “not professional on the part of Mumbai Police to confine an officer who came from Patna on the ground of Covid”. He was referring to civic authorities in Mumbai quarantining a senior police officer who arrived in the city to supervise the Bihar’s Police’s investigation. “Quarantining of Bihar Police officer has not sent good message,” the court said.Senior counsel Shyam Divan, who represented Chakraborty, prayed that no coercive action should be taken against her. “A protective order needs to be passed in favour of the petitioner,” Divan said. The court did not grant his request.Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, who represented Bihar, opposed Rhea’s transfer plea and asked the court to adjourn the matter. “Keep the matter next week. Do not pass any orders and no one will be prejudiced,” he said.Senior counsel Vikas Singh, who represented Rajput’s father, expressed concerns that the Mumbai Police were destroying evidence, an allegation that Maharashtra rejected.The court observed that a serious allegation has been levelled against the petitioner. “She has sought transfer of proceedings from Patna to Mumbai. Whether there is criminality involved needs to be investigated. In a high-profile case, everybody has an opinion. But we have to proceed on the basis of law,” the court said.Rajput, who had a short but promising career, was found hanging at his Bandra residence in suburban Mumbai. The mystery surrounding Rajput’s death has moved on from theories on and investigations into how nepotism in Bollywood may have claimed his life to allegations of a criminal conspiracy involving Chakraborty.The Mumbai Police found the cause of death as “asphyxia due to hanging”, filed an accidental death report (ADR) and began an investigation. Chakraborty, an actress herself, has been questioned by the Mumbai police.Meanwhile, the Bihar Police filed an “abetment to suicide” case on the basis of a complaint filed by Rajput’s father. In the complaint, he accused Chakraborty of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career. The matter was then sent by the Bihar Police to the additional chief judicial magistrate, Patna.Chakraborty moved the top court on July 29, challenging the jurisdiction of the Bihar court, saying the incident took place in Mumbai. She submitted that Rajput was suffering from depression and that she was in deep trauma due to his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-probe-sushant-s-death-case-centre-to-sc/story-cKqwgy5tleM8NDBH1nmIpK.html
06-08-2020||India||Indian ventilators will be geo-tagged to prevent misuse: Health ministry||The indigenously manufactured ventilators are being embedded with Global Positioning System chips to track if their locations in hospitals change as part of efforts to prevent their misuse, the Union health ministry has said. The ministry has created a dashboard for tracking the real-time status of ventilators dispatched, delivered, and installed for monitoring and feedback.“We can track the location of each of these devices as each ventilator is geo-tagged. We will get to know in real-time if a ventilator is changing location,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.The government has constituted an empowered group to address issues and encourage the domestic industry to manufacture ventilators and ramp up their production.Also read: Zydus to start second phase of Covid-19 vaccine candidate trials todayBased on expert projections in March, the health ministry decided to procure about 60,000 ventilators for Covid-19 patients. About 18,000 ventilators have been so far supplied to states, central government hospitals, and Defence Research Development Organisation facilities. They have been installed in at least 700 hospitals across the country. Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) rolled out the first locally-made ventilator on May 30.Officials said about 96% of the 60,000 ventilators being procured are indigenous and most of them have been sponsored by the PM CARES Fund established to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.“Of the 60,000 ventilators, 50,000 are being funded by PM CARES Fund which comes to about Rs 2,000 crore in monetary terms,” Bhushan said at a media briefing on Tuesday. “The Make in India [indigenous] ventilators have a share of more than 96% by volume and more than 90% by value.”Just about 0.27% of total active Covid-19 cases are on a ventilator across the country, according to government data. “At any given time, not more than 1% of patients are sick enough to need ventilator support,” said Bhushan.The ministry’s technical expert committee has come up with minimum essential specifications for the basic ventilators manufactured in India. All the procurements are made based on the committee’s recommendations.Public sector BEL has manufactured 30,000 ventilators and Andhra Med-Tech Zone 13,500. The prices of locally-made ventilators range between Rs 1.5 and Rs 4 lakh per unit. Imported ventilators cost between Rs 10 and 20 lakh.A critical care expert at a prominent government hospital said a ventilator is a complex machine with several features meant to perform specific functions. “It is not only about pumping in the air. There is much more to this machine. Having said that, it is better to have something to use in an emergency situation than nothing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-ventilators-will-be-geo-tagged-to-prevent-misuse-health-ministry/story-YelSyGN6mv8W56qCXlyJ4L.html
06-08-2020||India||Constitution bench of Supreme Court to study EWS law||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to form a five-judge Constitution bench to scrutinize a Central law introducing 10% reservation in government jobs and college admissions for the poor among the general category of citizens. The law titled Constitution (One Hundred and Third) Amendment Act, 2019 was passed by Parliament in January 2019 and made applicable to even private, unaided educational institutions. It introduced two new clauses - Articles 15(6) and 16(6) -- by which the Government extended a helping hand to the economically weaker sections (EWS) in the general category of citizens.Dealing with a host of petitions challenging the validity of the 2019 law, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde felt it appropriate to refer the matter to a Constitution bench. The bench was of the view that the petitions raised a substantial question of law as to whether reservation could be granted on an economic criterion alone. No interim stay was ordered by the court, meaning that the states will be free to implement the 10% EWS quota. A quota based on economic grounds had never been provided in the past. Beneficiaries of the 10% EWS quota were identified based on criteria set out by the government to identify the so-called creamy layer among reserved categories of citizens. This included households earning less than Rs 8 lakh annually. They were to own not more than 5 acres of agricultural land, or a residential flat with an area of 1,000 square feet and above, or residential plots not more than 100 yards in notified areas and 200 yards in non-notified municipal areas. The bench, also comprising justices R Subhash Reddy and BR Gavai, said, “By virtue of the impugned amendments, very Constitution is amended by inserting new clauses in Articles 15 and 16 thereof, which empower the State to make reservations by way of affirmative action to the extent of 10% to economically weaker sections….we are of the view that such questions do constitute substantial questions of law to be considered by a Bench of five judges.” The lead petitioner, the non-government organisation Janhit Abhiyan, demanded that the law be referred to a Constitution bench for an added reason. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for the NGO, submitted that the 10% quota will breach the existing ceiling of 50% on reservation fixed by a nine-judge bench of the apex court in the 1992 Indra Sawhney case. Other petitioners argued that extending reservation benefits to private, unaided institutions violated Article 19(1)(g) which gives citizens the right to carry out any trade or profession. Attorney general KK Venugopal submitted for the Centre that the 50% rule can be breached in extraordinary situations. Presently, there exists a 49.5% reservation in admissions and public appointments, apportioned between Scheduled Castes (15%), Scheduled Tribes (7.5%) and Other Backward Classess (27%). The bench said, “It is the case of Union of India that though ordinarily 50% is the rule but same will not prevent to amend the Constitution itself in view of the existing special circumstances to uplift the members of the society belonging to economically weaker sections. Even such questions also constitute as substantial questions of law to be examined by a Bench of five Judges as per Article 145(3) of the Constitution read with Order XXXVIII Rule 1(1) of the Supreme Court of Rules, 2013.” Following the three-judge bench order, the batch of more than 20 petitions will be placed before the CJI on the administrative side to form a five-judge bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-bench-to-study-ews-law/story-I4ob6ut9S9St6JPXclJ9DI.html
06-08-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves verdict in Prashant Bhushan case||The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, reserved its verdict on the contempt case initiated against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for posting two tweets in June, one of which accused the judiciary of destroying democracy and the other criticised Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde for keeping the courts shut during the Covid-19 lockdown.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra heard Bhushan’s counsel, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, before reserving its order. Attorney general KK Venugopal was also present at the hearing although he did not make any arguments.“Heard the senior counsel appearing in the matter. Arguments concluded. Judgment reserved,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, said.The court also dismissed a petition filed by Bhushan against the secretary general of the Supreme Court alleging that court procedures were not followed while listing the contempt case against him. This petition was heard on Wednesday along with the contempt case.The apex court , on Tuesday, heard and reserved its verdict in another contempt case against Bhushan over a statement made in 2009 that many past CJIs had been corrupt. That case was listed by the top court after more than eight years.The top court had issued notice suo motu (on its own) to Bhushan on July 22 over the two tweets and directed him to respond by Wednesday. The first tweet of June 27, which was reproduced in the court order of July 22, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second tweet of June 29 referred to CJI Bobde. It was also cited in the order and said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan filed an affidavit on August 2, stating that his tweets fell within the domain of free speech and expression of opinion, however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some, cannot constitute contempt of court.Dave argued on Wednesday that Bhushan was exercising his freedom of speech and giving his opinion about the functioning of the court and that would not amount to obstruction of justice necessitating contempt of court proceedings.“Neither of the tweets can be said to cause interference or obstruction to administration of justice,” Dave said.Dave also referred to Bhushan’s contributions towards public interest litigation and his role in exposing various corruption scandals before the court.“Hundreds of cases have been brought to court’s notice by Mr. Bhushan. This court has appreciated his work on so many occasions — 2G licenses, coal block allocation, mining in forests etc. If he (Bhushan) makes a mistake, will you initiate contempt proceedings against him? His remarks are only for betterment of court,” Dave submitted.With specific reference to the June 27 tweet, Dave argued that it was not contemptuous but was only Bhushan’s opinion about the court which is widely held by many people.“It is his opinion. In that regard I would say that the four CJIs were conservative in their approach towards executive actions,” Dave said.“But it was not a criticism of any judgment of court , which is permissible. It is about the Supreme Court and four CJIs. It said that we have lost our independence,” justice Arun Mishra said.“The tweet is about the judicial approach adopted by the Supreme Court and the four CJIs,” Dave responded.Regarding the tweet of June 29 about CJI, Dave said that scores of people had tweeted the photograph of the CJI on the bike. “Somebody said ‘Justice is riding on a bike’. Are Your Lordships going to call them all?” Dave asked.Dave also made some critical submissions on the functioning of the court.“If judges (of Supreme Court) can criticize the institution, then why not Mr Bhushan?,” he said in a veiled reference to the press conference held by four judges of the Supreme court in January 2018 against the functioning of justice Dipak Misra, who was then the CJI.“Are you referring to the press conference?” justice Arun Mishra queried.“Holding of press conference was justified. Can you hold the judges (who held the press conference) in contempt?” Dave responded.Dave also referred to the sexual harassment case against former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, pointing out that the victim, a Supreme Court employee who was terminated from service after she complained against Gogoi in 2019, was subsequently reinstated by the Supreme Court with full back wages.“Does that not mean she was speaking the truth? The judge sat on a Saturday to hear the case on sexual harassment against himself. Judgments like Rafale and Ayodhya are delivered and the CJI later gets a Rajya Sabha seat and plush bungalow. What impression does it give?” Dave askedThe top court in December 2018 dismissed petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Rs 59,000 crore contract for Rafale fighter planes made by Dassault Aviation of France. In November last year, the Supreme Court cleared the way for the construction of a Ram Temple at a disputed site at Ayodhya. Dave also demanded to know why certain judges of the Supreme Court are never assigned politically sensitive cases.“Justice Rohinton Nariman, for example, never gets assigned such matters,” Dave saidJutice Mishra pointed out that justice Nariman has been part of many Constitution bench cases.“I meant politically sensitive cases. Not Constitution bench,” Dave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-verdict-in-prashant-bhushan-case/story-8IJ6qtScQyKSEeV2zZHefL.html
06-08-2020||India||Extra funds for states that carry out agricultural reforms||The 15th Finance Commission, the constitutional body that devolves five-yearly financial resources and taxes to states, will for the first time give out extra funds to states if they carry out agricultural reforms to boost exports.By setting farm-sector reforms as a parameter for the award of performance-based incentives, the 15th Finance Commission seeks to spur investments to boost India’s exports of primary farm produce, finance commission and Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand told HT.The agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians, has not been generating enough revenues to keep farming profitable for nearly two decades due to lack of reforms and low export volumes, according to a 2018 Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) study.India is the second-largest producer of cereals, sugar, fruits, and vegetables. It is also the world’s largest producer of milk, according to official data. However, the country ranks 11th globally in terms of farm exports.The 15 Finance Commission incentives will be linked to two recent ordinances passed by the Narendra Modi government to liberalise agricultural markets and boost private investments.Discussions are being held to finalise “performance-based incentives” and their guidelines in six areas based on the 15th Finance Commission’s terms of reference.These are the implementation of agricultural reforms, development of aspirational districts and blocks, power sector reforms, boosting trade including exports, incentives for education, and promotion of domestic and international tourism. The grant amounts will be provided in the final report.A separate expert panel will come out with export-oriented reform for states. In February, the 15 Finance Commission had set up an eight-member experts’ group headed by ITC chairman Sanjiv Puri to recommend measures to boost farm exports.States will be eligible for financial incentives if they implement all features of The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, an official familiar with the matter said.The Constitution, through Article 280 to 281, provides for a unique mechanism in Finance Commissions for the division of taxes and revenues vertically — between the Centre and states, and horizontally— among all states, based on their levels of development, prosperity and regional needs. Finance commissions are set up by an order of the President of India.The final report of the 15th Finance Commission is also likely to give incentives to states that implement a reformed land leasing law.The Union Cabinet on June 4 had passed far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector, approving amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and pushing two ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers.“These are major reforms that will ultimately liberalise the farm sector and free it from dated rules. We need to corporatize agriculture and these moves are aimed at getting more investments and reducing dependencies on the government,” said NR Bhanumurthy, the vice-chancellor of Bengaluru’s Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extra-funds-for-states-that-carry-out-agri-reforms/story-caim6XU148JCaIWnCgySGL.html
06-08-2020||India||Zydus to start second phase of Covid-19 vaccine candidate trials today||Drug maker Zydus Cadila will start phase 2 clinical trials to establish the efficacy of its anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate from Thursday, the company said on Wednesday.“…its plasmid DNA vaccine to prevent Covid-19, ZyCoV-D, was found to be safe and well tolerated in the Phase I clinical trial. The company will now commence Phase II clinical trials from the 6th of August, 2020…the doses of the vaccine administered to healthy volunteers in the Phase I clinical trial, which began on 15th July 2020, has been well tolerated,” Zydus Cadila said in a statement.The vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies conducted on animals. The vaccine was able to elicit a high level of neutralizing antibodies in animal studies.The company received the central drugs controller’s approval for human trials on July 2“The Phase I dosing to establish the safety of ZyCoV-D is an important milestone,” said Pankaj R Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila.“All the subjects in Phase I clinical trial were closely monitored in a clinical pharmacological unit for 24 hours post dosing for safety and for 7 days thereafter and vaccine was found to be very safe. We now begin the Phase II clinical trials and look forward to evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine in a larger population,” he added.The company has not made the trial results public yet.The Phase II study of ZyCoV-D will be conducted in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers. “The 7 day safety of the vaccine in all the subjects enrolled in the Phase I clinical trial has been endorsed by the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), which has been constituted to oversee the safety aspects of the clinical trial,” the company said. According to the company, the vaccine candidate is safer because of its DNA vaccine platform, which requires injecting genetically engineered plasmid (small DNA molecule) containing the DNA sequence encoding the antigen(s) against which an immune response is sought.“…the platform provides ease of manufacturing the vaccine with minimal biosafety requirements (BSL-1). The platform is also known to show much improved vaccine stability and lower cold chain requirements, making it easy for transportation to remotest regions of the country. Furthermore, the platform can be rapidly used to modify the vaccine in couple of weeks in case the virus mutates to ensure that the vaccine still elicits protection,” the company said. The plasmid DNA, when introduced into the host cells. would be translated into the viral protein and will elicit a strong immune response mediated by the cellular and humoral arms of the human immune system, which play a vital role in protection from disease as well as viral clearance.The vaccine candidate was developed indigenously at the company’s Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad, Gujarat.Experts in the government have maintained that India will take the lead in manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine when it is developed. “There we will take the lead as we have the requisite manufacturing capacity,” says Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Ayog, and also chairman of one of the national task forces on Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-to-start-second-phase-of-vaccine-candidate-trials-today/story-AkiC1iDUI9azdTSVbDFOQM.html
06-08-2020||India||J&K marks a year without Article 370 amid Covid-19, other curbs||Most residents of Srinagar and rural districts in the Kashmir valley stayed indoors on Wednesday, the first anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, as security forces kept a high profile,clamped restrictions on public movement, blocking many roads with concertina wire, and thwarted a meeting of mainstream political parties.Although no curfew had been enforced at any place in the valley, only people with special passes were permitted to move on the roads. The streets of Srinagar were deserted and the police and Central Reserve Police Force reinforced their presence to implement restrictions, ostensibly because of the Covid-19 outbreak . Also read| From habeas corpus to 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir: Pleas in Supreme CourtLal Chowk, the business nerve centre of Srinagar, was also closed, with barbed wire and barricades erected to prevent entry into the neighbourhood.Police vehicles fitted with public address systems went around Srinagar soon after daybreak, announcing the imposition of restrictions for combating the spread of Covid-19. “There is a ban on assembly of more than three persons and people are requested not to violate the law and stay indoors,” the police said. On August 5 a year ago, the Centre pushed through key constitutional changes to revoke Article 370 that had conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir and Article 35A that allowed its legislature to define permanent residents for whom government jobs and property ownership were reserved. The state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh.The main road leading towards the house of Srinagar MP and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Gupkar road was blocked by the police and no one was allowed on the road. Abdullah had called a meeting of mainstream leaders at his house.Former J&K chief minister and his son, Omar Abdullah, wrote on Twitter: ‘’One year on, this is Gupkar road today- police vehicles opposite our gates, concertina wire strung across the road at regular intervals & no vehicles allowed. My father had called a meeting of leaders of mainstream parties to deliberate on the current situation;’’‘’Clearly the meeting is not being allowed to go ahead. The BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} gets to announce a 15-day celebration to mark 5th August & a handful of us aren’t allowed to meet in my father’s lawn. So much for BJP national leaders wondering why there is no political activity,’’ he added. Peoples Democratic Party leader and Rajya Sabha member Fayaz Mir told reporters that he was not allowed by the security forces to move towards the house of Farooq Abdullah. Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary, Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, who lives close to the house of Farooq Abdullah in government accommodation, said the gates to the Abdullah/or his own residence had been locked. ‘’Lockdowns as celebrations and lies as defences have been the hall mark of the last year. Today, political leaders were supposed to meet at Dr Farooq Abdullah’s residence to discuss the political challenges region is facing. But unfortunately, we were not allowed,” Tarigami said.The Congress party said an “undeclared curfew” had been clamped in the whole of Kashmir and alleged that several Congress leaders in the had been arrested or detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-normalcy-yet-to-return/story-8Qvd5Spnf5WtvAC0kjUyzH.html
06-08-2020||India||Kashmir Lt Governor GC Murmu quits amid buzz that he could be next CAG||Girish Chandra Murmu, the former bureaucrat appointed as Jammu and Kashmir’s first Lt Governor, has resigned, public broadcaster All India Radio said on Wednesday evening. Murmu was appointed Lt Governor on 31 October, Jammu and Kashmir’s first when the union territory carved out of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was notified.There has been no official word on Murmu’s exit from Kashmir’s Raj Bhawan. But there is speculation that he could be in line to be the next Comptroller and Auditor General when Rajiv Mehrishi completes his term this week on 7 August.Rajiv Mehrshi was appointed India’s top public auditor in 2017 after his retirement from the civil services. Before this, Mehrishi - a former IAS officer of the 1978 batch - has been India’s finance secretary and home secretary. Mehrishi can hold the CAG’s office till he turns 65, on 8 August.There is buzz that Mehrishi could be appointed as Jammu and Kashmir’s Lt Governor.There have been no formal orders about the changes but as the first news about the changes in Jammu and Kashmir emerged, National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah took to Twitter. “What’s with all this chatter surrounding the LG of J&K? Came out of nowhere a few hours ago and suddenly it’s all over social media and WhatsApp in J&K,” Abdullah wrote on Twitter.This is not the first time that GC Murmu, a 1985 batch IAS officer from Gujarat cadre, is resigning ahead of his tenure. Lt Governors of union territories, quite like governors of states, are appointed on a five-year term.Murmu was the expenditure secretary in the Union finance ministry when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah decided to elevate him to the new union territory’s Raj Bhawan. Murmu had then resigned from the IAS a month before his retirement in November-end 2019.Murmu, who is said to have the trust of PM Modi and Shah, had worked with them in Gujarat when he was posted in the home department. After PM Modi came to Delhi in 2014, Murmu moved to the Gujarat chief minister’s office as principal secretary to Anandiben Patel who had succeeded Modi in the state. He joined the central government less than a year later as a joint secretary in the finance ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-kashmir-l-g-gc-murmu-resigns-reports/story-IS9FpegmeYasSkmGh0CNFL.html
06-08-2020||India||Keep off: India’s terse counter to China after its Kashmir barb||New Delhi on Wednesday tersely asked Beijing to keep out of the internal affairs of other countries after China contended that India’s “unilateral” changes to the status of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir were illegal and invalid. As the Pakistan government observed Yaum-e-Istehsal or a “day of exploitation” to protest India’s decision last year to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and split it into two union territories, Beijing had also called on New Delhi and Islamabad to resolve the dispute over Kashmir through dialogue and consultations. India’s decision on August 5 last year had triggered a strong response from China, mainly because it believed the move would affect its territorial claims in Ladakh region. Also read | ‘India’s move in J&K illegal’: China on one year of Article 370 abrogationResponding to a query from Pakistan’s state-run APP news agency about the impact of India’s move a year later, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a regular news briefing that Beijing is closely following the situation in Kashmir. He said: “Any unilateral change to the status quo is illegal and invalid. This issue should be properly resolved peacefully through dialogue and consultations between the parties concerned.” China’s position on the Kashmir issue, Wang said, is “clear and consistent”. He added: “This issue is a dispute leftover from history between Pakistan and India. That is an objective fact as laid out by the UN Charter, UN Security Council resolutions and the bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India.” External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded to Wang’s remarks through a brief statement: “We have noted the comments of the Chinese MFA spokesperson on the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Chinese side has no locus standi whatsoever on this matter and is advised not to comment on the internal affairs of other nations.” Also read | PLA drags its feet over disengagement. Stalemate at Ladakh continuesWednesday’s developments also came against the backdrop of the months-long India-China border standoff in Ladakh, which has taken bilateral relations to a new low. India has accused China of failing to deliver on commitments to withdraw its troops from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and asked it to sincerely implement measures for disengagement and de-escalation.Wang described Pakistan and India as neighbours who “cannot be moved away”. He said China hopes the two sides can properly handle differences through dialogue, improve relations and jointly safeguard peace, security and development of both countries and the wider region. “Coexistence serves the fundamental interests of both and the common aspiration of the international community,” Wang added. Pakistan on Tuesday released a new “political map” in which it claimed all of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and parts of Gujarat – a move that India described as “an exercise in political absurdity”. In August last year, China had described the move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status as “unacceptable”, and urged India to respect Chinese territorial sovereignty and uphold peace and tranquillity in the border areas. China had referred to the disputed territory of Aksai Chin, which China controls but India claims as part of the new union territory of Ladakh. India had then rejected China’s criticism, saying the proposal to form new union territories was an “internal matter” that had no implications for the country’s external borders.New Delhi also pointed out that India and China had agreed to maintain peace along their disputed border until a mutually acceptable solution is found. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, during a visit to Beijing last August, explained India’s position, saying the change in administrative status of the region wouldn’t impact the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-off-india-s-terse-message-to-china-after-beijing-s-kashmir-barb/story-AEuki8GBaKPqhmC8XkAGHL.html
06-08-2020||India||Security situation in Kashmir better: Officials||A year after Jammu & Kashmir was divested of its special status and split into two union territories, the security situation in the region has not only stabilized but also progressively improved with more support from the people, multiple army, police, and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers said.According to government data, the number of violent incidents in Kashmir was down to 120 from January to July, compared to 198 during the same time last year. The stone-throwing incidents--102--have also significantly reduced this year. As many as 532 such incidents were reported in 2018 and 389 in 2019.Officials said terrorists are unable to carry out grenade attacks due to a robust presence and better coordination between security forces. Only 21 grenade attacks have been reported so far this year as compared to 52 during the same period in 2019.There may have been a significant decline in terror-related incidents as well as local terrorist recruitments but Pakistan has ramped up its activities considerably since the nullification of Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status on August 5 last year, one of the army officers cited above said.A heightened infiltration activity and the Pakistani army’s cease-fire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and targeting of civilians by terror groups remain areas of concern for security forces.Officials cited intelligence inputs and added they suggest all terror launch pads across the LoC, or the de facto border between India and Pakistan in Jammu & Kashmir, are active with close to 250 terrorists waiting to sneak into Kashmir.The tempo of anti-terror operations in the hinterland has denied terrorists space to operate even as soldiers deployed along the LoC are in a high state of alert to thwart Pakistan’s attempts to push in infiltrators, a second army officer said. The officer added counter-terror operations based on accurate intelligence have yielded results during the last one year and the security forces have killed 136 terrorists, including 14 Pakistanis, till July-end.A third officer said the local terror recruitment remains confined to four districts of South Kashmir. Only 67 young men are believed to have joined terrorist ranks since January compared to 105 during the same time last year. The number of terrorists active in the Valley is estimated to be below 200.There has also been a drastic reduction in improvised explosive device (IED) blasts and only four such low-intensity attacks have been reported since August 5 last year. In 2019, eight IED blasts were reported in the first seven months of the year. They included the Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed in February 2019 and brought India and Pakistan on the verge of war.Officials said the influence of separatists or terror groups in calling for bandhs has also diminished with only four strike calls this year compared to 30 in 2019. “Fewer protests have taken place this year compared to the previous two years, with the security forces being able to counter disinformation campaigns run by inimical elements by engaging with the local population,” said a fourth officer.Officials said Pakistan-backed terrorists were trying to mount attacks on civilians to intimidate them into following their so-called Azadi narrative and to create unrest. But coordinated operations have significantly degraded their ability to carry out attacks, they added.CRPF special director general (Jammu & Kashmir Zone) Zulfiqar Hasan said: “The security forces have been on the top in the Valley. Most of the militant leadership has been eliminated, which is a huge setback for them. Significantly, there have been very few civilian killings and recruitments of locals have come down.” He added there is better coordination between security forces and the public now. “The terrorists are not getting any support from locals.”Hasan said the law and order incidents connected with the counter-terror operations have come down as now people do not come out in numbers to disturb the security forces. “We have not had any big such incident of locals hindering our operations.”The fourth officer cited above said the situation has improved but warned Pakistan is likely to step up efforts to create instability in the region. “The Army’s focus is on strengthening its anti-infiltration measures to prevent Pakistan-based terrorists from sneaking into Kashmir. Our soldiers are ready to deal with any Pakistani misadventure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-situation-in-kashmir-better-officials/story-Y4Y1aMEnsCUZMmt80rIJNN.html
06-08-2020||India||Century-old heirloom stolen from Goan home of ex-brigadier stuck abroad due to lockdown||A century-old family heirloom that was handed down from mother to daughter, generation after generation and worth around Rs 3 lakh, has been stolen from the Goa home of a retired army officer while the family is stranded abroad due to curbs imposed on international flights in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. An FIR was filed at the Porvorim Police Station by the brigadier’s brother after the servant noticed that the house was broken into. According to the FIR, the home was broken into on the intervening night of June 20-21 and goods -- mainly jewellery -- worth Rs 9-lakh have been stolen. Police have made little headway in the case. “We had an electronic safe embedded in a wall in one of our wardrobes that they levered out with a crowbar and carried it away. It had my wife’s valuable jewellery in it. The cops brought sniffer dogs and lifted prints etc, but so far no leads. We are not hopeful of recovering anything, and have reconciled to our loss,” Brig NH Braganza (retd) said.He said among the jewellery that was stolen was one traditional ancestral necklace belonging to his wife’s family.“One item of jewellery in the electronic safe was a traditional ancestral necklace worn by matriarchs in my wife’s state, Meghalaya, handed down over generations, that she inherited in 2013.That necklace has immense sentimental value for the family,” the brigadier said. The family has launched an online appeal for any news of the stolen heirloom, hoping that if the thieves attempt to pawn it off, it will trigger red flags among those seeking to buy it.The Brigadier, who fought in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan War, retired from the Indian Army in 2003 and has been living at Defence Colony in Goa since then. He along with his wife and family had travelled to Canberra, Australia in what was expected to be a brief holiday with them scheduled to return home by the last week of March. But the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic laid waste to their plans.M Braganza, who hails from Meghalaya, is hoping that if nothing else, the necklace can be found. “To me, the necklace is priceless. It is a family heirloom. It belonged to my grandmother, who would have got it from her mother. I inherited it from my mother who died at the age of 95. According to family tradition, it should go to my youngest daughter and then to her daughter (who is now 11),” she said.“Such a necklace will very conservatively cost about Rs 3 lakh. The value is not just of the gold but the size and quality of its coral beads. You rarely get beads of this quality and size anymore. In fact, it is near impossible to find a necklace such as this in the market,” she said. The necklace is called a “U Kpieng paila” in Khasi. It forms part of Khasi traditional attire. In most old photographs of Khasi families in Meghalaya, the matriarchs can be seen wearing this necklace. At traditional Khasi festivals and dances such as the Nongkrem festival (usually held in November) or the Shad Suk Mynsiem festival in Shillong (held in April), both male and female dancers can be seen wearing several strands of this necklace. It is said to symbolize the wealth of the family or clan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goan-family-away-from-home-during-lockdown-finds-centuries-old-heirloom-stolen-upon-return/story-yxgUWNy6UT670QjVMFvBTM.html
06-08-2020||India||‘Not correct to sack workers when industrial activities have begun’: Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said various industries sacking workers at a time when the state government has permitted resumption of industrial activities in the state was not correct.“Today, we have jobs available, but there are no workers. Though this is the factual position, I noticed a strange scenario yesterday. Several industries have started slashing salaries of workers or are sacking them,” he said.The chief minister said that migrant workers, who had returned to their home states due to the nationwide lockdown, had started coming back to Maharashtra gradually after the state government allowed resumption of business activities.“The sons of the soil or the migrant workers, who had not returned to their states and were reporting at workplaces, are being sacked. This is not right,” Thackeray said.He said the issue needs to be discussed with industrialists as the state government is putting in a lot of effort to solve the difficulties that industrial units are facing.The chief minister on Monday also launched the state government’s MahaJobs portal—an online platform that aims to make job opportunities available to the “sons of the soil” or domiciled people.The MahaJobs portal is the need of the hour, Thackeray said, adding that the system works in a transparent manner.The chief minister also directed the authorities to take regular stock of how useful the portal turns out in terms of how many of the applicants actually get jobs using the online platform. The portal will be run by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation.State Industries Minister Subhash Desai, Labour Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Skill Development Minister Nawab Malik and Minister of State for Industries Aditi Tatkare also attended the launch of the portal held via video conferencing.According to the Industries Minister, there are 17 sectors for which job seekers can apply through the portal, including engineering, logistics, textiles and pharmaceuticals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-correct-to-sack-workers-when-industrial-activities-have-begun-thackeray/story-ok3UH3mda3OKzW1jq7nOUM.html
