07-08-2020||India||‘Deeply distressed to hear about plane crash at Kozhikode’: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said he was deeply distressed to learn about the tragic plane accident at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport and his prayers were with the passengers, crew members and their kin.The President said he had spoken to Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and enquired about the rescue operations after the accident.“Deeply distressed to hear about the tragic plane crash of Air India Express flight at Kozhikode, Kerala. Spoke to @KeralaGovernor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan and inquired about the situation. Thoughts and prayers with affected passengers, crew members and their families,” the President tweeted.At least 19 people were killed and several others seriously injured when a Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway at Kozhikode and fell into a gorge below, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening.Both the pilots of the Air India Express flight were killed in the accident. Air India’s Captain Deepak Sathe who died in the crash was an ace fighter pilot.The Air India Express flight AXB1344, B737 from Dubai to Calicut was part of the Vande Bharat Mission, meant to bring home stranded people from other countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The aircraft was about to land at the Karipur Airport in Kozhikode, when it overshot the runway, and broke into pieces. The incident took place amid very heavy rainfall and bad weather in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-distressed-to-hear-about-plane-crash-at-kozhikode-president-kovind/story-D5TLtQfj7URJsgmq4WWQ2O.html
07-08-2020||India||AI Express flight overshot runway in rainy conditions, split into 2: Minister||An Air India Express flight from Dubai with 191 people onboard overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday in rainy conditions and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.He said the Kerala police has reported 11 deaths in the accident. The minister said he is deeply “anguished and distressed” at the accident and relief teams from Air India and Airports Authority of India (AAI) are being immediately dispatched from Delhi and Mumbai.“All efforts are being made to help passengers. A formal enquiry will be conducted by AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau),” the minister said on Twitter.“Deeply anguished & distressed at the air accident in Kozhikode. The Air India Express flight number AXB-1344 on its way from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 persons on board, overshot the runway in rainy conditions & went down 35 ft. into a slope before breaking up into two pieces,” he said.Before him, the ministry said in a statement that there were a total 190 persons onboard the aircraft -- 174 passengers, 10 infants, 2 pilots and four cabin crew.The ministry said the B737 aircraft overshot the runway at 7.41 PM on Friday but no fire was reported at the time of landing.“As per the initial reports, rescue operations are on and passengers are being taken to hospital for medical care,” the ministry noted. The Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India and it has only B737 aircraft in its fleet.It is learnt that pilot-in-command Deepak Sathe died during the accident. He was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF). He had served at the IAF’s flight testing establishment.The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the flight -- IX 1344 -- continued running to the end of the runway amid heavy rain and “fell down in the valley and broke down in two pieces”. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, since May 6, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission. A spokesperson for the Air India Express said that help centres are being set up at Sharjah and Dubai for affected people.“We regret that there has been an incident regarding our aircraft VT GHK, operating IX 1344,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-express-flight-overshot-runway-in-rainy-conditions-split-into-2-minister/story-W1MzAFbESeXPgCb3vyn60I.html
07-08-2020||India||Kozhikode plane accident: MEA says its 24X7 helplines are open||The Ministry of External Affairs on Friday said it was deeply saddened by the Air India Express aircraft accident in Kozhikode and its 24X7 helplines were open for those affected by the incident.Sixteen people were killed and several others injured when a Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway here and fell into a valley, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening, police sources said.“We are deeply saddened by the tragedy of Air India Express Flight No IX 1344 at Kozhikode,” Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a tweet.“MEA helplines are open 24x7: 1800 118 797; +91 11 23012113; +91 11 23014104; +91 11 23017905; Fax: +91 11 23018158; Email: covid19@mea.gov.in,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-plane-accident-mea-says-its-24x7-helplines-are-open/story-AWu9KhAaOsRyW3oD7abImN.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: 4 children among 19 casualties, one passenger still inside plane||Four children are among the 19 casualties reported so far in the plane crash at Kozhikode airport after an Air India Express flight from Dubai skidded off the runway in wet conditions and fell approximately 35 feet into a valley on Friday night around 7:41 pm. One person is still said to be stuck inside the aircraft that broke into two pieces. A Kerala MP said that the passenger stuck inside was safe and efforts were on to take him out.“All passengers except for one have been rescued. One passenger is inside the aircraft but he is safe,” ET Mohammed Bashee was quoted by ANI as saying.It was earlier reported that the rescue teams were attempting to cut open the doors of the aircraft.Union minister V Muraleedharan said that it seems the pilot could not land and then in a second attempt he landed but there was hard landing, after which aircraft skid off beyond the runway.Centre has ordered a formal enquiry into the accident by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) that also caused injuries to 123 people. Air India express flight number AXB-1344 on its way from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 persons on board, overshot the runway in rainy conditions and went down 35 ft. into a slope before breaking up into two pieces.Air India Express has set up help centres at Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from where the ill-fated flight to Kozhikode took off on Friday afternoon. The carrier also issued a statement to express regret at the accident.In a separate effort to provide information to kin of passengers, Kozhikode collector has set up a helpline number-- 0495 – 2376901—for providing information related to the crash.The flight was one among the several being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission being run by the Indian government to bring home Indian citizens stuck abroad due to restrictions on international travel due to coronavirus pandemic. After the crash, Air India Express issued a statement of regret and added that the flights under the mission will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-4-children-among-19-casualties-one-passenger-still-inside-plane/story-Y4jcxkx3jHYknkivRKSlHJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Air India jet skids off runway, breaks apart; at least 15 dead||At least 15 people are dead after an Air India Express plane carrying 191 passengers and crew skidded off the runway and broke apart while attempting to land in southern India.The Boeing Co. 737 operating Flight 1344 from Dubai came to rest in a valley near a hilltop airport in Kozhikode, India. The plane touched down with a tail wind, according to archived data of the airport’s weather. The area surrounding the airport has been hit by torrential rains since Thursday, India’s weather office said.Most passengers were workers returning home after losing their jobs due to the coronavirus pandemic, while some others were visitors who were stranded. India has banned scheduled international commercial service because of Covid-19 and only allowed repatriation flights with special permission from regulators.Rescue personnel were on the scene and survivors were being taken to the hospital for treatment. No fire was reported at the time of landing.“We regret that there has been an incident regarding our aircraft,” Air India Express said in a statement. Help centers were being set up in Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.Aviation regulators in the UAE had no immediate comment.Table-Top AirportThe plane operated by Air India Ltd.’s overseas, low-cost unit overshot the runway at 7:41 p.m. local time. According to a playback on flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the plane circled the airport in the southern state of Kerala several times before attempting to land.The so-called table-top airport is located on a hill with limited space at the end of the runway, and several international airlines had stopped flying bigger aircraft including Boeing 777 and Airbus A330 jets into Kozhikode due to safety issues over the length on the runway.The Hindu newspaper reported in 2018 that authorities ignored a proposal to install a system to stop planes from plunging off the edge.The last fatal plane crash in India was in 2010, when an Air India Express Boeing plane overshot the runway at Mangalore -- also a table top -- and burst into flames, killing 158 people. That was the first fatal crash of a passenger aircraft in India in a decade.Common AccidentsWhile not as deadly as some types of crashes, accidents during landing are among the most common, according to statistics compiled by Boeing.Almost half of all fatal crashes from 2009 through 2018 occurred during final approach and landing, according to Boeing.Such accidents have mostly occurred as a result of actions by pilots, such as touching down too far along a runway, approaching at higher speeds or failing to properly slow a plane, according to accident reports.Weather can sometimes play a role, such as when runways are wet and braking is less effective. However, standard flight procedures are designed to take weather into account, so landings are only permitted when conditions are safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-jet-skids-off-runway-breaks-apart-at-least-15-dead/story-CXSdZfWx45LQrq8rrEuMdI.html
07-08-2020||India||Manipur records highest single-day spike of 249 Covid-19 cases; state tally at 3,466||After July 29, a record of 141 Covid -19 cases in a single day, Manipur on Friday recorded its biggest single-day tally of 249 Covid-19 cases including 165 personnel from Central Armed Police Force(CAPF), bringing the state’s total infection tally to 3,466.The new Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed at various Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratories (VRDLs).While 56 Covid-19 cases were confirmed at the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), 143 cases were confirmed at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS).The cases were confirmed at the district hospitals of Jiribam(21),Tamenglong(1),Babina Diagnostics(3),Thoubal (7), Churachandpur (9), Kakching(2),Ukhrul(10),Kangpokpi(1),Babina Diagnostic Centre (2) and STDC/IRL(1), according to a press release issued by the Covid-19 common control room.They are being shifted to the Covid care facilities.All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place.In the past 24 hours, 21 persons were discharged from RIMS (6), Covid care centres of Meitram (10),Kakching(4) and Kamjong(1) after they were found Covid-19 free on RT PCR test, the press release said.The cumulative number of positive cases is 3,466.The numbers of active and recovered cases are 1530 and 1926 respectively.“Today,two males aged 76 years and 28 years from Kangpokpi district and Chandel district respectively expired due to Covid-19,”the release said. “They had co-morbid health conditions.The cumulative number of deaths is 10(ten).”So far 3,25,045 people were screened at various entry points of the state while 96,837 samples were tested for Covid-19, according to the latest report of the state surveillance officer of the integrated disease surveillance programme.About 2995 persons are staying the quarantine centres while 62,582 others completed quarantine,as per the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-249-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-3-466/story-Q4VWshtLMQzMrTsIRAIaoK.html
07-08-2020||India||No objectionable media report on Markaz, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it did not find any objectionable content being aired by the media about the Nizamuddin Markaz event even as the National Broadcasters Association (NBA) and the Press Council of India (PCI) informed of 150 complaints pending with them with regard to the same incident. The top court was hearing a petition filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind that pointed out media reports were trying to demonize Tablighi Muslims who attended the Markaz and related stories showing how they were responsible for defying Covid-19 prevention protocols and causing the pandemic to spread. The Jamiat highlighted the issue so that in future the Centre could take corrective steps to prevent such reporting. Jamiat’s petition was heard on Friday by a bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The Court allowed Jamiat to file its response to the Centre’s affidavit and posted the matter for hearing on August 26. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting filed its affidavit disclosing its stand that it totally opposed the prayer in the petition which amounts to a “blanket gag order” against the entire media in respect of reporting on the Nizamuddin Markaz event which is a free speech right protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The affidavit said, “Such an order (to gag the media) would inevitably also impinge upon freedom of the citizen to know about the affairs of the society and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society.” About the incident in question, the Centre said, “Insofar as the Markaz issue is concerned, Union of India has neither come across nor has been intimated with any specific media report which has violated the provisions of Cable Television Network Rules 1994, Guidelines for Up-linking from India, and the Programme Code prescribed under Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995.” During the hearing, the Court sought to know the stand of NBA and PCI who are parties to the petition. NBA counsel Nisha Bhambani said, “We have received around 100 complaints and we are going to issue notices (to media organizations).” For PCI, senior advocate Preetesh Kapur said, “We have taken cognizance of around 50 complaints.” The bench observed, “It is our experience that governments don’t act till Court gives directions…We want to pass order but feel handicapped. We want opinion of an expert body which is equipped to go into all this.” The bench suggested seeking the view of NBA headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice (Retd) AK Sikri. Jamiat’s counsel senior advocate Dushyant Dave told the Court, “NBA is an advisory body which can only deal with complaints filed before it.” The Court has asked both NBA and PCI to submit their reports based on complaints received. Jamiat’s petition had referred to news reports which sought to paint a picture that “demonized” the Markaz attendees as persons who spread the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition also highlighted media reports which showed some of the attendees who refused to follow social distancing and openly defied COVID-19 prevention protocols. Dave submitted to the Court that the Centre’s response indicated an adversarial stand. The Centre said that the facts cited in these news reports are “neither per se false nor per se fake” and such reports cannot be censured. It further added, “Dissemination of such facts by the media houses, even though they may appear to be offensive or distasteful to certain individuals or section of society is nevertheless protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-objectionable-media-report-on-markaz-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-2blYPvcItNpFJIPWBwzTlM.html
07-08-2020||India||Puducherry, Karnataka CMs express shock over Kozhikode plane crash||Chief Ministers of Puducherry and Karnataka have expressed shock over the Air India Express plane skidding on the runway in Kozhikode, Kerala, on Friday killing 19 persons. In his Twitter handle, the Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said, “It is shocking that the Air India Express flight skidded on the runway and was severely damaged while landing in Kozhikode killing two people, including the pilot.” He said he was praying for the speedy recovery of the injured in the mishap. “I offer my prayers to the dead in the air-crash,” he added. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also expressed shock over the accident. In his message, he said, “Shocked to hear about Air India Express plane skidding off the runway at Kozhikode airport.My thoughts are with the passengers, crew and their loved ones.” The plane coming from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 people on board veered off the runway and broke into two after falling into a 50-foot deep valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-karnataka-cms-express-shock-over-kozhikode-plane-crash/story-jjCeY7CdeonZzZnbC6At1K.html
07-08-2020||India||Delhi records 1,192 fresh coronavirus cases, positivity rate dips to 5.1 per cent||With another round of fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Friday, Delhi’s tally rose to 1,42,723 after 1,192 new positive cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The national capital also witnessed 23 new deaths, taking the cumulative death toll to 4,082.Delhi, at present, has 10,409 active cases out of which 5,367 continue to be treated for the infection in home isolation, according to the health bulletin issued by authorities. The city has recorded a positivity rate of 5.1 per cent after conducting over 23,385 tests in the last 24 hours, down from 6.4 per cent recorded a day earlier. As of Friday, Delhi has close to 18,000 beds, out of which 2,545 beds have been occupied by people under quarantine including those who are traveled to the city by Vande Bharat Mission flights and Bubble flights. The total number of containment zones as of Friday were recorded at 466. Delhi has conducted 58,964 tests per million, the health bulletin stated, adding that total 11,20,318 tests have been conducted so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-192-fresh-coronavirus-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-5-1-per-cent/story-Eq9ajHcktu185FpHRTvQTO.html
07-08-2020||India||Centre announces probe into Kerala plane crash that has killed 20 including two pilots||Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri has said that a formal enquiry will be conducted by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) into the Kerala plane crash that has killed at least 20 people and caused injuries to 123 people, according to official information. Puri added that his ministry was in touch with local authorities and providing assistance in rescue and relief operations.He also confirmed that Air India express flight number AXB-1344 on its way from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 persons on board, overshot the runway in rainy conditions and went down 35 ft. into a slope before breaking up into two pieces.“Relief teams from Air India & AAI are being immediately dispatched from Delhi & Mumbai. All efforts being made to help passengers,” a statement from the minister said.The announcement of probe comes almost at the same time when senior Congress leader K Venugopal demanded an inquiry into the incident and sought all measures be taken for rescue, relief and medical care for the affected.According to the latest information, two passengers were still stuck inside the plane and rescue teams were trying to cut open the doors of the aircraft. Also Read: PM Modi briefed on rescue operations by Kerala CM, expresses painPrime Minister Narendra Modi has taken stock of the situation and spoken to Kerala chief minister on rescue operations. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked all government agencies to engage in rescue operations using all government facilities.He has also deputed A C Moideen, minister for local bodies, to coordinate the rescue operations. AC Moideen has already left for Karipur from Thrissur. CM also has deputed an IG of police to oversee the rescue operation. Fire and Rescue teams of two districts have also been engaged.Also Read: Helpline set up at Kozhikode along with help centres at Sharjah and DubaiHealth authorities have been instructed to provide all possible medical aid to save the lives of victims.The Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway at Kozhikode and fell into a valley, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening. Television pictures showed part of the fuselage of the jet ripped apart in the crash. Both the pilots have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-probe-into-kerala-plane-crash-that-has-killed-16-including-two-pilots/story-6FDlB605TdzEpvXtRtFFsK.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: PM Modi briefed on rescue operations by Kerala CM, expresses pain||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take stock of rescue and relief efforts being carried out at the crash site of an Air India Express flight from Dubai carrying 174 passengers, 10 infants, 2 pilots & 4 cabin crew that shot pas the runway in rainy conditions to fall into a valley leading to at least 16 deaths and injuries to 123 people, according to official information. “Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover at the earliest. Spoke to Kerala CM regarding the situation. Authorities are at the spot, providing all assistance to the affected,” the PM tweeted.Kerala CM’s office had also tweeted to say that Pinarayi Viajayan has informed the Prime Minister that a team of officials including Kozhikode & Malappuram district collectors and IG of Police, Ashok Yadav, have arrived at the airport and are participating in the rescue operations.The state police and fire department had also been rushed for rescue and relief operations apart from NDRF teams that were pressed into the operation.Home minister Amit Shah had tweeted that NDRF teams were reaching the site.“Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. I have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations,”Shah tweeted.Television pictures showed part of the fuselage of the jet ripped apart in the crash. Both the pilots have died. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, too, expressed shock at the news “Shocked at the devastating news of the plane mishap in Kozhikode. Deepest condolences to the friends and family of those who died in this accident. Prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured,” he said on Twitter.“My thoughts are with the crew, the passengers and their families and friends at this time,” he said.Air India Express has set up help centres at Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from where the ill-fated flight to Kozhikode took off on Friday afternoon. The carrier also issued a statement to express regret at the accident that has reportedly led to deaths of at least 11 people including two pilots and injuries to at least 40 passengers, according to preliminary information coming through official channels.In a separate effort to provide information to kin of passengers-- some of who have been rushed to hospital while rescue and search operations for others continue—Kozhikode collector has set up a helpline number-- 0495 – 2376901—for providing information related to the crash of Air India Express Flight (IX 1344).The flight was one among the several being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission being run by the Indian government to bring home Indian citizens stuck abroad due to restrictions on international travel due to coronavirus pandemic. After the crash, Air India Express issued a statement of regret and added that the flights under the mission will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-pm-modi-briefed-on-rescue-operations-by-kerala-cm-expresses-pain/story-42KohZacts0nMoKO48GqYI.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala Air India crash: PM Modi speaks to CM Pinarayi Vijayan over accident at Kozhikode airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the phone about the plane accident at Kozhikode airport.The Prime Minister promised all the assistance from the Centre. The Chief Minister informed the Prime Minister that a team of officials including Kozhikode and Malappuram district collectors and Inspector General Ashok Yadav reached the airport and were involved in the rescue operation, a CMO release said.“Unconfirmed reports have emerged that some people, including the pilot, have died. Several people were injured,” the release said. Vijayan informed the Prime Minister that the state government has taken steps to provide treatment to the injured and was providing other facilities. The Chief Minister said that all the mechanisms of the state government will be used to deal with the emergency.The Air India Express Dubai- Kozhikode IX-1344 flight, carrying 190 people on board from Dubai under the Vande Bharat Mission, overshot during landing at Karipur Airport in Kozhikode on Friday evening.The incident took place at 7:41 pm.Air India Express spokesperson told ANI that 174 passengers, 10 infants and two pilot and four crew members were on board.“Aircraft overshot during landing at Kozhikode airport, there was no fire reported,” he said. Officials said visibility was 2,000 metre due to heavy rain after landing at runway 10 and the aircraft continued going to the end of runway.India’s aviation watchdog ordered the detailed investigation into the incident.Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) said no fire was reported at the time of landing.NDRF teams are being rushed to Karipur Airport for rescue work, NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-air-india-crash-pm-modi-speaks-to-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-over-accident-at-kozhikode-airport/story-Wjjf6ZuJpGqDrN4UjbKoZL.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala Air India plane crash: Indian consulate in Dubai sets up hotline numbers for victims||The Indian Consulate in Dubai has activated four helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the Air India Express flight that skidded off the tabletop runway at Karipur airport in Kerala and fell into a 50 feet valley breaking into two portions while landing, killing at least two people on Friday evening.The IX 1344, Dubai-Calicut flight was carrying 191 passengers and crew, including 10 infants, two pilots and four cabin crew members.After landing at Runway 10, the Boeing 737 aircraft continued running to the end of the runway and fell down in the valley and broke into two portions, a DGCA statement said.“We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew and will keep you updated as and when we receive further updates. Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090572, +971543090575,” Dr. Aman Puri, Consul General of India, told PTI.He also said the Indian consulate will be available for any assistance it may be able to render at this time of grief.“We convey our deepest condolences to the family members of those who have been injured in this tragic incident, and we are obtaining more information from the relevant authorities on the ground at Calicut International Airport,” Puri said.“The Airport authorities are providing medical assistance to all those injured in this tragedy,” he said. PTI CORR RS AKJ RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-air-india-plane-crash-indian-consulate-in-dubai-sets-up-hotline-numbers-for-victims/story-mRCJMlsXqYlcpvyPcfzPJP.html
07-08-2020||India||Tragic day for Kerala, says Tharoor after Air India Express flight skids off runway||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday said it was a “tragic day” for Kerala after an Air India Express flight from Dubai skidded off the runway at Kozhikode airport and broke up into two, and hoped that rescue efforts will succeed in saving all the passengers. “Tragic day for Kerala. First the deaths in Munnar & now this: I hear both pilots have died. Hope rescue efforts will succeed in saving all the passengers,” the MP from Thiruvananthapuram tweeted soon after the news of the accident broke. Thr Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew skidded off the tabletop runway and fell into a 50-foot deep valley breaking up into two parts on Friday evening, police sources said. At least two people were killed in the accident. Many people have been rushed to nearby hospitals and the condition of some of them is said to be serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tragic-day-for-kerala-says-tharoor-after-air-india-express-flight-skids-off-runway/story-mfPeJtzIFege44msOoUQvL.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: Helpline set up at Kozhikode along with help centres at Sharjah and Dubai||Air India Express has announced setting up of help centres at Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from where the ill-fated flight to Kozhikode took off on Friday afternoon. The carrier also issued a statement to express regret at the accident that has reportedly led to deaths of at least 11 people including two pilots and injuries to at least 40 passengers, according to preliminary information coming through official channels.In a separate effort to provide information to kin of passengers-- some of who have been rushed to hospital while rescue and search operations for others continue—Kozhikode collector has set up a helpline number-- 0495 – 2376901—for providing information related to the crash of Air India Express Flight (IX 1344).10 infants among 191 on Kozhikode plane that overshot runway and fell in valley, says Air IndiaThe flight was one among the several being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission being run by the Indian government to bring home Indian citizens stuck abroad due to restrictions on international travel due to coronavirus pandemic. After the crash, Air India Express issued a statement of regret and added that the flights under the mission will continue.“We regret that there has been an incident regarding our aircraft VT GHK, operating IX 1344 DXB CCJ. Due to crash landing of the flight, it may affect the network but Vande Bharat Mission continues,” said the airline.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on phone about the plane crash to take stock of the rescue and search efforts, reported ANI. Kerala CM has informed the Prime Minister that a team of officials including Kozhikode & Malappuram district collectors and IG of Police, Ashok Yadav, have arrived at the airport and are participating in the rescue operation, said a release by the Kerala CM’s office.Kerala Plane Crash Live UpdatesKerala chief minister Pinarayi Viajay has instructed the state police and fire department to take urgent action for rescue and relief operations. He tweeted to say that he has also directed the officials to make necessary arrangements for rescue and medical support.Home minister Amit Shah tweeted that he had instructed National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) to reach the site immediately and carry out rescue operations.“Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. I have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations,”Shah tweeted.NDRF director general SN Pradhan confirmed that teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were being rushed to Karipur Airport for search and rescue.Air India Express flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai to Calicut overshot runway at Kozhikode Airport around 7:41 pm on Friday and fell into a gorge. There were 174 passengers, 10 Infants, two pilots and five cabin crew on board the aircraft, said ministry of civil aviation.At least 40 passengers have received injuries in the mishap which took place after the plane overshot the runway while landing during rainy conditions at the airport and broke into two parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-helpline-set-up-at-kozhikode-along-with-help-centres-at-sharjah-and-dubai/story-aveSO9YmlfqHTpTg8XOJ1K.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: 10 infants among 191 on Kozhikode plane that overshot runway and fell in valley, says Air India||There were 10 infants on board the Air India Express flight that skidded off the Karipur runway while landing on Friday evening, Air India said in its first statement on the accident at Kozhikode international airport.“There are 174 passengers, 10 Infants , 2 Pilots and 5 cabin Crew on board the aircraft,” the airline said.Also read: Air India Express plane with 191 from Dubai skids off Kozhikode runway, pilot killedThe Air India Express flight from Dubai to Calicut was attempting to land at Karipur’s table top runway in heavy rain when the accident took place. The 737 Boeing plane continued running to the end of the runway and fell down in the valley. It broke into two pieces, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation said in a statement.Watch | Plane skids off runway at Kozhikode, pilot suspected dead, several injured Malayalam-language news outlet Manorma news said the plane fell 35 feet into the valley before breaking into two pieces.There are reports of two deaths including the pilot. The casualties would have been higher if the plane had caught fire. “Luckily this didn’t happen,” an official said.Union Home Minister Amit Shah has ordered teams of the National Disaster Response Force to rush to the accident site to assist with the rescue operations. “Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala,” Shah, who is down with coronavirus and is recuperating at a Gurugram hospital near Delhi, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-10-infants-among-191-on-kozhikode-plane-that-overshot-runway-and-fell-in-valley-says-air-india/story-GBjiveULTMopVNs9aQE7RM.html
07-08-2020||India||NDRF teams rushed to plane crash site, Kerala CM rushes state police and firefighters||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Viajay has instructed the state police and fire department to take urgent action for rescue and relief operations after the plane crash at the Kozhikode International airport (CCJ) in Karipur that killed at least two people including the pilot of the aircraft.The Kerala chief minister tweeted to say that he has also directed the officials to make necessary arrangements for rescue and medical support, reported ANIHome minister Amit Shah tweeted that he had instructed National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) to reach the site immediately and carry out rescue operations.“Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. I have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations,”Shah tweeted.NDRF director general SN Pradhan confirmed that teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were being rushed to Karipur Airport for search and rescue.Air India Express flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai to Calicut overshot runway at Kozhikode Airport around 7:41 pm on Friday and fell into a gorge. There were 174 passengers, 10 Infants, two pilots and five cabin crew on board the aircraft, said ministry of civil aviation.As per the initial reports rescue operations are on and passengers are being taken to hospital for medical care.At least 40 passengers have received injuries in the mishap which took place after the plane overshot the runway while landing during rainy conditions at the airport and broke into two parts. The front portion of the aircraft was also damaged completely. The plane had landed on Runway 10 and continued running to the end of the runway and fell into a valley.Civil aviation regulator DGCA said the visibility at the airport was around 2000 meters at the time of the incident and the airport was witnessing heavy rains and the plane fell into a 30 feet deep gorge in the valley.Kozhikode airport is a tabletop airport just like the one at Mangaluru, which had witnessed a horrific air crash in 2010||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-teams-rushed-to-plane-crash-site-kerala-cm-rushes-state-police-and-firefighters/story-QqWOoWdxs3AnEzh7DKl8xK.html
07-08-2020||India||‘No fire reported’: Airline after plane splits into 2 upon Kerala landing||An Air India Express flight overshot the runway in Kerala’s Kozhikode at around 7:40 pm this evening, splitting into two but it reported catching no fire at the time of landing, said the airline in a statement. The landing took place amid very heavy rainfall in the area. There were 191 passengers on board. A pilot has been reported killed, tweeted former union minister KJ Alphons. There is no official word on the casualties, however a number of people have been injured, reports said. The first images from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces with debris strewn all around it. Here is the complete statement of the airline: “Air India Express flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai to Calicut overshot runway at Kozhikode at 1941 hrs tonight. No fire reported at the time of landing. There are 174 passengers, 10 Infants , 2 Pilots and 5 cabin Crew on board the aircraft. As per the initial reports rescue operations are on and Passengers are being taken to hospital for medical care. We will soon share the update in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fire-reported-airline-after-plane-splits-into-2-upon-kerala-landing/story-QaNUKzfz7ezahSJdj0hO9J.html
07-08-2020||India||‘Shocked at the devastating news’: Rahul Gandhi on Kozhikode Air India plane mishap||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday reacted to the plane mishap in Kerala’s Kozhikode and prayed for the speedy recovery of those involved in the accident. “Shocked at the devastating news of the plane mishap in Kozhikode. Deepest condolences to the friends and family of those who died in this accident. Prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured,” Rahul Gandhi said. An Air India Express flight with 191 passengers on board en route from Dubai skidded off the runway while landing at Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday killing one of the pilots of the aircraft in the mishap.The flight was about to land when the accident happened. After overshooting the runway, the aircraft broke into pieces. The incident took place amid very heavy rainfall in the area. The flight skidded off the runaway amidst bad weather at 7.38 pm. There were 191 passengers, including crew members on board the flight.WATCH | Plane skids off runway at Kozhikode, pilot suspected dead, several injured External affairs minister S Jaishankar said, “Deeply distressed to hear about the Air India Express tragedy at Kozhikode. Prayers are with the bereaved families and those injured. We are ascertaining further details.”Union home minister Amit Shah has instructed the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to reach the site of crash and said, “Distressed to learn about the tragic accident of Air India Express aircraft in Kozhikode, Kerala. Have instructed NDRF to reach the site at the earliest and assist with the rescue operations.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on the mishap saying, “My deepest condolences to the loved ones of crew members, passengers who lost their lives in the tragic Air India plane mishap in Kozhikode. Praying for the well being and recovery of all survivors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-at-the-devastating-news-rahul-gandhi-on-kozhikode-air-india-plane-mishap/story-W9CezYQhPXclHS2fUw4lUL.html
07-08-2020||India||‘2nd tragedy of the day’: Ex-minister after plane crash, landslide in Kerala||An Air India Express plane from Dubai, with 191 passengers on board, overshot the runway in Kerala breaking into two and killing the pilot, tweeted former Union minister of state for tourism KJ Alphons.Alphons also described it as the “second tragedy of the day” in Kerala after landslide in Idukki district killed 15 people, while many are still feared trapped. The rain has hampered the rescue operations. “Second tragedy of the day in Kerala : Air India Express skids off the run way at Kozhikode, front portion splits , pilot dies and lots of passengers injured . All passengers evacuated. Very lucky the aircraft didn’t catch fire,” tweeted Alphons.  Second tragedy of the day in Kerala : Air India Express skids off the run way at Kozhikode, front portion splits , pilot dies and lots of passengers injured . All passengers evacuated. Very lucky the aircraft didn’t catch fire @narendramodi @JPNaddaThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation said in a statement that the plane landed amid heavy rains and then crashed.“Air india Express AXB1344, B737 Dubai to Calicut, person on board 191, visibility 2000 meter, heavy rain, after landing Runway 10, continue running to end of runway and fell down in the valley and broke down in two pieces,” said the DGCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-tragedy-of-the-day-ex-minister-after-plane-crash-landslide-in-kerala/story-O5XjDTknqi8PbKsLtolgQN.html
07-08-2020||India||Aircraft shot past runway in rainy conditions and fell into a gorge: How it happened||An Air India Express aircraft with 191 people on board, including crew members, from Dubai has crashed at the runway at Calicut airport in Kerala on Friday resulting in at least two deaths including that of one pilot of the aircraft, according to preliminary reports received. At least 40 passengers have received injuries in the mishap which took place after the plane overshot the runway while landing at around 7;48 pm on Friday night. BJP leader from the state KJ Alphons tweeted to say that all passengers had been evacuated. Here is some information on how the incident took place.1. The accident happened when the flight carrying 191 passengers overshot the runway while landing at Kozhikkode airport.2. Initial reports say the plane overshot the runway due to rainy conditions and broke into two parts. The front portion of the aircraft was also damaged completely. The plane had landed on Runway 10 and continued running to the end of the runway and fell into a valley.3. Civil aviation regulator DGCA said the visibility at the airport was around 2000 meters at the time of the incident and the airport was witnessing heavy rains and the plane fell into a 30 feet deep gorge in the valley.4. Kozhikkode airport is a tabletop airport just like the one at Mangaluru, which had witnessed a horrific air crash in 2010||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-shot-past-runway-in-rainy-conditions-and-fell-into-a-gorge-how-it-happened/story-8S5v0DfyLxr2Uq3sFG0QiK.html
07-08-2020||India||Both Air India Express pilots killed as plane with 191 on board skids off runway in Kozhikode||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe and Captain Akhilesh Kumar, the two pilots of the Air India Express flight with 191 on board which skidded off the runway while landing at Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday evening, have been killed in the accident.Air India’s Capt Deepak Sathe who died in the crash was an ace fighter pilot and an alumni of the National Defence Academy (NDA). He clocked most of his flying hours on MiGs and was a Sword of Honour from the Air Force Academy in Hyderabad.Preliminary images from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces with debris all over the runway and beyond. At least, 16 people have died, according to initial reports.ALSO READ | Air India plane overshoots Karipur’s table top runway, drops into valley; 16 deadAfter landing at Runway 10, the plane continued running to the end of the runway and fell down the valley and broke into two portions, a statement from aviation regulator DGCA said.The Air India Express flight AXB1344, B737 from Dubai to Calicut was part of the Vande Bharat Mission, meant to bring home stranded people from other countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The aircraft was about to land at the Karipur Airport in Kozhikode.when it overshot the runway, and broke into pieces. The incident took place amid very heavy rainfall and bad weather in the area. There were 191 people, including crew members on board the flight.The passengers included 10 infants, two pilots, and four cabin crew  members.The flight landed at the airport at around 7.40 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-of-air-india-express-aircraft-reported-dead-after-plane-with-over-180-on-board-skidded-off-runway/story-Iu1wh7ZmV2rPY7gHzoblwO.html
07-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Adverse weather condition slowing down rescue ops at Idukki landslide site, says Kerala CM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rescue ops at Idukki landslide site to continue overnight, says Kerala CMKerala chief minister has said that adverse weather condition is slowing down rescue operations in Kerala’s Idukki district where 15 people have died and around 50 are feared trapped under the debris of a massive landslide. He, however, added that the rescue ops will continue overnight. Read moreBid to debate Kashmir ends in India spotlighting Pak patronage to D-company at UNSCIndia put international spotlight on Pakistan’s continued patronage to terrorism and terrorist organizations with a special mention to the D-Company-- headed by Mumbai blast accused Dawood Ibrahim—during a debate at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday. Read moreNational Handloom Day: Kangana Ranaut, Vidya Balan, Janhvi Kapoor urge people to be ‘vocal for local’National Handloom Day is observed every year on August 7 to recognise the contributions of the handloom weavers to India. From Prime Minister Modi to Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani, the biggest names urged people to value handmade products, to appreciate the culture behind handloom and to support local artisans. Read more‘If Rhea Chakraborty evades ED’s questions today, she can also be arrested’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family’s lawyerActor Rhea Chakraborty, being investigated by the CBI on charges of abetting Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai on Friday in connection with a money laundering case. Now, Sushant’s family lawyer Vikas Singh has said that she could get arrested if she tries to evade ED’s questions. Read moreDad’s words to daughter on how to get back up after a fall are a lesson for all. Will Smith shares videoIt is no lie that most parents do a lot for their children. From bringing them into this world to gearing them up for greatness, it all seems to be part and parcel of parenthood. This dad is no exception to that rule. His motivational conversation with his daughter and their subsequent actions may hit you right in the feels. Read more‘Quarantined investigation, not me’: Bihar officer probing Sushant’s deathThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said it has allowed Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, quarantined here after arrival to oversee probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, to return to his home state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-adverse-weather-condition-slowing-down-rescue-ops-at-idukki-landslide-site-says-kerala-cm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kMgV8EKgbokl5UI35MTP2N.html
07-08-2020||India||Sushant Rajput case: Centre moves SC amid tussle between Mumbai and Patna||The Union government approached the Supreme Court on Friday to be made a party in the transfer petition filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty challenging the case against her in Bihar in the death of her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput.“The impleadment is in the interest of justice and would not cause prejudice to any of the parties in the present transfer petition,” the Centre told the top court. The actor wants the FIR filed against her quashed on the ground that the Bihar Police lacks jurisdiction to probe the case. The FIR accuses Rhea and her family of abetting the 34-year-old actor’s suicide. The case is now being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The apex court had recently sought responses from Bihar, Maharashtra and Krishna Kishore Singh, father of the late actor, on Rhea’s plea.The probe into Sushant’s death at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14 has been a bone of contention between Bihar and Maharashtra. Before the CBI stepped in, the two states – Maharashtra and Bihar - were locked in a battle over who has the right to investigate the case. While the Mumbai police has claimed it had the exclusive right since the incident occurred under its jurisdiction, the Bihar police filed an affidavit on Friday claiming that Section 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) says offence may be inquired into or tried by a court where the consequence of an offence has ensued. In this case, the consequence of the unnatural death was in Patna, where the late actor’s family resides. The Bihar government, in an affidavit filed through advocate Keshav Mohan, said that the non-cooperation “casts a serious aspersion on the role of Mumbai police, who is apparently siding with the petitioner for the reasons best known to them.” Crucial case evidence such as inquest, post-mortem and FSL (forensic science laboratory) reports, CCTV (closed-circuit TV) footage etc have not been provided to Bihar Police despite several requests, the affidavit stated. In their probe so far, the Bihar Police claimed to have recorded statements of 10 persons linked to Rajput. The Bihar SIT even verified bank account details of Rajput based on his father’s complaint that close to Rs 15 crore were transferred from his account to unknown persons not linked to him. The father had even complained that his son’s finances, including bank account and credit cards, were being looked after by Chakraborty. “Given the sensitivity of the matter and the inter-state ramification and presence of most of the accused in Mumbai,” the Bihar top cop recommended the investigation of the case to be handed over to the CBI. With the case now firmly resting in CBI’s hands, Bihar’s jurisdiction is out and it is the Centre which Maharashtra has to contest against in continuing with its probe. A fresh petition came up before the Supreme Court on Friday which demanded that the entire case has not yet gone to CBI as the agency is only examining the FIR filed by Bihar Police. The petition, filed by a law student, Dwivendra Dubey, failed to impress a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. “You are a total stranger who is unnecessarily interfering in the case. The victim’s father is pursuing the case,” the court said dismissing the petition. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared in the matter to inform that the CBI has taken over the probe from Patna police. Rhea’s transfer petition remains the focus as the apex court had clarified on Wednesday that it would determine which investigation agency has jurisdiction to probe the case. The Mumbai police is yet to respond while the Bihar police has dismissed Rhea’s petition to be “misconceived, premature and not maintainable”. “The possibility of the Rhea Chakraborty case being argued out on the next date in the Supreme Court can only be possible if the Maharashtra government defends its jurisdiction. “The CBI cannot operate without express consent of Maharashtra. I also see the possibility of Mumbai Police completing its probe and putting it before the Court on the next date and saying we have nothing more to investigate. Only a thin chance remains that Maharashtra will accept the situation as fait accompli and concede ground to CBI, which I doubt will happen,” Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-rajput-case-centre-moves-sc-amid-tussle-between-mumbai-and-patna/story-6904cjMmhORATSyzJyQVFK.html
07-08-2020||India||1st ‘Kisan Rail’ for perishables flagged off, transportation cost may dip by Rs 1000 per tonne||The first ‘Kisan Rail’ train for transportation of perishable goods with refrigerated coaches to assist farmers aimed at ensuring a fast transportation of agricultural produce across the country was flagged off on Friday from Deolali in Maharashtra to Danapur in Bihar. It is expected to reduce transportation costs by Rs 1000 per tonne compared with roadways and reduce travel time by around 15 hours, a railway ministry official said. The train will operate from Deolali to Danapur. Central Railway’s Bhusawal Division is primarily an agriculture based division. This train has been provided scheduled halts at Nasik Road, Manmad, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Burhanpur, Khandwa, Itarsi, Jabalpur, Satna, Katni, Manikpur, Prayagraj Chheoki, Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar and Buxar. This is a weekly service which will run every Friday form Deolali, and return on Sunday from Danapur. The scheduled time of the journey is 31 hours and 45 minutes (one-way).“Nasik and surrounding regions produce huge quantities of fresh vegetables, fruits, flowers, other perishables, onions and other agro products. These perishables are mainly transported to areas around Patna, Prayagraj, Katni, Satna etc,” the railway ministry said.The Centre had announced plans of starting special parcel trains called ‘Kisan Rail’ in the Budget this financial year. In her Budget 2020 speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Indian Railways will set up a “Kisan Rail” through public private partnership (PPP) with refrigerated coaches for transportation of perishable goods inclusive of milk, meat and fish.“The Nasik/Bhusawal region has a huge production of fruits as well as green vegetables, such as onions and green chilies. This produce was moving largely by road towards the eastern part of country, and Railways’ share in this transportation was miniscule. But with efforts of Railway officials, this traffic is now coming towards Railways – as the time to be taken by Rail is approximately 15 hours lesser than the road, and the freight charges are also cheaper by more than Rs 1,000 per tonne,” the official said.Reefers, or refrigerated containers, facilitate the movement of cargo that requires a strict temperature-controlled environment. At present, the railways’ subsidiary CONCOR provides reefer services. Cold chains as a business area involve providing transportation to perishable products from source to end-user while maintaining a certain temperature along the route.“Out of nearly 2000 loaded freight trains running every day, around 10 trains are of perishables where onion is the main commodity. When loaded in wagons we are nearly 25%, when loaded in parcel we would be around 10 % cheaper approximately. As of now we are pretty insignificant in perishables but since there are volumes here we have targeted this for getting a larger share,” the official said.Absence of reefer container linkages and high and increasing power costs are proving to be a major hurdle in the growth of import and export of perishable cargo.“Indian Railways aims to help double farmers’ income with the launch of Kisan Rail. This train will help in bringing perishable agricultural products like vegetables, fruits to the market in a short period of time. The train with frozen containers is expected to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables, inclusive of fish, meat and milk, the ministry said in a statement.The train is presently planned with 10 parcel vans with a total capacity of 238 tonnes.“Any farmer or any other interested party can directly book their consignments in this train, without any lower limit on the size of consignment. The consignment can be as small as 50-100 kgs, and can be booked from any stopping station to any other stopping station – giving full flexibility. Regarding loss/damage of products for any reason, Railways already have a well-established claim/compensation system – through which the party can get compensation for its losses,” the official added.The train was flagged off via video conferencing by union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal.Speaking on the occasion, Goyal said, “This train will serve as a milestone in doubling farmers’ income. Indian Railways and farmers have been at the forefront in the battle against Covid-19 and the challenges it led to. Foodgrains freight was doubled during the period. Interest of Indian farmers is being looked after like never before. I am looking forward to see the day when apples of Kashmir reach Kanyakumari through Kisan Rail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-kisan-rail-for-perishables-flagged-off-transportation-cost-may-dip-by-rs-1000-per-tonne/story-rrcCSaM2LuIH868WoB8CUL.html
07-08-2020||India||Army chief asks commanders to keep guard up in eastern, central sectors||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane asked his top commanders to stay prepared for any eventuality while carrying out a security review of the eastern and central sectors during a two-day visit at a time when India and China are locked in a tense border dispute in Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. While the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is the focus of the current border tensions, Indian forces are in a heightened state of alert all along the border with China stretching from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim to Arunachal Pradesh. Top commanders briefed Naravane on the prevailing security situation, deployments and the army’s operational preparedness in the eastern and central sectors at Tezpur on Thursday and Lucknow a day later, the people said. The Tezpur-based Gajraj Corps is responsible for a border frontage of 1,563 km with China. Also read: China offers a new normal to end Ladakh border standoff. India shoots it downWhile the border row with China erupted in early May after a violent face-off in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso as well as Chinese aggression in the remote Galwan Valley, the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army were involved in a tense face-off at Naku La in Sikkim on May 9. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured during the confrontation that involved about 150 soldiers. The visit was in continuation of attempts to ensure highest operational readiness of the Indian military in the eastern sector where China’s provocations have been on the rise, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). “China’s objections last year to the army exercise ‘Him Vijay’ in Arunachal Pradesh and claims on Bhutan’s territory are extremely sensitive and significant issues. Also, the deployment of new weapon systems would have been overseen for their operational enhancement,” Lamba added. Also read | Keep off: India’s terse counter to China after its Kashmir barbThe army chief’s tour came at a time when military talks on disengagement have hit a roadblock because of serious differences between the two armies in the Finger Area and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims to be Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-asks-commanders-to-keep-guard-up-in-eastern-central-sectors/story-5WG4PcmuyrabZFAg1xcJTP.html
07-08-2020||India||Rescue ops at Idukki landslide site to continue overnight, says Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister has said that adverse weather condition is slowing down rescue operations in Kerala’s Idukki district where 15 people have died and around 50 are feared trapped under the debris of a massive landslide. He, however, added that the search for those missing will continue overnight. “Adverse weather condition is slowing down the operations to rescue people affected due to landslide in Rajamalai, Idukki. The state government has sought the help of Air Force but adverse weather condition is not conducive for air lifting people,” Pinarayi Vijayan told media in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday evening.The landslide, triggered by heavy rains, razed a tea plantation workers’ settlement in Rajamalai in the early hours of Friday, burying it under a mound of slush and rock.Vijayan said that the rescue mission will continue during the night and all arrangements have been made to provide enough light at the landslide site.A 50-member strong special task force team of the Fire Force, equipped for night time rescue activities, is among the emergency services personnel sent to the area to undertake relief and rescue operations. At least two NDRF teams have also been deployed and fire force, forest and revenue officials have been instructed to join the rescue efforts. A 50 member strong special task force team of the Fire Force has been dispatched to Rajamalai in Idukki for rescue efforts. They have been equipped for nighttime rescue activities. #KeralaRains pic.twitter.com/olo1eraMNVAt least 15 people have been rescued so far and hospitalised, said officials.Announcing an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the families of those killed, the CM said that the state government will bear the cost of treatment of those injured in the mishap.President Kovind, Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah were among those who expressed their condolences over the tragedy. The prime minister also announced ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the kin of deceased.The IMD, meanwhile, has declared a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall in Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts and orange alert in five other districts of the southern state.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-ops-at-idukki-landslide-site-to-continue-overnight-says-kerala-cm/story-oyUwV4p0dArzw37tPbPQjN.html
07-08-2020||India||OCI card holders from US, UK, Germany, France can visit India: Home Ministry||Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders from the US, UK, German and France, with whom India has signed ‘air bubble’ arrangements, will be allowed to visit the country, the Home Ministry announced on Friday.Other foreigners from these countries have also been allowed to avail Indian visa facility for business, medical and employment purposes.According to a home ministry notification, Indian citizens have also been allowed to travel to these countries on any type of visa.“Ministry of Home Affairs has permitted to enter India OCI card holders who belong to countries with which ‘air bubble’ arrangements have been finalised by Ministry of Civil Aviation,” a home ministry spokesperson said.India so far has bilateral air travel arrangements or ‘air bubbles’ with the US, UK, Germany and France during the coronavirus pandemic-related international travel restrictions.Other countries may be included under this scheme in future, the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oci-card-holders-from-us-uk-germany-france-can-visit-india/story-kyUggB0mpUToVm2MMEe7FO.html
07-08-2020||India||Bid to debate Kashmir ends in India spotlighting Pak patronage to D-company at UNSC||India put international spotlight on Pakistan’s continued patronage to terrorism and terrorist organizations with a special mention to the D-Company-- headed by Mumbai blast accused Dawood Ibrahim—during a debate at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday.Hitting out at Pakistan after it unsuccessfully tried to internationalize the Kashmir issue at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday, India pointed out the neighbouring country’ role in arms trafficking, narcotics trade and in harbouring terrorists and terrorist entities proscribed by the UN.“An organized crime syndicate, the D-Company, that used to smuggle gold and counterfeit currencies transformed into a terrorist entity overnight causing a series of bomb blasts in the city of Mumbai in 1993. The attack resulted in the loss of more than 250 innocent lives and damage to property worth millions of dollars. The perpetrator of that incident also, unsurprisingly, continues to enjoy patronage in a neighboring country, a hub for arms trafficking and narcotics trade, along with other terrorists and terrorist entities that have been proscribed by the United Nations,” India said during the debate.Watch: ‘Absurd’, ‘obsessed’: India slams Pakistan over map claiming Gujarat, J&K partsIndian agencies believe that Dawood Ibrahim is being protected by Pakistan’s ISI, which has further used his network for its own objectives. Pakistan, aided by China had attempted to raise Kashmir issue at the UNSC for the third time since last August to coincide with the anniversary of the revocation of the Article 370, but UNSC rebuffed the attempts calling it a bilateral issue. During the discussions, India called out Pakistan for cross border terrorism and stressed that there can be no justification of any form of terrorism to counter Pakistan’s narrative on Kashmir.“Terrorism is one of the most serious threats that mankind faces today. The scourge of terrorism does not distinguish between countries and regions. It is the grossest affront to the enjoyment of the inalienable human right to life and to live in peace and security. India strongly condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. There can be no justification of any form of terrorism. And looking for root causes for terrorism is akin to finding a needle in a haystack,” India said at the UNSC debate.New Delhi highlighted that it has been a victim of terrorism sponsored from across the border and explained in detail the linkage between transnational organized crime and terrorism, stating that it had “first hand” “experience” of the “cruel linkage”.Also Read: Reject China’s interference in internal affairs: IndiaIndia also urged the United Nations to enhance its coordination with bodies like Financial Action Task Force (FATF) which have been playing a significant role in setting global standards for preventing and combating money laundering & terrorist financing.The FATF is an inter-governmental body established in 1989 to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system. If Pakistan fails to comply with the FATF directive by October, there is every possibility that the global body may put the country in the ‘Black List’ along with North Korea and Iran.Four of the five permanent members — the US, UK, France and Russia — had firmly sided with India against Pakistan and China’s joint attempt to raise the Kashmir issue.On Thursday, India had asked Beijing to draw proper conclusions from such “infructuous attempts” and “firmly” rejected its “interference” in the country’s internal affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bid-to-debate-kashmir-ends-in-india-spotlighting-pak-patronage-to-d-company-at-unsc/story-AGKzcdwjdXQWBk40aO6VjO.html
07-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh lifts lockdown in major cities, places certain restrictions||With some restrictions, shops and commercial establishments opened on Friday in major Chhattisgarh cities after the 16-day strict lockdown enforced by the district authorities on July 23. Raipur district administration issued fresh guidelines for opening of shops in different shifts from Friday, a public relation department said. The similar lockdown which was also enforced in various urban bodies in different districts, including Durg, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur and Korba of the state ended on Thursday. The emergency services, including hospitals, and law and order maintenance were not under the purview of restrictions, said senior officials. “Sale of vegetables, dairy products, mutton and fish will be allowed from 6 am till 12 noon while grocery shops and general stores would open from 8 am till 4 pm. Hotels and restaurants would remain open from 10 am to 9 pm while home delivery facilities will function from 10 am till 10 pm in restaurants and hotels. Other businesses such as cloth stores, shoe shops, readymade garment shops, hardware etc. can run their business from 11 am till 7 pm,” the guidelines issued by Raipur collector stated. Additionally, street food vendors are allowed to operate from 6 am to 9 am in the morning and 5 pm to 8 pm in the evening. On Thursday, 40 inmates of Raipur Central jail were found Covid-19 positive. The jail authorities said that the infected inmates are kept in separate barracks and necessary preventive measures have been taken to contain the spread. Record single-day spike of 483 Covid-19 cases was recorded in the state on Thursday. The highest number of cases were found in Raipur as a total of 193 cases were detected on Thursday. Chhattisgarh, where the infection has spread in all the 28 districts, reported 11,020 Covid-19 cases till Thursday. Of these cases, 2855 were active cases as 8088 patients have been discharged while 77 others have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-lifts-lockdown-in-major-cities-places-certain-restrictions/story-6tMyNrfNUsPlBznn2TGKrL.html
07-08-2020||India||Explore restoration of 4G mobile internet services in J-K: SC tells Centre||The Central government should explore the possibility of restoring 4G mobile internet services in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J-K) in view of the statements by former Lieutenant Governor (LG) of J-K GC Murmu advocating the same, the Supreme Court said on Friday.The top court was hearing a petition filed by NGO, Foundation for Media Professionals in June seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Central government and J-K for failure to comply with the apex court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the union territory.“LG has said that there is no difficulty in restoring 4G. You have to give (an) explanation to that,” Justice R Subhash Reddy, who was part of the three-judge bench hearing the matter, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared on behalf of J-K.Mehta pointed out that the LG of J-K has changed and new LG Manoj Sinha has taken over.“LG is not part of the review committee. In your response, don’t go strictly by whether or not contempt is there. You should also say whether 4G can be restored in areas (where there is no trouble),” Justice Reddy remarked.The apex court had on May 11 ordered the constitution of a committee comprising high ranking government officials to review restrictions on 4G in the union territory. The committee was to comprise the secretary of ministry of home affairs, secretary of ministry of communications and the chief secretary of J-K. This order was passed in an earlier plea filed in April by the same NGO pointing out that lack of 4G services in the union territory was causing great difficulties to medical health professionals and general population during the Covid-19 pandemic.The NGO then approached the apex court in June filing the present contempt petition claiming there is no information available in the public domain about whether the constitution of the special committee has been notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.The Centre filed a response to the contempt plea on July 21 stating that the review committee was constituted as per the May 11 directions of the court and it took a decision against resuming 4G services for the time being. The Centre has consistently maintained that restoring 4G will benefit anti-India elements and terrorists who will utilise the same for speedy communication.Former LG of J-K, GC Murmu told the media on July 24 that restoration of 4G services in J-K will not be a problem and Pakistan will continue with its propaganda even if mobile internet speed is restricted to 2G. The petitioners highlighted Murmu’s statement to augment their case when the matter was heard on July 28.“We have attached a news report showing the L-G has made a statement that 4G services should be restored. It is also in line with the statements by J-K interlocutor Ram Madhav. I have submitted those media reports,” senior counsel Huzefa Ahmadi, who was appearing for the petitioner, had told the court.The Centre had then said that it will verify the statement and get back to the court.When the matter came up for hearing on Friday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for J-K sought time to file a response to the rejoinder affidavit filed by the petitioner. The court allowed the same and adjourned the case for August 11 while making it clear that no further adjournments will be allowed.The J-K administration had issued an order on March 26 restricting internet speed in mobile data to 2G.The petitioner had moved the top court against that order claiming that patients, doctors and general public were unable to access latest information, guidelines and advisories about Covid -19 due to restrictions on mobile internet speed. It was also pointed out that slow internet speed also renders telemedicine (diagnosis and treatment of patients by means of telecommunication) or online video consultation impossible.The Supreme Court, in its May 11 judgment, refrained from passing directions to restore 4G mobile internet services in J-K instead constituting the special committee comprising high level government officers to take a call on the same and examine the necessity to allow faster internet in certain geographical areas of the newly formed union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explore-restoration-of-4g-mobile-internet-services-in-j-k-sc-tells-centre/story-rt7dcMOSuVL3L9nJsNsQsI.html
07-08-2020||India||A week before Rajasthan assembly session, Vasundhara Raje meets BJP chief JP Nadda||Former Rajasthan chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje Scindia on Friday met BJP president JP Nadda at his residence earlier today, reported news agency ANI. The political situation in Rajasthan was discussed during the meeting, ANI reported citing sources. The meeting between the two senior BJP leader comes a week before assembly session in Rajasthan is scheduled to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-week-before-rajasthan-assembly-session-vasundhara-raje-meets-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-TlJrqvXr3V3XOGwMXWwDQN.html
07-08-2020||India||Mulayam Singh Yadav admitted to Lucknow hospital||Samajwadi party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, 80, was admitted to Lucknow’s Medanta hospital on Thursday night after he complained of constipation and stomach ache. “Mulayam Singh Yadav was having stomach ache and was not taking food properly due to stomach problem,” said Dr Rakesh Kapoor, director of Medanta hospital, adding, “His overall health is stable.”Scores of Samajwadi Party leaders, including the veteran politician’s son Akhilesh Yadav and daughter-in-law Dimple Yadav visited the hospital.Earlier in May, the veteran leader was admitted to the same hospital for a stomach-related ailment. He was discharged after two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mulayam-singh-yadav-admitted-to-lucknow-hospital/story-SBQgacZLUxH5vXAFEvgMWK.html
07-08-2020||India||2 MP officials shunted out over alleged mishandling of youth celebrating Ram temple ceremony||Two officials, including one from the police, were shunted out from Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Khargone district late at night on Thursday following a protest by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and traders over the alleged manhandling of youths by the district and police authorities, who were celebrating the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya on the previous day. The youths, who were celebrating after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday presided over a bhoomi pujan ceremony in Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram temple on the site of the 16th Century Babri Masjid, was allegedly manhandled following the district and police authorities’ orders. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Abhishek Gehlot and sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP) Gladwin Edwardkar have been shunted out to the state secretariat and police headquarters, respectively, by the Shivraj Singh-led government in MP. The transfer order was issued after angry traders downed shutters in Kharogone town and took out a protest march on Thursday, demanding action against the alleged errant officials. BJP’s Gajendra Singh Patel, who represents Khargone constituency in the Lok Sabha, and the party’s national general secretary, Kailash Vijayvargiya, also demanded action against the two officials for their alleged out-of-line action. The members of jewellers’ association in Khargone alleged that the police officer beat the youths in Sarrafa Bajar while they were celebrating by bursting firecrackers, as the centuries-old dream of constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya became a reality on Wednesday. SDM Gehlot allegedly misbehaved with the youths. While police seized the firecrackers, beat a section of the youngsters and took around 10-11 of them to the local police station, leading to mob fury, allegedly unleashed by unidentified goons, in the town at night on Wednesday. Vallabh Bhandari, a member of jewellers’ association in Khargone, narrated the sequence of events. “A section of youths, including an employee in my showroom, Neeraj Joshi, were celebrating at Sarrafa Bazarthe on the occasion of bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. However, two officials, along with a team of police personnel, reached the spot and thrashed some of the youths, who were in a joyous mood. They took around 10-11 of them to the police station. None of the elected public representatives came to our help. The youths were released after around 700 people reached the police station. The district and police administration’s reckless act emboldened a mob that went on a rampage at night in our locality, where a number of local residents sustained injuries. However, no first information report (FIR) was filed regarding the mob fury,” Bhandari said. He maintained that the local residents have protested, as the district and police authorities manhandled the youths for celebrating a momentous joyous occasion. The district police authorities, however, joined issued with Bhandari’s assertions. “There is a ban on the bursting of crackers in Khargone, a communally-sensitive town. The situation could have snowballed into a communal conflagration had timely action was not taken,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta was quick to wade into the row and blamed the ruling BJP for the incident. “Similar incidents have been reported from Guna, Dewas, and other places, where district authorities have a free hand to run amok and harass locals. Officials have been transferred to divert the public’s attention from the issue. The BJP is responsible for a spike in such incidents,” Gupta alleged. State home minister Narottam Mishra justified the officials’ transfer. “Prima facie, the SDM and SDoP were found guilty and they have been transferred. The state government is in control of maintaining law and order Khargone town,” Mishra told media persons. SDO Gehlot evaded his transfer issue and said that he “is busy in a meeting and will speak later”. While SDoP Edwardkar was not available for his comment, despite repeated attempts. KS Sharma, ex-chief secretary, MP, said, “The district authorities need to do a tightrope walk between maintaining law and order and taking actions that come across as prudent and efficient for the larger community good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-two-officials-shunted-out-over-alleged-mishandling-of-youth-celebrating-ram-temple-ceremony/story-aLCn5e3XQyS4bj7essmSeL.html
07-08-2020||India||Seers demand memorial pillars for those who lost lives for Ram temple||Hundreds of seers, led by the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), want ‘kirti stambhs (memorial pillars)’ to be built in Ayodhya and Prayagraj (near Sangam) with names of people who dedicated or lost their lives in the Ram temple movement. ABAP is the apex decision-making body of 13 top Hindu sects in the country. The seers plan to get a resolution passed by the Akhara Parishad in this regard and then send a formal proposal for the pillars to the Centre through the state government. Parishad general secretary Swami Hari Giri said the struggle for Ram temple in Ayodhya continued for decades and many people lost their lives during it. “Take the example of former VHP chief Ashok Singhal who even gave his home for the struggle or Kothari brothers ((Ram Kumar and Sharad Kothari of Kolkata), who died in police firing in Ayodhya on November 2, 1990. Now that the construction for the temple is all set to start after the ‘bhoomi poojan’, we want ‘kirti stambhs’ to be constructed in their honour in Ayodhya and Prayagraj,” he said. Giri said he has prepared a proposal for these ‘kirti stambhs’, including installation of a statue of Ashok Singhal, to be built near the Sangam with names of those who played important roles in the struggle engraved on it. “The plan is to get the proposal passed by the Parishad members and then send it to the central government for implementation,” he claimed. He also said that seers also want all cases registered against people during the struggle to be withdrawn. “Now that this struggle for a Ram temple in Ayodhya is over, cases registered in connection with it should also be withdrawn. We have already made a formal request in this regard to the state government,” he said. ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri said the seers have also decided to henceforth celebrate August 5 — the Ram temple ‘bhoomi poojan’ day – like Diwali every year. On August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally launched the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, saying the temple will be testimony to a “modern symbol of Indian culture”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seers-demand-memorial-pillars-for-those-who-lost-lives-for-ram-temple/story-unubnYUrH7GXaMnQ6DX5jK.html
07-08-2020||India||Kedarnath tragedy: Expert panel to help find remains of 3,075 people missing since 2013 floods||Uttarakhand government has constituted a high level multi-institutional expert committee to suggest appropriate technology or methodology for searching the mortal remains of 3,075 people who went missing in the massive flash floods in Kedarnath region in June 2013. The committee would hand over its report to the state government for compliance and further necessary action in two months. The committee constituted under the chairmanship of inspector general (SDRF) Uttarakhand police will have expert members from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, Geological Survey of India (GSI) and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). HT has a copy of the order. These three institutions have been mandated to “nominate suitable officers, scientists, faculty members in the committee who are well qualified, trained and experienced in shallow subsurface investigation to identify objects/human remains as also in retrieving these and having experience of working in the high altitude Himalayan terrain” According to the order issued by secretary disaster management department, the committee would “meet as and when required and deliberate upon various aspects of the problem and would if required, visit the Kedarnath area”.Also Read: To boost religious tourism in Himalayan state, Uttarakhand to develop ‘Ramayana Circuit The committee, according to the order, has been mandated to invite any expert that it deems fit for discussion, consultation and advice. The state government apprised the high court about the order in its affidavit to the court on Friday during the hearing of a PIL filed by Delhi-based activist Ajay Gautam in 2014. The PIL had sought directions from the HC to authorities concerned to take proper and expedient steps to search missing persons in the June 2013 Kedarnath tragedy so that their last rites could be performed according to the Hindu tradition. Ajay Gautam said he had suggested the HC that a committee of experts should be constituted to look into the issue and come up with some mechanism through which the missing bodies could be recovered and their last rites could be held as per the Hindu tradition. Also Read: India objects to omnidirectional CCTV cameras set up by Nepal at Uttarakhand border“I am happy that a high-level committee has been formed. After this decision, the PIL has been disposed of by the HC. I have been fighting for this cause since 2014. I hope in the coming time this will provide closure to families of these thousands of missing people,” said Gautam. On June 22, 2020, HC had directed Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology to suggest scientific ways that can be adopted to trace 3,075 bodies of missing people in Kedarnath region without harming the Himalayan environment Since the tragedy in 2013, 699 dead bodies/skeletons/remains have been recovered so far from Kedarnath area. In November 2016, the HC had directed the state government to form special investigation teams (SITs) to trace and cremate the bodies of the 2013 disaster victims. Following the directions, the state government in May 2017 had constituted five SITs for searching the bodies of the victims. On September 4, 2019, Uttarakhand government had filed an affidavit, stating that excavating the fragile Himalayan terrain to trace the bodies of 3,075 people still missing in the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy could cause “irreparable damage to the ecology and the environment”. The state government in its affidavit stated that “it is not possible technically to pinpoint the location of human remains under the debris and excavating the recently accumulated thick pile of debris in search of human remains would amount to inviting yet another disaster in this ecologically highly fragile zone. It is, therefore, most humbly prayed that unearthing of human remains be left to forces of nature and the state government commits to DNA sampling and ceremonial cremation of these”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-tragedy-expert-panel-to-find-remains-of-3-075-people-missing-since-2013-floods/story-ChhsKNaQf4qvqO4OrNgAvI.html
07-08-2020||India||PM Modi to launch submarine cable connectivity for Andaman & Nicobar on Aug 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair on August 10, via video conferencing, an official release said on Friday. The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat.The new network will enable delivery of faster and more reliable mobile and landline telecom services to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, at par with other parts of the country. The foundation stone for this project was laid by the Prime Minister on December 30, 2018 at Port Blair.The submarine optical fibre cable link will deliver bandwidth of 2 x 200 Gigabits per second (Gbps) between Chennai and Port Blair, and 2 x 100 Gbps between Port Blair and the other islands. “The provision of reliable, robust, and high-speed telecom and broadband facilities in these islands will be a landmark achievement from the viewpoint of consumers, as well as for strategic and governance reasons,” the statement read.In the islands, 4G mobile services, which were disrupted due to limited bandwidth provided via satellite, will also see major improvement.“Enhanced telecom and broadband connectivity will boost tourism and employment generation in the islands, give an impetus to the economy and raise standards of living. Better connectivity will also facilitate delivery of e-Governance services such as telemedicine and tele-education,” the statement said.Besides small and medium trade enterprises will also benefit from opportunities in e-commerce with the new connectivity in place, and educational institutions will utilise the enhanced bandwidth for e-learning and knowledge sharing. Business Process Outsourcing services and other medium and large enterprises too also benefit from better connectivity.An estimated 2,300 km of Submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) has been laid at an expenditure of about Rs 1,224 crore, and the project has been completed well within deadline. The connectivity project was funded by the Centre through the Universal Service Obligation Fund under the Ministry of Communications. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) executed the project while Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) was the technical consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-submarine-cable-connectivity-for-andaman-nicobar-islands-on-aug-10/story-nHfkS0arKrFnI7LUeDl7OL.html
07-08-2020||India||Rape accused former bishop surrenders in Kerala court, given bail with conditions||Two days after the Supreme Court turned down his plea, former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal surrendered before the trial court in Kottayam in Kerala which later granted him bail under strict provisions. He was asked not leave Kerala and appear before it on Aug 13 when the charge sheet will be read out in the court. The court had cancelled his bail last month when he repeatedly failed to appear before it. Later, he moved the High Court and Supreme Court, but both refused to entertain his plea to quash the case. ALSO READ | ‘See no merit in your petition’: SC to rape-accused bishop Franco MulakkalPublic prosecutor Jithesh Babu told the court that earlier Mulakkal had claimed he had tested positive for Covid-19, but had failed to produce a certificate showing that he recovered from the illness. Then the court directed health officials to check the claim. On the last two occasions, he skipped the court saying he was staying in a containment zone in Jalandhar and later he said he had tested positive for coronavirus. But the prosecution questioned the veracity of both claims. The case surfaced in 2018, after a 43-year-old nun complained to the police in Kottayam that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mulakkal denied it saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. ALSO READ | Bishop Franco Mulakkal to face rape charges as Supreme Court dismisses pleaLater, a special investigation team (SIT) was formed and it arrested him in September 2018. He was granted bail after spending 40 days in jail. He was removed from the post of the bishop later. The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year but he failed to appear before the court several times. The petitioner had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by Mulakkal’s followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-accused-former-bishop-surrenders-in-kerala-court-given-bail-with-conditions/story-l0wLDKVVKmJgaajbFCDZ8I.html
07-08-2020||India||Now, QR code scanner to help get hospital beds for Covid patients in Andhra||Amid complaints that Covid-19 patients were being denied admission in government and private hospitals citing non-availability of beds, Andhra Pradesh administration has come up with a digital solution to help ease the situation. The state medical and health department has developed a “QR code” to help find available beds in 138 hospitals across the state. The people can scan the QR code and check for availability in their respective areas. “The code will disclose which hospital has how many beds and how many of them are available for admission,” an official in the chief minister’s office familiar with the development said on Friday. According to the official, the QR code facility has been created in the wake of several complaints about non-availability of beds, forcing the Covid-19 patients to run from one hospital to another. “This initiative to use the ‘QR code’ technology is an attempt to not only diversify the options but also reduce the response time in case of emergencies,” the official said. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed that the patients must be provided beds in hospital within 30 minutes of contacting the authorities on toll-free numbers 104 and 14410. The CM warned of stringent action against hospitals that deny admission to people who contracted coronavirus. He also asked the medical and health department officials to monitor the facilities available in the hospitals and see that the bed availability be displayed online. The officials said there are about 32,000 beds in the 128 district Covid-19 hospitals, and 8,000 in 10 state-level Covid-19 hospitals, and patients are admitted to either of these facilities based on their health. “With the rise in the number of cases the workload on the state-level helplines has been increasing. So, the QR code facility will help people get access to the information about hospital beds,” the official said. The total number of positive cases for Covid-19 in the state is nearing two lakh and the number of deaths has mounted to 1,753. However, the state government has claimed that the positivity rate for the disease and the mortality rate in the state are less than the national average. “While the national average of Covid-19 positivity is 8.87 per cent, Andhra Pradesh average has been 8.56 per cent, while that of Karnataka is 9.88 per cent, Tamil Nadu 9.26 per cent, Maharashtra 19.36 per cent and Delhi 12.75 per cent. When it comes to mortality rate, the national average is 2.07 percent while the state average is 0.89 per cent,” said an official to CM Reddy at a review meeting earlier today. Stating that the state had conducted more than 2. 3 million tests till now, Jagan said about 85 to 90 per cent of the tests are being conducted in the containment areas. He also directed that the authorities ensure timely admission of Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms in the hospitals so as to reduce the mortality rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-qr-code-scanner-to-help-find-beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-andhra/story-seqbZBX4xXNBiiFWGD8ULO.html
07-08-2020||India||Supreme Court junks ‘unnecessary’ PIL for CBI probe into Sushant Singh’s death||The Supreme Court Friday dismissed a PIL seeking a CBI or NIA probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, saying “strangers” are “unnecessarily” coming when his father is already pursuing the case. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Mumbai police has been probing the case and recorded statements of 56 people including Bollywood directors like Aditya Chopra, Mahesh Bhatt and Sanjay Leela Bhansali. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian junked the PIL filed by Mumbai-based law student Dwivendra Devtadeen Dubey on the issue. “Deceased’s father is pursuing the case. There is no reason that he will not pursue it properly. You are an stranger in this matter and you are unnecessarily coming in this. We will not permit this,” the bench said. “Don’t waste our time. Dismissed,” it said. During the brief hearing conducted through video conferencing, the apex court was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the CBI has taken over the investigation in Patna case. “One case is lodged in Mumbai and other in Patna. The Bihar government had requested for CBI probe and we agreed,” he said, adding that the Mumbai case has not been transferred to the CBI so far. Dubey, a law student, had sought the transfer of the FIR, lodged by Sushant’s father Krishan Kishore Singh at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna to either to the CBI or the NIA to ensure that the investigation is carried out “impartially, effectively and efficiently”. Earlier during the day, the Bihar government filed an affidavit in the apex court seeking dismissal of Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty’s plea for transfer of the Patna FIR against her to Mumbai in actor Rajput’s death case terming it “premature, misconceived and non-maintainable”. The apex court had on July 30 junked a similar PIL seeking transfer of probe into Rajput’s death case from Mumbai police to the CBI. “Go to Bombay High Court if you have anything concrete to show,” the court had said while dismissing the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-junks-unnecessary-pil-for-cbi-probe-into-sushant-singh-s-death/story-CbtyUGvNKbxOYOrg0AA1aK.html
07-08-2020||India||News updated from Hindustan Times: Online filing of self declaration and exemption forms to start for international arrivals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.International arrivals made easy with online filing of self declaration and exemption formsTravelling is likely to become a bit easier for international passengers arriving in India from August 8 when Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) launches a portal allowing online filling of the mandatory self-declaration forms and applications for exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine. Read more.Serum Institute ties up with Bill Gates Foundation, Gavi to speed up Covid-19 vaccine manufacture processPune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has entered into a new partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to speed up the process of manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and other third world countries, SII said in a statement. Read more.Nagpur City Police wants to give grammar lessons to scammers. Here’s whyEvery now and then, police departments across the nation, take to social media to spread awareness about scam activities and also remind people to stay safe. Nagpur Police, in their latest tweet, did the same but in a sarcastic and witty way. Their recent post is addressed to scammers and they constructed the message in such a way that it may leave you laughing out loud. Read more.‘You can’t do this’: Shoaib Akhtar slams Pakistan team management after former captain Sarfaraz Ahmed carries shoes as 12th manFormer Pakistan quick Shoaib Akhtar feels the team management has disrespected Sarfaraz Ahmed by making him perform 12th-man duties on Day 2 of the first Test against England in Manchester. Sarfaraz, who was appointed Pakistan captain after the 2016 T20 World Cup in India, was sacked after leading the country for almost four years. Read more.Kia Sonet sub-compact SUV unveiled, targets Venue and BrezzaKia Sonet sub-compact SUV finally broke cover in production form in a world premiere organised on Friday. The sub-compact SUV was showcased in concept form at Auto Expo 2020 and the production version bears several similarities with it as it hopes to lock horns against Hyundai Venue, Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza and Mahindra XUV300 once launched around the festive period. Read more.The Expedition in Pursuit of Rare Meats: Tate Museum faces heat over racist mural in Europe’s ‘most amusing room’Britain’s Tate museum said it was considering how to address “deeply problematic racist imagery” in a restaurant at one of its London galleries, as anti-racism campaigners called for the art to be removed or the restaurant relocated. The museum also said in a statement that it will make the dining room “more welcoming and inclusive”. Read more.Watch: Rain fury wreaks havoc in Kerala; landslides kill over 10 in IdukkiHeavy rainfall has caused havoc in Kerala once again with landslides being reported from several parts of the state. Over 10 people have reportedly been killed due to a landslide in Idukki. NDRF has been deployed in the area by the Kerala government. Police, fire and other rescue officials have also been asked to join the rescue operation in the area. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updated-from-hindustan-times-online-filing-of-self-declaration-and-exemption-forms-to-start-for-international-arrivals-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6JGI5h5nIPoGLIdnhg3JdO.html
07-08-2020||India||To boost religious tourism in Himalayan state, Uttarakhand to develop ‘Ramayana Circuit’||The Uttarakhand tourism development corporation is likely to develop a ‘Ramayana’ circuit comprising all holy sites linked with Ramayana in the state to boost religious tourism.Under the initiative, officials are keen to bring holy sites associated with Ramayana and build them for tourists to visit and learn about. “We have some holy sites and temples in the state which are linked with Ramayana. We will develop all of them and bring it under our initiative of Ramayana circuit to boost religious tourism in the state,” state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said. The minister was among the saints present in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya during the foundation stone-laying ceremony. “We have some holy sites and temples in the state which are linked with Ramayana. We will develop all of them and bring it under our initiative of Ramayana circuit to boost religious tourism in the state,” Satpal said. Revealing more details on the concept, Satpal said, “We have Bharat and Shatrughan temple in Rishikesh where it is believed that the two met Lord Ram to urge him to return to Ayodhya from his sojourn in the forest. Apart from this, we also have Raghunath temple in Devprayag which was visited by Lord Ram.” “We will link all of these places and develop them. It will help the people know about the significance of Uttarakhand in Ramayana as well as attract them to visit,” said Maharaj. The tourism minister also said that he had discussed the concept with Union minister of tourism Prahlad Singh Patel a few days ago. “I urged him to assess the possibility of developing similar circuits in all those states which have some connection with Ramayana. I also urge him to get a study done on the significance of Ramayana on some of the South East Asian countries where it is a part of their culture,” said Maharaj. Uttarakhand tourism department has also been developing Mahabharat circuit and Sita circuit in the state to boost religious tourism. “We are already working on them. This new circuit will also open new avenues of religious tourism in the state,” said Maharaj. In November last year, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced that the state government will be developing a Sita Mata circuit in Pauri Garhwal district to attract pilgrims and tourists from across the world. It is in this part of the Himalayas, according to Hindu tradition, Sita went inside earth. It is believed that Goddess Sita went inside the earth in the Phalswari village of Pauri Garhwal district where a small Sita Mata temple stands to mark the event. The village is situated at a distance of 15 km from the Pauri town, which witnesses a Sita Mata fair every year for three days in the month of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-boost-religious-tourism-in-himalayan-state-uttarakhand-to-develop-ramayana-circuit/story-O5vNKvg7v1QzLvyHUO5uVM.html
07-08-2020||India||Pained by loss of lives due to landslide in Kerala’s Idukki, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed his grief at the loss of lives in the landslide in Kerala that has resulted in 15 casualties so far with continuing search for another 53 missing people. The PM said his thoughts are with the bereaved families.“Pained by loss of lives due to landslide in Rajamalai, Idukki. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly. NDRF and the administration are working on the ground, providing assistance to the affected,” the Prime Minister said. Prime Minister’s office also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of deceased and Rs 50,000 each for the injured in the incident.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier today confirmed that a team of the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) was engaged in rescue efforts to pull out people feared trapped in the debris left by the massive landslide triggered by torrential rains.Also read: Idukki district administration has said that 16 rescued people have been admitted in hospitals.Most of the people feared trapped in the thick mass of mud and debris could be from settlements of tea estate workers caught in the landslide early Friday morning. The settlements are not very far from the hill resort of Munnar, which was ravaged by the flood two years ago in 2018.Police, fire department, forest and revenue officials have also joined the rescue efforts while another team of NDRF had been dispatched for Idukki.It is feared that residents, sleeping at their homes, were caught unawares and had no opportunity to escape. Authorities said that at least 84 people lived in the settlement.The area has been witnessing heavy rains over the last three days and power and communication networks in the area were disrupted due to the downpour. The weather department has flashed a red alert predicting extremely heavy rainfall in Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts and an orange alert in five other districts in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pained-by-loss-of-lives-due-to-landslide-in-kerala-s-idukki/story-u5n1YQQcMZkiUm1thSH2HO.html
07-08-2020||India||International arrivals made easy with online filing of self declaration and exemption forms||Travelling is likely to become a bit easier for international passengers arriving in India from August 8 when Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) launches a portal allowing online filling of the mandatory self-declaration forms and applications for exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine.This is DIAL’s joint initiative with the ministry of civil aviation, ministry of health, ministry of external affairs and various state governments. This facility will go online from August 8 for the benefit of all international arriving passengers, according to an official statement from civil and aviation ministry.“This will help in making passengers’ journey more convenient and comfortable in a contactless way as they won’t have to fill the physical copies of the forms on arrival,” it said.As per the current rules, all international passengers arriving in India have to undergo seven days of paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of home quarantine.The statement added that the new facility for online self-declaration and quarantine exemption application will help officials take a swift and informed decision on granting exemption and on the latest health condition of the arriving passenger.Also Read: India’s coronavirus case trajectory worse than United States, BrazilPassengers seeking exemption under the five specific categories recently notified by the government will need to fill the e-form available on the website of Delhi Airport “www.newdelhiairport.in”. They will have to attach supporting documents, including a copy of their passports, at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, there is no such time capping for the self-declaration form, the statement says.Exemption from institutional quarantine can be availed by fliers falling in any of the five categories - Pregnant women, fliers with a case of immediate death in the family, fliers suffering from serious illness (description to be provided), parents accompanied by children below 10 years and Covid-19 negative passengers certified through RT-PCR test conducted not more than 96 hours before departure.“This process will help passengers avoid the hassle of providing the same set of information and documents to different authorities, multiple times as the online portal has the smart option to autofill the second application using the previous application’s request number,” the statement says detailing the features of the portal.Also Read: RBI sets up panel under Kamath to suggest steps to deal with coronavirus-related stressed assetsIn another important interfacing to streamline operations, all applications will get auto-routed to the respective state government depending upon the first port of arrival. Similarly, all self-declaration applications will be routed to Airport Health Organization (APHO), under ministry of health.Making the process hassle and contact free, passengers will be emailed a copy of approval or rejection of exemption requests on specific grounds.“Those who would be given exemption from mandatory institutional quarantine can show the same at the transfer area after landing at Delhi Airport, and walk out of the airport hassle-free,” the statement says.The airport management authority and the government hopes that this process would not only help the flyers but also the authorities in completing the requisite formalities faster, reducing congestion at the arrival hall of the Airports, a crucial concern during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-arrivals-made-easy-with-online-filing-of-self-declaration-and-exemption-forms/story-qd39keSh2gD96A2GB3cF9H.html
07-08-2020||India||Serum Institute ties up with Bill Gates Foundation, Gavi to speed up Covid-19 vaccine manufacture process||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has entered into a new partnership with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to speed up the process of manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and other third world countries, SII said in a statement.“I would like to thank @BillGates, @gatesfoundation and @GaviSeth for this key partnership of risk sharing and manufacturing of a 100 million doses, which will also ensure equitable access at an affordable price to many countries around the world,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO and Owner, Serum Institute of India tweeted on Friday.The country’s drug regulator—the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier granted permission to the Serum Institute to conduct phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials on the potential vaccine for the viral infection.ALSO READ | Who should be the first in line for Covid-19 vaccine? Experts debateThe Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, via its Strategic Investment Fund, will provide at-risk funding of USD 150 million to Gavi, which will then be utilized to support the Serum Institute to manufacture the potential vaccine candidate. The potential Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by SII is likely to be made available to at least 92 countries. “The funding will support at-risk manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO prequalification,” the SII statement said.ALSO READ | Goldman warns Covid-19 vaccine approval could upend marketsOn Thursday evening, India’s Covid-19 count crossed the 20-lakh mark and recorded the highest single-day spike of 62,538 cases on Friday, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data showed.The country’s infection tally has now climbed to 20,27,075 including 6,07,384 active cases and 13,78,106 patients who have been cured and discharged. India has so far reported 41,585 deaths due to the viral infection, according to the Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-ties-up-with-bill-gates-foundation-gavi-to-speed-up-covid-19-vaccine-manufacture-process/story-h20YRO9mdooYA8ysqenE9L.html
07-08-2020||India||Cashew India app for farmers launched||The Directorate of Cashew Research (DCR) in Karnataka has launched a mobile app that would provide information related to the crop’s cultivation, market data and research for stakeholders, including the farmers. The “Cashew India” app of DCR, which is under the Indian council of agricultural research (ICAR) and located at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, is available in 11 languages and can be downloaded from Google play store, a senior official said. It gives comprehensive information on cashew grafts, nursery, cultivation, plant protection, post-harvest processing, market information and e-market beneficial for farmers, researchers, developmental agencies and processors at one place, S Mohana, senior scientist at DCR, who conceptualised and designed this app, said in a release. He said a farmer or user of the app can upload and store images related to cashew and videos in My Cashew sub-section under the cultivation section. It was also possible to record the expenditure, observations and data of the cashew farm. Real-time chatting is available for users under the chat room section. Mohana said it was possible to order for grafts online in planting material section from the research stations in a state. The users can give their buying and selling requirements in the market info section. Experts can be contacted through the ask expert section. The app is developed for states including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal and Meghalaya, Mohana said, adding this might be the highest number of states covered in an app. A multilingual app, it is available in Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Odia, Bengali and Garo languages. The technical Information for the app is provided by the scientists of DCR and from centres of the all-India coordinated research project on cashew in the country. The financial support is provided by the mission for integrated development of horticulture under the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, through the Directorate of Cashew and Cocoa Development, Kochi, he said. The DCR is involved in carrying out research and extension activities to enhance the production, processing and value addition of the cashew crop. Cashew is a most important plantation crops in the country as it brings in considerable foreign exchange earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cashew-india-app-for-farmers-launched/story-IAw7wSbYVc3psmGSdol2wJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Paramilitary forces contribute sizeable chunk to Covid-19 cases in Northeast||Personnel from various paramilitary forces deployed in the north-east have contributed to a significant chunk to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) viral caseload in the region, comprising seven states, excluding Sikkim. All states in the region have boundaries with other neighbouring nations and several of them are also battling insurgency and heavy deployment of armed as well as paramilitary forces are common in most of the seven states. The north-east has recorded around 68,000 Covid-19 cases to date. Assam tops the region’s viral caseload with 52,817 Covid-19 cases, followed by Tripura (5,743), Manipur (3,217), Nagaland (2,580), Arunachal Pradesh (1,948), Meghalaya (990), and Mizoram (539). “In Nagaland, over 40% of the total Covid-19 cases are detected among the personnel of paramilitary forces. We held a meeting with various security forces on Thursday, where they themselves decided to reschedule the entry of their personnel to the state until September or such time the situation stabilises,” said Abhijit Sinha, principal secretary (home), Nagaland. Of the 2,580 positive cases detected in Nagaland until Thursday, 1,117 were from paramilitary/military personnel. While testing is done by the state health department, the Covid-19 patients’ management is done by the paramilitary forces themselves. Faced with an increasing number of Covid-19 cases among paramilitary forces, the Mizoram government on Tuesday imposed a ban on the entry of the security forces personnel to the state until August 15. Around 250 of the total 539 Covid-19 cases in Mizoram are from paramilitary forces. The development came a day after Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to temporarily withhold inter-state movement of paramilitary personnel in August to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state, whose healthcare infrastructure is less than basic. “A large number of Covid-19 cases have been detected among paramilitary forces in Manipur. The government has regulated the entry of paramilitary forces into the state and those who enter will have to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols,” said Manipur health minister L Jayantakumar Singh. Of the 3,217 Covid-19 cases detected in Manipur until Thursday, 536 were from security forces. “Since we share a border with China, we can’t stop the entry of paramilitary or defence forces to Arunachal Pradesh because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But we are conducting rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests of all those security personnel, who is entering the state,” said Arunachal Pradesh health minister Alo Libang. Those found asymptomatic are sent to facilities managed by paramilitary forces, while the symptomatic Covid-19 patients are shifted to government-run hospitals, he added. In Arunachal Pradesh, of the total 1,948 cases detected until Friday morning, 738 were from the military and paramilitary forces. “Meghalaya also has seen a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases among paramilitary personnel, including 80% of them have reported to the state’s viral caseload to date. We are conducting RAD tests in all the six border entry points to the state,” said Meghalaya health minister AL Hek. Until Thursday, 248 personnel from various armed forces have tested Covid-19 positive in Meghalaya, including 201 from the Border Security Force (BSF) alone. Indian Army and BSF officials in Assam failed to provide details of Covid-19 cases detected among their personnel in the north-east’s most populous state. According to Assam Police’s additional director-general of police (ADGP) (law and order) GP Singh, 2,078 personnel from Assam Police has been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, until Thursday. While 1,495 of them have recovered from their viral infection, five have died due to Covid-19. Of the 5,743 Covid-19 positive cases detected in Tripura until Thursday, 306 were BSF personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paramilitary-forces-contribute-sizeable-chunk-to-covid-19-cases-in-northeast/story-IKU0WBFQjYkSgPtfRNJZjL.html
07-08-2020||India||Italy has assured to prosecute marines for killing Indian fishermen: Centre||The Indian government has told the Supreme Court that Rome has assured New Delhi that the Italian marines responsible for killing two Indian fishermen in 2012 will be prosecuted there after an international court held that they could not be tried in Indian courts due to immunity cover enjoyed by them.The government made the above statement during hearing of its petition in the Supreme Court to close the case against two Italian Marines guilty of shooting Indian fishermen but the court said that it would first hear victim fishermen’s families before allowing Centre’s plea for closure and asked it to file a fresh plea making victims’ family members as parties to its application. The court has also asked the Centre to ensure that adequate compensation is paid to families of fishermen killed by Italian marines.The case against Italian marines was being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency officials had indicated earlier this month that the Centre will move SC for closure of the case in the aftermath of the judgement by the UN Tribunal that said India couldn’t prosecute the marines.Also Read: India to follow UN court order in Italian Marines case, Supreme Court toldThe five-member arbitral tribunal, under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, said India is entitled to compensation in the case but said the marines deserve immunity and that India is “precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” in the case. The UN tribunal said the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials and ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.Kerala High Court had earlier in a May 2012 judgment held that India had the jurisdiction to try the Italian marines since their act of shooting fishermen was neither in the defence of the vessel nor the state.The Italian marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, moved the Supreme Court against the judgement following which the Supreme Court later granted them conditional bail allowing them to return to Italy in 2016.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has opposed the withdrawal of the case against the marines and asked the Centre to explore the possibility of a review petition.Also Read: Italian Marines case ruling won’t affect India’s rights in exclusive economic zoneThe two fishermen were killed after the marines fired upon them, in Indian waters off the shore of Kerala, from an oil tanker they were deployed to protect from pirates. The ship was intercepted and brought to Kochi, where the marines were arrested and charged with murder. NIA finalised a charge sheet against the marines in November 2013 when the probe report was submitted to the home ministry.The ministry, in January 2014, had initially given a sanction to prosecute the marines under the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Maritime Navigation and Fixed Platforms on Continental Shelf Act and for murder and attempt to murder. The act provides for a death penalty. The sanction was withdrawn a month later after a review of charges held that the case did not warrant applying this act.NIA was then asked to press charges related to murder, attempt to murder and causing damage to the boat of the fishermen. India had accused Italy of attempting to delay the process of prosecution at every step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italy-has-assured-it-will-prosecute-italian-marines-for-killing-indian-fishermen-centre-tells-sc/story-McKDAoBxCoKJ9LbwuFITPN.html
07-08-2020||India||3 arrested in Assam for abduction, murder of 5-month-old infant||Police in Assam’s Cachar district have arrested three persons on charges of allegedly kidnapping and murdering a five-month-old boy, officials said on Friday. According to the police, the incident took place in the wee hours of Wednesday when the baby, who was sleeping with his parents, was kidnapped from his house in Sonai Kajidahar area after the abducters s gained entry by breaking the window panes. “As soon as we got information we started the investigation and were able to nab all the three accused on Wednesday evening itself. On sustained interrogation they admitted to murdering the child soon after the kidnapping,” said Cachar superintendent of police Bhanwar Lal Meena. Based on the information provided by the accused, the body of the infant was dug out from a forest area on Thursday night. “Though the kidnappers made ransom calls in order to divert probe or maybe try and extract some money, the ransom doesn’t seem to be the main motive. We are trying to ascertain the motive, which could be something personal as one of the accused is the maternal uncle of the dead child,” said Meena. The body has been sent for post mortem and a case has been lodged under various section of IPC for kidnapping for murder, theft and trespass. Following detection of the infant’s body, dozens of local residents blocked a road in the area demanding stringent punishment for the accused. According to the police, the situation is under control and vehicular movement has been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-in-assam-for-abduction-murder-of-5-month-old-infant/story-WRIuAeeG5qk544RxeHqsSJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Long-term symptoms likely to be experienced by hospitalised Covid-19 patients identified||Scientists, including one of Indian origin, have identified a pattern of longer-term symptoms likely to be experienced by people hospitalised with the Covid-19 infection, which include fatigue, breathlessness, psychological distress and a general decline in quality of life. The study, published in the Journal of Medical Virology, found that some patients, particularly those who had been in intensive care, had symptoms associated with cases of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). “Covid-19 is a new illness and we have very little information on longer term problems in individuals after discharge from hospital,” Manoj Sivan, Associate Clinical Professor at the University of Leeds in the UK. “The emerging evidence is that for some, the road to recovery may take months and it is vital specialist rehabilitation is on hand to support them. This research gives an important insight into patient needs, and that will help shape services in the community,” Sivan said. The research team followed 100 people recovering from Covid-19, four-to-eight weeks after being discharged from hospital in Leeds. The Covid-19 survivors were divided into two groups: those who had become critically ill and needed intensive care -- 32 people were in this category; and those who were treated on a ward without needing intensive care -- 68 people were in this category. Patients were contacted by a member of the hospital’s rehabilitation team and asked a series of questions about their recovery and symptoms they were still experiencing. The most prevalent symptom was fatigue, the researchers said, adding over 60 per cent of people who had been treated on a ward reported fatigue, and one-third of them described it as moderate or severe. They noted that for patients who had been in intensive care, 72 per cent reported fatigue. Of those, more than half said it was moderate or severe. The study found that the second most common symptom was breathlessness. People in both groups said they had feelings of breathlessness which had not existed before they contracted Covid-19, according to the researchers. This was higher in the group that had been the most ill, the intensive care group versus those who had been treated in a ward, they said. The third most prevalent symptoms, the researchers said were neuropsychological. They found that almost one quarter of the people who had been on a ward and just under a half of the people who had been in intensive care had some of the symptoms of PTSD. “PTSD symptoms are a well-recognised component of post- intensive care unit syndrome caused by a variety of factors including fear of dying, invasive treatment, pain, delirium, inability to communicate, weakness, immobility, and sensory problems and sleep deprivation,” the researchers said. More than two-thirds (68.8 per cent) of patients in the intensive care group and just under half (45.6 per cent) of the other group said their overall quality of life had deteriorated, they noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-term-symptoms-likely-to-be-experienced-by-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-identified/story-qdeLq4WmACg2DPBPcu7adI.html
07-08-2020||India||Man found dead with throat slit in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||A 35-year-old man was found dead on Friday with his throat slit in a suspected case of murder in Sahawali village here, police said. The body identified as that of Jogender was found in the village under New Mandi police station limits, they added. An investigation is under progress and further information is awaited, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-found-dead-with-throat-slit-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar/story-etBxhfL82AFNSrT0lMz2SK.html
07-08-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra on Saturday; interact with students||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate the ‘Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra’, an interactive experience centre on the Swachh Bharat Mission. A tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra (RSK) was first announced by the prime minister on April 10 2017 on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of Gandhiji’s Champaran ‘satyagraha’.After taking a tour of the RSK, located near Raj Ghat, Modi will interact with 36 school students from Delhi, representing the 36 states and union territories, at the amphitheatre of the RSK, adhering to social distancing protocols, an official statement said. This will be followed by his address.The installations at the RSK will introduce future generations to the successful journey of the world’s largest behaviour change campaign, the Swachh Bharat (clean India) Mission, it said. A balanced mix of digital and outdoor installations in the RSK will impart information, awareness and education on swachhata (cleanliness) and related aspects. The complex interplay of processes and activities will be presented through assimilative learning, best practices, global benchmarks, success stories and thematic messages in an interactive format.In hall 1, the visitors will experience a unique 360 degree audio-visual show, which will narrate India’s Swachhata story -- a journey into the largest behaviour change campaign in the history of the world, the statement said. Hall 2 contains a series of interactive LED panels, hologram boxes, interactive games and much more, to tell the story of the work done to achieve Gandhi’s vision of a Swachh Bharat. The open air displays in the lawn adjacent to RSK will showcase three exhibits which are anecdotes from the journey of India from “Satyagraha to Swachhagraha”. The artistic wall murals around the centre also chronicle the core elements of the Mission’s success, the statement said. The Swachh Bharat Mission has transformed rural sanitation in India and has changed the behaviour of over 55 crore people from open defecation to using a toilet. India has received high praise from the international community for this and we have set a precedent for the rest of the world to follow, it observed. The mission is now in its second phase, aiming to take India’s villages from Open Defecation Free (ODF) to ODF Plus, with a strong focus on sustaining ODF status and ensuring solid and liquid waste management for all, it pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-rashtriya-swachhata-kendra-on-saturday-interact-with-students/story-GTdO67dDnAVitGjMC1IAQI.html
07-08-2020||India||Plasma therapy only effective if taken on time: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain told mediapersons on Friday that when AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients did not show much clinical benefit in reducing fatality risk caused due to the virus, he did not mean plasma therapy was ineffective.“He [Dr Guleria] did not say that plasma therapy was not effective. He said that it is not effective after an advanced stage of the infection. If given on time, before the patient needs a ventilator, then it is effective,” Jain said. A total of 1,299 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in New Delhi on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 1,41,531, including 10,348 active cases, he said. On the incident of rape of the 12-year-old girl in Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, Jain said that it was a very unfortunate incident and strict action should be taken against the perpetrators. Jain also spoke about the condition of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence that reportedly had a cracked roof and leakage problems. “It is a very old building and nothing concrete has been decided about shifting from his current residence. Currently, its structural integrity is being tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-only-effective-if-taken-on-time-satyendar-jain/story-04M2SUXYMym0wfmr01xQOP.html
07-08-2020||India||‘No allegation of any bias in NEP’: PM Modi on teaching in students’ mother tongue||Asserting that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 brought in by his government was free from any “bias or inclination” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday strongly backed initiatives like using the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in schools in the much-awaited reform.Addressing senior educationists in the Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education, organized by the HRD ministry and the UGC, PM Modi said rather than effect changes in the teaching-learning system, the new policy could even lead to changing the way the society thinks.“After the NEP came, there was no allegation from any region or segment that it had any kind of bias or inclination. This is an indicator that the changes people wanted to see for years in the education system, they have got to see,” the Prime Minister said.ALSO READ | PM Modi says ‘fully committed’ to ensure complete implementation of NEP 2020He said now there was the question of the implementation of the NEP and as far as political will was concerned, he was completely there.“Every country aligns its education policy with its values and carries out reforms keeping in mind the national goals. The aim is to ensure the education system can make the coming generations future-ready,” PM Modi said.The NEP will prepare the foundation of 21st century India, he said adding areas like skills had been given special focus.“For a long time there were no major changes in our education system. Rather than promote curiosity and imagination, the emphasis was on a rat-race whether it was to become a doctor, engineer or some other profession,” the Prime Minister said.ALSO READ | NEP focuses on ‘how to think’ instead of ‘what to think’: PM ModiA new world order and standard is evolving with time, said PM Modi adding we have to make our students global citizens but also stay connected to the roots.“There is no debate that the children when they are taught in school in the same language that is spoken at home, their pace of learning becomes faster. This is a major reason, wherever possible, permission has been granted to teach students till class V in their mother tongue,” the Prime Minister said.Language was a major contentious aspect in the NEP and the HRD ministry has tried to steer clear of controversies by repeatedly emphasizing that no language would be imposed on any state or region.In his speech, the Prime Minister said the focus in the country’s education policy in the past was ‘what to think’.“In the new policy the focus is on how to think,” he said adding students should get a chance that they should follow their passions. And if the student wants, he or she, should be able to leave it, he said.The Prime Minister said it was important to know - what to study - in an age when all kinds of information is available on the phone itself. We are also moving towards an era where a person may not stick to a profession throughout life and re-skilling and up-skilling are important aspects, he said.The Prime Minister also delved into the issue of social mindset.“We have to think how in a country with a rich culture did evils like upper and lower classes, considering labour as less dignified – creep into the mindsets of people. One reason is that the education was disconnected with a segment of our people,” said PM Modi.He said there are concepts like virtual labs, introduction of coding and others in the NEP 2020. This can help in changing not just the education system but the thought processes of the entire society, he said.The National Education Policy is not a mere circular but requires thorough strategy and roadmap for proper implementation. Willpower is needed for its implementation, he said.An attempt has also been made in the policy that the talent of India should stay in India, he said. Speaking further PM Modi said the route to good quality education falls somewhere between autonomy and government control. The National Education Policy (NEP) has focussed highly on student education and dignity of labour, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-allegation-of-any-bias-in-nep-pm-modi-on-teaching-in-students-mother-tongue/story-R4njHsl7KrCqQE2edKh7dO.html
07-08-2020||India||In latest attack on Congress, BJP chief Nadda highlights pact with China||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda launched another scathing attack on Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul.He cited a petition filed against the Congress party over the issue in the Supreme Court.“Even the SC is surprised at the MoU signed by the Congress party with the Chinese Gov... Mrs Gandhi & her son, who led the signing, must explain. Does this explain donations to RGF and opening Indian market for the Chinese in return, which affected Indian businesses?” Nadda said in his tweet. He also attached a screenshot of a news article which talked about compromise in the deal. Even the SC is surprised at the MoU signed by the Congress party with the Chinese Gov...Mrs Gandhi & her son, who led the signing, must explain.Does this explain donations to RGF and opening Indian market for the Chinese in return, which affected Indian businesses? pic.twitter.com/hidmbcbO7ZThe memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the Congress and the Communist Party of China in 2008.“How can a political party enter into an agreement with China. It is unheard in law,” the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde remarked.It the petitioners to approach the high court first before moving the Supreme Court. The petitioners subsequently proceeded to withdraw the petition.Amid India-China face-off on Line of Actual Control (LAC), a PIL was filed in the top court seeking NIA probe into the 2008 agreement.“Despite of having a hostile relation with China, Respondent No 1 (Congress) had signed an agreement when it was running a coalition government and hidden the facts and details of the agreement from the country,” the PIL alleged.“The petitioners firmly believe that the nation’s security cannot and shouldn’t be compromised by any one,” the plea had said.The said agreement was signed between Congress and Communist Party of China in Beijing for exchanging high-level information and co-operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-attack-on-congress-bjp-chief-nadda-highlights-pact-with-china/story-oOvTouahOVIxLmJA2DhQaL.html
07-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 management marked by rising recovery rate, falling fatality rate: Centre||India’s Covid-19 management is marked by “two significant achievements” of continuously rising recovery rate among Covid-19 patients and a case fatality rate that has remained much below the global average, according to the health ministry.While the recovery rate among coronavirus patients has risen to a record high of 67.98 per cent, the fatality rate has gone down to 2.05 per cent, it said on Friday.“These two in tandem have enabled a higher and rising difference of more than 7.7 lakh between the number of recovered patients and active cases in India,” the ministry said.With 49,769 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours, the number of recoveries have jumped to 13,78,105 on Friday.The recovery rate has increased from 51.08 per cent on June 15 to 67.98 per cent on August 7, while active cases which comprised 46.06 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload now account for 29.96 per cent, it said.“Ramped up hospital infrastructure and emphasis on efficient treatment of hospitalised patients through the standard of care incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol issued by the Centre, have effectively ensured improvement in the recovery rate,” the ministry said.  It said the average daily recovered cases (seven day moving average) have increased from around 26,000 cases to 44,000 cases in the last two weeks.Sustained efforts by the Centre, states and Union Territories through focused and coordinated containment, widespread testing combined with supervised isolation and effective treatment have ensured the decline in percentage of active cases and rise of the percentage of recoveries, the health ministry said.  Registering a record 62,538 cases in 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally galloped past 20 lakh on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 41,585 with 886 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours, the ministry’s data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-management-marked-by-rising-recovery-rate-falling-fatality-rate-centre/story-mVM5gUuc3oLdjybN8ZgylN.html
07-08-2020||India||Karnataka issues revised guidelines for disposal of bodies of Covid patients||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the state’s health department has issued fresh guidelines for the disposal of bodies of Covid patients.“Although an increased risk of Covid infection from a dead body to health workers or family members who follow standard precautions while handling the body is unlikely, the lack of scientific data requires the utmost care to avoid the inadvertent spread of Covid-19 during these times,” the statement from the health department’s press release read, emphasising on the dignity of the dead and the religious and cultural tradition. The 23-page press release elaborated on guidelines regarding testing, handling of dead bodies and other specificities in relation to the management of Covid-19 bodies. “Testing should not be insisted in every case of death, but only when they have a recorded history of influenza-like symptoms. The body should be handed over to the family members/ relatives in a dignified manner immediately after swab collection and hospitals should provide handouts with a list of dos and don’ts in English and Kannada laying down relevant information,” the statement said. It added, “At the mortuary, health care workers, mortuary staff and the family of the deceased body shall not come in direct contact with the dead body and must wear full personal protective equipment (PPE). If the family or relative are for any reason unable to cremate or bury the body, the local health authority shall arrange for the dignified last rites as per the religious traditions of the family.”Regarding autopsies (post mortem) on Covid-19 bodies, the state department said that they should be avoided, except in necessary circumstances.The statement also gave detailed guidelines regarding the appropriate recording of Covid-19 deaths in line with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. Additionally, the health department made a statement about the admission procedure for Covid positive patients referred by other district administrations saying, “It is now mandatory for all the referrals from the BBMP admission and discharge of Covid positive patients to be done through the online Covid Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS).”The state’s count of coronavirus cases was 1,51,449 in the past 24 hours.So far, a total of 2,804 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state, while the average recovery rate in Karnataka is 49.3 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-issues-revised-guidelines-for-disposal-of-bodies-of-covid-patients/story-j97UYZRuSguwNxDb9NpNxH.html
07-08-2020||India||Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh may see temperature rise of 7 degrees by 2100: Study||Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh may witness a temperature increase of up to 6.9 degrees Celsius by the end of the century due to climate change, according to a study which warns that the glaciers in this Himalayan region could shrink by 85 per cent if the projections come true. The study, published in the journal Climatic Change on July 29, predicted the impact of future climate change in the Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh Himalaya, by the end of the twenty-first century using an ensemble of 11 models under three greenhouse gas emission scenarios. It also highlights the changes in the distribution of the prevalent climate zones in the region. “The study has been carried over the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir, including Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Aksai Chin and other regions across the Line of Control (LoC),” noted Professor Shakil Ahmad Romshoo, Dean of Research at the University of Kashmir. “The average annual temperature is projected to increase by 4.5 degrees Celsius, 3.98 degrees Celsius, and 6.93 degrees Celsius by the end of the twenty first century under three different scenarios, respectively,” Romshoo, lead author of the research, told PTI. The temperature increase of 6.9 degrees Celsius for the Jammu and Kashmir Himalayas is way more than the projected average rise in the global and national temperatures by the end of the century. Romshoo added that if the current emission rates of greenhouse gases are sustained, the global average temperature is likely to rise by nearly 5 degrees Celsius by the end of the twenty-first century under the worst case scenario. Similarly, the average temperature over India is projected to rise by approximately 4.4 degrees Celsius under such a scenario, he said. Romshoo noted that there will be significant impacts on almost every sector of the economy in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh due to this climate change driven temperature increase. “The glaciers, the most important resource of the region, are going to shrink by around 85 per cent by the end of the century if the projections come true,” the professor at the Department of Earth Sciences, University of Kashmir, noted. He explained that this would lead to significant depletion of the streamflows in the Indus basin, the waters of which are shared between several countries in South Asia. Similarly, the impacts on agriculture, horticulture and even tourism shall significantly threaten the livelihood of the dependent population in the region, the environmentalist warned. The researchers, including Jasia Bashir and Irfan Rashid from the Department of Earth Sciences, University of Kashmir, noted that the drivers of climate change are primarily the increasing emission rates of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Greenhouse gas emission is directly related to fossil fuel use, industrialisation, deforestation, air pollution, and other environmental unfriendly activities across the globe, they explained. “Though, the mountainous regions like Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh are the least industrialised, unfortunately, they are bearing the brunt of the climate change as the phenomena has global dimensions and footprint,” Romshoo noted. The projected climate change under the three emission scenarios also indicates significant changes in the distribution of prevalent climate zones. The projected climate change under different scenarios revealed that the subtropical and temperate climatic zones would expand while the cold desert climate zone is projected to shrink significantly under all the three scenarios, the researchers noted. “The cold desert climate zone in the Ladakh region would shrink by 22 per cent and correspondingly the subtropical and temperate zones would expand due to the projected climate change,” the researchers noted in their study. “The projected changes in the climate and climate zones by the end of the twenty-first century would have significant impacts on various sectors in the region which might lead to the redistribution and changes in the composition of vegetation, enhancement of snow depletion and glacier recession,” said Romshoo. He noted that the situation would also lead to an increase in the frequency of climate extremes, changes in streamflows, in the faunal and floral biodiversity, plant invasions, changes in agriculture and horticulture productivity. This is in addition to the loss of hydropower generation, ecosystem services, and impacts on other key economic sectors in the region, according to the researchers. “The vital information generated in this research would inform policymaking for framing robust strategies for adaptation and mitigation of the impacts of climate change on various socioeconomic and ecological sectors in the region,” Romshoo added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-jammu-and-ladakh-may-see-temperature-rise-of-7-degrees-by-2100-study/story-ckOBym5AK3pHy9EcrsXxOM.html
07-08-2020||India||15 killed, 53 feared trapped in Kerala landslide; massive rescue operation on||Fifteen people have been killed and around 50 others are feared trapped in a mound of slush and rock debris after a massive landslide razed a tea plantation workers’ settlement in Rajakkad in Idukki district of Kerala in the early hours of Friday.At least 16 people were rescued and rushed to the hospital, said Idukki district collector H Dineshan, adding that heavy downpour and foggy climate in the area is hampering rescue operations. He said the tragedy came to light in the morning after one of the escaped workers alerted forest officials at the Eravikulam national park.“It is a major tragedy. It is a hilly terrain and some roads connecting to the settlement were washed away in torrential rain. We have sought the Air Force help for airlifting the injured but we were told it will be difficult in inclement weather,” said State Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan adding a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has arrived at the scene. Local people said the area has been witnessing heavy rains over the last three days and power and communication networks in the area were disrupted due to this. This delayed the rescue work. Since the mishap took place in the early hours, many of those affected were in deep slumber due to which they couldn’t escape, they said. “We have information that at least 84 people lived in the settlement. Most of them are from neighboring Tamil Nadu. And there was also a canteen to cater to their needs at the settlement,” said Parthasarathy, a social worker from the area. He added that the the toll may go up.The place where the incident took place is about 25 kilometre away from hill resort Munnar which was ravaged by 2018 flood.The India Metrological Department (IMD) has declared red alert in three districts, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Idukki, and orange alert in five other districts. Many rivers are in spate after heavy downpour and the irrigation department said shutters of some dams, including Idukki, will be opened if the wet condition continued.The Met office said a low pressure area was brewing in Bay of Bengal and it is expected to gain speed by Saturday triggering heavy rains which will last till Sunday. The NDRF has rushed six teams to Wayanad and Idukki. In the hilly area many families were shifted fearing landslides and health authorities said Covid-19 protocol will be in force in all the relief camps. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked people to be more vigilant in view of twin threats of inclement weather and Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-killed-60-feared-trapped-in-kerala-landslide-locals-say-toll-may-go-up/story-qR4ZLrT26DuPYI18fCJq4N.html
07-08-2020||India||‘Unheard in law’: SC on 2008 Congress-Communist Party of China MoU||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a petition seeking a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the Congress and the Communist Party of China in 2008.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, asked the petitioners to approach the high court first before moving the Supreme Court. The petitioners subsequently proceeded to withdraw the petition.“How can a political party enter into an agreement with China. It is unheard in law,” the bench remarked.The petitioners - Shahshak Shekhar Jha, a Delhi-based advocate and Savio Rodrigues, the editor of Goa based online news portal, Goa Chronicle - submitted that the MoU raises concerns regarding national security and should be investigated by the NIA for offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or the CBI.Senior counsel Mahesh Jethmalani, representing the petitioners, submitted that there are sinister motives behind the agreement and it should be brought out in public domain.He also asked for permission to amend the petition.The court, however, asked the petitioners why they have not approached the high court first.“The case involves issues relating to national security,” Jethmalani replied.Responding to it, the bench said that is not a bar to file the petition before the high court.The petitioners had alleged that the Congress had signed the MoU when it was leading a coalition government at the centre and it also failed to disclose the facts and details of the agreement to the public.“Petitioner No. 2 (Savio Rodrigues) had demanded the respondents to make the said MoU public, however no heed was shown in that respect which shows the malafide intention of the Respondents (Congress party and its leaders)”, the petition stated.Both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have also been made party to the case apart from the Congress party.“Issue an order directing NIA to investigate the said agreement under UAPA”, it was prayed by the petitioners.The UAPA is a law aimed at punishing those involved in terrorist activities and activities intended to bring about secession of any part of the country from the union of India.As an alternative, Jha and Rodrigues sought a court-monitored probe by the CBI. After the recent faceoff between Indian and Chinese armies at Ladakh, the Congress party had stepped up its attack on the Narendra Modi government alleging that the government failed on diplomatic and military fronts.The ruling BJP, on the other hand, countered by pointing out the MoU signed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on behalf of the Congress with the Chinese Communist Party. The MoU was signed at Beijing in the presence of Sonia Gandhi, who was then the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) headed by the Congress.Placing reliance on media reports, the petitioners submitted that at least 600 incursions happened from the Chinese side into Indian territory between 2008 and 2013.“The Congress party brought the Right to Information Act during its rule, yet it failed to be transparent in this matter which is of national importance”, the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unheard-in-law-sc-on-plea-for-probing-congress-china-mou-of-2008/story-4MY2oDIFplh5LNr9uvHVTJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Children painting on mother’s semi-nude body gives wrong impression about our culture: SC||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday took exception to a Kerala-based activist uploading a video on social media of her two minor children painting on her semi-nude body. A three-judge SC bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, remarked that such acts are in bad taste and give children the wrong impression about the country’s culture. “You might be an activist, but why do you do all these? What kind of nonsense is this? What impression will your kids get about the culture of the country?” Justice Mishra asked. The court was hearing an anticipatory bail by Fathima AS, who is apprehending arrest for offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, after she uploaded a video on social media of her two minor children painting on her semi-nude body in June. The controversial video led to the registration of the case against her indulging in child pornography under the POCSO Act, 2012, and for publishing such content, which is an offence, under the IT Act, 2000. The Kerala high court (HC) had rejected her anticipatory bail plea on July 24. “It is an obscenity. And you are spreading it. It will leave a very bad taste,” Justice Mishra said. Senior counsel Gopal Sankaranarayanan, who appeared on behalf of Fathima, pointed out that provisions relating to child pornography have been invoked against her and not obscenity. “How can it be child pornography? The children are fully clothed,” he submitted. He argued that the petitioner is not someone, who will abscond, and there was no requirement of custodial interrogation. The bench, however, dismissed the case stating the offences against the accused are prima facie made out. Fathima, in her petition, had contended that female nudity, per se, will not constitute obscenity and children painting on their mother’s body cannot be construed as child abuse. “The petitioner, while being semi-nude, has allowed her body to be used as a canvas for her children to paint on and there can probably be nobody, except a pervert, who would be aroused to sexual desire by seeing the nature of the work,” advocate Renjith Marar argued. Her message, accompanying the uploaded edited video, illustrated that she intended to normalise the female form for her children and not allow distorted ideas about sexuality to pervade their mind, Fathima submitted. “The petitioner feels that she should teach sex education to her children. For that purpose, she asks her children to paint on her semi-nude body and then uploading the same on social media. I am not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner,” the Kerala HC had said in its order. She also cited two SC judgments in this regard to buttress her case. The first was the 2014 judgment in Aveek Sarkar v. State of West Bengal in which the top court held that a photograph, taken by a father of his semi-nude daughter and nude son-in-law in black and white, respectively, was intended to convey an anti-apartheid message and cannot be dubbed obscene. The second judgment referred to Bobby Art International v. Om Pal, or, what is famously known as the Bandit queen case. In this case, the movie, Bandit Queen, which depicted the life of bandit-turned-politician late Phoolan Devi, had nude scenes. The apex court, however, held that nudity in the movie was not intended to arouse carnal desires, but should be considered in the context of the story and the situation in the movie. “Goddesses in Kerala are frequently depicted in idols and murals with bare breasts. When one prays at a temple, the feeling is not of sexual arousal, but one of divinity. The body painting of men is part of pulikali (a popular folk dance, where men dance with their bodies painted with tigers and leopard prints). It cannot suddenly become obscene, when the same is done on a woman,” the plea stated. Earlier, Fathima had courted controversy, when she attempted to enter the Sabarimala temple in 2018 after the SC had struck down a law prohibiting entry of women, aged between 10 and 50 years,in the hilltop shrine in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district.She had to abandon her journey following massive protests by a mob, who had blocked her entry to the sacred shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-painting-on-mother-s-semi-nude-body-gives-wrong-impression-about-our-culture-sc/story-sC7M1hXt6OwzHCH4WOHh2J.html
07-08-2020||India||Red alert for 3 Kerala districts till August 11 as 5 killed after landslide in Idduki||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall in Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad in Kerala till August 11, even as at least five people were killed on Friday after a landslide in one of the districts. Officials said the torrential rains triggered a massive landslide in the state’s Idukki district on Friday, trapping more than 80 people in a mound of slush and debris. Rescuers retrieved at least five bodies and rushed to free more tea estate workers feared trapped under debris in a residential area in Rajamala area near Munnar, officials said. They added that at least 10 people have been rescued so far.The area has been witnessing torrential rains since the last three days and has been totally cut off, local officials have said. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a tweet that a team of the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) has been deployed in the rescue efforts.“An NDRF team has been deployed to rescue the landslide victims in Rajamalai, Idukki. Police, Fire Force, Forest & Revenue officials have been instructed to join the rescue efforts. Another team of NDRF, based in Thrissur, will soon reach Idukki,” Vijayan said.E Chandrasekharan, the state’s revenue minister, said the injured could be airlifted for better treatment even as the government sought the help of the Indian Air Force (IAF) to evacuate the victims.According to reports, another landslide took place on the way to the Sabarimala hill temple in Pathanamthitta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-for-3-kerala-districts-till-august-11-as-5-killed-after-landslide-in-idduki/story-PdOLa2OHVMCvROjMJaagsL.html
07-08-2020||India||9-year-old Covid-19 patient molested in a hospital, accused held||A 44-year-old sweeper of a private hospital in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), on Thursday. Police have arrested the accused and booked him under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act. “As per the complaint, the accused, Kankhaiya Nishad, used to stalk the minor in the hospital. On Thursday, when the minor went to brush her teeth the accused molested her in the bathroom,” Ajay Yadav, Raipur’s superintendent of police (SP), said. Yadav said the girl was admitted to the private hospital and was to be discharged on Thursday evening.The girl told her parents about the attack and the matter reached to the police. “As soon as the issue reached the police, we booked him under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and POCSO act and later he was arrested,” Yadav said. In another incident related to a Covid-19 patient, a 40-year-old man was found dead in a toilet at a Covid care centre in Janjgir-Champa district on Thursday. The centre, set up at a school in Janjgir town of the district, is located 250km away from the state capital of Raipur. The man from Jamgahan village in Dabhra development block of the district had recently returned from Gujarat, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-year-old-covid-19-patient-molested-in-a-hospital-accused-held/story-35yVNhYoW5mNCP0G4IRKNP.html
07-08-2020||India||Bihar tells SC, Mumbai Police siding with Rhea, obstructing probe||The Bihar Police authorities have presented the Supreme Court (SC) tell-tale evidence that showed how the Mumbai Police was siding with late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and obstructing the probe conducted by them regarding the reasons that caused his death by suicide at his Bandra apartment on June 14. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) in the case on Thursday, a day after it was transferred to the central agency on Bihar government’s recommendation. Bihar government told the SC that the Mumbai Police did not share crucial evidence of the case and obstructed further probe and “forcibly” quarantined a Bihar-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, Vinay Tiwari, City Superintendent of Police (SP), Patna (Central), who was sent to Mumbai on Sunday (August 2) in connection with the case. An affidavit, drafted by advocate Keshav Mohan, was submitted before the SC in response to a petition filed by Chakraborty, seeking a transfer of the FIR, filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh, from Patna to Mumbai. “The non-cooperation by the Mumbai Police with the Patna Police is clear from the fact that the former has not supplied any documents such as inquest, post-mortem and FSL (forensic science laboratory) reports, CCTV (closed-circuit TV) footage etc; to the latter, despite several requests,” the affidavit stated. The affidavit pointed out that Tiwari’s quarantine was an “afterthought” by Mumbai Police to block the probe, as none of the other Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials of Bihar Police, who were in the city since July 27, were made to follow similar coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced protocols.“The aforesaid fact casts a serious aspersion on the role of Mumbai Police, who is apparently siding with the petitioner for the reasons best known to them, “ the affidavit stated. So far, Bihar Police has recorded statements of 10 people related to the Rajput death case. The statements of Chakraborty or her family members, named in the FIR, have not been recorded yet. Bihar Police also verified bank account details of Rajput based on his father’s complaint that close to Rs 15 crore was transferred from his account to unknown persons not linked to him. Rajput’s finances, including bank account and credit cards, were in Chakraborty’s custody, his father had alleged in his complaint accusing her and her family of abetting his son’s death by suicide. Bihar Police cited the reason behind recommending the CBI probe. “On the basis of preliminary investigation conducted by the Patna Police, it surfaced that the various facts and shreds of evidence surrounding the present case may be obtained in Mumbai or the rest of India and given the sensitivity of the matter and the inter-state ramification and presence of most of the accused in Mumbai, the director-general of police (DGP), Bihar, requested the Bihar government to recommend the investigation of the case to CBI,” stated the affidavit. Bihar Police denied that it lacked jurisdiction to probe the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father citing Section 179 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The provision states: “When an act is an offence by reason of anything which has been done and of a consequence which has ensued, the offence may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction such thing has been done or such consequence has ensued.” Bihar Police claimed that since Rajput’s father is a resident of Patna, the state police and courts have the jurisdiction to try the offence. The affidavit stated that the case probed by the Mumbai Police relates to the probe of unnatural death under Section 174 of the CrPC, which has a limited scope and cannot be classified as information relating to a cognisable offence. Bihar Police’s affidavit held that Chakraborty’s petition is without jurisdiction, premature, misconceived and not maintainable. She had filed a petition under Section 406 of the CrPC to transfer investigation in the FIR filed at Patna to Mumbai. The affidavit said, “The FIR has been registered on July 25 and the case is still at the primary stage of the investigation. Hence, the transfer petition filed by the petitioner under 406 CrPC is not maintainable and it is liable to be dismissed at the very outset.” Bihar Police also claimed that there is nothing in Chakraborty’s petition that showed bias on their part towards Rajput’s family members to demand probe to be shifted out of Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-tells-sc-mumbai-police-siding-with-rhea-obstructing-probe/story-qjiNaaMPBDM45aXxF1Mp5K.html
07-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai crosses August average rainfall in first 7 days of the month and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai crosses August average rainfall in first 7 days of the monthMumbai has already received more rain in just the first seven days of August than it generally receives for the entire month. Against the monthly average of 585.2 mm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 597.6 mm of rain between August 1 and August 7. Read More5 dead in Kerala landslide, state govt seeks Air Force help to evacuate peopleTorrential rains triggered massive landslide in Munnar, in Kerala’s Idukki district, on Friday in which many tea estate workers were trapped under the soil. Five people have so far died in the incident which happend early in the morning. Read MoreNEP focuses on ‘how to think’ instead of ‘what to think’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the New Education Policy focuses on the concept of ‘how to think’ instead of the earlier emphasis on ‘what to think’. Read MorClass of 83 trailer: Bobby Deol’s Netflix film is about encounter killingsThe trailer for Class of 83, an upcoming police drama starring Bobby Deol and produced by Shah Rukh Khan’s Red Chillies Entertainment, has been released. Bobby plays a heroic former policeman in the film, who has been reassigned as an instructor at the Nashik police academy. Read MoreMS Dhoni returns to nets in Ranchi ahead of IPL 2020MS Dhoni’s sabbatical from cricket is all set to end as the Chennai Super Kings captain gears up to return for the IPL 2020, starting September 19 in the UAE. As per reports, Dhoni has hit the ground running in a bid to prepare for the IPL, hitting the JSCA indoor facility ahead of the IPL. Read MoreRabindranath Tagore 79th death anniversary: Celebrating the genius with some of his best wordsIn India, think art, music, poetry, and literature and the first name to pop up in all our heads is that of the Rabindranath Tagore. A combination of his life’s experiences gave us the gift of his immense talent in poetry, prose, song-writing, and art. From mystical romanticism to patriotism, Rabindranath Tagore left no stone unturned in the realm of artistic expression. Read MorePune Police tweets how to get ‘Insta’nt safety’. It’s something all should abide byPolice departments across the country often use various social media platforms, especially Twitter, to put forth essential messages for people. They use the routes of creativity and hilarity to ensure that the posts strike a chord with netizens. Case in point is the latest tweet by Pune Police. With the caption “Insta’nt safety? Check,” the department tweeted the post. They also shared an image showcasing the ways to ensure safety. Read MoreRajkummar Rao & Hansal Mehta on Omertà, love for working together | Aur Batao Actor Rajkummar Rao and director Hansal Mehta joined RJ Stutee in a freewheeling chat show Aur Batao. The two spoke about Omerta and Rajkummar Rao said that the response has been overwhelming. The duo also explain why they love working with each other. Watch the full video to know what else they said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-crosses-august-average-rainfall-in-first-7-days-of-the-month-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pkRKep3Xl8jHKIzLTWOogI.html
07-08-2020||India||Manoj Sinha takes oath as new Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir||Former union minister and BJP leader Manoj Sinha took oath as the new Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. He is the second Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir after the state was bifurcated and made into a union territory last year. Sinha replaced Girish Chandra Murmu, who after his resignation on Wednesday was appointed as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG).A three-time member of Parliament and a minister in the Narendra Modi government’s first term at the Centre, Sinha’s appointment as Lt Governor comes at a time when the region is grappling with multiple issues, from security concerns to a tumultuous social and political landscape .Choosing a politician instead of a bureaucrat or a retired army man is also being read as a signal of New Delhi’s intent to foster friendly ties with the state’s bureaucracy and its people and bank on Sinha’s ability to juggle statecraft with legislative limitations.On Thursday morning while leaving home for his new address in J&K, Sinha’s only comment to the waiting media retinue was “accha hai” (it is good).After Satyapal Malik, who was governor of erstwhile J&K state, Sinha is the new political touch to the Valley - both Malik and Sinha are grassroot politicians with the latter an alma mater of IIT-BHU, Varanasi. He lost the last Lok Sabha election to strongman and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Afzal Ansari.Sinha has represented the parliamentary constituency of Ghazipur in eastern Uttar Pradesh thrice in the Lok Sabha. He has also served as minister of communications and minister of state for Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manoj-sinha-takes-oath-as-new-lieutenant-governor-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-wGLUEciEj4LMtuRmyMBoPJ.html
07-08-2020||India||5 dead in Kerala landslide, state govt seeks Air Force help to evacuate people||Torrential rains triggered massive landslide in Munnar, in Kerala’s Idukki district, on Friday in which many tea estate workers were trapped under the soil. Five people have so far died in the incident which happend early in the morning.Unconfirmed reports say more than 70 people are still trapped.Idukki Collector H Dineshan said 10 people have been rescued so far and sent to the hospital. “Some of the injured are critical,” he said.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office said that they have contacted the Indian Air Force to provide helicopter services to Rajamala for rescue operations. It is expected to be available soon.At least 80 people were reportedly staying in the area, local authorities said. The region has been experiencing rains for the last three days.The state health minister said that a mobile medical team and 15 ambulances have been sent to the site of the incident.A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also reached the area. Twenty houses of plantation workers have also been destroyed in the landslide, news agency PTI reported.“The situation is really serious,” Revenue minister E Chandrasekaran said. The minister further said that the authorities are trying to airlift those injured.Communication links to the area have been affected as the power lines have snapped in the rains.Meanwhile, there are also reports another landslide took place en route to Sabarimala hill temple in Pathnamthitta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-in-kerala-landslide-state-govt-seeks-air-force-help-to-evacuate-people/story-aBUlzIF7wsTHdZKBEqbwfK.html
07-08-2020||India||Donald Trump cites India to ban ‘national security risk’ Chinese TikTok||US President Donald Trump’s order to ban US transactions with Chinese owners of short video-sharing app TikTok and messenger app WeChat cited India’s decision to purge the two applications earlier in June. The US restriction on the transactions will kick in after 45 days, mid-September.“The risks are real,” the presidential directive said, accusing the mobile applications of capturing vast swaths of information from its users that may potentially be accessed by the Chinese Communist Party. The data captured by TikTok could potentially allow China to track locations of federal employees and contractors, build dossiers of personal information for blackmail and conduct corporate espionage.The US President went on to cite restrictions on use of TikTok on federal government phones by the US armed forces, homeland security and the transportation security administration.Then he turned to India’s ban on Chinese mobile applications to build the case for his own set of restrictions.“The Government of India recently banned the use of TikTok and other Chinese mobile applications throughout the country; in a statement, India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asserted that they were “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India,” President Trump said.For its ban on WeChat, a mobile app largely used by the Chinese community in the United States, Trump referenced restrictions placed by India and Australia.“These risks have led other countries, including Australia and India, to begin restricting or banning the use of WeChat. The United States must take aggressive action against the owner of WeChat to protect our national security,” he said.India, which has been locked in a standoff with China at its border in East Ladakh, was the first country to axe 59 mobile applications with close links to China. India said these apps threatened the country’s “sovereignty and integrity”India’s 29 June order did not explicitly ban people from using the mobile apps. But it forced app stores to boot out the 59 applications, and later their proxies, presenting the world with a model to strangle the ability of Chinese mobile apps to operate.Trump’s ban uses the same template, his payback to China that has right from the beginning shut out US apps and websites such Facebook and Google from operating in China and instead, helped build its brand of technology firms such as Alibaba Group holding to Tencent Holding.The first impact of the US directive was visible in the share market, erasing $ 30 million from the Internet giant Tencent Holdings Ltd ’s market value and sending the yuan to its biggest slump in two weeks, according to news agency Bloomberg. Before Friday’s drop Tencent was worth $686 billion, making it the world’s eighth-largest company by market capitalisation and bigger than Berkshire Hathaway Inc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-s-ban-on-tiktok-leans-on-india-says-risks-are-real/story-9qr2rA5D0Lv5T4EJCLnNsI.html
07-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty appears before ED after it rejected her request to defer questioning in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Actor Rhea Chakraborty appeared before the Enforcement directorate on Friday after the central agency rejected her request to defer questioning in the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The ED had filed a money laundering case in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput based on the basis of a First Information Report filed by the Bihar police.Sushant’s father, KK Singh, had alleged that there were unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account involving actor Rhea Chakraborty and others.The late actor’s father had accused Chakraborty of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career, said officials.Watch : Sushant death case: Rhea Chakraborty appears before ED l Key details The ED will probe allegations of alleged mishandling of Rajput’s money and his bank accounts. The agency will probe if anyone used Rajput’s income for money laundering and creating illegal assets, the officials said.Legal experts said that an ED probe is different from the one conducted by the local police as according to normal criminal law, a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty, but under PMLA (prevention of money laundering act), a person is presumed guilty until he proves his innocence.The 34-year-old actor, who had starred in films such as Chichhore, Kai Po Che and Kedarnath, was found dead at his Mumbai home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-appears-before-ed-after-it-rejected-her-request-to-defer-questioning-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-xe8ioIA8TDqA2W4dJku73M.html
07-08-2020||India||Jaishankar, Pompeo discuss meeting of Quadrilateral dialogue in near future||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his US counterpart Mike Pompeo discussed the holding of a meeting of the Quadrilateral dialogue or Quad in the near future, against the backdrop of growing tensions with China. The Quad, which also includes Australia and Japan, was upgraded to the ministerial level last September. China has always viewed the grouping with suspicion, though Indian officials have said it is not directed against any country. The matter figured in a phone conversation on Thursday night between Jaishankar and Pompeo, the external affairs minister said in a tweet on Friday. He described the conversation with Pompeo as wide-ranging. “Exchanged views on responding to the Coronavirus challenge. Discussed meeting in the Quad format in the near future,” Jaishankar tweeted. A readout of the conversation from the US state department said the two leaders discussed efforts to “address recent destabilising actions in the region” – an apparent reference to the India-China border standoff and Beijing’s activities in the South China Sea – and that the two leaders were looking forward to Quadrilateral consultations. The two leaders reviewed bilateral cooperation, “including working of relevant mechanisms” and shared “assessments on regional and global issues including South Asia, Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific & beyond”, Jaishankar said in another tweet. The US readout said Jaishankar and Pomeo “agreed to continue close cooperation on a full range of regional and international issues and look forward to Quadrilateral consultations and the US-India 2+2 ministerial dialogue later this year”. It added that Pompeo spoke to Jaishankar about bilateral and multilateral cooperation on issues of international concern, “including efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, support the peace process in Afghanistan, and address recent destabilising actions in the region”. Pompeo and Jaishankar “reiterated the strength of the United States-India relationship to advance peace, prosperity, and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe”, the readout added. India is preparing to include Australia in this year’s edition of the Malabar exercise, which brings together the navies of India, Japan and the US. Experts have also called for greater cooperation between members of the Quad in the face of China’s assertive actions across the region. Australia has been critical of China’s actions along the Line of Actual Control and in the South China Sea. After a recent meeting with Jaisshankar, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said his country Australia opposes any attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC, as this will only increase tension and the risk of instability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-pompeo-discuss-meeting-of-quadrilateral-dialogue-in-near-future/story-gMhBG4BFshlOoKBCzZofSO.html
07-08-2020||India||Mumbai crosses August average rainfall in first 7 days of the month||Mumbai has already received more rain in just the first seven days of August than it generally receives for the entire month. Against the monthly average of 585.2 mm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 597.6 mm of rain between August 1 and August 7. Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, surpassed its monthly average on Wednesday, with 293 mm of rain over a 12-hour period and 332 mm over 24 hours (Wednesday and Thursday). The rain tally for August for south Mumbai now stands at 675.4 mm, against the average for the month of 493.8 mm. After three days of more than 500 mm of rain (August 4-6), moderate showers with isolated heavy spells were witnessed between Thursday and Friday. Santacruz recorded 79.2 mm of rain between 8.30 am on Thursday and 8.30 am on Friday, falling under the heavy rain category, while Colaba recorded 25.2 mm of rain (moderate) during the same time. The weather bureau said rain intensity is likely to reduce through the day on Friday and over the weekend, but may pick up again next week. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region) in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said:”More intensity in moderate to heavy rain spells was witnessed in the suburbs and surrounding areas of Mumbai Metropolitan Region than south Mumbai. Models are indicating cloud cover and active monsoon conditions to continue, but a drop in rain intensity as compared to earlier in the week. “With the likely formation of another low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal around August 9, rains are likely to pick up for the west coast, especially south Konkan, between August 11 and 13.” Meanwhile, the highest rain since Thursday was recorded at Matheran (178.4 mm), followed by Mahabaleshwar (153 mm), Pune (90 mm) and Harnai (73.4 mm). Thane recorded heavy showers at 65.4 mm. Mumbai can expect cloud cover with the possibility of moderate to heavy rain, with winds in the range of 60 kmph to 70 kmph through the day on Friday and moderate showers over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-crosses-august-average-rainfall-in-first-7-days-of-the-month/story-0C9aP75G42LxMTQvVhZcSL.html
07-08-2020||India||PM Modi says ‘fully committed’ to ensure complete implementation of NEP 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday he is “fully committed” to the National Education Policy (NEP), which was launched last month, as he assured it will be implemented fully.PM Modi said while addressing the conclave on ‘Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under NEP’ that the education policy was approved after extensive discussions for more than three to four years and taking over lakhs of suggestions into consideration.“It is natural for some people to question that after such a big reform was brought on paper, how will it be implemented at the ground level. That is, now everyone’s eyes are towards its implementation,” PM Modi said.“All of you are directly involved with the implementation of the National Education Policy and therefore your role is very important. As far as political will is concerned, I am fully committed to it and I am with all of you,” he added.The Prime Minister said the NEP 2020 is being widely discussed across the country and that people from different fields and different ideologies are giving their views and reviewing the policy. “This is a healthy debate. The more it is, the more benefit the country’s education system will get,” he said.“It is also a matter of happiness that after the National Education Policy was launched, no one raised any doubt whether it is biased or is leaning towards one side,” he added.The conclave is being organised by the ministry of education and the University Grants Commission (UGC) through video-conferencing. Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and Union minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre were also present at the event.A number of dignitaries, including the chairperson and members of the committee for draft NEP, as well as eminent academicians and scientists also attended the conclave.The Prime Minister has said the Centre’s New Education Policy stressed on building job creators instead of job seekers and emphasised that the time had come for increased focus on learning, research and innovation in the field of education.“The 21st century is an era of knowledge. This is the time for increased focus on learning, research, innovation. This is exactly what India’s National Education Policy, 2020 does. We are focussing on the quality of education in the country. Our attempts have been to make our education system the most advanced and modern for students,” PM Modi told students at a virtual interaction last Saturday.The Union cabinet had passed India’s first new National Education Policy last month in at least 28 years, recommending primary education in local languages, facilitating the possible entry of foreign universities in India, creating a single higher-education regulator, and easier board examinations in wide-ranging reforms aimed at making the Indian education system more contemporary and skill-oriented. The policy also sets ambitious targets: increasing the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) to 50% from the current 26%, creating an additional 35 million seats in colleges, and increasing the education budget to 6% of the GDP from the present 4%. The NEP lays down that by 2040, all higher education institutions (HEIs) shall aim to become multidisciplinary. It also says that by 2030 there will be at least one large multidisciplinary institution in or near every district. It also moots Special Education Zones (SEZ) in backward districts.The policy, drafted by a committee headed by former Isro chief K Kasturirangan submitted its report last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-committed-pm-modi-assures-complete-implementation-of-nep-2020/story-Ew6NEWESmduIUMp58QeKOK.html
07-08-2020||India||Highlights | NEP will play role in reducing gap between research and education in India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered the inaugural address at the ‘Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy’ on Friday. The PM said that the New Education Policy was approved after extensive discussions for more than three to four years and taking over lakhs of suggestions into consideration. He also said that the National Education Policy will play a major role in reducing the gap between research and education in India,Here are the highlights of the PM’s address:- PM Modi congratulates Prof Kasturirangan for the NEP.- NEP is not just a circular, we have to show strong determination to implement it. - I urge you all to have webinars, discussions on New Education Policy: PM to teachers- In NEP, one important point has been ‘dignity of teachers’. There is a lot of stress on teacher training so that they continue to update their skills- Before NEP, our government took the initiative to give autonomy to educational institutions. I am sure that with NEP, this process will gain momentum- National Education Policy will play a major role in reducing the gap between research and education in India: PM Modi- In NEP, there is a lot of focus on ‘dignity of labour’-We are moving towards an era when a person will not stick to just one profession throughout life. Every one will have to upskill themselves. NEP has taken this into account- The NEP has given an option of ‘multiple entry-exit’ to students. They can leave the first course or take break from it and join another if they want.- Till now, our education policy focussed on ‘what to think’, but in the New Education Policy, the focus is on ‘how to think’.- We need to prepare our children to become global citizens while remaining attached to their roots-Every country goes ahead by connecting its education system to its national values & reforming it as per its national goals. It’s aimed at keeping its present & future generations ‘future ready’-After the National Education Policy came, no section of the country said that the Policy has any bias. It is a matter of happiness- NEP focuses on imparting relevant skills to the youth of our country: PM Modi- National Education Policy will set the foundation for 21st century India. We’ve given extra impetus to this national policy for ensuring that it makes Indians more empowered and easily attractive to opportunities: PM Modi- National Education Policy is being discussed across the nation today. People from different fields & ideologies are giving their views & reviewing the Policy. It’s a healthy debate. The more it is done, the more it will be beneficial to the education system of the country- National Education Policy was approved after extensive discussions over 3-4 years and deliberation over lakhs of suggestions: PM Narendra Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-at-conclave-on-transformational-reforms-in-higher-education-under-national-education-policy-highlights/story-dehOW8q8ZRrONbbFSRjg0H.html
07-08-2020||India||India’s west coast reports exceptionally heavy rain||Several weather stations in the west coast, including the Konkan region; parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka; the Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu (TN), have received extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 centimetres (20 cm), in less than 24 hours, triggering landslides, urban flooding and the largescale destruction of crops and properties since Monday (August 3). Monsoon entered an active to vigorous phase over the west coast following the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. The rain recorded in the past three days is unheard of, scientists said, even though they are yet to assess the historical data. On Monday, Mumbai’s Dharavi got 38 cm rain; Santacruz and Colaba recorded 26 and 25 cm, respectively; and Hosanagar and Bhagamandala in Karnataka recorded 21 and 19 cm, respectively. On Tuesday, Palghar recorded 46 cm; Talasari (39 cm); Dahanu (38 cm); Mahabaleshwar (32 cm); Khanvel (39 cm), while Vapi and Silvassa in Gujarat and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, respectively; Madikeri and Hosanagar in Karnataka; Jujumura and Nimpara in Odisha also recorded rainfall in excess of 20 cm. On Thursday, Vaibhavwadi in Sindhudurg recorded 71 cm rain; Avalanchi in the Nilgiris recorded 58 cm; Bhagamandala (49 cm), Colaba 33 cm, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. “These are examples of an exceptionally high volume of rain recorded in a very short span of time: between Monday and Wednesday (August 3 and 5). Monsoon trough was weak and north of the normal position during the first three days of August. With the formation of a low-pressure area, the trough shifted southwards and became active during the second half of the week. Stronger southwesterly winds prevailed over the Arabian Sea between Monday and Wednesday, with Mumbai reporting up to 107 kilometres per hour (kmph),” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD. “While it is too early for an in-depth analysis of the ongoing floods, what we can say is that there is an increasing trend in heavy rainfall events on the west coast of India. In our analysis of rainfall data over the last 70 years, we find a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India. This is because the monsoon winds over the Arabian Sea are now exhibiting large fluctuations due to a warmer environment,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, in a statement. “Occasional surges in the winds drive a huge amount of moisture supply from the Arabian Sea, across the entire west coast. These episodes result in an intense rainfall spread over three days. Besides, some of my colleagues at New York University have found a slight northward shift of the monsoon westerlies in recent decades. This could mean that the chances of heavy rainfall might be larger towards the north of Western Ghats — but that aspect is yet to be explored,” he added. “Monsoon was in its vigorous phase in association with the development of a low- pressure area. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea were very strong. I cannot comment on each station but overall studies have shown that incidence of extremely heavy rain is increasing due to the impact of global warming,” said Dr. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), IMD. The monsoon trough is active and is south of its normal position (Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal), according to IMD’s latest bulletin issued on Thursday. Its western end is very likely to shift northwards gradually towards the Himalayan foothills on Saturday. Now, the low-pressure area lies over southwest Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to become less marked by Friday. A cyclonic circulation also lies at north Konkan. Strong southwesterly/westerly monsoonal flow over the Arabian Sea with winds speed reaching 50-60 kmph along and off the west coast will continue till Saturday. Very heavy rain is expected over Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, and Madhya Maharashtra (Western Ghat areas) and isolated extremely heavy falls likely over Gujarat on Friday. Extremely heavy rain over coastal Karnataka, TN, Kerala, and Mahe is expected until Sunday. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over west-central and adjoining north Bay of Bengal around Sunday. Under its influence, rainfall activity is likely to increase over east and central India again. There is a 1% rain deficiency over the country since June 1, with 22% deficiency over northwest India; 5% over central India; 16% excess over peninsular India and 9% excess over east and north-east India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-west-coast-reports-exceptionally-heavy-rain/story-oeYNiVr2jdWIksDyyUkYCM.html
07-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar govt files affidavit in Supreme Court, says Rhea Chakraborty’s transfer plea wrong||The Bihar government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court, saying the petition filed by Rhea Chakraborty to transfer the police complaint filed by Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in connection with his death is “misconceived and not maintainable”.According to news agency ANI, the Bihar government said it has the jurisdiction to investigate the matter. It also said that Chakraborty’s submission that the entire cause of action arose in Mumbai and it has no jurisdiction to register FIR is liable to be rejected in view of the provisions under section 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Bihar police started their investigation after a first information report (FIR) was registered by Rajput’s father KK Singh in Patna against Chakraborty under several sections including abetment of suicide. The Bihar government and Rajput’s family had filed caveats before the Supreme Court seeking to challenge Chakraborty’s petition.Chakraborty had last month moved the Supreme Court demanding that the FIR registered in Bihar against her be transferred to Mumbai where police are already investigating the actor’s death. She had alleged before the Supreme Court that Rajput’s father has used his “influence” in roping her in the FIR lodged at Patna accusing her of abetment of suicide of his son. The allegations in the FIR lodged in Patna against her “reflect the influence” of Rajput’s father in illegally roping her in the case, she had said in the petition seeking the transfer.“The petitioner is an actress and is into acting since 2012. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, the Petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case filed at the instance of Krishna Kishore Singh-father of the deceased…,” she had said in her plea.She had alleged that there cannot be an “impartial investigation” in Bihar for the case and sought transfer of the probe in the FIR to Mumbai.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bihar-govt-files-affidavit-in-supreme-court-says-rhea-chakraborty-s-transfer-plea-wrong/story-cW1Ys3Tj3i3Ppnq9kTYqnM.html
07-08-2020||India||ED rejects Rhea Chakraborty’s request to defer questioning in Sushant Singh Rajput case, summons aide too||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday issued summons to Shruti Modi, business manager of Rhea Chakraborty, against whom the parents of actor Sushant Singh Rajput have registered a case.The ED has also asked Rajput’s friend Siddharth Pithani to appear before the agency on Saturday.Meanwhile, the agency rejected Chakraborty’s request to defer questioning in the case. She was asked to appear before it with documents pertaining to her investments on Friday and if Chakraborty doesn’t come she will be violating the summons, the ED said. Also read: Bihar govt files affidavit in Supreme Court, says Rhea Chakraborty’s transfer plea in Sushant Singh Rajput case wrongThe summons is linked to a case by ED on July 31 on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by Bihar police that followed a complaint by Rajput’s father. He has accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor’s suicide and siphoning off his money.The agency is investigating money laundering and foreign exchange violations in connection with the case.Chakarborty is said to have gone out of public view ever since she posted a video appeal claiming innocence and wishing that the truth behind Rajput’s death comes out one day clearing her name. Bihar Police has been claiming that it has been unable to trace Chakraborty, who has been accused of diverting huge sums from Sushant’s account apart from keeping him in confinement and harassing him mentally.Also read: Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir to supervise Sushant Singh Rajput case CBI probe team“Rhea Chakraborty is not in touch with us. She is absconding, she is not coming forward. We don’t have any information about she being in touch with even Mumbai Police,” Director General of Bihar Police Gupteshwar Pandey said on Wednesday.Pandey had made a sensational claim on Tuesday saying that Rs 50 crore was withdrawn from the late actor’s account in the last four years and Rs 15 crore was withdrawn in the last year alone. He also accused the Mumbai Police of deliberately not probing the financial angle in the case.Sushant’s parents and the Bihar Police had earlier blamed Rhea Chakraborty of manipulating Sushant including diverting his money.Rajput, aged 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probing-money-laundering-in-sushant-case-summons-rhea-chakraborty-s-aide/story-UodzPtIF9klSYAFXMGaAVN.html
07-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty asks ED to defer questioning||Rhea Chakraborty has requested the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to exempt her from appearing before it on Friday in connection with its investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput citing the Supreme Court’s hearing in her plea, news agency ANI reported.The agency, which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations, had asked Chakraborty to appear before it along with documents pertaining to her investments at 11am on Friday at its Mumbai office.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir to supervise CBI probe teamSatish Maneshinde, according to ANI, said Chakraborty has requested that the recording of her statement be deferred till the Supreme Court’s hearing into her plea seeking the transfer of the police complaint lodged by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, against her from Patna to Mumbai on the ground of jurisdiction.The summons is linked to a case by ED on July 31 on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by Bihar police that followed a complaint by Rajput’s father. He has accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor’s suicide and siphoning off his money.The ED case was registered under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA).The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has also got the approval to join the investigation into the 34-year-old actor’s suspected suicide. The Mumbai Police, too, are probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-asks-ed-to-defer-questioning/story-sGHfsbqKDufm3Uz6sqPNNM.html
07-08-2020||India||Bihar is going to change ‘disha and dasha’ of India: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday ‘virtually’ sounded the bugle for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar by launching a stinging attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar and his government for their alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in the state. Addressing a virtual meeting – his first ahead of the Bihar polls -- of around 1000 party leaders and workers, Gandhi also said the alliance with like-minded parties will be based on “mutual respect” and “reasonable give and take” and then only the coalition will be successful in defeating the ruling Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine. The Congress is a part of the opposition grand alliance or mahagathbandhan, which also has the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahani. The assembly elections are due in October-November this year but the seat-sharing talks between the opposition parties was yet to start. Gandhi alleged that the state government has failed in controlling the coronavirus pandemic and also the flood situation. “It even failed thousands of migrant workers from the state during the lockdown period,” he added. When Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh pointed out that Gandhi had warned the government in February that the country was going to be hit by a Covid-19 pandemic, the former party chief claimed that India is on its way to becoming the “vishwa guru of coronavirus as the situation is going to worsen” in the next six months. “Today, I am predicting a much bigger storm of unemployment and a sinking economy which may batter Bihar and the rest of the country in about six months,” added Gandhi. Attacking the chief minister over his claims of ‘sushasan (good governance)’, Gandhi said despite the people of the state being in despair, he “seems unmoved and his inability to take action in the face of crisis” is now known to all. Stating that Bihar has been the harbinger of change as Mahatma Gandhi launched his first Satyagraha from Champaran, he said the state even in the coming days will show the way and change the “disha (direction) and dasha (fate)” of the country. The former Congress chief exhorted the party leaders and workers to fight the upcoming battle by spreading the message of love and compassion and not hatred to defeat the alleged divisive politics of the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). Gandhi also told them that he would be available whenever the Bihar unit wants him to campaign physically in the state. A Congress leader said Gandhi had finalised a programme to visit flood-affected areas in Bihar but the security agencies did not give the required clearance. Senior Bihar Congress leader Shamim Akhtar said the party should take seriously Gandhi’s directive on ensuring the alliance percolates down to the ground level. In the absence of Gandhi, the meeting saw leaders stressing the need to giving tickets to loyalists and workers rather than “controversial and tainted” leaders who will spoil the party’s electoral prospects. There were also complaints of lack of coordination within the state unit and the launching of the app-based membership drive at a time when the elections are fast approaching. Senior leader Tariq Anwar spoke about a weak party organisation right from the booth level and stressed the need to strengthen it. State working president Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj said some Congress leaders were trying to push for an alliance with the RJD even at the cost of party’s respect. Akhilesh Prasad Singh praised Congress governments in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh and also Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for “effectively” tackling the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-is-going-to-change-disha-and-dasha-of-india-rahul-gandhi/story-OLZnIAfzQpMmn7Gr4mDrRP.html
07-08-2020||India||Gaganyaan: Astronauts-elect complete training on abnormal descent module landing in Russia||The four astronauts-elect for India’s first manned space mission Gaganyaan have completed training in Russia on crew actions in the event of an abnormal descent module landing, Glavkosmos, a subsidiary of Russian space organisation Roscosmos said on Thursday. The astronauts were in good health and determined to continue their training, it said. “To date, Indian cosmonauts have completed training on crew actions in the event of an abnormal descent module landing: in wooded and marshy areas in winter (completed in February 2020), on the water surface (completed in June 2020), in the steppe in summer (completed in July 2020),” Glavkosmos said.In June 2020, they passed training in short-term weightlessness mode aboard the IL-76MDK special laboratory aircraft, and in July, they were trained to lift aboard a helicopter while evacuating from the descent module landing point, it said on its website.The programme also included training in a centrifuge and in a hyperbaric chamber to prepare their organisms for sustaining spaceflight factors, such as G-force, hypoxia and pressure drops, it said, adding that these training are to be held in the near future.Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots are currently under training in Moscow and are likely to be potential candidates for Gaganyaan, initially planned around 2022.However, the city-based Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has indicated the mission may be delayed due to Covid 19 pandemic and the lockdown induced by it.The Indian astronauts are undergoing training at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC) following the courses of the general space training programme and of the systems of the Soyuz MS crewed spacecraft.The completion of their training at GCTC is scheduled for the first quarter of 2021, it said.The contract for the training of Indian astronauts between Glavkosmos and the Human Spaceflight Center of ISRO was signed on June 27, 2019, and their training in Russia started on February 10 this year. The entire process of preparation and training takes place in Russia, Glavkosmos said, it included a number of courses necessary for prospective Indian cosmonauts. The regular courses comprise medical and physical training, learning Russian (as one of the main international languages of communication in space), and studying the configuration, structure and systems of the Soyuz crewed spacecraft.Glavkosmos said the trainees’ health status is monitored on a daily basis, and once every three months, highly professional GCTC doctors conduct their thorough medical examination. “The GCTC instructors praise the effort and high motivation of the Indian cosmonauts. They also note their extremely serious and very professional attitude to the training process,” it added.Indian officials had earlier said that after training in Russia, the astronauts will receive module-specific training in India. In that, they will be trained in a crew and service module designed by ISRO, learn to operate it, work around it and do simulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-astronauts-elect-complete-training-on-abnormal-descent-module-landing-in-russia/story-GZ4sLjF3B9tZesJ6sKL7hN.html
07-08-2020||India||Massive landslide in Kerala where 80 tea estate workers were staying; 4 dead, many feared trapped||Many tea estate workers are feared trapped under soil in Kerala’s Munnar after torrential rains triggered a massive landslide on Friday. The area has been witnessing rains for the last three days.According to local authorities, the incident in Idukki district happened in the early hours of Friday. Communication links to the area have been affected as the power lines have snapped in the rains.Initial reports said four bodies have been recovered from the site and 10 people saved. At least 80 people were reportedly staying in the area, local authorities said.A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has reached the area. Twenty houses of plantation workers have also been destroyed in the landslide, news agency PTI reported.“The situation is really serious,” Revenue minister E Chandrasekaran said. The minister further said that the authorities are trying to airlift those injured.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office said that they have contacted the Indian Air Force to provide helicopter services to Rajamala for rescue operations. It is expected to be available soon.Meanwhile, there are also reports another landslide took place en route to Sabarimala hill temple in Pathnamthitta.In Ernakulam district, as the water level in the Periyar river rose, the famous Shiva temple on the river bank has been almost submerged.Shutters of various dams have also been opened causing water level in the Periyar river to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kerala/massive-landslide-in-kerala-s-munnar-several-tea-estate-workers-feared-trapped/story-3rDLoarnp326LTQXZgK1eL.html
07-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir to supervise CBI probe team||Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir, an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the 2004 batch, will be a part of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team investigating the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The case was handed over to the central agency by the Bihar government after Rajput’s father KK Singh and the Bihar police alleged a cover-up by the Mumbai Police.CBI on Thursday filed a case into Rajput’s death naming his former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other members of her family or known associates apart from unknown persons as accused.Gambhir, along with senior IPS officer Manoj Shashidhar, will supervise the case which is being probed by a special investigation team under superintendent of police Nupur Prasad. Shashidhar, a 1994-batch IPS officer of the Gujarat cadre, is the joint director of the central agency.According to HT’s sister publication Hindustan, the Gujarat cadre IPS officer was born in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and grew up in the city.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty asked to appear before ED this FridayHindustan cited the IPS officer’s father, Yogendra Singh Gambhir, as saying that his daughter studied at school in the city. He said Gagandeep was a bright and hardworking student from the beginning. She moved to Punjab after her Class 10 and completed her higher education from Panjab University. She was also the topper of Panjab University.Gagandeep has been a senior superintendent of police (SSP) in many districts in the western state, including Rajkot and has been posted in CBI for the last year and a half. She has also been a part of teams probing many high-profile cases, including the big scams.She had also supervised the investigation into the alleged role of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in the illegal mining case. She was later shifted to the unit probing the Srijan scam and the case against journalist Upendra Rai. She also had the additional charge of DIG in the special investigation team headed by Joint Director Sai Manohar.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput had a habit of tearing diary pages himself, says friend Siddharth PithaniThe team, which was earlier headed by Rakesh Asthana, is probing important cases like that of Vijay Mallya and Agusta Westland. It is also probing some coal scam-related cases, among others.The Maharashtra police have questioned the jurisdiction of the Bihar police in the matter. A final call on this matter—whether Bihar police have the jurisdiction to transfer a case to CBI—will be taken by the Supreme Court later this week.KK Singh has alleged in his police complaint that Rhea Chakraborty and his family drove his son to suicide and appropriated Rajput’s assets. After Rajput’s father lodged the complaint, Patna Police registered a case including charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating and abetment to suicide against Chakraborty, her parents Indrajit Chakraborty and Sandhya Chakraborty, brother and common friends Samuel Miranda and Shruti Modi.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is separately investigating the case as it suspects there has been money laundering by some suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bihar-s-gagandeep-gambhir-to-supervise-cbi-probe-team/story-LrObmf0Lxdp269HY99aAcL.html
07-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Recovered Covid patients return to hospitals with respiratory illnesses and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Recovered Covid patients return to hospitals with respiratory illnessesWhen Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, 55, thought of returning to work after recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he realised that he could not walk even small distances without his heart rate increasing.He had to be readmitted in hospital for an echocardiogram to check his heart health. Read moreCovid-19: Tracing India’s journey to two million casesIndia’s Covid-19 tally crossed the two million-mark on Thursday. It is now only the third country after the US and Brazil to have reached the grim milestone. Read moreGovt gone missing: Rahul targets Centre as India crosses 2 mn Covid-19 casesCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday once again attacked the Centre as India became the third country in the world, after the US and Brazil, to report more two million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreKia Sonet set for premiere today, promises to hot up sub-compact SUV warKia Sonet was first presented in concept form at Auto Expo 2020 back in February and now, the company is finally set to showcase the production version of the much-awaited sub-compact SUV on Friday. Read moreTwitter accidentally tells iOS users they can limit replies to their tweetsTwitter’s iOS app users saw an update on Wednesday that they could now limit who gets to reply to their tweets. However, it looks like Twitter made a mistake here. Read moreDog and duck have been best friends since the day they met. Their tale is all about loveIf you’re someone who enjoys knowing about beautiful stories of interspecies friendships, then this tale of a dog and a duck will make your lips curl up in a smile. In fact, what’s even more adorable is that they have been best friends since the day they met. Read moreRicotta Records: Anonymouse artists install miniature, mouse-themed record store in SwedenThe artistic collective, Anonymouse, that creates and exhibits miniature mouse-themed artwork unveiled their latest artwork on Nygatan Street in Lund, Sweden. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-recovered-covid-patients-return-to-hospitals-with-respiratory-illnesses-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ifgGt90b0jrEJDmU77RW0H.html
07-08-2020||India||US Congressional Panel expresses bipartisan ‘concern’ over J&K situation||A US House of Representatives panel on foreign relations expressed bipartisan “concern” at the situation in Jammu and Kashmir in a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar, but India contended on Thursday that “positive changes” in the Union territory have ensured a “return to complete normalcy”. “We note with concern that conditions in Jammu and Kashmir have not normalised one year after India’s repeal of Article 370 and the establishment of Jammu and Kashmir as a Union Territory,” Eliot Engel, the Democratic chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee, and Michael T McCaul, a Republican member, wrote in the letter. It was a rare instance of bipartisan criticism of the changes in Kashmir. Democrats have condemned it before at many public forums, headlined most prominently by senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, an Indian-American. Republicans have been mostly supportive through their silence, taking the lead from the Trump administration’s response that it was an “internal matter” of India. Engel and McCaul sought to soft-land the criticism by averring themselves as “champions” of the India-US relationship. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “This letter reflects a strong bipartisan support for India in the US. Regarding the specific issue that you referred to, there have been several positive changes in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir over the past one year, whether it be in terms of ensuring good governance or socio-economic development or delivering justice to disadvantaged sections of the population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-congressional-panel-expresses-bipartisan-concern-over-j-k-situation/story-1AaL9wPGMgmXvavRfarGnO.html
07-08-2020||India||GC Murmu named as next CAG, to take charge today||Girish Chandra Murmu has been appointed the Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) of India, a notification issued by the ministry of finance said on Thursday, a day after he stepped down as the lieutenant-governor of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Murmu has been appointed by President Ram Nath Kovind and he will take charge after incumbent Rajiv Mehrishi completes his term on Friday, the notification said. As the CAG, Murmu will be responsible for auditing all expenditures of the state and central governments. Murmu will hold the post for six years or till he turns 65. According to the Constitution, he cannot hold any government office following the completion of his tenure as CAG. Murmu took charge as the first L-G of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir on October 31, 2019, after the erstwhile state was stripped of its special status under Article 370 by the central government on August 5 last year, and split into two Union territories — J&K and Ladakh.Before his posting in J&K, Murmu served as the expenditure secretary in the Union finance ministry. Former Union minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Uttar Pradesh Manoj Sinha was named as Murmu’s replacement as the new L-G of J&K on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gc-murmu-named-as-next-cag-to-take-charge-today/story-5oTyxTqakuzraOjcgxBV8O.html
07-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Tracing India’s journey to two million cases||India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the two million-mark on Thursday. It is now only the third country after the US and Brazil to have reached the grim milestone.It took India three weeks (or 21 days) to post its second million. And the majority of the new cases - 42 per cent - has come from five states, namely Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar.The number of Covid-19 cases in India reached five lakh (or half million-mark) on June 26, in just a little over 19 days. The next half million came on July 16, according to analysis of data from states and union territories.After the one million-mark, India crossed the 1.5 million milestone on July 28 and two million on August 6.India’s journey to two million cases took 158 days, with at least 90 per cent of these cases coming after the lifting of the hard nationwide lockdown that was announced at the end of March - a strategy that officials and experts said bought the country precious time to set up isolation centres, add hospital beds, and strengthen testing infrastructure.While Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi were the original hotspots, the trend has shifted in the last three weeks. Forty two per cent of the new cases have come from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar.If cases in the country continue to grow at the same rate they have till now, which is likely considering how new states such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have emerged as hotspots, experts estimate that the next million cases may take just a little over two weeks.Meanwhile, the data from states and union territories show that the recoveries have surged to 13.70 lakh. In fact, the recoveries exceeded active cases of the coronavirus infection by 7,32,835 on Thursday, according to Union health ministry.The ministry also said that the daily new recoveries are increasing steadily.“The progressively increasing daily new recoveries are due to a focused attention on surveillance, containment and effective clinical management. India created a network of Covid Dedicated Hospitals to manage the cases,” it said. It also said that India has one of the lowest deaths/million compared to many countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tracing-india-s-journey-to-two-million-cases/story-o8ivL6ZmT0dGNrHwQK7KSJ.html
07-08-2020||India||DU’s inability to pay salaries despite 70% budget hike indicates corruption: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the inability of government-funded Delhi University (DU) colleges to pay staff salaries despite a 70 per cent increase in budget allocation in the last 5 years indicates corruption. “Sisodia came down heavily against the Delhi government-funded Delhi University colleges for expressing their inability to pay the salaries of their staff despite 70% budget increase by the government in the last 5 years. Sisodia said that the inability of Delhi govt-funded DU colleges to pay staff salaries despite a 70 per cent increase in budget allocation in the last 5 years indicates corruption,” the Office of Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi said in a statement.He also said that he has received multiple complaints of corruption in the administration of DU colleges. They are resisting or delaying the formation of governing bodies and rejecting nominees appointed by Delhi government to hide this corruption.Delhi Government has increased the budget of DU colleges from Rs 144.39 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 242.64 Cr in 2019-20 and Rs 243 Cr in 2020-21. Despite nearly 70 per cent rise in budget allocation in five years, DU is complaining of budget problems, the release said.“DU last year’s budget (2019-20) of Rs 242.64 crore was adequate to meet all their expenses, the previous year’s budget (2018-19) of Rs 216.13 crore was adequate to meet their expenses, why is DU now complaining of inadequate funds despite Rs 27 crore increased allocation in last two years alone?” said the Deputy CM.He said, “Of the Rs 243 core budgeted for 2020-21, Rs 56.25 crore has already been released by end of July 2020 i.e. approx. 23 per cent budget. So why are DU colleges not able to pay salaries for April, May and June? Apart from DU colleges, Delhi govt also funds many of the Universities that come directly under the administration of its Education Department. We never hear instances of them running out of funds or unable to pay the salaries of their staff.”Sisodia said, “The inability of Delhi govt-funded DU colleges to pay staff salaries despite a 70 per cent increase in budget allocation in the last 5 years indicates corruption. The reason is clear. There have been multiple complaints of corruption in the administration of DU colleges. That’s why they are resisting or delaying the formation of Governing bodies and rejecting nominees appointed by the Delhi government. I had written to DU Vice-Chancellor last month about these corruption allegations and am yet to receive a response.”The press release also mentioned the details of Budget allocation by GNCTD to Delhi govt-funded DU colleges. The press release read, “2012-13 - Rs 121.82 Cr, 2013-14 - Rs 140.65 Cr, 2014-15 - Rs 144.39 Cr, 2015-16 - Rs 181.94 Cr, 2016-17-- Rs 197 Cr, 2017-18 - Rs 214.78 Cr, 2018-19 - Rs 216.13 Cr, 2019-20 - Rs 242.64 Cr, 2020-21 (BE) - Rs 243 Cr (Rs 56.25 released).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-s-inability-to-pay-salaries-despite-70-budget-hike-indicates-corruption-sisodia/story-IAn4G5QxEBwuN3Gi60NZnL.html
07-08-2020||India||Govt gone missing: Rahul targets Centre as India crosses 2 mn Covid-19 cases||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday once again attacked the Centre as India became the third country in the world, after the US and Brazil, to report more two million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).India is behind the United States, which is the worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic with nearly 5 million cases, and Brazil with more than 2.8 million cases.“20 lakh mark has been crossed, the Modi government has gone missing,” Gandhi tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, said.He also added his tweet from July 17, a day the country had crossed the million mark. 10,00,000 का आँकड़ा पार हो गया।इसी तेज़ी से #COVID19 फैला तो 10 अगस्त तक देश में 20,00,000 से ज़्यादा संक्रमित होंगे।सरकार को महामारी रोकने के लिए ठोस, नियोजित कदम उठाने चाहिए। https://t.co/fMxijUM28rIndia recorded the second million in three weeks since the country hit a million infections on July 16, with 42% of the new cases coming from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, according to HT’s tally.Experts have said that the next million cases may take just a little over two weeks if the Covid-19 cases in the country continue to grow at the same rate they have till now.Also read: 38% of India’s Covid-19 cases reported from 5 statesThey said India’s focus of the battle against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, now needs to shift to the hinterland and the peninsula, both high population density regions with, in the case of the former, significant rural populations and relatively inadequate health care systems.On July 16, when the country touched a million cases, nearly 56% of all cases could be traced to the three regions that were the original hot spots of the disease in India – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. In the last three weeks, however, this trend has shifted. Delhi, which was responsible for nearly 12% cases in the first million, has reported less than 3% of the new cases in the second million.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAndhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, which together reported less than 19% of cases in the first million, reported nearly 42% of new cases since July 16.Rahul Gandhi has been attacking the government relentlessly over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. On Monday, he had targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his comment last week that “right decisions at the right time means India is better off than other countries”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The former Congress president had posted an infographic from a news channel that listed 10 countries with the most cases in the 24 hour period with nearly 53,000 new cases in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-gone-missing-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-centre-after-india-crosses-2-million-covid-19-cases/story-f5UlwsN4LxZkLEdonfL2lL.html
07-08-2020||India||Pregnant woman dies in Manipur, family claims she was turned away by 5 hospitals||A young pregnant woman in Manipur died on Thursday allegedly due to denial of medical services at five hospitals, including two government-run institutes, her family members claimed.The woman, identified as Kanpatliu Kamei (20), wife of Roshan Balang (25) of Puichi village under Noney district of Manipur, passed away at the gate of a private hospital in Imphal around 4 am, according to family members.They said that Kanpatliu, accompanied by her mother, a woman relative and husband, arrived at Senapati district hospital for the delivery at around 2 pm on August 5. However, they were referred to a different hospital in Imphal around 10.30 pm, the family members said.Subsequently, they drove to Imphal by hiring a vehicle. When the woman reached JNIMS, a government-run hospital in Imphal East district around 12.30 am, the family members claimed she was denied medical services. They later went to RIMS, another government hospital in Imphal West district, followed by three more private hospitals. But, the hospitals kept denying them medical services citing unavailability of doctors even though the patient possessed Covid-19 negative test results, the family members claimed.At the last private hospital they went to, the pregnant woman died at the entrance of the building, the family members added.The state authorities ordered an enquiry into the incident on Thursday by constituting a two-men probe panel. The committee led by Additional Director (Plg) Medical Directorate will submit their report within a week to the health department.In another development, based on the report that many health care facilities are denying service to patients due to Covid-19 pandemic, Principal Secretary (Health & Family welfare) also issued an order on Thursday directing all government and private hospitals to ensure that all patients who reach their facility are attended to promptly, especially the emergency and time-bound cases.Sharing the government order on his Facebook page, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote on Thursday, “All government and private hospitals should attend to all patients. Any violation will be viewed very severely and action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Manipur Nursing Home & Clinical Registration Act, 1992 etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-woman-dies-in-manipur-family-claims-she-was-turned-away-by-5-hospitals/story-QcW6ZgG4QcL9nlW3NYwJGJ.html
07-08-2020||India||India objects to omnidirectional CCTV cameras set up by Nepal at Uttarakhand border||India has raised an objection against the installation of omni-directional CCTV cameras by Nepal near the disputed land at the border in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district, officials said on Thursday.This comes amid the ongoing border row between the two countries over erecting fencing pillars in no man’s land at the India-Nepal border in Champawat.Indian officials have asked their counterparts in Nepal to replace them with uni-directional CCTV cameras. The issue was raised by Indian officials during an informal border meeting between the two sides on Tuesday near Tanakpur border town of Champawat district.Several issues were raised during the meeting for discussion by India side including a request to instal omni-directional closed-circuit television cameras by Nepalese authorities near the no man’s land. “The Nepalese side had installed the CCTV cameras a few days ago at the border. When the meeting was held, the SSB [Sashastra Seema Bal] from our side raised the issue before Nepal as being omnidirectional CCTV cameras, there was an obvious risk that they might monitor activities of our security agencies also,” Surendra Narayan Pandey, Champawat’s district magistrate who attended the meet, said.“The Nepalese authorities reasoned that they are to keep an eye on activities on their side of the border on which we asked them to then replace them with uni-directional CCTV cameras away from the Indian side of the border. To that, they said that they will consider the request,” said Pandey. Meanwhile, an SSB official privy to the issues raised by them before Nepalese authorities in the meeting said, “We had raised the issue of omnidirectional CCTVs as it is a very important one from a security point of view.” “Not only this, we also raised objection against the Nepalese people stopping our men from patrolling near the disputed area of the border in our side as well the encroachment done by them on it,” said the official. RK Tripathi, SSB Commandant near the Indo-Nepal border affirmed the development. “We raised several issues in the meeting but didn’t get any assurance from their side. They just said that they will try to solve them by dialogues,” Tripathi said.The informal meeting was attended by Champawat’s district magistrate and superintendent of police (SP) and SSB’s commandant. From the Nepalese, the chief district officer (the equivalent of a DM) and SP of Kanchanpur district adjoining the border in Nepal and SP of the Armed Police Force (SSB’s counterpart). The border row had erupted between the two sides after some Nepalese nationals erected fencing pillars in the no man’s land near the border on July 22. Following the development, India’s border patrolling agency SSB held a meeting with Nepal’s APF on the issue on July 23 in which the latter assured of removing it but since then no action has been taken by them in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-objects-to-omnidirectional-cctv-cameras-set-up-by-nepal-at-uttarakhand-border/story-9ehk59cQXlJaf7JOKRatBJ.html
07-08-2020||India||India ramped up Covid-19 testing infrastructure to 1,370 labs now: Health Ministry||India substantively ramped up its testing infrastructure from one lab in January 2020 to 1,370 labs currently, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.In view of Covid-19, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday informed that the country has substantively ramped up its testing infrastructure from one lab in January 2020 to 1,370 labs as of now.“#IndiaFightsCorona India has substantively ramped up its testing infrastructure from one lab in Jan 2020 to 1,370 labs today. Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country has given a boost and India has done more than 2 crore tests presently,” said the MoHFW in a tweet on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Health Ministry also said that the daily new recoveries are increasing steadily.“The progressively increasing daily new recoveries are due to a focused attention on surveillance, containment and effective clinical management. India created a network of Covid Dedicated Hospitals to manage the cases,” it said. It also said, “India has one of the lowest deaths/million compared to many countries.”“Focused and coordinated implementation of “TEST, TRACK, TREAT” strategy focusing on early identification and effective clinical management has resulted in low and continuously sliding Case Fatality Rate (CFR),” the Ministry added in another tweet.With a single-day spike of 56,282 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally reached 19,64,537 on Thursday. The active cases stand at 5,95,501 and 13,28,336 patients have been cured or discharged.The Health Ministry said active cases as a percentage of total cases have seen a significant drop from 34.17 per cent on July 24 to 30.31 per cent.With an increase of 904 deaths, the toll due to the disease has gone up to 40,699.The ministry said that the recovery rate has reached a record high of 67.62 per cent among Covid-19 patients and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stands at 2.07 per cent.“The total recoveries of Covid-19 patients have jumped to 13,28,336 with 46,121 Covid-19 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. With such a consistent increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has reached 7,32,835,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ramped-up-covid-19-testing-infrastructure-to-1-370-labs-now-health-ministry/story-aNHHO3cJNwLHqRU8iSdOcJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Lok Sabha officials to learn foreign languages||Amid a debate over what should be the medium of instruction in schools, the Lok Sabha secretariat is encouraging senior officials to learn foreign languages, citing Parliament’s increasing engagement with overseas counterparts and international institutions. They are also being told to learn, at least at a basic level, local languages.“It has been decided to conduct beginner level learning courses in different foreign languages as well as scheduled Indian languages for the officers of Parliament. The duration of the programme would be three months with two classes per week,” an internal circular Lok Sabha circular, a copy of which was accessed by HT, said.Courses will be offered in four foreign languages—German, French, Russian and Spanish -- and may be expanded to cover other languages depending on the level of interest among officials in the Lok Sabha secretariat, according to speaker Om Birla. The French language course started on August 4.An official enrolled in the French language course said, “It will be very useful for us in our interactions with international hosts. French is a widely used language in Europe and also in Africa.” The linguistic exercise comes amid a debate triggered by the new education policy approved by the Centre last month that stressed the need for students to be taught in their tongue although it stuck to the three language formula -- English, Hindi and a regional language. The policy said that since children learn and grasp non-trivial concepts more quickly in their home language, which is often the mother tongue, it should preferably be the medium of instruction.“Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language, mother tongue, local language or the regional language. Thereafter, the home or local language shall continue to be taught as a language wherever possible. This will be followed by both public and private schools,” the policy stated.This, however, led to concerns over the existence of thousands of English-medium schools across India. To ease the concerns in a country that has 22 official languages , officials said the policy does not aim to impose any language on anyone.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla wants senior officials in the lower house secretariat to hone their foreign language skills keeping in mind Parliament’s increasing international exposure and its multilateral engagements, officials said. The French course is open to officers who are at least executive assistants. Fifty-seven officials have enrolled themselves in the course. Parliament’s secretariat is a mini India in its profile, comprising officials from different corners of the country. But with most day-to-day work being done either in Hindi or English, officials have had little incentive to learn new languages. Over the past few years, Parliament has been increasingly engaging with its international counterparts. Apart from participating in multilateral forums such as Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and Commonwealth Parliamentary Union, legislative delegations make overseas visits on goodwill missions and receive guests from other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-officials-to-learn-foreign-languages/story-Iedo5f5wte8vOI1IRDw13J.html
07-08-2020||India||S Jaishankar, Mike Pompeo discuss ‘destabilizing actions’ in Ladakh||India and United States on Thursday discussed recent ‘destabilizing actions’ in the region in a call between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his American counterpart Michael R Pompeo, the State Department said in a statement. The phrase ‘destabilizing actions’ was a clear reference to Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh and it was part of an ongoing discussions on the border conflagration between two sides and on which the US has been extremely supportive of India. “We remain united to advance peace in Afghanistan, and to a secure and sovereign Indo-Pacific in which all countries can prosper,” Pompeo followed up in a tweet.Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishesPompeo has hinted at American role in the Indian ban on Chinese apps in retaliation for the Galwan clashes.The two leaders also discussed ongoing bilateral and multilateral cooperation on issues of international concern, including efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and the Afghan peace process in Afghanistan, a State Department spokesperson Cale Brown stated.“ Secretary Pompeo and Minister Jaishankar reiterated the strength of the United States-India relationship to advance peace, prosperity, and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe,” the spokesperson added.Also read: China calls article 370 move illegal; keep out of our internal affairs, says MEAThe two leaders agreed stay in touch in “continue close cooperation” on an entire range of regional and international issues and “look forward to Quadrilateral consultations” with Australia and Japan and the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-mike-pompeo-discuss-destabilizing-actions-in-the-region/story-ROipOUDiq1Yk5wc8pafmZK.html
07-08-2020||India||42% of India’s Covid-19 cases reported from 5 states||Nearly 42% of new cases that have come since the day India’s tally crossed a million Covid-19 infections have come from five states — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar. These states together were responsible for less than 19% of cases before July 16 – the day India hit the million-mark.Delhi, which was responsible for nearly 12% of the country’s first million cases, has reported less than 3% of the new cases in the second million. These statistics show how the spread of the Sars-CoV-2 has shifted geographies in the last three weeks, targeting the hinterland and the southern peninsula instead of just the ‘Big Three’ – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. THE FIRST MILLIONWhen India’s total caseload crossed the million-mark on July 16, around 56% of all cases could be traced to the ‘Big Three’. Maharashtra (284,281 cases) alone was responsible for 28.3% of all cases, followed by Tamil Nadu (156,369 infections) with 15.6% cases in the country and Delhi (118,645 cases) constituted 11.8% of the national tally. THE SECOND MILLIONAfter July 16, a lot changed in the way the virus spread in the country. Among the worst-hit regions, Delhi had the best rate of case growth in the country. The share of the Capital’s cases dropped to 2.2% from 11.8%.Maharashtra, however, continued to be worst-hit region, contributing nearly a fifth of the cases reported after July 16. Andhra Pradesh jumped from the eight spot to the second spot , responsible for nearly 16% of the cases. With 122,775 cases since July 16, Tamil Nadu dropped to the third highest contributor to the second million (12.1%).Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, which accounted for less than 19% of the first million, reported nearly 42% of new cases since July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-of-covid-19-cases-reported-from-5-states/story-fHHvkpVuccACb2k0GFrUgN.html
07-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India crossed two million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, exactly three weeks after it crossed a million cases on July 16 (according to the HT dashboard, it ended the day with 1,004,652 cases). The number of active cases on July 16 (again, according to the HT dashboard) was 343,298. India ended Thursday with 2,022,730 cases. The number of active cases was 605,300. This means that in 21 days, the country has seen 1,018,078 new infections, and the number of active cases has increased by 262,002. India had recorded 25,594 deaths by the time it crossed a million cases; by Thursday, that number increased to 41,633, an additional 16,039 deaths in 21 days. No country is currently adding as many cases as India. And, at the two million mark (crossed only by the US and the Brazil before this), India’s growth rate in terms of cases is the highest . Indeed, according to five-day averages tabulated by the Johns Hopkins University, the US’s five-day average (as on August 5) is down, as is Brazil’s. In the top five countries by number of cases, only India and Colombia have five-day averages that are moving up. To be sure, the absolute numbers are still higher for the US (seven-day average of 56,966 according to the New York Times database), when compared to India (54,392) -- but only just. Brazil’s is 43,830. India’s number is set to increase even more in coming days as the virus spreads across the hinterland and the peninsula. One reason for this is higher testing – India had tested 10,539 people per million of its population on July 16, when it crossed a million cases; on August 5, poised at 1.96 million, it had tested 16,617 people per million (testing data comes with a lag). That is just around 1.66% of the population. The US has tested 18.8% of its population and Brazil 6.3%, according to data from worldometers.info. Russia has tested 20%, South Africa 5%, and the UK 25%. Among countries with a significant number of cases, only Mexico (0.8%) has tested less of its population than India. Even Iran has tested 3%.India needs to do more – for a start, target to test 5% of its population. This isn’t the first time I’m pushing for more tests – this column was the first to call for a million tests a day in India – and every time, I receive the same feedback from apologists for the government: India’s population is far too high; or India’s GDP is far too low. The truth is, in absolute terms, India ranks behind China, the US, and Russia, in terms of number of tests conducted. To reach the 5% mark, India has to test roughly 32 million more people – preferably using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, or RT-PCR test, which is the best way to diagnose current infections. The rapid antigen test has become popular with many state governments because it can offer tests within the hour -- as opposed to the RT-PCR tests whose results reach the subject only in 24 to 48 hours -- but it is not very accurate when it comes to identifying true negatives (some people shown to be negative for the virus in the test are actually infected), and should be used only in certain circumstances and places – in a containment zone, for instance; or in airports (where passengers can be tested before a flight). That may seem like an impossible target (it also needs to be completed soon, perhaps 32 days, sticking to this writer’s recommendation on the number of daily tests), but India conducts many large-scale exercises that other countries would consider impossible – for instance, a universal vaccine programme that covers almost 25 million children across the country; and elections. Last year, 611 million people voted in the general elections in seven phases. In 2017, about 86 million people voted in the Uttar Pradesh state elections, again, across seven phases. At the one million mark, I wrote a column on what India needs to do (called “A Million and a Manifesto”). That still holds, but at the two million mark, the only thing the central and state governments need to think about is testing. P.S: While on testing, states and Union Territories that have spare capacity (Delhi definitely has it) should consider offering free tests (RT-PCR) to anyone who wants to get tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-XdKmIyUfOpO0KpsyQGsH6K.html
07-08-2020||India||Congress gives opportunities to young across spectrum: RPN Singh||Former union minister and Congress’ Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh says younger leaders have always been given good opportunities in his party as compared to other political parties. He says the ongoing old versus young debate in the Congress is uncalled for. In an interview with Aurangzeb Naqshbandi, he says the Congress needs to have a rejuvenated party organization and a narrative that resonates with the people of the country for its revival. Q: The seniors versus young leaders debate has reignited in the Congress. Are young leaders apprehensive of their future in the party with Rahul Gandhi apparently unwilling to assume the leadership role in the immediate future? A: I disagree with this whole debate of young and old. It is uncalled for. If you read the history of the Congress party right from 1920s, there have always been younger people trying to occupy positions and that is true of any organisation. I would definitely like to say that a lot of young people have got great opportunity in the Congress and it is a continuing process. But I find it strange when a section of the media says that old people should be replaced by the young. Life is about competence and experience. Would you say Mahatma Gandhiji or Sardar Patel should have been removed from the freedom struggle because they were too old? Young people necessarily don’t attract young people. Ideas and narratives do. Q: We saw the exit of Jyotiraditya Scindia and now the rebellion by Sachin Pilot. There seems to be a sense of despair in the party? A: I would not like to comment on individuals. But there are many instances of younger people having got opportunity in the Congress party. As far as Ashok Gehlot government is concerned, it had majority yesterday, has it today and will prove it whenever asked to. There is absolutely no problem. Q: Do you think time has come for senior leaders to make way for the young generation? A: Age is just a number. Definitely younger people should be given opportunity and Rahulji has given opportunity to many many people across the country but everybody has to wait their turn. People do have ambitions but everybody’s ambitions cannot be fulfilled. And always remember one thing that time waits for nobody. If you are old and have become irrelevant, you will get pushed out on your own or people will push you out. People have their own capabilities and experience and age is just a factor. In the Congress party, younger people have been given opportunities across the spectrum even in the Rajya Sabha, which is the House of Elders. No other political party has done that. So, I can’t understand this debate. Q: In the last CWC meeting, you suggested that instead of launching personal attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his policies should be criticised. Do you think that the move to attack Modi has backfired on the Congress? A: Well, what I said in the CWC is something I would not like to discuss in the media. CWC is a forum where every member has full freedom to express his or her opinion in a most democratic manner. It finally takes the call and whatever the CWC decides, every member of the Congress party has to follow that. Q: But what about the personal attacks on Modi? Do you think the Congress needs to change its strategy? A: I personally feel whatever attack has to be launched on the government or its policies and its leaders should be formulated by the CWC and collectively endorsed by the party and every member should follow that and stick to those lines. Q: But many Congress leaders say Rahul Gandhi is the only opposition leader who takes on Modi and Amit Shah and if he doesn’t who will? A: I would like to say that as far as I am concerned I have taken on the Prime Minister, his policies and those of his government and the BJP at various forums – be as a party spokesperson or as in-charge of Jharkhand. In my capacity, I have done that and many others in the Congress are also doing that. Q: You were a part of the UPA government in its second term. One of your party colleagues, Rajeev Satav, recently blamed the UPA 2 for the declining electoral fortunes of the Congress. We then saw a full blown war on the social media. What do you have to say? A: I think he has already clarified that. He might have said something in his over exuberance and he has made amends by clarifying his remarks. Let’s end it there only. But the kind of dignity Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh brought to politics is something that needs to be learned by all. Q: NCP chief Sharad Pawar has suggested that Rahul Gandhi should have conversation with his party leaders and also start touring the country. Is there a lack of conversation in the Congress? A: I would not like to comment on what Pawarji has said. He is an extremely knowledgeable, experienced and has great understanding of politics. His party is our alliance partner in Maharashtra. All I would to like say that we don’t need to look elsewhere. We have the greatest example of how to conduct oneself as a leader with propriety, dignity and taking along everybody’s views. We have our Congress president Sonia Gandhi who has been the epitome of what a politician should be – dignified, calm, taking all views on board and reaching out to the poorest of the poor and her sacrifice is known to all. Also, the kind of progress we made under the leadership of Dr Manmohan Singh in his 10-years rule is something the entire country is proud of and his economic policies have been praised world over. Q: But what about the suggestion of going on a nationwide yatra to reconnect with the masses? Also, do you think that hitting the streets is the only way for the party’s revival? A: Every member of the Congress party wants Rahul Gandhi as its president. There is no doubt in anybody’s mind. In fact, nobody had asked him to step down when he took the moral responsibility for the 2019 election loss. He did that on his own. He is the leader of the Congress party. As far as the touring is concerned, it has to be done by all members of the Congress party but we need to have a rejuvenated organisation and a narrative that resonates with the people of the country. Unfortunately, all the travel plans have come to a standstill due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Q: Coming to your home state UP, do you see the revival of the Congress with other opposition parties ceding their space? A: In Uttar Pradesh, new entrants have been given opportunities. There is definitely some plan and strategy. We have been in the party for many years and we are there for them. We will be helping and guiding them wherever needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-gives-opportunities-to-young-across-spectrum-rpn-singh/story-oIkFPCBShHvaYKiekAwmtL.html
07-08-2020||India||Aadhaar Card’s use may be widened further||The Centre may allow Aadhaar authentication on a voluntary basis for delivery of social welfare benefits by government entities in order to ensure good governance and prevent leakages, new rules issued by the ministry of electronics and information technology have said.Under the new rules, issued on Wednesday, any central or state government department or ministry can approach the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) -- the statutory body that manages Aadhaar and runs Aadhaar-based services -- to use the unique 12-digit biometric number for authentication. This request can be made for three purposes: usage of digital platforms for good governance, prevention of dissipation of welfare benefits and enabling innovation and spreading knowledge. Innovation and knowledge have not been defined. “The central government may allow Aadhaar authentication by requesting entities in the interest of good governance, preventing leakage of public funds, promoting ease of living of residents and enabling better access to services for them,” the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, 2020, said.Activists said the move could lead to exclusion of poor people from getting benefits. To be sure, the rules are in consonance with the 2018 Supreme Court judgment that struck down section 57 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, which earlier allowed private entities to use Aadhaar database for authentication. Currently, the central government allows seeding of Aadhaar number for delivery of social welfare benefits under some programmes such as the Public Distribution System. However, for delivery of the benefit such as food grains under the public distribution system or money under pension schemes, Aadhaar authentication is not needed.But with the new rules, Aadhaar authentication may become a part of withdrawing other government benefits such as pensions. A central government official privy to the developments said the purpose of the order was to ensure that “genuine” beneficiaries get benefits of the government schemes in real-time without any delay. “Authentication will also help in plugging the leakages, if any, in the schemes. The rules provide government agencies a framework to seek UIDAI’s authentication services,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Under the authentication mechanism, the UIDAI uses its database to verify whether an Aadhaar number or biometric detail provided actually belong to a particular individual. The UIDAI server replies only in “Yes” or “No” without providing any demographic details of the person whose identify is being verified. Currently, in the Aadhaar seeding system, the verification is done through the concerned department’s database -- not that of the UIDAI. According to the Aadhaar Act, a requesting entity means “an agency or person that submits the Aadhaar number, and demographic information or biometric information, of an individual to the Central Identities Data Repository for authentication”.The new rule makes it clear that only the government agencies would be allowed to use Aadhaar authentication services, not any private entity. This is in line with the 2016 Supreme Court judgment that upheld the Aadhaar law but struck down section 57 which allowed private entities to use Aadhaar database for authentication.Activists said poor connectivity in rural areas may hurt disadvantaged people.“There is already so much evidence to show that Aadhaar has led to exclusion of poor people in disbursement of subsidised ration in Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. The decision could lead to further exclusion as in rural areas there is very poor connectivity and biometric of many people don’t work,” said Reetika Khera, a development economist working at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.A study done by the Abdul Lateef Jamil Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) in 10 districts of Jharkhand by economist Karthik Muralidharan in 2019 found that the Aadhaar seeding in PDS lead to many genuine persons getting excluded with little plugging of leakages.The rules say Aadhaar authentication will be voluntary.“If the department say that people will not get the welfare services without authentication, voluntary becomes mandatory,” said development economist Jean Dreze, who has been arguing against making Aadhaar mandatory to avail social welfare schemes..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-use-may-be-widened-further/story-gGTUFhyd2RKf9AJyvDrmjM.html
07-08-2020||India||CBI names Rhea Chakraborty, five of family in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a case into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput naming his ex-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other family members or known associates apart from unknown persons as accused, officials said. The Mumbai police have been probing the death since Rajput’s body was found at his apartment on June 14 but are yet to register a case. The case was handed over to CBI by the Bihar government after Rajputs father KK Singh and the Bihar police alleged a cover-up by the Mumbai police. They have accused the Mumbai police of destroying evidence and deliberately ignoring leads in the case in an attempt to derail it. The Maharashtra police have questioned the jurisdiction of the Bihar police in the matter. A final call on this matter -- whether Bihar police have the jurisdiction to transfer a case to CBI -- will be taken by the Supreme Court later this week . One school of thought is that it has -- because Rajput’s father is based in the state. Another is that it doesn’t -- that while it can register a case, it has to transfer it to Mumbai police. CBI has handed over the investigation to its Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is currently investigating the high-profile AgustaWestland chopper case and the bank fraud case against fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya. The SIT, also known as Anti-Corruption-6 and headed by Gujarat cadre IPS officer Manoj Shashidhar, was formed in June 2016 under then Special Director Rakesh Asthana to expedite probe against Mallya and in the chopper case. It has successfully secured Mallya’s extradition in a UK court and filed a charge sheet against former Air Chief SP Tyagi. A team from the SIT will station itself in Mumbai to begin questioning people connected with the late actor including his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, Bollywood producers and others who gave statements after his death or know about the circumstances related to his death, officials familiar with development said. The decision to hand over the probe to the SIT was taken as CBI’s Special Crimes unit, which usually investigates such cases, has its hands full. “The Special Crimes unit is currently probing high-profile cases related to the custodial death of the father-son duo of P Jayaraj and J Bennicks in Tamil Nadu in June as well as the suicide of SHO, Vishnudutt Vishnoi in Churu, Rajasthan, on May 23. In the SHO case, CBI had last month questioned Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s OSD – Devaram Saini,” an official at the agency said requesting anonymity. Around eight officials of CBI’s special crimes unit who had gone to investigate Tamil Nadu’s custodial deaths are in quarantine after some of them contracted Covid-19. CBI is likely to take the help of medical experts from reputed institutions to study the postmortem report of Sushant Singh Rajput, another official at the agency said. If it believes at any stage that Rhea Chakraborty or others are misleading it, the agency may even consider conducting lie-detection tests on them, this officer added, asking not to be named. KK Singh has alleged that Rhea Chakraborty and his family drove his son to suicide and appropriated his (Rajput’s) assets.Apart from Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, CBI has named her family members and the manager of Rajput’s house, Samuel Miranda, as accused . The charges are criminal conspiracy, cheating and abetment to suicide. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is separately investigating the case as it suspects there has been money laundering by some suspects. The ED questioned Samuel Miranda on Thursday while Singh’s chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar was examined on Tuesday. Rhea Chakraborty has been asked by the ED to appear before it on Friday. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, “The Bihar government transferred a case with which it had no jurisdiction to investigate to CBI instead of the Mumbai Police, which is the legal position. The Supreme Court is seized of the issue pursuant to the transfer petition filed by Rhea Chakraborty. The SC has directed all parties to file their replies and Mumbai Police are directed to place the report of investigations.”“Pending the said proceedings, the CBI has registered and continued the illegality which was perpetrated at the hands of Bihar Police. CBI being a premier investigative agency in the country should desist from taking any further steps pending the SC proceedings. Apart from the same unless the Maharashtra Government consents to CBI investigating the case... it would be totally illegal and beyond any known legal principles, affecting the federal structure of the nation.”Rajput’s death, believed to be a suicide by Mumbai police, initially led to theories about how outsiders have it difficult in Bollywood and the role of nepotism in driving him to desperation, but soon moved on to darker conspiracy theories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-names-rhea-five-of-family-in-sushant-case/story-02m0jEczBjSJBWBxpgSjVM.html
07-08-2020||India||Covid-19: India posts its second million in just 21 days||India on Thursday became the third country in the world, after the US and Brazil, to report more than two million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases -- the second million coming in exactly three weeks since the country hit a million infections on July 16, with 42% of the new cases coming from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar. With a total of 62,088 new cases on Thursday taking the national tally to 2,022,730, the doubling rate — the number of days it takes for number of infections to double — in the country now stands at 22.7 days. This is significantly higher than it was in the US (60.2 days) and Brazil (35.7 days) on the day they crossed two million cases -- suggesting that India’s caseload could surpass the tallies in these two countries unless the trend reverses or a vaccine is developed.If cases in the country continue to grow at the same rate they have till now, which is likely considering how new states such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have emerged as hot spots, experts estimate that the next million cases may take just a little over two weeks.Also read: 70% Covid-19 related deaths in Bengal due to delayed admission in hospitalsThe US total now stands at 4,993,508 cases and Brazil is at 2,873,304 million.With 898 new fatalities reported on Thursday, 41,633 people have died due to the disease in the five months of the outbreak in the country. The silver lining is that the country’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.06% — not only better than the global average of 3.75%, but also significantly better than the CFR in the US (5.72%) and Brazil (3.81%) when these countries had the same number of cases.Also read: Donald Trump says coronavirus vaccine possible before November 3Experts say the focus of the battle against Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – now needs to shift to the hinterland and the peninsula, both high population density regions with, in the case of the former, significant rural populations and relatively inadequate health care systems.On July 16, when the country touched a million cases, nearly 56% of all cases could be traced to the three regions that were the original hot spots of the disease in India – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. In the last three weeks, however, this trend has shifted. Delhi, which was responsible for nearly 12% cases in the first million, has reported less than 3% of the new cases in the second million. The gains from the reduction in cases in Delhi, however, were undone with the outbreak spreading to new regions. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, which together reported less than 19% of cases in the first million, reported nearly 42% of new cases since July 16.“There are reports of cases coming from rural areas but the advantage that we have there is that population density is low because of which cases can be identified, isolated and treated early. In these areas surveillance can be far better and also compliance, and that is instrumental in controlling spread of the disease effectively,” says Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Aayog, who also chairs one of the National Task Forces on Covid-19 management. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a briefing on Tuesday that even though infections had spread to newer areas, there was no cause for concern because almost 82% of the caseload was limited to 10 states. “Fifty districts account for about 66% of the current caseload, therefore, there’s no need to panic as the disease spread is limited,” he said. India’s journey to two million cases took 158 days, with at least 90% of these cases coming after the lifting of the hard nationwide lockdown that was announced at the end of March — a strategy that officials and experts said bought the country precious time to set up isolation centres, add hospital beds, and strengthen testing infrastructure. With crippling economic costs piling up, the country began unlocking in June, when the outbreak was on a sharp upward trajectory.On Thursday, during a virtual meeting of the regional director of World Health Organization (WHO) for South-East Asia with ministers of health of the member nations, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said that the lockdown was “effective in slowing down the rate of growth of cases and gave the government time to augment health infrastructure and testing facilities”. “From one lab (for Covid-19 testing) in January, India has 1,370 laboratories at present. Indians anywhere can access a lab within three hours travel time and 33 of the 36 states and UTs exceed WHO’s recommendation of testing 140 people per million per day,” he said.“India’s proactive and graded multilevel institutional response to Covid-19 made it possible to have very low cases per million and deaths per million in spite of having a high population density and low fractional GDP spending and per capita doctor and hospital bed availability as compared to other developed countries,” he was quoted as saying in a statement from the health ministry.Doctors also say that the number of severely ill patients is low, and most of those needing hospitalisation are recovering faster. “Most positive cases do not require hospitalisation, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number. Most people in hospitals have moderate disease with good chances of recovery. The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that is at high risk of developing severe illness,” says Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare. In the last week, India has added an average of 53,955 cases a day -- up from 30,076 a day in the week when it crossed a million cases. This increase in daily cases has been consistent with the rate at which testing has been ramped up across the country. In the last week, 565,000 samples on average were tested for Covid-19 every day, against 292,000 a day for the week ending July 16.At least some of the testing gains can be attributed to a decision by several states to rely on antigen tests instead of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, or RT-PCR test, which is considered by scientists to be the gold standard. An antigen test, also known as a rapid test, has become popular with many governments as it offers tests within the hour as opposed to the RT-PCR tests whose results reach the subject 24 to 48 hours. Since the former can possibly lead to false negatives, several cases can slide under the radar. But experts say it can be used in small areas of hot spots to test every resident and quickly isolate as many patients as possible. In contrast, the RT-PCR test is the most definitive test currently available and experts say it should be used as often as possible.India’s average weekly test positive (or positivity) rate has risen from 6.5% in early June to 10% at present, but the aggregate level statistics mask sharp differences in testing performance across the country. Maharashtra, the state with the highest number of infections, at 479,779, has a test positive rate of 17% in the last week, while for Uttar Pradesh, this number is less than 5%.The WHO identifies 8-12% as the ideal range for test positive rate in a country with an active outbreak. A number too low or too high implies that volume as well as targeting of Covid-19 testing is inadequate to accurately detect the spread of the disease.“The Covid situation is quite dynamic and the numbers change on a daily basis, and same goes for the positivity rate. However, if you look at the overall trend, India’s current positivity rate is on the lower side, even in comparison with other countries. Same goes for the case fatality rate which is probably one of the lowest in the world. We have been able to manage the disease quite effectively so far,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in India touched 1,375,797 on Thursday, bringing the proportion of recoveries to 68.01%, against the global average of 64.2% of all cases recovered. To be sure, India’s recovery rate is expected to eventually soar to over 90% — since current trends indicate the final fatality rate could lie between 2-3% — once the outbreak nears its end. This also means that a total of 605,300 cases (29.91% of total infections) in the country remain active. The number of active cases has been steadily increasing in the country, which may be a cause of concern for officials. It was 96,970 at the start of June, and 227,298 on July 1. Active cases -- those still under treatment -- is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in any region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-posts-its-second-million-in-just-21-days/story-qfHRHyy9PPMv1kHoYozxrN.html
07-08-2020||India||We’re ready for an influx of students from private to govt schools: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia spoke about the National Education Policy announced by the Union government, a plan for reopening city schools that have been shut in the wake of the Covid pandemic, a possible influx of students from private to government schools, and the issue of salaries in some MCD and DU institutions. Edited excerpts: As Delhi’s education minister, what is your view on the National Education Policy announced by the Centre recently? The NEP has many progressive ideas -- but the road map to achieve those is missing. It’s good that NEP has emphasised on foundational learning. The policy lists both anganwadi workers and pre-primary teachers for the purpose. However, with due respect, anganwadi workers have been selected with the intention of serving cooked meals, and not for assisting in foundational learning. The policy calls for the engagement of these workers in foundational learning without any expertise for a large segment of children. At the same time, children in private schools will be taught by pre-primary teachers. This will create a divide. It is good that the policy has mentioned providing breakfast in addition to midday meals. The policy talks about a revised 5+3+3+4 pedagogical structure. Will the replacement of the 10+2 system improve learning levels? The 5+3+3+4 formula will help, but there has to be the preparation for it, else it will be a disaster. The policy doesn’t give much clarity on how it will be implemented. For instance, the earlier structure separated the Class 9-10 from the Class 11-12 group. Under the new structure, the secondary level comprises Classes 9 to 12. I had asked if this group would be taught by trained graduate teachers (who teach till Class 10) or postgraduate teachers (who teach higher secondary). Basics such as these haven’t been clarified, and the drawback is that this policy could remain a piece of paper. Is there a paradigm shift from the previous education policy?I could not see any paradigm shift. Education is still not getting funds under the present policy. It leaves parents confused about whether they should enroll their children in government schools, or be uncertain about private school fees. The policy should have assured the country that it will focus on the improvement of the government schools and reduce dependency on private schools. This concept or commitment is missing from the policy. Since the national education policy gives encouragement to private schools, the intent becomes clear. However, in Delhi, it’s exactly the opposite. The AAP government is working on strengthening structure of public schools while regularising private institutes.The Covid pandemic has taught us that technology will be playing a crucial role in the education system in the future. However, it has exposed gaps in access. What’s the future of online education? Online education cannot be the only way, which is why we have a semi-online model. In addition to sharing resource material on WhatsApp, we created means for parents to come to schools and collect worksheets if they do not have access to devices or the internet. I was asked to increase the duration of online classes, but we wanted to keep online and offline learning at the same level. The learning curriculum during Covid has been prepared keeping that in mind. After reviewing these classes, we found out that nearly 85% of children are in touch with their teachers. Of these, around 70-85% are using e-resources and the rest are collecting worksheets from schools. Can the government give devices to all to bridge the digital divide? The idea is good and I wish I could give devices to all but the government doesn’t have the money. We don’t even have the money to pay our teachers. Teachers in the North Delhi municipal corporation-run primary schools have not been paid since May. They have now threatened to stop online classes. The corporation says that the Delhi government has not been releasing their funds on time. What the government’s position on this? The government has paid all the pending dues to the north MCD and other MCDs. The north MCD should make the data public mentioning the funds Delhi government had given them in the last five years and what they have done with it. If the MCD cannot pay their teachers even after getting the funds they should hand over their schools to us. We will run them and pay the teachers as well.Similar issues have been raised by the 12 Delhi University colleges that are fully funded by the Delhi government. They are alleging that the government is either delaying or giving insufficient funds. The Delhi government has been paying sufficient funds to its fully funded DU colleges. We have increased their salary funds over the past five years, and yet they are not able to pay their employees. They must answer where these funds are going, which is why audits must be conducted. The university has been delaying the formation of governing bodies in these colleges despite Delhi government’s orders. The problem with DU is that it’s trying to do both corruption and politics. If they want to work with the Delhi government, they will have to work with transparency and without politics. Otherwise, they should hand over our colleges to us (Delhi government). The situation is improving in Delhi now with the number of Covid-19 cases declining and the death rate has also come down. When will Delhi be ready to reopen schools? There is no discussion yet on the reopening of schools. We cannot decide this on the basis of the number of Covid-19 cases. We will have to take the decision considering the situation in neighbouring states as well since many of our students come from UP and Haryana as well. We are now working on removing the fear of schools from the minds of parents. I am regularly reviewing the suggestions we have received from parents, teachers and different stakeholders on the reopening of schools. We are still analysing the parameters based on which the decision of the reopening of schools will be taken. Will it be challenging to bring back students to the classrooms whenever the schools reopen? We had asked the schools to identify the students who are completely out of contact and we found that at least 15% of students enrolled in Delhi government schools are out of touch. We are trying to reach out to them through different modes. It’s after Delhi government’s continuous efforts that some of our students, who moved back to their home towns, are now attending online classes from those states.Several parents in the city are withdrawing their children from private schools due to financial constraints in the wake of the pandemic. Do you anticipate an influx of students from private schools to government schools in Delhi this year? I think there will be an influx of students from private to government schools this year. I would like to have them because no student should be left out of the education system. Although we are not letting private schools revise their fees structure, parents will still have to pay some amount of fee. It will be difficult for many parents who have lost their jobs amid the pandemic to pay fees. We are ready for the influx. We might have to increase the teacher-student ratio to accommodate more pupils this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-re-ready-for-an-influx-of-students-from-private-to-govt-schools-sisodia/story-jnIOHh1c5jJCtvkAfg8nQM.html
07-08-2020||India||Recovered Covid patients return to hospitals with respiratory illnesses||When Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, 55, thought of returning to work after recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he realised that he could not walk even small distances without his heart rate increasing.He had to be readmitted in hospital for an echocardiogram to check his heart health. Chatterjee has a family history of heart disease, but did not have a pre-existing condition. He had borderline diabetes and hypertension. “The echo was okay, but a cardiac MRI revealed that I had developed myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscles),” said Dr Chatterjee, who has now recovered and has gone back to Covid-19 duty. He is a senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital. He says he is not alone. Some of his recovered Covid-19 patients have come back to the hospital emergency ward with complaints of variable heart rates, breathlessness and chest pain. “After recovering from Covid-19, some of the patients come in with reduced heart function and heart attack or even stroke. This could be owing to the damage to the small vessels caused by Covid-19 that leads to excessive clotting during the course of the disease,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, critical care specialist at Medanta Hospital, . Covid-19 is known to attack the endothelial cells that line the blood vessels, leading to clotting across the body. “Now that the disease has been in the country for five months, we need to start looking at post-Covid rehabilitation. After the acute phase of Covid-19 is over, patients come back to hospitals with symptoms such as lethargy, body aches and itchy throats even four to six weeks later. Some even get heart attacks or strokes, although a scientific link on Covid-19 causing it is yet to be established. Patients also have psychiatric disorders like anxiety and depression,” said Dr Chatterjee. Tiredness, lethargy, loss of weight, and psychiatric issues because of remaining in isolation at hospitals have been reported from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) as well, said Dr Anjan Trikha, professor of critical care at the hospital. Dr Chatterjee said doctors should look out for neurological symptoms such asthe guillane barre syndrome wherein the body’s immune system attacks the nerves, leading to weakness and tingling in the extremities. Reports of the syndrome being linked to Covid-119 have come from Italy, China and Austria. Lung disease Doctors from hospitals across the city have reported patients who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) coming back to the hospitals with low oxygen saturation and secondary infections. A recovered Covid-19 patient in his mid-fifties had to be rushed back with low oxygen saturation to the emergency department of Max hospital, Saket a day after his discharge. “The patient had been admitted to the hospital for almost 20 days and had been discharged after he was doing well and all his symptoms had been resolved. Yet, just a day after he had been discharged he was brought back to the hospital emergency with respiratory failure and died. Since his symptoms were the same as Covid-19, we got him tested again, but the report was negative,” said Dr Sandeep Jain, head of the department of emergency medicine at Max Super Speciality hospital. He has seen about 1 to 2% of the Covid-19 patients treated at the hospital returning back after being discharged. “The recovered patients come back to the hospital emergency with a whole spectrum of lung diseases – from fibrosis (formation of hard fibrous tissues as the lung heals from an injury) to secondary infections and pneumonia. This is more likely in patients who have had severe symptoms of Covid-19 and needed either ventilator support or non-invasive ventilation like Bipap,” he said. The most common sequelae – or a condition caused by another disease -- that doctors have seen in patients who have recovered from severe symptoms of Covid-19 is residual lung fibrosis, wherein the lung capacity decreases as the lung tissues harden after healing from an injury. “Residual lung fibrosis is not restricted to Covid-19 and has been seen in other viral infections as well. This is something we have found in our patients too resulting in inadequate oxygenation. Various drugs are being tried – like a longer course of steroid or anti-fibrosis drugs but nothing is definitive. There is a need for pulmonary rehabilitation in such patients. Usually the fibrosis caused by other disease improves over time but Covid-19 is a very new disease and we do not know what will happen,” said Dr Trikha. His team is trying to analyse CT scans of patients taken six weeks after discharge to assess the extent of fibrosis. Secondary infection Again, a direct link hasn’t been established, but doctors have seen recovered Covid-19 patients return back with secondary infections. “The patients with moderate to severe symptoms of Covid-19 infection are administered steroids and sometimes medicines like Tocilizumab – both of which can suppress the immune system leading to secondary infections. Sometimes patients come out of the ICU {intensive care unit} and then deteriorate because of an infection,” said Mehta. As in the case of measles, Covid-19 may weaken immunity and result in reactivation of dormant infections such as tuberculosis, said Dr PS Narang, associate director of paediatrics at Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovered-covid-patients-return-to-hospitals-with-respiratory-illnesses/story-xi0dog4OJcEf9hfj7OYnBL.html
07-08-2020||India||Faithful throng Ram temple site in Ayodhya||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the “bhoomi pujan” ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, devout Hindus thronged the site on Thursday to worship an idol of Ram Lalla, the infant god, housed in a prefabricated structure.Devotees also visited the Hanuman Garhi temple, where Modi offered prayers on Wednesday. The shrine is located just a few metres from Ram Janmabhoomi, or birthplace of Ram, where the temple is being built by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, a trust formed to oversee the construction. The grand “bhoomi pujan” and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation in the ceremony were the talk of the town on Thursday. Modi offered prayers to the infant deity at the makeshift temple, performed a circumambulation and planted a sapling on the site before the groundbreaking in which a 40 kg silver brick donated by temple trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was used. “I saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi performing bhoomi pujan on television. It was a grand ceremony. Some changes might have been made at Ram Janmabhoomi. Out of curiosity I am here today to see those changes,” said Diwakar Maurya, 51, who travelled to Ayodhya from adjoining Gonda.  Saket Kureel, 55, from neighbouring Basti district, wanted to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at the temple in which PM Modi prayed to the deity. When Kureel last visited Ayodhya, the deity’s idol was in a tent from where it was shifted to the prefab structure on March 25 in a ceremony presided over by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“I want to see the temple where Ram Lalla is residing at present. I saw PM Modi performing the deity’s arti on Doordarshan,” said Kureel. Next to Hanuman Garhi temple, a group of devotees from adjoining Gonda district was spotted. After paying obeisance to Lord Hanuman, the group wanted to visit the temple site. “Yesterday we watched Modiji on Doordarshan performing bhoomi pujan. My family and relatives wanted to visit Ram Janmabhoomi today itself,” said Radhey Shyam Varma, in his 50s. In Faizabad, (locals still use this name to differentiate between old Ayodhya and Faizabad for their convenience), it was business as usual and life was back to normal. Chief minister Adityanath renamed Faizabad district Ayodhya in November 2018. Moving from Faizabad towards Ayodhya, one can still see the decorations on the roadside with big hoardings put up by local MLAs and BJP MP Lallu Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faithful-throng-ram-temple-site/story-osqvJL3j0KMrbG3CK4MqiL.html
07-08-2020||India||Has Mandir edged out Mandal agenda?||On August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed bhoomi pujan – a customary laying of the first brick -- for the Ram temple at Ayodhya. This marks the culmination of a 135-year-long dispute, whose outcome was crucially shaped by the demolition of the Babri mosque on 6 December 1992. Today, August 7, marks 30 years of the implementation of the B. P. Mandal Commission’s recommendations by the V P Singh-led National Front government. The decision gave 27% reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in government jobs. This was extended to educational institutions under the first United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2006. Both kamandal (an oblong water pot used by sadhus), a term often used to describe the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Hindutva politics, exemplified by the demand for the temple, or mandir, and Mandal politics had to eventually seek judicial sanction for their goals, but political agitation played a crucial role in fulfilment of their demands. To be sure, the larger political motivation for both Mandal and mandir went beyond the immediate cause being championed. It was to capture political power. The protagonists of Mandal wanted to unite the socially backward against upper castes. This necessarily involved causing fissures in the Hindu vote. The BJP, in keeping with its ideological worldview of Hindu nationalism, has always wanted to consolidate the majority Hindu vote.Given India’s social arithmetic, successfully achieving either of these consolidations is a sure shot way to political power. According to the 2011 census, Hindus have a share of 79.8% in India’s population. The 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) shows that among these 45.7% belong to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), 22.2% to Scheduled Castes (SC) and 9.6% to Scheduled Tribes (ST). This is exactly why the conflict between Mandal and mandir has been the central fault line in Indian politics for a large part of the last three decades. The BJP, which enjoyed high levels of support among the upper caste voters even earlier, could not achieve its current political dominance until it was able to make a dent in the votes of Hindu OBCs and SCs. Interestingly, many experts believe that VP Singh’s decision on Mandal was partly motivated by a desire to stop the ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which scripted a turnaround between 1984 and 1989 largely on the basis of its demand for a Ram temple.See Chart 1: BJP all India vote share and estimates of support among upper castes, OBCs, SCs and STs How did the BJP gain support among the votaries of Mandal? Mandal worked by creating fissures in a monolithic Hindu vote bank. The BJP has undermined Mandal by creating further fissures in this vote bank. One place where this strategy has been the most successful is Uttar Pradesh. A look at sub-caste wise vote shares for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the National Election Study conducted by the Centre for Studies of Developing Societies, Lokniti makes this clear. The only sub-castes where the grand alliance of Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had an edge vis-a-vis the BJP were Yadavs and Jatavs. These two sub-castes are the primary support base of the SP and the BSP, but put together they only have around 20% share in the state’s population. The BJP had a huge advantage among all other Hindus, including OBCs and SCs. The coming together of the SP and BSP was described as a grand coalition of Mandal. In the end, it was just a coalition of two sub-castes and Muslims. See Chart 2: Vote share in Uttar Pradesh What explains this shift in favour of the BJP? Growing traction for the BJP’s overall politics and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity has definitely played a role. These generic factors have been complemented by a careful strategy. The BJP has been crafting a social justice agenda of its own to counter the narrative of forces which championed Mandal in the 1990s. This has been achieved by portraying dominant OBC, and even Dalit sub-castes, as the usurpers of the distributive gains of Mandal, both in the realm of jobs as well as political representation. This is something that appeals to those who, the BJP claims have been deliberately left behind. The biggest policy move in this direction has been the formation of the Commission to Examine Sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes for OBCs. This commission, HT reported on 31 December, 2019, might recommend breaking the existing 27% OBC reservations into three bands — with 10% each going to those that have got no benefits so far or only some benefits, and another 7% to those who have thus far received the most benefits (see https://bit.ly/31mvg24). This move, if and when implemented, will create a huge rupture in OBC unity and consolidate the beneficiaries – there are 2633 OBC sub-castes in India – in favour of the BJP. The policy clearly has political undertones, but intra-caste inequality is an objective reality in India. While there is no systemic data at the national level, there exists region-specific research to show this. For example, a 2018 World Bank research paper, which is based on a field survey of 9000 poor households in Bihar shows that intra-caste divisions can play a bigger role in creation of inequality than inter-caste factors.Yadavs, an OBC sub-caste and the core supporters of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the main Mandal based formation in Bihar, reported a higher average land ownership than not just other OBCs and SCs but also some upper castes. The image of a dominant OBC isn’t entirely fiction. To be sure, not all of the BJP’s political success in usurping the erstwhile supporters of Mandal can be attributed to an exercise in social reengineering aimed at breaking OBC-SC unity while placating upper castes. The announcement of 10% reservations for economically weaker sections among those who were not entitled to reservations earlier is a move in the latter direction. In contrast to the usual rhetoric branding the BJP has pro-upper caste, the party has taken the side of the unprivileged on some key issues. The Modi government’s decisions to nullify two Supreme Court orders on dilution of provisions of Prevention of Atrocities against SCs/STs Act and implementation of reservations in higher education teaching jobs at the level of institutions rather than departments (which would have led to reduction in number of reserved positions) are examples of this. Such decisions have helped the BJP pre-empt political damage from the forces of Mandal even at the risk alienating upper caste interests.A reorientation of welfare policies has also played a role. A recently published paper by Yamini Aiyar and Neelanjan Sircar argues that the centralised and technology driven distribution of targeted welfare benefits, most of which go to SCs, STs and OBCs, has allowed the BJP to establish a direct connect with voters, while bypassing state governments and therefore regional parties. Given the fact that most state governments face greater fiscal constraints, this has created an additional problem for regional parties (most Mandal formations are regional), in countering the BJP’s efforts to consolidate their vote bank. With its subaltern social base being fragmented on the question of reservations and state governments’ ability to give an economic boost to the social justice project coming under squeeze, Mandal politics is facing the biggest challenge it has ever faced in its struggle against mandir politics. Conscious efforts to create a subaltern Hindutva narrative and promote local heroes, as was seen in Modi’s reference to Maharaja Suheldev – a lower caste king who fought against a nephew of Mahmud of Ghazni – during his speech at Ayodhya on 5 August, only increase Mandal’s political challenge by creating tensions between Muslims and the Hindu OBCs and SCs. Mandal’s initial success in countering the BJP was based on an electoral unity between Muslims, OBCs and SCs.Does this mean that the kamandal has triumphed over Mandal for good? Politics, especially in a country such as India, is always in a state of churn, and it is hazardous to make predictions. Fresh contradictions could undermine the BJP’s support among the subalterns. In an article published in The Indian Express, Christophe Jaffrelot and Kalaiyarasan A have argued that the Narendra Modi government has been taking decisions which are leading to a reduction in number of reserved jobs and a cut in funds earmarked for Dalits (see https://bit.ly/3a1fldb). Will the BJP be able to manage these contradictions? Or will it suffer a blowback for failing to fulfil the promises to those it claims have been betrayed by Mandal politics? Whatever the answer it is clear that 30 years after Mandal, Indian politics is entering a new phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-mandir-edged-out-mandal-agenda/story-SJyvk748bftQFan8W7ymxN.html
07-08-2020||India||Defence ministry statement on LAC taken down, row erupts||A political row erupted on Thursday over a defence ministry statement on Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh --- uploaded on the ministry’s official website but later removed --- in which the government acknowledged that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had transgressed into multiple areas in the sensitive sector, with the Congress accusing the Prime Minister of lying on the Chinese intrusions. The statement, posted online on August 4 but removed two days later without any explanation, said Chinese aggression along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) had gone up and the ongoing border standoff was expected to be prolonged. It described the situation in the Ladakh sector as sensitive. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi mounted an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the statement, which summed up the major activities of the department of defence in June, was unexpectedly removed from the website. Also read: Upset at India’s big review of Confucius institutes tomorrow, China says ‘be fair’“Forget standing up to China, India’s PM lacks the courage even to name them. Denying China is in our territory and removing documents from websites won’t change the facts,” Gandhi tweeted. The defence ministry refused to comment on the statement or why it was removed, although it was widely seen as a belated move to skirt controversy. In a previous tweet and later addressing a virtual meeting of party workers from Bihar, Gandhi accused the PM of lying on Chinese intrusions. At an all-party meeting to discuss the situation along the India-China border on June 19, the PM said there was no intrusion into Indian territory. “Our soldiers have sacrificed their lives and the PM is saying that China has not entered our territory. Who will tell the family members of the soldiers how they were martyred? If Chinese forces had not intruded into our territory does that mean our soldiers had crossed over to China?” a senior Congress leader quoted Gandhi as saying during the virtual meeting. Gandhi was referring to the brutal Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15 in which 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed. Gandhi paid tributes to the Bihar Regiment soldiers killed in the violent brawl. “Our PM did not stand with our soldiers by saying that Chinese forces did not intrude into our territory. The fact is that China is still occupying our land in Ladakh,” the leader cited above, who requested anonymity, quoted Gandhi as saying. “My blood boiled and I was very angry when I came to know that China had captured a part of our territory and our soldiers were killed,” another Congress leader quoted Gandhi as having said.Meanwhile, BJP spokespersons declined to comment. The statement said the Chinese PLA transgressed into the Indian side in the areas of Kugrang Nala (near Hot Springs), Gogra and the north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-18. Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishesA transgression along the disputed border is of a fleeting nature and takes place when rival soldiers patrol grey areas on the LAC that both sides stake claim to, while an intrusion refers to the PLA troops encroaching into Indian territory and holding ground there. Both sides report hundreds of transgressions every year, but intrusions leading to standoffs are few and far between. “In any crisis, it is important that our communications are absolutely clear and convey our intent. Any kind of flip-flop only heightens confusion and should be avoided,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), on the statement and its subsequent removal. While the scope of the statement was confined to older developments, it came at a time when military talks on disengagement have hit a roadblock due to serious differences between the two armies related to the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims to be Indian territory. The statement said Chinese aggression was increasing along the LAC, with specific reference to Galwan Valley where it (aggression) has gone up since May 5. “Consequent to this (the developments on May 17-18), ground level interactions were held between armed forces of both sides to defuse the situation. Corps commander level flag meeting was held on June 6. However, a violent faceoff incident took place between the two sides on June 15, resulting in casualties of both sides,” it said. The June 6 meeting was the first one between the corps commander-ranked officers after border tensions erupted in early May. The senior military commanders have so far met five times, with the last round of talks held on August 2. Limited military disengagement was initiated in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra after the June 6 meeting between the senior commanders. However, the June 15 clash dashed disengagement hopes. The document, which only refers to developments in June, said subsequent military talks took place on June 22 to discuss modalities of the de-escalation process. “While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged,” it said. The ministry said the situation in eastern Ladakh arising from unilateral aggression by China was sensitive and required close monitoring and prompt action based on the evolving scenario. The Finger Area --- a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake --- has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution, people familiar with the developments said. The next stage of disengagement has become highly complicated with the PLA proposing a mutual and equal withdrawal of soldiers from Pangong Tso, a proposal that has been rejected by India, they said, requesting anonymity. Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers is within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8 km apart.The external affairs ministry on Thursday made it clear once again that the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC had not made progress because of the lack of cooperation from the Chinese side. Responding to several questions on the troubled disengagement process during a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “India remains committed to this objective. We also expect that the Chinese side will work with us sincerely for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Though China has sought to give the impression that the disengagement had been completed at most locations along the LAC, the Indian side said last month there had been “some progress” but the process “has as yet not been completed”. Srivastava also referred to the July 5 phone conversation between the Special Representatives of India and China on the border issue – National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign minister Wang Yi – and reiterated that the two officials had agreed that early and complete disengagement and de-escalation in border areas in line with bilateral agreements and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity were “essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-statement-on-lac-taken-down-row-erupts/story-y3V9cKw2ROURtaDLlys4CM.html
07-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling suspect had good rapport with CM’s office: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday told a special court in Kochi that the prime suspect in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, had a good rapport with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office, triggering renewed opposition demands for the latter’s resignation. Assistant solicitor general P Vijaykumar made this submission in the NIA court while opposing the bail plea of Suresh. He said she had established a good rapport with the CM’s office through suspended senior bureaucrat M Sivasankar, with whom she had good relations and who helped her in getting the plum posting of an information technology consultant to the Kerala government.Vijaykumar, however, said investigations so far have shown that Sivasankar did not intervene to secure the release of a consignment addressed to the Thiruvananthapuram consulate of the United Arab Emirates that contained contraband gold when the customs department blocked it despite repeated pleas made by Suresh.The case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of gold was seized from the consignment. P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to receive the consignment, was arrested by the customs department after the recovery of gold and two other suspects, Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, were arrested from a hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer and chief minister Vijayan’s principal secretary, was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Suresh’s counsel Joe Paul said she had become a victim in a tug of war between the central and state governments. A month after the investigation, the NIA had failed to produce any fresh evidence against his client, Paul said. He also denied the claim that Suresh had a good rapport with the CM’s office. The court said it will decide on the bail plea on Monday. The court asked the NIA how provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA, could be invoked against the suspect. The agency said a portion of the proceeds from the gold smuggling was diverted to fund anti-national activities. It also said that after a preliminary investigation it found that one of the suspects, K T Ramees, who is in NIA custody now, was in touch with some fundamentalist organizations. He also undertook many foreign trips including Tanzania in Africa and he was suspected to be a part of the international smuggling and drug racket, the NIA said. When two of Suresh’s bank lockers were opened by the probe team 10 days ago, it reportedly found Rs 1 crore in cash and two kg of gold. These lockers were in the joint name of Suresh and a chartered accountant. The latter reportedly told the team that he was asked by Sivasankar to help Suresh to open lockers three years ago. But her counsel said these ornaments were part of her wedding gift. After the NIA filed its affidavit, the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up pressure on the CM to resign. “The CM can’t get away sacrificing his secretary. He should resign at least now,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader A Ananthan said: “Investigation is on in the case and the CM also said it is in the right direction. Why do you want to jump the gun.” He said a casual observation made by the NIA during the bail plea hearing was being blown up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-suspect-had-good-rapport-with-cm-s-office-says-nia/story-kO0xgnuWnJb3bn6yZTHvcJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Indian Railways ends ‘bungalow peon’ practice||Indian Railways has decided to end the colonial-era practice of posting “bungalow peons” known as Telephone Attendant-cum-Dak Khalasis (TADKs) at the residences of senior officials of the 167-year-old national transporter.The announcement was made in an order issued by the railway board on Thursday amid a review of the British-era legacy following allegations that railway officers tended to misuse the services of TADKs. No new appointment to the post will be processed starting with immediate effect, said the order, a copy of which was reviewed by Hindustan Times.“The issue regarding appointment of TADK is under review in Railway Board. It has, therefore, been decided that any appointment of fresh face substitutes as TADK should not either be processed or made with immediate effect. Further, all cases approved for such appointments since 1st July 2020 may be reviewed and position advised to Board. This may be complied with strictly in all Railway establishments,” the order said.Also read: Railways to create over 1.1mn man-days work for migrants in 6 statesA TADK is treated as a temporary employee of Indian Railways in the Group D category after the initial 120 days of service. The posting becomes a permanent one after a screening test on completion of three years of service.“Indian Railways is on a fast transformational path of all-round progress. Many practices and management tools are being reviewed in view of changes in technology and working conditions. The measures taken are to be seen in such a context,” a spokesperson for the ministry of railways said.Indian Railways last month issued an order to end the British-era practice of using Dak Messengers, or personal messengers, for official communications and move towards video conferencing in a bid to save costs.Bungalow peons have been posted at the residences of railway officers to perform duties such as attending to telephone calls and carrying files from their offices to homes. Over the years, concerns have been raised that TADKs were being used by officers to perform their household chores.“There is little sense in continuing with the practice in this era of mobile phones given what their initial primary tasks were. Most of the times they end up getting deployed for domestic work by the officers,” a railway official explained, requesting anonymity. In a 2018 verdict on a case filed by a former TADK, Anup Kumar, in the Central Administrative Tribunal that he had been discharged from services by an officer of North Central Railwayi in an arbitrary and illegal manner, the tribunal ruled in favour of the officer. Also read: Vital railway infrastructure projects to continue amid Covid-19 pandemic“According to the applicant, there is rampant misuse of the services of Bungalow Khalasis by many of the Railway Officers. Even though they are engaged mainly to perform the duties such as attending telephone calls at the residence of the officer concerned, carrying files from office to the residence of the concerned officer and back etc., in actual practice, they are treated as domestic servants to do the work of cleaning, washing, cooking etc. and they are thrown out even for the slightest mistake on their part,” the order said, quoting the applicant. Railway minister Piyush Goyal, after taking charge of the ministry of railways in 2017, urged senior officials to discontinue the colonial- era practice of having railway employees work at their homes. Around 10,000 railway employees were then relieved of their duties as TADKs until 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-ends-bungalow-peon-practice/story-0YdXlX1uFIy2bCsttkmmVL.html
07-08-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown helped us scale up health infra, says Health minister||The Covid-19 lockdown helped India enhance its healthcare infrastructure to test and treat more people as hospitals increased their daily capacity of dealing with infection cases at least 35 times during this period, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday.“Despite India’s high population density and less support in terms of GDP expenditure on healthcare, India managed to build health infrastructure during lockdown to effectively manage the Covid-19 outbreak. On evaluation we have found that country’s daily handling capacity of Covid-19 cases in hospitals has increased to almost 35 times since pre-lockdown time,” he said at a meeting with Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO Regional Director for South-East Asia. “Our isolation beds have increased by more than 34 times and intensive care unit (ICU) beds have gone up by more than 20 times. The period was utilized to quickly augment the country’s healthcare infrastructure.”Vardhan said their focus has equally been on ensuring that non-Covid services are not affected. “The health secretary has been regularly conducting review meetings with states, and the situation was being monitored at the highest levels. Adequate instructions were being given to states also for managing non-Covid health conditions.”He said out of 36 Indian states and Union territories, 33 were performing over 140 Covid-19 tests per million population daily as per WHO’s guidelines. “Only three states are lagging behind as per the latest data available, and we are hopeful that those remaining states will also soon catch up. Our percentage of serious patients needing ventilator, oxygen support or ICU support is also low. It has been much below 5% so our health infrastructure has not been overwhelmed. Our patients are recovering faster, which is a result of concerted efforts and effective clinical management skills of our healthcare staff.”He said they started with one lab--Pune’s National Institute of Virology in January and now India has 1,366 labs spread across the country that conduct Covid-19 related tests for diagnosis and surveillance purposes. “From having the capacity of performing about 6,000 tests a day in March, the laboratories approved for Covid-19 testing are now performing about 650,000 daily. The way our laboratory network has spread a patient will not take more than three hours to reach a lab for testing from anywhere in the country. That has been our achievement in all these months.”India has tested at least 20 million samples for Covid-19 since January 22. They include about 2.5 million antigen-based tests.WHO urged its member countries in the region to maintain and accelerate the resumption of disrupted health-care services, hit by the pandemic.“The pandemic has put immense strain on health systems across the South-East Asia Region. The previous disease outbreaks have shown that disruption to essential services caused by an outbreak can be more deadly than the outbreak itself. We must fast track efforts and do all we can to avoid that happening while continuing efforts to break Covid-19 transmission chains,” said Singh.Lalit Kant, a former head of Indian Council of Medical Research’s epidemiology and communicable diseases department, said the lockdown was essentially a strategy to buy time. “By restricting the movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we curtailed the chances of an infected person spreading the infection in the community. In various countries lockdown has been credited for flattening the peak of the epidemic.”On Thursday, there were 5,95,501 active Covid-19 cases in India and 13,28,336 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-helped-us-scale-up-health-infra-says-harsh-vardhan/story-ir9mCSDLUMA9jgaXi4C2mK.html
07-08-2020||India||India’s coronavirus case trajectory worse than United States, Brazil||India’s trajectory of cases at two million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is more dangerous than what it was in the United States and Brazil when these countries hit the same grim landmark, shows an analysis by HT. This suggests that India’s caseload could surpass the tallies in these two countries unless the trend reverses or a vaccine is developed. Though India has performed better than the two nations on several parameters such as case fatality rate (CFR) and recoveries, its steady rate of increase of cases raises serious concerns about a potential surge, keeping in mind the country’s population. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySimilarities in geography and demography have caused a prolonged outbreak of Covid-19 in these countries, which is largely responsible for these three nations to be the ones hit worst in the world. The US is the world’s third largest country by geographical area, Brazil fifth, and India seventh. As the infection wanes in one part of the country, it waxes in another. In terms of population, India is the second most populous country in the world, the US third, and Brazil sixth. Expectedly, per capita infection and death numbers are low for all three countries compared to smaller and less populous nations. DOUBLING RATE The doubling rate refers to the number of days it will take for any region to double its caseload. So if there were 1,000 cases in a region on a particular day and the doubling rate at the time was five days, it would mean that the cases would touch 2,000 five days later. When Covid-19 cases in the United States touched two million on June 7, the country had a doubling rate of 60.2 days, and when Brazil hit the same caseload, its doubling rate was 35.7 days. As India touched two million cases on Thursday, it has a significantly worse doubling rate – 22.7 days. Brazil crossed the two million-mark on July 16, incidentally the same day India crossed the million-mark. In the three weeks since, Brazil (which had twice India’s caseload to begin with), added a little over 850,000 cases while India added a million cases in the same time. Also read| Covid-19: India posts its second million in just 21 daysIn fact, if cases in India continue to grow at the same rate they have till now, the doubling rate suggests that the next million cases may take just a little over two weeks. DEATHS, ACTIVE CASES & RECOVERIES Active cases — those that are currently infected — form a crucial statistic as they directly influence the load on a region’s health care system. Of the two million cases in the US (when the US crossed that mark on June 7), 1,110,225, or 55.2% of the total caseload was active – the highest among the three counties.  India has the second-highest number with 605300 active cases, or 29.9% of the total caseload. In Brazil, 571,141 (28.34% of total cases) were active when the country reached two million cases. The current proportion of active cases in the US is 45.7% and Brazil 26.1%. The US has thus far seen a total of 4.97 million cases and Brazil, 2.86 million.Deaths is one category where India has performed significantly better than the other two countries. With 41,633 deaths till Thursday, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.1% is among the better in the world, and is lower than the global average of 3.75%. It is also significantly better than the CFR of Brazil (3.81% with 76822 deaths) and the US (5.72% with 115050 fatalities), when both countries hit the two-million-case mark. In terms of recoveries, the US fares the worst among the three countries with only 39.2% (785,657) of its two million cases recovered. Brazil and India with 67.8% and 68.1% of cases having recovered, have done much better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-case-trajectory-worse-than-us-brazil/story-W7uh2EGuA4nXKwBaKSgz5O.html
07-08-2020||India||NHRC asks Chhattisgarh to compensate activists||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Chhattisgarh government to pay Rs 100,000 compensation each to 13 rights activists, including Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar, for being falsely implicated by the state police in two cases in 2016.The activists were booked for murder after they visited Chhattisgarh for a fact-finding mission about alleged human rights violations in the state’s left-wing insurgency-hit Bastar region.NHRC, a statutory public body, on July 7 directed the Chhattisgarh government to submit a compliance report along with proof of payment to the activists within six weeks. The order became public on Thursday when the state government confirmed it had received it. “We have received the directives from NHRC. The state government is taking appropriate action,” said Chhattisgarh’s chief secretary R P Mandal.“As regards to the registration of FIR [First Information Report] against Professor Nandini Sundar and others, the DGP [director general of police DM Awasthi] has submitted that during the investigation, no evidence was found against her, Archana Prasad, Vineet Tiwari, Sanjay Parate, Manju, and Mangla Ram Karma. Hence, their names have been removed from the FIR,” the NHRC said in the order, a copy of which HT has seen.Awasthi said the other seven accused CH Prabhakar, B Durga Prasad, B Rabindranath, D Prabhakar, R Lakshimaiya, Mohammad Nazir and K Rajendra Prasad were acquitted of all the charges by Sukma’s chief judicial magistrate in 2018.Sundar reacted to NHRC’s directive and said they were yet to receive any compensation. “But, as and when I receive it, I plan to share the sum to support the legal aid for innocent tribals, who are falsely implicated...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-asks-chhattisgarh-to-compensate-activists/story-w6h09mnvFzBHA9zNdCjgTO.html
07-08-2020||India||BJP village head in Kulgam shot dead; second in 3 days||A 48-year-old village council head was on Thursday shot dead near his home at Vessu in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district in the second such attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in the Kashmir Valley in three days.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said unidentified terrorists killed Sajjad Ahmad Khanday, who was Vessu’s sarpanch, 20 metres from his home. Kumar added he was staying at a high-security residential complex along with several other sarpanchs and had left it on Thursday morning to visit his family. “He later succumbed to his injuries,” said Kumar.Dozens of local bodies members, especially those affiliated with the BJP, were shifted to safer locations following intelligence inputs that they may be targeted on the eve of the first anniversary of the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August last year, officers aware of the matter said. They added security forces have launched an operation to track down Khanday’s attackers.Khanday was killed two days after another sarpanch, Arif Ahmad Shah, was shot in his neck in Akhran village of Kulgam’s Devsar area. Police said he was fighting for his life in a critical condition at Srinagar’s Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences.The attack on Shah triggered panic and prompted three BJP functionaries from Kulgam, Nisar Ahmad Wani, Sabzar Ahmad Paddar and Ashiq Hussain Palla, to announce their disassociation from the party.BJP’s youth wing leader, Marouf Bhat, was among two activists to resign from the party in July after its former Bandipora district president, Sheikh Waseem Bari, was killed along with his father and brother. Jammu & Kashmir police have said Lashkar-e-Taiba members were involved in the killing of Bari and his kin. Ajay Pandita, another sarpanch, was also killed in South Kashmir’s Larkipora in June.BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur condemned Khanday’s killing and sought security cover for sarpanchs and panchs (village council members) under threat. “Killing of Sajad is very unfortunate. He was our constituency president for Vessu. Attack on him is the second incident in the same area in the past three days,” Thakur said.He appealed the administration to look into the issue and work out a security cover model for the vulnerable sarpanchs and panchs, especially those affiliated with the BJP. “The list of sarpanchs, panchs, and other activists who are vulnerable to militant attacks has already been submitted to the police,” he said.Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party chief Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari condemned the killing. “Today’s cowardly attack on a grassroots level representative has added to the fear psychosis among the Panchayat representatives and other political activists who witnessed three such attacks in the last 10 days,” said Bukhari. He urged the government to take cognizance of this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-village-head-in-kulgam-shot-dead-second-in-3-days/story-ORfn65M3fqGkqieno2mY3M.html
07-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC refuses a stay on BSP MLAs’ merger with Cong||A Rajasthan high court division bench on Thursday disposed of a petition seeking an immediate stay on the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers with the ruling Congress in 2019, saying a single judge hearing a similar plea will decide the matter.“We remain confident that the Hon’ble Single Judge will hear and dispose of the stay applications filed by the appellants on the same day in accordance with law and without, in any manner, being prejudiced by any directions/observations issued by us hereinabove,” said the division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta.Rajasthan assembly speaker C P Joshi approved the merger a day after the six joined the Congress in September 2019 and prompted opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to seek their disqualification in February. Joshi on July 30 rejected the BJP’s disqualification petition.The single-judge bench sought replies of Joshi and the six lawmakers by August 11 after BSP and BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar moved the court against the speaker’s order. On Tuesday, BSP and Dilawar filed a review petition seeking a stay on the merger.The six lawmakers are crucial to chief minister Ashok Gehlot as he faces a revolt by his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, and 18 Congress lawmakers supporting him. The Gehlot camp has claimed support of 101 legislators in the 200-member assembly. The BJP has 72 members in the House.The division bench said the notices issued to the six should be served on or before August 8. “The District Judge, Jaisalmer, is directed to provide all necessary assistance to the special messenger to effect service of such notices, and if required, the District Judge may seek necessary assistance of the Superintendent of Police, Jaisalmer, for effecting service on the private respondents who are said to be residing at Jaisalmer,” the court said. “We further direct the appellants and petitioners to publish a notice in daily newspaper ‘Rajasthan Patrika’, Barmer-Jaisalmer edition.”The single judge will hear the case next on August 11.Joshi’s lawyer, Prateek Kasliwal, said the division bench found Dilawar and BSP’s plea unmaintainable.BSP’s lawyer, Dinesh Kumar Garg, said the directions on Thursday were in their favour. “Our biggest concern was the serving of notice and the division bench has heard our plea. Previously, we were not sure that whether the notices issued in would be served but today’s directions of will ensure that notices are served. We have full justice in the court and today’s direction will go in favour of the party.”Dilawar’s lawyer, Ashish Sharma, said their biggest concern was the six are staying at a Jaisalmer hotel, where they have been put up until the assembly session begins on August 14, and the notices would not be served on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-refuses-a-stay-on-bsp-mlas-merger-with-cong/story-cMfQ3kaY1r8eVUw6mNWaOL.html
07-08-2020||India||Astute political skills may be key for new J&K L-G Manoj Sinha||Non-controversial, meticulous and amiable are among the descriptors that people who know him use to characterize Manoj Sinha, who made his debut in campus politics in 1982 in Banaras Hindu University and went on to become a quietly forceful presence in the rough and tumble of Uttar Pradesh politics. It is those qualities that weighed in favour of the 61-year-old politician when decision makers at the Centre sat down to pick a successor to bureaucrat GC Murmu as lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir. Murmu stepped down from the post on Wednesday evening after more than nine months in the hot seat.Also read: Former JK lieutenant governor GC Murmu appointed India’s new CAGA three-time member of Parliament and a minister in the Narendra Modi government’s first term at the Centre, Sinha’s appointment as lieutenant governor of a newly formed Union territory comes at a time when the region is grappling with multiple issues, from security concerns to a tumultuous social and political landscape .Sinha was first elected to the Lok Sabha from Ghazipur in 1996, and retained his seat in 1999 and 2014. He held the portfolio of minister of state for railways between May 2014 and July 2016 and was later given independent charge of the ministry of telecommunications as well.His skills as an administrator, his ability as an astute politician and the perception that he is a man of consensus are being seen as key attributes for a position where he will have to oversee restoration of the political process, reconstitution of the assembly, a possible reversal to statehood and the most challenging task of it all -- winning the trust of the people.Choosing a politician instead of a bureaucrat or a retired army man is also being read as a signal of New Delhi’s intent to foster friendly ties with the state’s bureaucracy and its people and bank on Sinha’s ability to juggle statecraft with legislative limitations.The state is looking for a person who can amalgamate the political savviness of Satya Pal Malik with the administrative rigor of Murmu, said a person familiar with the thinking behind the appointment.To be sure, Malik’s tenure, which came to an end after the August 5, 2019 reorganisation of the state into two Union territories, was marked by controversies. The garrulous governor, who left the administration and political bosses in New Delhi red-faced sometimes with his utterances, was otherwise known to be accessible to the man on the street, the media and the political class--barring that one instance when Raj Bhavan’s Fax machine failed to work as various politicians factions tried to reach him to stake their claim to forming the government after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government fell in June 2018.In contrast, Murmu, who has worked closely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was conspicuous by his silence and absence from the Raj Bhavan nestled in the Shankaracharya foothills in Srinagar. People close to him say that Murmu preferred the guarded, by-the-book approach; keeping his interactions to a minimal and preferring to stay away from political commentary. The departure from his safe posturing came only when his suggestions to allow 4G telecom services in the Valley and his free-wheeling comments about the timing of elections in the Union territory earned him the Centre’s disapproval and a terse note from the Election Commission reminding him to respect the poll body’s remit.The appointment of Sinha, who will have to walk the tight rope of balancing New Delhi’s concerns with conflicting demands in the two diverse regions of Jammu and Kashmir, is also being compared to Arjun Singh’s appointment to the gubernatorial post in Punjab in 1985. Then PM Rajiv Gandhi chose to appoint Singh as the governor to start the political process and elections were soon held in the state after President’s rule ended. Sinha’s appointment is being seen as an indication of the Centre’s will to initiate the political process in J&K, said a second person aware of the details.An alumnus of Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi, formerly known as Banaras Engineering College, Sinha overcame the caste faultiness in his constituency of Ghazipur, which was also once a left bastion. He is not unfamiliar with tricky political turf. It was for this reason that Sinha, wedded to the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological mentor, was considered a front-runner for the chief minister’s post after the BJP’s stunning victory in the assembly elections in UP in 2017. He was pipped to the post at the last minute by Yogi Adityanath, a firebrand Hindutva leader and five-time Lok Sabha MP.If he was disappointed at losing the job, he did not show it, said a party colleague. According to this colleague, Sinha proceeded to push ahead development schemes in Varanasi, the PM’s Lok Sabha constituency, drafted key rail projects and executed the ambitious India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) project to provide banking and financial services to people in rural areas through the postal network.On Thursday morning while leaving home for his new address in J&K, Sinha’s only comment to the waiting media retinue was “accha hai” (it is good). His associates said he knew of the appointment that President Ram Nath Kovind put his signature on before 7 a.m. only a few days ago and met PM Modi late on Wednesday following the latter’s return from Ayodhya.While a section of politicians in the UT have extended a welcome to Sinha with the footnote of hope that he would be their emissary in Delhi, many in the Valley said they prefer to wait and watch. “Jammu and Kashmir is not left to the will and wisdom of governors,” said a former legislator on condition of anonymity. To the sceptics who have already pronounced an unfavourable outcome for Sinha, an outsider from the Hindi belt who prefers long walks, books and the familiarity of his Ghazipur constituency, a long-time associate, who didn’t want to be named, has a story to tell.Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the party president gave Sinha the freedom to pick any seat of his liking to contest. The caste arithmetic in his existing Ghazipur seat, having been disturbed by a coalition of the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, made it untenable for the upper caste leader to retain Ghazipur, but the tenacious Sinha refused to abandon his seat, said the associate. He eventually lost the seat in 2019. It is this persistence that the associate is confident will help Sinha navigate the matrix of political instability, the games of smoke and mirrors and fragile security in Jammu and Kashmir to perform the job he has been entrusted with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astute-political-skills-may-be-key-for-new-j-k-l-g-sinha/story-YCJnrwdIVaOJqHdGSbgrYP.html
07-08-2020||India||On China’s outburst over Confucius centres’ review, India pulls out 2009 rulebook||India on Thursday rebutted Beijing’s attempt to attribute motives to New Delhi’s review of the Confucius Institutes, citing a 2009 rule that mandates cultural centres sponsored or supported by foreign organisations to seek the foreign ministry’s approval.Hindustan Times had first reported the government’s move to initiate the review of Confucius institutes and 54 agreements signed by Indian institutions with Chinese universities.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the detailed guidelines issued in 2009 applied to Confucius centres also.“Naturally, if any Indian institution were to enter into or has entered into an arrangement which would come under the purview of these guidelines, then it would require the approval of the Government. And as a corollary if the approval was not taken when establishing such centers, then it was not in conformity with the guidelines,” Srivastava said, without directly referring to the review of agreements signed by central universities and institutions with their Chinese counterparts.Also Read: Security agencies red-flag Chinese fronts in education, not just power and telecomSrivastava’s curt statement was a response to Chinese embassy in Delhi that this week attempted to pressurise New Delhi from going slow on action against Confucius centres opened without fulfilling mandatory requirements.In a statement 24 hours before India’s higher education regulator and top education ministry officials were to initiate the review exercise, the Chinese embassy on Tuesday asked India to handle collaboration in education in an objective and fair manner and “avoid politicising normal cooperation”.The Chinese statement didn’t have the desired impact. A government official involved in the process told Hindustan Times that they had gone right ahead to initiate the review at a two-hour-long meeting on Wednesday. “It is still work in progress and some more details have been sought,” the official said.The education ministry review would, besides taking a close and hard look at the setting up of Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms in seven colleges and universities, would also review 54 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed between Chinese institutions and prestigious Indian institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, and Jawaharlal Nehru University.The review came against the backdrop of the three-month long border standoff between the two sides, which currently shows little signs of abating. India has already banned over 100 Chinese mobile apps and its clones and barred Chinese companies from getting any government contract without a special permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-china-s-outburst-over-confucius-centres-review-india-pulls-out-2009-rulebook/story-PDrSjgX4m0eNA8EMW6lLlK.html
07-08-2020||India||2 Chinese generals dissect Xi Jinping’s US policy, push for a relook||Dai Xu, a top general of the People’s Liberation Army has advocated that China should take stock of its relative weaknesses compared to the US and behave accordingly, according to a report in Nikkei Asian Review that cited a recent article authored by the officer who has been described as one of China’s most prominent hawks.In his article, Dai underscored how no country had come forward to establish an alliance against the United States through the ongoing China vs US episode that has been playing out. “China has provided assistance to so many countries, benefiting them in so many ways, but at this critical moment, none of them has taken any unified action with China,” Dai wrote.The top general, the analysis in Nikkei Asian Review said, appeared to suggest that China had gotten ahead of itself.. He warned that China should never “knock on (America’s) door and make a loud announcement that ‘I shall surpass you, replace you and be the world’s number one’.”The Nikkei Asian Review analysis authored by a senior fellow at the Lowy Institute in Sydney, Richard McGregor, interpreted multiple voices from China to signal the view that Beijing’s interests would have been far better served by sticking with the low-profile policy counseled by Deng Xiaoping. The reference the doctrine of a revered political leader like Deng, was seen as an effort to criticise Xi Jinping without mentioning him by name.In the article  (Here is the link to the article published in a mainstream Chinese publication), General Dai said that traditionally, China and the US had a very close trade relationship, but the Trump administration has now branded the country a trade terrorist and a global economic aggressor.He also listed 10 understanding about the Sino-US relationship. Among them is the United States’ ruthless push towards portraying China in a negative light which is beyond the expectations of most Chinese officials. He also said that China has not received support from any country.General Dai then went on to say that the US has been united at the domestic front. He also said that China needs to understand that China is not a paper tiger, but a real tiger that kills people.Suggesting the way forward, the military general said that China doesn’t need to make a loud announcement to be number 1. General Dai said that even if China knows it can beat the US, it needs to keep a low profile.He also said that China should consider the US as world’s number 1.Another retired army officer, Major General Qiao Liang had told South China Morning Post in May this year that Beijing “should not consider the coronavirus pandemic as an opportunity to take back Taiwan by force”.The military strategist said Taiwan can be used by the US and its western allies to impose sanctions on China that would stop Beijing from importing resources needed for its industry.“China’s ultimate goal is not the reunification of Taiwan, but to achieve the dream of national rejuvenation – so that all 1.4 billion Chinese can have a good life,” Qiao, a professor at the PLA National Defence University in Beijing, had said in an interview to SCMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chinese-generals-dissect-china-s-us-policy-ask-for-relook/story-QAsG2EsUQN7FENMj4kCqJM.html
07-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s Ayodhya ceremony widely watched across the world, highest viewership from US, UK||The live telecast of the Ram temple event in Ayodhya on August 5 was widely watched across the world. It was broadcast by television stations in UK, USA, Canada, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand, Nepal and several other countries.The main signal was generated by public broadcaster Doordarshan which placed multiple cameras, Outside Broadcasting (OB) and Digital Satellite News Gathering (DSNG) vans for elaborate production and live telecast.People also watched the event on YouTube streams. The highest viewership came USA, UK, France, Italy, Netherlands, Japan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait, Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Mauritius, according to public broadcaster Doordarshan.In India, over 200 channels took the event, it further said.The signal of the event was distributed through news agency Asian News International (ANI) to about 1200 stations and by Associated Press Television News (APTN) to 450 media houses across the world. Doordarshan’s news arm DD News separately shared visuals with Asia Pacific countries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the ‘bhoomi poojan’ in Ayodhya for the Ram temple, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades.Amid the chanting of shlokas, PM Modi consecrated the very first bricks for the temple at the spot where devotees believe Lord Ram was born.“The wait of centuries has ended,” he said after performing the groundbreaking ceremony made possible by a Supreme Court verdict last year that allowed the construction of the temple at the site where the Babri mosque was demolished by kar sevaks in 1992.President Ram Nath Kovind said the event defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal, while Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said the construction of the Ram temple is much more than a religious affair and the structure will stand as a tribute to the best of timeless human values.The groundbreaking ceremony was held in the Uttar Pradesh city on Wednesday morning. The road leading from Hanuman Garhi temple to the ceremony site (Ram Janmabhoomi) wore an illuminated look in the evening, with several earthen lamps lit outside shops, houses and guest houses.Some people also celebrated by bursting firecrakers in the temple town.It was in 1990 that then BJP president Lal Krishna Advani embarked on the Ram Rath Yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya to galvanise support for the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-ayodhya-ceremony-widely-watched-across-the-world-highest-viewership-from-us-uk/story-uVxfs7k478buwPF0NwBZPN.html
07-08-2020||India||Turkey’s tentacles in India go deeper than thought, says new intel warning||The Turkish foreign ministry on Wednesday criticised India’s decision to revoke Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year, asserting that it did not contribute to peace and stability in the region. India had, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s government in Ankara said, “further complicated the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and not served peace and stability in the region”. It also called for dialogue between India and Pakistan.The Turkish statement has been seen to have been issued in coordination with Imran Khan’s government in Pakistan, the only country other than Xi Jinping’s China to have put out a statement on the first anniversary of Jammu and Kashmir’s new status in the Indian constitution. Erdoğan’s government did not make any reference to Pakistan’s new map that had been issued just hours earlier that counts Indian territories as its own.Also Read: In Imran Khan’s 18-point Kashmir plan for Aug 5, outreach to Turkey, Malaysia and ChinaNew Delhi isn’t surprised. In the past, Erdoğan has gone out of his way to echo Imran Khan on Kashmir. Like in February this year, Erdoğan’s speech in the Pakistan National Assembly during his visit to Islamabad compared the “struggle of Kashmiris” with the Ottoman Empire’s fight during World War I.But this isn’t all that Ankara has been doing. An intelligence report on the role played by fronts for the Turkish government last month accused Ankara of efforts to radicalise Indian Muslims and recruit fundamentalists. Turkey had emerged as the “the hub of anti-India activities” next only to Pakistan.A second report handed over to national security planners over the past week said fronts for the Turkish government or the outfits it supports - some of them directly linked to Erdogan and his family - appeared to have made deeper inroads in India than assessed earlier. Much of this effort is directed via three sectors: Turkish state media, educational institutes and the nonprofit sector, or NGOs.Also Read: Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is whyThe intelligence assessment identified individuals and groups, some of them also suspected to be in touch with Pakistan’s ISI, who had been lured to work with entities in Turkey that had strong links with the Erdogan regime.In particular, the report listed organisations that had started accelerating what it described as “lucrative scholarships” to Indians to study in Turkey.“Turkey has been providing lucrative scholarships and running exchange programmes for Indian Kashmiri and Muslim students to study in Turkey through state-sponsored NGOs. Once the students land in Turkey, they are approached and taken over by the Pakistan proxies operating there,” the report said.The list of outfits that sponsor the scholarships is long, the report said. It includes Turkey Youth Foundation (TUGVA), Presidency of Turks Abroad and Related Communities (YTB), Turkish Airlines, Yunnus Emre Institute (YEI), Turkey’s Diyanet Foundation (TDF) and Turkist Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TIKA).“Most of these organisations have direct connections with the Turkish government, President Erdogan or his family,” a counter-terror official said.Also Read: Red flags in Delhi over Erdogan’s Turkey funding anti-India activities: OfficialThe TUGVA, which functions under Erdogan’s son Bilal’s patronage, has developed strong links within India by establishing connections with Islamic outfits in India including Jamaat-e-Islamic Organisation’s student wing, Student Islamic Organisation (SIO), the report said. SIO’s Fawaz Shaheen, however, denied that the students’ body had anything to do with any Turkish group or entity related to Erdogan or his family. “We have nothing to do with either Turkish or other groups involved in anti-India activities,” Fawaz Shaheen said.The intel report also accused the Turkish Embassy in Delhi of forging alliances with Indian NGOs, pointing that Indian activists who serve Ankara’s agenda are increasingly being sent to Turkey on exposure trips and encouraged to speak against India. Some of the Turkish organisations that have been used to launch coordinated attacks on India are its International Humanitarian Relief Foundation, the TDF (which also funds scholarships) and Pak-Turkey Cultural Association.The TDF is part of the religious directorate of Turkey, now deployed with Erdogan supporters, and tasked to build Erdogan’s image as the tallest leader of the Muslim community by championing the Islamic cause where it suits Erdogan’’s ambitions.And Turkey’s authoritarian leader for 18 years has many.The most prominent has been to lead the Muslim world, building on Turkey’s imperial Ottoman past. The Ottoman sultans doubled as the caliphs of the Muslim world. Erdogan and his supporters believe they can revive the Ottoman Empire’s former glory that collapsed nearly a century back, and its peak in the 1500s ruled over much of Southeastern Europe, west Asia, and North Africa’s coastal strip.Erdogan’s effort to expand its influence among South Asian Muslims comes against the backdrop of his pitch to challenge Saudi Arabia’s dominance in the Islamic world and offering a conservative Turkey with Ottoman traditions as a model for Islamic nations to follow.It is a narrative that works well for Imran Khan in the Indian subcontinent, particularly given India’s recent success in deepening its ties with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. In April, Pakistan’s public broadcaster started airing Turkey’s television series, Ertugrul Gazi, which is loosely based on the story of the 13th century Muslim Oghuz Turk leader Ertugrul, whose son Osman Ghazi is considered to be the founder of the Ottoman Empire.The series dubbed in Urdu, promoted by Imran Khan in Pakistan just as it was supported by Erdogan in Turkey, depicts the bravery of Muslim Oghuz Turks fighting the Mongol, Christians and Byzantines, glorifies the Ottoman Empire and is seen as a key part of Turkey’s “soft power” influence in the Muslim world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erdogan-s-turkey-working-on-imran-khan-s-script-funds-fronts-to-hurt-india-intel/story-2n8taLmj0IO2pG3M5K2ALJ.html
07-08-2020||India||Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate found safe in early-stage human trial||India’s Zydus Cadila said on Wednesday its Covid-19 vaccine candidate was found to be safe and well-tolerated in an early-stage human trial. The company will now start a mid-stage trial of the vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers from Thursday to test its effectiveness, it said in a regulatory filing. Zydus plans to complete late-stage trials for ZyCoV-D by February or March and could produce up to 100 million doses a year initially, the company’s chairman told Reuters last month. The safety of the vaccine candidate in volunteers enrolled in the early-stage trial, who were administered doses since July 15, was endorsed by an independent data safety monitoring board. Zydus is also among the several Indian generic drugmakers that have licensing agreements with US-based Gilead Sciences to produce remdesivir, the antiviral that has been approved in the country as an emergency treatment to fight the coronavirus outbreak. India reported a daily jump of more than 50,000 coronavirus infections for the seventh straight day on Wednesday. Total cases now stand at 1.91 million, the third biggest, after the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-found-safe-in-early-stage-human-trial/story-gMWYyy6mehIuzHZaGS2aKM.html
