08-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports biggest single-day jump with 501 Covid-19 cases, past 9000 cases mark||With 501 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Saturday reported the biggest single-day jump in cases since reporting of the first case on March 15. The state also crossed the 9000-cases mark with 9,402 total registered patients. Eleven army personnel from Bageshwar (10) and Rudraprayag (1) districts also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 positive patients died in the state; three of them succumbed to coronavirus and the other two deaths were attributed to co-morbidities. A total of 117 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 19 deaths attributed to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The remaining corona infected casualties were attributed to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. A total of 5,963 infected people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 63.42%. Also Read: Kedarnath priest threatens bhoomi samadhi if Uttarakhand doesn’t scrap Char Dham BoardHaridwar district reported 172 of the 501 fresh covid cases reported on Saturday, followed by US Nagar (171), Nainital (85), Dehradun (38), Bageshwar (10), Pauri (9), Uttarkashi (5), Tehri (4), Pithoragarh (3), Rudraprayag (2) and one case each from Chamoli and Champawat districts. Dehradun district has so far reported a total of 1,997 cases -- the most in the state, followed by Haridwar (1,984), US Nagar (1,704) and Nainital (1,491). Also, 232 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum of 79 relieved from Haridwar district. Also Read: Uttarakhand forest officials rescue very rare Red Coral Kukri snakeThe doubling rate of cases, based on the last seven days’ data, now, stands at 23.76 days, while the infection rate is at 4.88%. The state has so far tested over 2.05 lakh samples while 9,200 results are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 459 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 371 in Haridwar district. With sudden spike in cases in the past two days, US Nagar district administration imposed a two-day lockdown (August 8-9) in Khatima on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-with-501-covid-19-cases-past-9000-cases-mark/story-BUbOgoevxcCP0QuF2xIG8J.html
08-08-2020||India||Manipur establishes 24x7 toll-free helpline number to ensure medical service||The Manipur government has set up a 24X7 toll-free helpline (1800-103-2015) to ensure that medical service is not denied to anyone after a young pregnant woman died Thursday after being turned away from five hospitals, The state health department issued an order in this regard on Friday. The step has been taken in the wake of the death of a young pregnant woman who was denied treatment by five hospitals on the ground of unavailability of doctors on August 6.“In addition, a mobile team has been activated by the Directorate of Health services to follow-up with hospitals in the Imphal area during night hours (7pm to 6am)”, Principal Secretary (Health & Family welfare) V Vumlunmang said in his order.The order also requested all hospitals in Manipur to cooperate and attend to patients without delay.Friday’s order to establish a 24X7 toll-free helpline number, came after the department ordered an enquiry into the incident leading to death of 20 year old Kanpatliu Kamei wife of Roshan Balang, of Noney district who died along with her unborn baby at the casualty entrance of a private hospital around 4 am on August 6. Another order issued by Vumlunmang on August 6 also instructed all Government and private hospitals to ensure that all patients who reach their facilities are attended to promptly, specially emergency and time bound cases.To enable prompt Covid-19 testing, the State Government would provide rapid antigen kits to hospitals through the Directorate of Health Services, it assured.Any violation of this order would be viewed very seriously and action would be taken under the Manipur Nursing Homes & Clinical Registration Act 1992 and Disaster Management Act 2005, the Principal Secretary’s order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-establishes-24x7-toll-free-helpline-number-to-ensure-medical-service/story-qH4FZcOpQKAkvFPnHIjWAI.html
08-08-2020||India||I’m blessed to have good command over Hindi, says Saurabh Saraswat||Actor Saurabh Saraswat has been in the reel world for six years but his first OTT outing last month has established his connection with the masses in the real sense. “The appreciation I am getting after the release of ‘Mafia’ is overwhelming. The reach of this digital platform is phenomenal. I have done an international film ‘CRD’ and my short feature film ‘Gray’ was screened at the Cannes Film Fest,” says the actor. But he makes a point: “As an actor, there is not much of a difference between conventional cinema and OTT platform. It was fun playing the two phases of life in ‘Mafia’. My independent films helped me train for this role.” Saurabh hails from Ajmer but has his roots in Uttar Pradesh. “My mother is from Pharay near Mathura while my father is from Kasganj. In 1970s, our families shifted to Rajasthan. I have been to Agra, Moradabad, Aligarh and Mathura as our relatives still live there,” he says. The actor says he is blessed to have a command over Hindi. “As my parents are from UP, they speak clear Hindi and it came naturally to me also. Besides, I live in a locality that has like-minded migrants from the same belt. So, I got a ‘mahaul’ (atmosphere) of Hindi even while living in Ajmer.” Acting came to him naturally. “I started with theatre in school. As all are engineers and doctors in my family, a professional course was kind of mandatory for me too. I did engineering studies from Jaipur but also remained dedicated to theatre. Then I took up a job in a software company in Delhi and kept doing theatre. I decided to quit the job and made it to the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), Pune.” Subsequently, the actor shifted to Mumbai. “I did some episodes of Crime Patrol. In 2014, I got an international project ‘CRD’. I prepared hard for the film. For one year, I learnt French and trained myself physically, read a lot of Shakespeare and other playwrights. But the film released much later,” says Saurabh. For bread and butter, Saurabh started organising acting workshops. “I also started doing theatre – writing, acting and directing. Then I got ‘Cat Sticks’, which was based on a drug addict and shot in Bangla, Hindi and English. It went to many film festivals. I did a feature film ‘Gray’ where I played a gay character. The same director gave me ‘Nameplate’ and now I am in a happy phase with my OTT series.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-blessed-to-have-good-command-over-hindi-says-saurabh-saraswat/story-UuQz1ItYG7wnXFEgomSb6H.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Politically motivated’: Mumbai Police tells SC about Bihar FIR in Sushant Singh’s case||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe is turning into a mud-slinging match between the Mumbai Police and Bihar Police at the top court. On Saturday, the Mumbai Police filed an affidavit stating that the FIR lodged by Bihar Police on a complaint filed by Sushant’s father was politically motivated and done at the instance of the chief minister of Bihar. This has given an interesting turn to the case ahead of the Supreme Court hearing the transfer petition filed by Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty on Tuesday. She has sought transfer of the FIR lodged at Patna to Mumbai. Mumbai Police even called out the “indecent haste” shown by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in lodging a FIR on the recommendation from the Bihar government and even constituting a team to begin probe into abetment of suicide charge against Rhea, her family members and two friends. “The indecent haste with which the CBI has proceeded in this regard, speaks for itself, regarding the bonafides of all involved in this exercise,” stated the Mumbai Police in its affidavit filed through advocate Sachin Patil. The affidavit termed the CBI FIR without “legal sanctity” as it was filed without consent of Maharashtra, which alone is entitled to give consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act and not Bihar. The developments came on a day when Sushant’s father KK Singh filed his reply in the apex court terming Rhea’s petition as “infructuous” following CBI taking over the case. The late actor’s father even accused the Mumbai Police of inaction as he questioned why even after 54 days of enquiry no FIR was registered. “If the respondent No.3 (State of Maharashtra) has found no evidence qua the petitioner (Rhea) in 54 days of enquiry, it only reflects one conclusion that the Respondent No.3 is trying to shield the Petitioner for the reason best known to them,” Sushant’s father stated in his affidavit settled by senior advocate Vikas Singh. Defending the charges against them, Mumbai Police wondered why the father of the late actor did not approach them for registering FIR against Rhea and her family members. Citing a Ministry of Home Affairs circular of May 10, 2013, the Mumbai Police claimed that at best, Bihar Police ought to have registered a Zero FIR and transferred the same to Bandra Police.Making a big charge against its Bihar counterpart, the Mumbai Police said, “The registration of the FIR at Rajeev Nagar Police Station, Patna, Bihar was politically motivated and due to extraneous reasons.” To support this statement, the affidavit cited a newspaper report annexed to Rhea’s petition which said that while Bihar Police was hesitant to file FIR, it was the Bihar chief minister and another minister who persuaded them to register it. The mud-slinging was not limited to that alone. Commenting on Bihar’s decision to recommend a CBI probe, the Mumbai Police said, “Recommendation of respondent no 1 (Bihar government) to transfer investigation into FIR by CBI bristles with malafides and same is void ab initio.” Such a thing could lead to a “chaotic situation” as the accused or complainant would then choose their own state police to initiate investigation into a case. Already, the Bihar Police had accused Mumbai Police of shielding Rhea and obstructing probe into the FIR lodged at Patna. The turf war between the two police forces was at display when Bihar-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vinay Tiwari who landed in Mumbai on August 2 to expedite probe was forcibly quarantined. The Bihar government had claimed this was an “afterthought” as the four officers of Bihar Police Special Investigation Team (SIT) who landed in Mumbai on July 27 were not similarly quarantined. The Mumbai Police has denied of having obstructing the probe and claimed that Vinay Tiwari was quarantined by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and not the police. Further, it said that the four officers who landed earlier ought to have quarantined themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politically-motivated-mumbai-police-tells-sc-about-bihar-fir-in-sushant-singh-s-case/story-EUCW72uidTgTFBiQ64vn7K.html
08-08-2020||India||In absence of liquor in Tirupati, 4 people die after consuming hand sanitiser||With the Andhra Pradesh police investigating the death of 10 people, who had consumed hand sanitiser in Prakasam district last month, four more persons died in a similar manner in the temple town of Tirupati on Friday. The victims – Veeraiah, Kumaraswamy, Venkataratnam and Srinivasulu – belonging to Scavengers’ Colony in Tirupati town succumbed at the SVRR government general hospital, where they were admitted by their relatives on Thursday evening. “The family members told us that they were addicted to liquor consumption and might have consumed sanitiser as they could not get liquor due to lockdown being in force in the town. We are awaiting the forensic report to get the confirmation whether they had consumed only hand sanitiser or something else,” Tirupati (urban) superintendent of police A Ramesh Reddy told Hindustan Times. He, however, said the four victims were in no way connected to one another and they were isolated incidents. “There are three dealers supplying hand sanitisers in the town and there is no evidence of all the four buying the liquid from the same shop and consuming it together. Yet, we are investigating into the incident,” Reddy said. The SP said the victims also did not fall under the lower strata of the society. “Our enquiries with their family members revealed that they were earning reasonably good money. May be, they had consumed sanitiser due to non-availability of liquor,” he said. Tirupati East police have registered a case under Section 176 of Criminal Procedure Code (suspicious death). YSR Congress party MLA from Tirupati Bhumana Karunakar Reddy visited the hospital and called on the family members of the four victims at the mortuary. “It is unfortunate that four people had consumed sanitiser for intoxication. It is very dangerous to consume such liquids. I request the people not to get addicted to liquor,” Reddy said. Ten people had died of consuming alcohol-based sanitiser at Kurichedu town in Prakasam district in a span of two days in the last week of July. Most of them are poor people and three of them are beggars. Following the incident, the state government cracked down on sanitiser makers, illegal liquor shops and spurious liquor manufacturers. The Special Enforcement Bureau authorities conducted surprise raids on these units and identified 345 places where spurious liquor was being made. Cases have been booked against 76 companies which were involved in making of hand sanitiser without licences. “The police also identified 144 people who were consuming hand sanitisers and counselled them,” a senior police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-absence-of-liquor-in-tirupati-4-people-die-after-consuming-hand-sanitiser/story-O7xhBKxdicBUlicjOvKIhN.html
08-08-2020||India||CISF to award 3 officers for rescue efforts at Kozhikode International Airport||Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Saturday announced awarding the Director General (DG) commendation DISC to three officers for their outstanding efforts during the rescue operations at Kozhikode airport.“DG CISF Rajesh Ranjan has announced to award DG’s commendation DISC to Deputy Commandant/CASO, Kishore Kumar AV, Assistant Sub-Inspector Ajit Singh and Assistant Sub-Inspector Mangal Singh, in recognition of their outstanding efforts during the rescue operations at Calicut Airport,” CISF said in a press note.“CISF personnel acted as the first responder and played a vital role in rescue operations after Air India Express flight crashlanded at Kozhikode International Airport yesterday. CISF team immediately rescued the passengers and arranged ambulances to shift the passengers to hospital,” CISF added.An Air India flight carrying 190 passengers had skidded while landing at the Kozhikode International Airport on Friday evening.Of the 190 people on board the ill-fated plane, there were 184 passengers and six crew members. Of the 18 dead so far, 14 are adults (seven males and females each) and four are children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-to-award-3-officers-for-rescue-efforts-at-kozhikode-international-airport/story-Uwz4j8mnuLnpztn1F9zP7H.html
08-08-2020||India||With Roy Naik’s induction in BJP; Goa’s infamous police drug-peddler nexus comes full circle||August 3, 2010. The monsoon session of the Goa Legislative Assembly was at its height and the Digambar Kamat led government was proposing government demands for the approval of the House. The then leader of Opposition Manohar Parrikar had just moved in an adjournment motion which was promptly rejected by the Speaker. Eager to make his point the opposition benches led by Parrikar stormed the well of the House forcing the adjournment of the house not once, but twice. The reason? A day earlier (August 2, 2010) the mother of Scarlett Keeling the British teenager found naked and dead on the Anjuna beach in Goa had deposed before the Children’s Court in Goa that Roy Naik, the younger son of the then Home Minister Ravi Naik was among those who gave her daughter drugs resulting in an international scandal and pushed the Congress-led government on the backfoot. “There is a direct allegation against the Home Minister of the State. We want a CBI inquiry,” Parrikar had loudly insisted after the motion was turned down. Fast forward to August 6, 2020, and Roy Naik was welcomed into the BJP along with his elder brother Ritesh. Damodar Naik, a former BJP MLA, who was the first to the well of the house to force an adjournment demanding an inquiry against Roy was now the host of the welcome ceremony. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade feigned ignorance when asked about the party’s duplicity in welcoming the same Roy into the party fold. “There are so many Roys. This is Roy Ravi Naik. Our party has never made any allegation against Roy Ravi Naik, if you have the proof, please show me. Then I will speak,” Tanavade told reporters at the ceremony without flinching. But the irony was not lost on former minister Mickky Pacheco who headed a house committee set up by Parrikar after the BJP came to power in 2012. “I confirm that it’s Roy Naik the son of former Home Minister and present Ponda legislator Ravi Naik, who was involved in the drug trade. While investigating cases (as house committee chairman) it came to light that Roy Naik, was involved in the drug trade. A 25-page report was submitted to the house (in 2012),” Pacheco said. The report Pacheco authored was not formally accepted by the government after two members of the committee both from the BJP refused to sign it. Curiously the non-BJP members of the house committee gave it their assent. As recently as 2018, Roy was being probed by a special investigation team of Goa Police for his alleged involvement in the nexus between Goa Police officials and drug dealers. The probe however remained inconclusive with officials claiming that there wasn’t enough evidence to indict the former home minister or his son. Roy had denied any involvement with any drug nexus. “I have absolutely no nexus with any drug dealing nor have I ever met Atala or his friend Lucky Farmhouse,” Naik had said back in 2010. He did not respond to phone calls or text messages send by this correspondent. The Congress put on a bright face with the departure of the two sons of the current MLA. “The pandemic has resulted in a cleaner environment. [A] bright future for INC-Goa [is] clearly visible. Insecurity is rife in BJP... Goans will explain in 2022,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar, said.In an interview with an Israeli newspaper Lucky Mangrada, a former girlfriend of alleged drug dealer Yaniv Benaim alias Atala had claimed that Roy would regularly visit her boyfriend besides also accusing several Goa policemen of being in cahoots with drug dealers. Upon his arrest Atala also later confessed the police would sell seized drugs back into the market. The revelations sparked a scandal that led to the arrest of seven policemen including the then head of the Anti Narcotics Cell of the Goa Police. The arrested cops have since been reinstated, completing the circle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-roy-naik-s-induction-in-bjp-goa-s-infamous-police-drug-peddler-nexus-comes-full-circle/story-USjtByxwHj5aCAe1LTx4FM.html
08-08-2020||India||Sangh offshoot gives suggestion to govt on job creation||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has urged the union government to draft schemes to protect existing jobs in sectors such as agriculture and handloom and also ensure avenues for employment by designing migrant worker centric plans that take into account specific sectors such as construction workers, street vendors and hospitality workers. The suggestions were made at an interaction between the functionaries of the BMS an offshoot of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and eight union ministers who are part of the Group of Ministers (GOM) on employment and skill development chaired by union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot on August 6 and 7, people aware of the developments told Hindustan Times. Citing the impact of coronavirus disease outbreak on economies across the globe and employment, the Sangh functionaries underlined the need of reverse job cuts in sectors such as plantation, beedi industry, handloom and fishing and recognise community based professions. The labour wing of the RSS, the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has also called for identifying districts that offer mass employment with local resources and local potential so that the government can offer assistance to help them increase employment avenues. Development of village clusters in each district followed by integrated development of villages was also suggested said a person aware of the details. “Job losses and economic slowdown have not happened only because of the pandemic. It is an ongoing problem. What we are suggesting is that the government should invest in sustainable policies that will deliver long –term solutions,” said Vrijesh Upadhyay, the general secretary of BMS. Panning the need of providing jobs through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the wake of the pandemic; the BMS has suggested tweaking of the criteria for providing jobs to registered workers. Family should not be the basis for providing work, instead Individual should be the basis, it has said, adding that a minimum of 100 working days under the scheme should be provided to individuals. The labour wing also wants suspension of the scheme for duration crop seeding and cutting so that work on farms is not affected because of labour shortage. MGNREGA at present offers not less than 100 days of unskilled manual work as a guaranteed employment in a financial year to every household in rural areas as per demand. The BMS also wants a policy to restrict production of certain items which, tiny, micro and cottage industries can produce and big companies and multinational corporations are barred from producing. This suggestion, the BMS said, will be necessary to protect rural economy. Biswajit Dhar, professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University backed the suggestion to offer MGNREGA jobs to individuals, instead of households. When the demand for jobs particularly in the wake of migration on account of the pandemic is high, Dhar said the government should ensure those who are willing to work have jobs. “We cannot have involuntary unemployment. Whoever is willing to work should be offered a job,” Dhar said. The second suggestion that he supported was the policy of reserving production for smaller units. “The government can identify a set of activities that will be reserved for the small, micro or cottage industries so that they can then give focused attention to them including long term loans,” he said. The interaction was attended by BMS’s all india organising secretary B. Surendra and zonal organising secretary Pawan Kumar, while the union ministers present included Thawar Chand Gehlot; Arjun Munda; Mahendra Nath Pandey; Santosh Gangawar; Prahlad Singh Patel; G Kishan Reddy; V Muralidharan and Pratap Sarangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangh-offshoot-gives-suggestion-to-govt-on-job-creation/story-ZAdXSl2MueCaBiI45depUL.html
08-08-2020||India||Andhra govt moves SC challenging lower court’s order stalling formation of 3 capitals||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s interim orders granting stay on the formation of three capital cities for the state. In a special leave petition filed in the apex court, the state government argued that the high court had issued orders staying the implementation of gazette notifications on abolition of the AP Capital Region Development Authority and formation of three capitals for a decentralised development without any valid reasons. Stating that the high court orders were against the principles of natural justice, the state government requested that the Supreme Court put a stay on the high court’s orders. The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Monday, an official in the chief minister’s office familiar with the development said. On August 4, a three-member division bench of the state high court comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar, Justice Sesha Sai and Justice Satyanaryana Murthy granted a 10-day stay on the implementation of the gazette notifications and asked the state government to file a counter within 10 days. The high court issued interim orders acting on a petition filed by Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samithi (Committee of farmers to protect the capital). It ordered that the state government maintain status quo with regard to Amaravati as the capital city and not to proceed with any moves with regard to the shifting of executive capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. On July 31, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government issued two separate notifications – one on abolition of the AP Capital Region Development Authority formed in December 2014 to develop Amaravati as the capital of Andhra; and the second one on formation of three capitals for the state – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati. Meanwhile, state legislative assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram on Friday observed that the courts could not trespass into legislative functions. “State legislature and judiciary are different pillars of democracy and they cannot trespass into each other’s powers,” he said. He reminded that senior Telugu Desam Party leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, who the speaker of the assembly in combined Andhra Pradesh in 1977, had given a ruling that legislative decisions could not be challenged in the court of law. “The same thing is still in force now. But the TDP leaders are moving the high court challenging the passage of the three capitals bill by the state legislature. Why is Ramakrishnudu opposing the bill now?” Sitaram asked. Ramakrishnudu, however, said the courts could definitely review the decisions of the legislature when they were in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the land. He clarified on Saturday that his ruling given in the capacity as speaker in 1997 was still valid and said that the courts shall not interfere with the functioning or debates or rulings of the House. “But if the House makes any legislation violating the Constitution or law, it can be questioned in the court of law,” he argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-moves-sc-challenging-lower-court-s-order-stalling-formation-of-3-capitals/story-ONom2VNoqK1GlODf6L4bII.html
08-08-2020||India||Hardeep Puri cautions against speculative observations on Kozhikode air crash||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday called for refraining from speculative observations about the accident involving an Air India Express in Kozhikode Friday night and that issues red flagged by DGCA were addressed and rectified.“I will encourage all to exercise patience & refrain from making speculative observations bordering on the irresponsible. Again to emphasize, all the issues were addressed & rectified,” Puri tweeted.In another tweet, he said the probe report of the accident will be made public.“In case of Kozhikode accident, an enquiry has been ordered under Aircraft Act, black boxes of flight IX-1344 have been recovered. Findings of this investigation will be made public.”Puri who visited the crash site earlier in the day, also had a word of advice for opposition MPs and insisted that the plane involved in the crash was not a wide body aircraft.“I would like to remind my colleagues that the aircraft involved in the incident at Kozhikode was a B-737-800 which is NOT a wide body aircraft. As far as wide body aircraft are concerned, DGCA had carried out a thorough assessment & prescribed comprehensive mitigation measures.”I would like to remind my colleagues that the aircraft involved in the incident at Kozhikode was a B-737-800 which is NOT a wide body aircraft. As far as wide body aircraft are concerned, DGCA had carried out a thorough assessment & prescribed comprehensive mitigation measures. pic.twitter.com/7jjQS3deAdThe Air India Express flight from Dubai crashed while landing at the tabletop airport in driving rain. It overshot the runway and plunged into a road 35 feet below killing 18 people including both pilots. There were 190 people on board the aircraft. The fight was part of the Vande Bharat mission. The aircraft was commanded by Captain Deepak Sathe, a former Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refrain-from-speculative-observations-on-kozhikode-air-crash-says-hardeep-puri/story-E6ZEP3p6eqZa9ls7TFhBmN.html
08-08-2020||India||As Kerala plane crash theories rise, pilots’ body makes an appeal, govt presents defence||Indian commercial pilots’ association has issued a press statement on Saturday stressing on the need to avoid speculation and theories around the crash of Air India Express flight AXB1344 , which broke into two after dropping around 35 ft into a valley after overshooting the runway in wet conditions while landing at the Karipur international airport in Kozhikode, Kerala on Friday night, killing 18 people and critically injuring scores of others.Since the mishap, questions have been raised on the quality of the airport strip, the dangers of landing at a tabletop airport, DGCA’s handling of issues flagged time to time and any possible errors made by the pilots, both of whom have perished in the accident.“We stress on the need to avoid speculation and theories as to the circumstances of this accident. We are also willing to offer any assistance to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau in order to help gather facts and any other safety and security information which may be pertinent to this tragic event,” the statement from the association said.Also Read: Day after Kozhikode air crash, stories of heartbreak and heroismCivil aviation minister was more direct in his rejection of speculations about the cause of the accident and ruled out any laxity on the part of the aviation authorities. He also addressed the issue of the air strip being inadequate for landing of wide body aircrafts.“I would like to remind my colleagues that the aircraft involved in the incident at Kozhikode was a B-737-800 which is NOT a wide body aircraft. As far as wide body aircraft are concerned, DGCA had carried out a thorough assessment & prescribed comprehensive mitigation measures,” he said in a statement on Saturday.The flight was operated by Deepak Sathe, a highly rated former India Air Force pilot and his co-pilot from Mathura, Akhilesh Sharma. Sharma’s wife Megha is expecting a child within a fortnight and has not been told about her husband’s death. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri earlier today said that the pilots operating the Air India Express flight were very experienced. Deepak Vasant Sathe, who was the commander of the flight, had 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft. He had flown 6,662 of these hours as the commander. His 32 year old co-pilot, Akhilesh Sharma, had experience of 1,728 hours of flying with the 737 aircraft.Also Read: Air India mourns Kozhikode tragedy with ‘black’ logo on social media handlesPuri added that Sathe had also landed successfully on the challenging tabletop Calicut airport at least 27 times, including more than 10 times this year itself.The civil aviation ministry has ordered a probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). Two black boxes containing the digital flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder have been recovered from the crash site earlier today and will be crucial to the investigations.The AAIB is mandated to investigate aircraft accidents and obtain a preliminary report before assisting in setting up the committee of inquiry and formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules.The spaces at the ends of the runway at the Kozhikode airport has been questioned as inadequate for landing in tough situations. Several international airlines had stopped landing bigger aircraft at the airport due to safety concerns.The crashed flight had also aborted two landing attempts last night before making the final attempt from the opposite side. It aborted the second attempt with 2,000 feet to go.Civil aviation expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan believes that the pilot should have diverted to Coimbatore, as the conditions in Kozhikode were not conducive for a landing. Ranganathan says that he had warned the authorities in 2011 after the Mangalore crash that the Calicut runway was unsafe for landing and needed to be reevaluated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-kerala-plane-crash-theories-rise-pilots-body-makes-an-appeal-govt-presents-defence/story-7ZXScwoqM8qf8mEbQXKs9H.html
08-08-2020||India||1,404 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally to 1,44,127; death toll mounts to 4,098||Delhi recorded 1,404 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.44 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 4,098, authorities said.The number of daily cases after dipping to three-figure count last Sunday, has again shown a rise in the last few days, recording in excess of 1,000.Also, the number of tests have shown a rise in the last few days, with the Saturday figure being 24,592, as per the latest bulletin.Sixteen fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, it said.On Friday, the daily cases count was 1,192 and 23 deaths were reported.The daily cases count on August 1 was 1118, however, during August 2-4, cases had gradually dipped: August 2 (961), August 3 (805) and August 4 (674).But, from August 5 onwards, the cases have again showed a four-figure trend: August 5 (1,076), August 6 (1,299) and August 7 (1,192).The active cases tally on Saturday rose to 10,667, from 10,409 the previous day.  On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, till date.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,082 on Friday.The Saturday bulletin said the death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 4,098 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,44,127.  The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 5.7 per cent while the recovery rate was over 89 per cent, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Union heath secretary took a meeting through video-conferencing with health departments of Delhi and a few other states, to review the measures for controlling Covid-19, it said.According to the Saturday bulletin, out of the total number of beds in COVID hospitals, 10,469 are vacant.Also, 2,549 beds in COVID care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said.According to the bulletin, 1,29,362 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.The number of people in home isolation stands at 5,372.The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Saturday stood at 19,902 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 5,500, in all adding to 24,592, according to the bulletin.The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 11,68,295.The number of tests done per million, as on Saturday was 61,489, it said.On Saturday, the number of containment zones stood at 478.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-404-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-to-1-44-127-death-toll-mounts-to-4-098/story-AYaFszuz3Ew8maU5LYi9oK.html
08-08-2020||India||Robust online dispute resolution can facilitate affordable justice delivery, ease of doing biz: Amitabh Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Saturday said a robust online dispute resolution (ODR) ecosystem has the potential to ensure justice delivery in a cheaper, quicker and credible manner, which in turn can help in ease of doing business.Kant further said ODR is a fast-evolving dispute resolution mechanism that uses technology not just to aid, but to proactively assist efficient and affordable justice delivery.Also read: Need for adequate testing, aggressive containment by states to manage Covid crisis: Amitabh Kant He was addressing a virtual seminar on ‘Unlocking Online Dispute Resolution to Enhance the Ease of Doing Business’. “A robust ODR ecosystem in India has the potential to facilitate access to justice and the ease of doing business by making dispute resolution cheaper, quicker and most importantly equally credible as conventional methods of dispute resolution,” Kant said. Also speaking at the event, former Supreme Court judge Justice B N Srikrishna said ODR can act as a complement to the court system. “In fact, it will act as an auxiliary of the court system in the sense that it will prevent a large number of litigations unnecessarily that clutter the courts,” he said. Online Dispute Resolution can help deliver justice to the doorstep of the litigant, Srikrishna said adding that the litigant does not need to travel from Kerala to Delhi to solve dispute, he or she can resolve it through the electronic platform. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas managing partner Cyril Shroff said that this is an amazing opportunity to create a public-private partnership (PPP) where the government can become the technology garage or the solution for finding access to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robust-online-dispute-resolution-can-facilitate-affordable-justice-delivery-ease-of-doing-biz-amitabh-kant/story-XjX9nd08XboLzwY2F3pmdP.html
08-08-2020||India||Chandrika Rai, father-in-law of Tej Pratap, all set to join JD (U)||Chandrika Rai, a former Bihar minister and a confidant of Lalu Prasad, chief, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), who later became his relative through a matrimonial alliance, is all set to do a political somersault and join the ruling Janata Dal (United).He is likely to join the JD(U) after he is discharged from Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where is undergoing treatment following contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Rai, the son of former Bihar chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai, has made up his mind to contest the upcoming assembly elections – slated to be held in October-November – from his traditional Parsa assembly seat.However, his next political move became evident from a social media post. He appealed to his supporters to register their names, along with their mobile numbers, on JD (U)’s digital platform. Rai, whose daughter Aishwarya was married to Prasad’s eldest son Tej Pratap in 2018 until it fell apart a few months later over marital discord that had hit the headlines and strained the ties between the two well-known political families of Bihar, has been a six-time lawmaker. He had become a member of the Bihar legislative assembly (MLA) for the first time on a Congress ticket in 1985. However, though he was denied a ticket by the Congress for a second successive term, he won as an Independent and later joined the RJD. He was a prominent member of successive RJD governments, helmed by Prasad and then by his wife Rabri Devi following his indictment in the multi-crore fodder scam. Rai was also a minister in the short-lived mahagathbandhan, or the grand alliance government, among the JD(U), the RJD and the Congress. Speculations have been rife that Rai will join JD(U) since he quit the RJD in February. He fell out with Prasad’s family after Tej Pratap filed for divorce months after marrying Aishwarya in 2018. Later, Aishwarya had complained of being ill-treated by Prasad’s family members. In the 2019 parliamentary election, Prasad had fielded Rai from the Saran Lok Sabha seat, despite Tej Pratap Yadav’s stiff opposition. Rai had lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajiv Pratap Rudy, a former Union minister.Though Rai quit the RJD in February, he had snapped all ties with the party prior to that, as he had stopped attending its organisational meetings. RJD has chalked out plans to checkmate Rai’s next political move. The party has inducted Rai’s niece Karishma Rai, the daughter of his elder brother Bidhan Chandra Rai, on July 19 and is considering to field her against him from the Parsa assembly seat.In Bihar’s family political saga, one more scene-stealer appears to be on the cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrika-rai-father-in-law-of-tej-pratap-all-set-to-join-jd-u/story-a31E5k5WhCGsa8KvZ9a9zI.html
08-08-2020||India||Highest single-day spike takes Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally past 5 lakh||Maharashtra reported a highest single-day spike of 12,822 new Covid-19 taking the state’s tally past the 5 lakh mark, a health department official said.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 5,03,084 which is one-fourth of the country’s tally of over 20 lakh. Among Saturday’s new cases, 1,304 were from Mumbai. The city’s tally is now at 1,22,316.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region which covers Mumbai and surrounding towns reported 3,744 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 2,63,619.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.There were 275 deaths taking the toll to 17,367 in the state. Fifty-eight of the casualties were from Mumbai. The death toll in Mumbai is 6,751. The death toll included 137 casualties in the MMR. On July 29, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally stood at 4,00,651. The state has added one lakh new cases in the 10 days A record number 11,082 patients were also discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recovered Covid-19 patients to 3,38,362. Maharashtra now has 1,47,048 active Civd-19 cases, the health department said.A total of 9,89,612 people are under home quarantine while 35,625 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-takes-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-past-5-lakh/story-K5TanB4m5C37kp01A2JdSM.html
08-08-2020||India||India and China hold Major General-level talks||Talks between senior army commanders of India and China were underway on Saturday to take forward the disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at a number of friction points including in Daulat Beg Oldi and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said.The Major General-level talks are being held at a border personnel meeting point in Daulat Beg Oldi(DBO) area on the Chinese side of the LAC, they said.The meeting comes a week after the two armies held the fifth round of Corps commander-level(Lt Gen) discussions in an effort to expedite the disengagement process.At the military talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso.The Chinese People’s Liberation Army(PLA) has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of its troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang as demanded by India, according to sources.India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers.The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area.Both sides held several rounds of Major General-level talks in May and June before the level of negotiations was upgraded to the level of Corps commanders.The people familiar with the developments said Saturday’s talks will primarily focus on the disengagement process in Daulat Beg Oldi and Depsang areas.Considering the situation on the ground, the Indian Army and the IAF have decided to maintain a very high-level of operational readiness in all areas along the LAC in Ladakh, North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh till a “satisfactory” resolution to the border row with China is arrived at, sources said.Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese “misadventure”, they said.The fresh directive to maintain a very high-level of alertness came in the wake of lack of forward movement in implementation of the disengagement process by Chinese military in friction points like Pangong Tso, Depsang and Gogra.The Indian army has already made elaborate plans to maintain current strength of troops and weapons along the LAC during the harsh winter months in eastern Ladakh and all other sensitive areas along the LAC.It is also in the process of procuring a number of weapons, ammunition and winter gears for the frontline troopsThe temperature in some of the high-altitude areas along the LAC drops to minus 25 degree celsius in the winter months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-hold-talks-on-ladakh-s-depsang-plains/story-S1GATamAArhn7avZwMLyTM.html
08-08-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies hold talks on Ladakh’s Depsang plains||Senior military commanders from India and China on Saturday met in the Daulat Beg Oldie sector and held talks on reducing tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, with focus on thinning the buildup of troops and weaponry in Depsang plains where the forward deployment of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has disrupted the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns, people familiar with the developments said. Heightened concerns about Depsang come from an earlier intrusion in this sector in 2013, when the PLA set up positions 19 km into the Indian side of the LAC and triggered a face-off that took three weeks to resolve. The PLA’s forward deployments in Depsang have hindered the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11A 12 and 13, said one of the officials cited above. The military buildup in this sector includes deployment of tanks and artillery by the two armies, said a second official. The Depsang plains lie south of DBO in a strategic area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN). DBO is the country’s northernmost outpost where India operates an advanced landing ground to support its forward military deployments. “Depsang is more of a pressure point as the PLA’s reported deployment in forward areas has disrupted the Indian Army’s patrolling pattern. It has become more time consuming for the army to dominate the LAC. But as long as talks are on there is hope for a mutually-acceptable solution to the dispute,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The latest round of military talks between division commander-ranked officers came days after their bosses (the corps commanders) met on August 2 to discuss the next stage of disengagement at a time when negotiations have hit a roadblock due to differences between the two sides in the Finger Area and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory. The outcome of Saturday’s talks wasn’t immediately known as there was no official word from the army. The division commander-ranked officers have met a few times after the border row erupted in early May, but this was their first meeting after the corps commanders from the two sides began discussions on disengagement and de-escalation on June 6. The latter have met five times so far. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution. The August 2 military negotiations came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. The ambassador’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger Area, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-hold-talks-on-ladakh-s-depsang-plains/story-SlnwijHCFvcbHm9JexLUnI.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Rhea Chakraborty’s plea to transfer case pointless’: Sushant Rajput’s father||The father of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has told the Supreme Court that the petition filed by his son’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty seeking to transfer the police case from Patna to Mumbai has become unnecessary after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took up the case.The statement came on a day when Mumbai police informed the Supreme Court, in a sealed cover, about the status of its probe into the actor’s death at his Bandra house on June 14.In his response affidavit filed ahead of the hearing of the case on Tuesday, Sushant’s father stated that even after 54 days of inquiry, the Mumbai police had not found any ground to register an FIR. “If the respondent No.3 (State of Maharashtra) has found no evidence qua the petitioner (Rhea) in 54 days of inquiry, it only reflects one conclusion that the Respondent No.3 is trying to shield the petitioner for reasons best known to them.”He informed the Court that prior to his son’s death, in two complaints dated February 19 and February 25, he informed the Mumbai police about an apprehension of threat to his son’s life on which no action was taken. The father further accused the Mumbai police of showing no urgency in conducting the inquest proceedings in order to find the culprits responsible for his son’s death.Pointing to the language employed in Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) relating to inquest, he said, “The Inquest proceeding under Section 174 CrPC refers to term such as ‘immediately’ and ‘forthwith’ which reflect the nature of urgency expressed by the legislature in preparing an inquest report by the police officer.” In the present case, Rhea was questioned four days after the incident. With his complaint now entrusted to the CBI, father of the late actor said, “the present transfer petition has become infructuous.” He said that Rhea will now have to file a fresh petition challenging the probe by CBI as the case no longer rests with Bihar police.He referred to Rhea’s tweets on social media platform where she had requested the Union home minister for a CBI enquiry into Sushant’s death.“Now since the Respondent No.1 (State of Bihar) has entrusted the FIR to the CBI and Union of India has accepted the said request, the Petitioner should not have any grievance in this regard,” the affidavit said.The affidavit further explained that CBI can proceed with the case even if Maharashtra was unwilling to give consent. It referred to a recent case decided by the Supreme Court in Kanwal Tanuj v State of Bihar (2020) to state, “no consent would be required from another state once consent is given from the state which had registered the FIR.” The late actor’s father even defended the registration of his FIR with Bihar police, claiming that “the consequence of a criminal breach of trust and criminal misappropriation” suffered by his son would impact him as he was the Class I legal heir of his unmarried son and the money (left by his son) was required to be “returned or accounted for” to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-plea-to-transfer-case-pointless-sushant-rajput-s-father/story-087dRd3pTo7H6e0lhIFd9I.html
08-08-2020||India||Reminded by Rahul Gandhi, Gohil rushes to Patna for seat-sharing talks with RJD||With the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeming firm on holding the assembly elections in Bihar on time despite the surge in Covid cases, the Congress has embarked on the contentious seat-sharing deal with its principal ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Prompted by former congress president Rahul Gandhi’s reminder during his virtual meeting with party leaders on Thursday, AICC in-charge for Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, arrived in Patna on a two-day visit supposedly to begin the seat-sharing negotiation with RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and leaders of other allies. During his virtual meeting with senior Bihar leaders on July 4, Gandhi had told Gohil to wind up the seat-sharing deal with allies by the month-end, so that the party could focus on selected seats to bolster its electoral prospects. Talking to HT, Gohil had also said that the seat adjustments among the coalition partners would not be stretched. Immediately after his arrival from Delhi, Gohil went straight to meet senior party and CLP leader Sadanand Singh and former governor Nikhil Kumar to solicit their views before launching the crucial seat-sharing talks. “The in-charge has arrived and hopefully the deal would be finalized soon, as leaders of all parties want to settle it,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha. Also Read: Bihar is going to change ‘disha and dasha’ of India: Rahul GandhiDuring the July 4 meeting with Gandhi, former BPCC chief Anil Sharma had floated a formula for seat-sharing, suggesting 101 seats contested by the JD(U) under Grand Alliance (GA) in 2015 could be split between the RJD and the Congress in 60/40 ratio for an honourable agreement.In the last assembly polls, the Congress had contested 41 seats and won 27, while the RJD had fielded 101 candidates and won 80 seats. “In case of distribution of seats, the RJD and the Congress should leave seats in ratio of 60:40 from their quota,” Sharma had pointed out. Party insiders, however, said that expecting a reasonable and respectable allocation of seats with the RJD’s bid to project Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the alliance’s CM candidate, may be wishful thinking. The RJD wants to contest 150 seats out of total 243, leaving little scope for adjustments for allies. Seat-sharing deal in the Lok Sabha polls was also not encouraging for the Congress. Also Read: Govt gone missing: Rahul targets Centre as India crosses 2 mn Covid-19 casesThe RJD does not appear keen to resolve the seat adjustment issue without finalizing the leadership issue. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “Seat allocation and other issues would be resolved on time.” Citing previous electoral results since 2005 in Bihar, Sharma pointed out that the RJD has been a big loser when not contesting in alliance with the Congress.“Good sense will prevail on the RJD to be considerate in seat-sharing exercise, realising the importance of Congress on the basis of past elections,” Sharma said, while asking to urgently set up a coordination committee for GA issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reminded-by-rahul-gandhi-gohil-rushes-to-patna-for-seat-sharing-talks-with-rjd/story-gg80ujzCXCR6RUBPKWc6FI.html
08-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Aim to see Delhi among top 5 global destinations for startups, says Arvind Kejriwal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Aim to see Delhi among top 5 global destinations for startups, says Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has kicked off a consultation process to draft a new startup policy with industry leaders and young entrepreneurs aiming to give a fillip to startups in Delhi and making the capital their preferred destination. Read more.India-China can overcome differences with some kind of equilibrium, says Jaishankar on long-term tiesIndia and China can overcome their differences in the long-term if they reach “some kind of equilibrium” but achieving this is one of the big challenges faced by the country, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. Read more.Six days before Rajasthan showdown, Vasundhara Raje meets Rajnath SinghSenior BJP leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje met defence minister Rajnath Singh amid the political crisis in the state triggered by the rebellion of Congress leader and former deputy chief minister of the state, Sachin Pilot and his 18 followers. Read more.‘Cannot waste 10 balls when Virat Kohli is padded up next’: Sanju Samson working on his T20 battingIndia batsman Sanju Samson has opened up on the dynamics of T20 cricket, elaborating how one needs to get on with things in a format as fickle at T20. Samson, who got his opportunities against Sri Lanka and New Zealand earlier this year, but couldn’t quite cash on, has revealed that he’s been working on the aspect of scoring runs quickly, something a batsman needs to be really good at to thrive as a successful T20 batsman. Read more.Artist creates alien facehugger mask out of leather to protect him from Covid-19A little creativity can go a long way into driving away the pandemic blues, especially since it helps in exploring the outside of the metaphorical box, and for a lot of us during this time, this is the most outside we can get! Read more.Pune Police’s coffee inspired post has an important health message for all. Seen it yet?Police departments across the nation, time and again, have employed creative measures to spread awareness about the pandemic. Case in point is this coffee-related post by Pune Police. Besides being witty, the tweet spreads awareness and drives home a message about the importance of wearing masks. Read more.Watch- Kerala crash | The 2 other ‘dangerous airfields’ in India: Capt RanganathanA day after the deadly plane crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode, Captain Mohan Ranganathan, an aviation safety consultant, warns that other airports in India may see similar mishaps. Speaking to Hindustan Times senior editor Aditi Prasad, he said that Patna and Jammu are also ‘dangerous airfields’ and continue to operate despite flagging of safety issues. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-aim-to-see-delhi-among-top-5-global-destinations-for-startups-says-arvind-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1ccfkPYMYDvDeWAtMqdwwO.html
08-08-2020||India||Day after Kozhikode air crash, stories of heartbreak and heroism||A day after the Air India Express plane crashed at the Kozhikode international airport, there were heartrending scenes of anxious families and relatives of passenger thronging hospitals for information about their kin.Some of the more desperate people were seen engaged in heated conversation with harried hospital workers who tried to ensure Covid-19 protocol that meant no crowding. An aged woman was crying in one corner of a private hospital. Her 32-year-old son survived the crash but she was told he received serious brain injury and was on ventilator.Among those who waited anxiously outside the Baby Memorial Hospital in Kozhikode was P Noufal. His sister Nafia and her five year-old daughter were there in the ill-fated flight. While his injured sister was brought to the Baby Memorial Hospital her daughter was not seen around. He made several rounds to many hospitals on Saturday and finally found his niece in a private hospital with her both legs bandaged. Seven-year-old twins Zain and Zamil were lucky. They had received minor injuries and were discharged from the hospital in the morning but fear was writ large on their faces.Mohamad Riyaz (25) was forced to come on leave by his parents to see a suitable bride for him. His body lies in a mortuary waiting for the Covid-19 test. The state government has made it clear that all bodies will have to undergo Covid-19 tests. Among the dead are five children below 10 years. There were four pregnant women on board and out of them one died and two are in hospital.“We were happy when we were about to land and I told my wife sitting beside me that rain was a welcome sign. But it was short-lived. Suddenly there were big jerks and loud cries. I tumbled out of my seat and lost consciousness. When I opened my eyes at the hospital I was happy to see my injured wife. A pregnant woman, who was sitting beside us, was not so lucky,” said a survivor.“We received 44 patients with four deaths including pilot Deepak Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. Initially there was some confusion but we managed it well later. Out of 44 patients seven are critical,” said Dr Azad Moopan, MD of Aster Health Care, a leading health chain in Kerala.Local people who were the first to reach the accident site won praise for their efforts, have been asked to go into quarantine. Survivors and officials alike vouched that they saved many of the trapped passengers.After one of the dead tested positive on Saturday, local rescuers have been asked to go into quarantine by state health minister K K Shailaja but praise poured in from many quarters. “The state will always remember their work but we have to take precautions also,” she said. Since it was an evacuation flight it carried many aged, children and pregnant women. “It was a miracle we limited the damage. Local people who were the first to reach the spot turned into real heroes. The entered the aircraft which was billowing smoke risking their lives to save many. We have one point to save maximum lives and they played a stellar role in it,” said Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan who reached the spot in 30 minutes. ”It was raining heavily and we suddenly heard a deafening sound and aircraft came out of the boundary wall and fell on the road. We couldn’t believe it. Soon we heard cries for help. Smoke was billowing and there was a smell of fuel also. It was a heart-rending scene once we entered it with much difficulty,” said Mohamad Sahal one of the first to reach the spot. He said they took out at least two dozen people before the rescue team arrived. “Initially we did not wait for ambulances and evacuated many in private vehicles and taxis. We also helped police in controlling vehicles to make way for ambulances. The pilot was not dead when we retrieved him from a mangle of debris,” said P Afzal, another local resident. He did not identify the pilot. “I saw an old man crying for help and I tried to pull him out. But his limb came off, but still I took him out and carried him on my shoulders to the nearby vehicle,” said Abhilash, a college student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-kozhikode-air-crash-stories-of-heartbreak-and-heroism/story-wqSgmz0ssyhzeAJVIlFg0K.html
08-08-2020||India||Kerala landslide death count climbs to 27, more than 40 still missing||With 12 more bodies recovered from the mound of debris and slush on Saturday, the casualties in the landslide at a tea estate near Rajamala in Idukki district in Kerala went up to 27 even as rescue personnel, braving inclement weather, continued their search for 42 missing people.State power minister MM Mani, who is camping at the accident site, admitted that there is little hope for any survivors now. “The situation is really bleak,” he said. The massive landslide took place in the early hours of Friday after a portion of Pettimudi hills caved in razing a colony of tea plantation workers.The Idukki district administration said missing numbers are likely to go up as many students staying in hostels had returned to their shanties (layams) due to the Covid lockdown. Officials were depending on the employment registry of the Kannan Devan Hill Plantation (KDHP) Limited where they were on the roll, but social workers and local leaders said many like students and guests were out of the registry. “There is some confusion about the exact number of missing,” said Idukki collector H Dineshan.There are reports a former panchayat member of Munnar Ananda Siva and his 21 members of the extended family are among the missing. Hoping against the hope, relatives have crowded the area and were seen pleading with rescue officials to search particular points. Some of them broke down hysterically saying at least they should get bodies of the missing. Survivors said they are not happy to be saved as many of their relatives are among missing.“Rajamalai area was not landslide-prone. So we did not take much precautions here. In the 2018 and 2019 floods, the area was least affected. Power and communication lines were cut off in the last four days. This really aggravated the situation,” said district panchayat president Kochu Thresia, adding heavy rains that lashed the area disrupted rescue work several times.Some areas in Idukki received 220 mm rain, said the Met regional office. At least six teams of the National Disaster Response Force are carrying out the relief police and fire force personnel. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan who came to Kozhikode to meet the injured in the plane crash said he will be going to Idukki on Sunday as directed by the Prime Minister.The PM had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the victims and the state government Rs five lakh. KDHP also announced a relief of Rs 2 lakh to the affected.Meanwhile, the weather department has issued a red alert in five districts: Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. All major rivers in the state are in a spate and dams swollen as torrential rains continue to pound many areas. Five more flood-related deaths were reported from other areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-landslide-death-count-climbs-to-27-more-than-40-still-missing/story-dkSxIs5ezauc3XiqB1grMN.html
08-08-2020||India||India-China can overcome differences with some kind of equilibrium, says Jaishankar on long-term ties||India and China can overcome their differences in the long-term if they reach “some kind of equilibrium” but achieving this is one of the big challenges faced by the country, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. Jaishankar made the remarks while participating in an interactive session organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) as part of its “India@75 Summit - Mission 2022” initiative. The event looks ahead at India in its 75th year of independence in 2022 and seeks to bring together stakeholders such as industry and government to work on a vision. Replying to a question on whether India and China, which are currently engaged in a tense border standoff, could be friends in the coming decades, Jaishankar said the two countries are neighbours and demographically unique as they are the only ones with populations of more than one billion. Also read | The PLA Aggressors: China’s eight top commanders who led Ladakh adventureChina is the world’s second largest economy and India is set to become the third largest, and the period of their difficulties and the period of their “re-emergence in a very strong way in international politics” were not far apart, he said. “We are seeing the parallel but differential rise of the two countries... To my mind, what it does is it puts a huge premium on reaching some kind of equilibrium or understanding between the two [in the interests of both countries]. How to do that is one of the big challenges that we face,” Jaishankar said. The border standoff, which emerged in the open in May, has taken India-China relations to a new low. Both countries have mobilised tens of thousands of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), especially in Ladakh sector, after a brual clash on June 15 caused the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. Efforts to disengage and de-escalate the tensions have run into problems as the Chinese side hasn’t pulled back its troops are several key friction points on the LAC, such as Pangong Lake and Depsang. Jaishankar said he believes the world “has a lot riding on” India and China reaching equilibrium, given the size and impact of both countries. “It is not an easy question to answer, there are problems [that are] well laid out. Certainly, it’s something which I feel is very central to our foreign policy calculations,” he said. Also read: India, China to hold senior military-level talks, disengagement at friction areas on agendaHe said a good foreign policy is one that addresses national and economic security and advances the country’s goals and aspirations in a competitive environment. Such a policy depends on skill and agility to build “capabilities strongly, deeply [and] much faster”, he added. In this regard, Jaishankar held up China as a “remarkable example of our lifetime” and pointed out that India too is doing its bit by weighing in on big issues such as climate change and shaping big debates on matters such as terrorism. Jaishankar also said India’s approach was based more on issues as the country is now dealing with a “much more loose architecture” with more poles and less rules, where overlapping interests are a key factor in working with other nations. “The country which is able to navigate best by finding overlapping interests and working with most countries is going to be very successful in diplomacy,” he said, adding that this would mean a country has to be less dogmatic and less dependent on global chains and global sources while striving for strategic autonomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-can-overcome-differences-with-some-kind-of-equilibrium-says-jaishankar-on-long-term-ties/story-yrT9pHRvxasvoPxWalea8L.html
08-08-2020||India||Karnataka govt announces aid for flood-hit as rain continues to batter coastal areas||The Karnataka government on Saturday announced that it would provide aid of Rs 5 lakh per family to those people whose houses had been destroyed up to 75 per cent by the heavy rains and flood-like situation affecting large parts of the state. It also said that Rs 3 lakh would be provided to those people whose houses had been damaged by less than 50 per cent. Assistance of Rs 10,000 per family would be provided to people whose household goods have either been lost or damaged due to the rains.Heavy rain continued to batter the coastal Karnataka districts of Udupi, Mangalore, Uttara Kannada as well as some of the northern districts of the state. Several major rivers continued to be in spate. However, the situation was a little better in Kodagu which has borne the brunt of very heavy rainfall.With the weather improving a little, an NDRF team finally managed to extract the body of Swami Ananda Teertha the brother of the chief priest at the temple of Talacauvery. However, four more bodies including that of the chief priest Narayan Achar, his wife, and two assistants are still missing after landslides in the Brahmagiri hills swept away the house in which they lived. One more person died in Chikamagalur district today taking the total number of people who have died due to the heavy rains in the state to four with four more people still unaccounted for.A political controversy broke out over the proposed move by the state government to open more liquor outlets in rural areas of the state and also permit the online sale of liquor.Former CM and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy hit out at the proposed move saying “After faltering in mopping up revenue the state government is mulling over allowing door delivery of liquor by enabling online sales besides starting new MSIL shops in rural areas. I demand that the state government drop its plans. The government should back out from taking such a foolish decision. Otherwise, agitation is inevitable,” he warned.Kumaraswamy said that the opening of new liquor shops in times of distress will spoil the society’s health. He also said that it is not fair for the government “to fill its coffers by robbing people’s money like this”.However, Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan accused opposition parties of playing politics even during floods and the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that they should play a constructive role. A senior government official, who did not want to be identified, as he is not authorized to speak to the media said, “The excise commissioner has only held consultations on opening more stores and allowing online sales of liquor. No final decision has been taken yet, in this regard, and therefore any further comment on this might be premature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-announces-aid-for-flood-hit-as-rain-continues-to-batter-coastal-areas/story-csa1EnVPjIZSHHPl2exAZI.html
08-08-2020||India||Air India mourns Kozhikode tragedy with ‘black’ logo on social media handles||The logo of Air India has turned black on social media for offering condolences to the families of the demised during the Kozhikode plane crash.The Air India flight carrying 190 passengers had skidded while landing at Karipur Airport in Kozhikode on Friday evening.Air India’s official handles on social media have now been updated their cover and profile photos with its trademark logo appearing in white against the black background.Traditionally, Air India’s logo uses red as the dominant colour with shades of yellow against the white background.Of the 190 people on board the ill-fated plane, there were 184 passengers and six crew members. Of the 18 dead so far, 14 are adults (seven males and females each) and four are children.Both the Pilot and the Co-Pilot are among those dead. At present, 149 passengers are hospitalised, of them 23 with serious injuries.Till now, 23 passengers have been discharged. All the dead have been identified, eight from Kozhikode district, six from Malappuram district, and two from Palakkad district.All the accident victims will be tested for COVID including those who died in the crash. So far, only one victim has tested positive for coronavirus, the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday.The Chief Minister has also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of each passenger who died when an Air India Express flight veered off the runway while attempting to land at the Karipur International Airport here on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-mourns-kozhikode-tragedy-with-black-logo-on-social-media-handles/story-bL2hKFnnyPraUfrXdXzjaP.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Keep off social media for 2 months’: Court grants bail to 18-year-old||The Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has granted bail to an 18-year-old student on the condition that he will have to keep away from social media for two months and plant five trees, a government lawyer said on Saturday. Harendra Tyagi, a resident of Aswar village of Bhind district, was arrested on June 23 for allegedly beating a local shopkeeper and was booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (using obscene language), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 329 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort property). Tyagi was arrested and taken into judicial custody on June 24, police said. Harendra Tyagi’s advocate Sushant Tiwari filed the bail application on the ground that Tyagi is aged 18 years and is a bright student.“Tyagi secured 75% marks in class 12 in 2019. Tyagi is preparing for Pre-Agriculture Test (PAT) to take admission in the agriculture college.The test has been postponed due to Covid-19 and will be organised in coming months, and if he was not granted bail, it would spoil his future. Looking at the challenging time of Covid-19 pandemic situation, his case was sympathetically considered. Even otherwise, he learnt the lesson hard way and would mend his way and would become a better citizen,” said Tiwari. Considering these facts, justice Anand Pathak granted him bail on Tuesday and also put a special condition of digital detoxification so that he could concentrate on his studies, says Kamlesh Kori, government lawyer presenting the police. In his order, the judge said, “Applicant shall remove himself from the WhatsApp and Facebook group and other Social Media groups for next two months and would not be present on any social media platform at all for two months for digital detoxification for personal reasons or for other reasons, otherwise bail shall be considered withdrawn. Every month the applicant shall have to submit a report about his digital detoxification at the concerned police station and any default shall dis-entitle him from benefit of bail. Applicant shall complete his study of PAT.” Kori said, “He was granted bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs 50,000 with other conditions, including plantation of five trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-off-social-media-for-2-months-court-grants-bail-to-18-year-old/story-lEcJRSVTRn1XLNSQAX6a7M.html
08-08-2020||India||Six days before Rajasthan showdown, Vasundhara Raje meets Rajnath Singh||Senior BJP leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje met defence minister Rajnath Singh amid the political crisis in the state triggered by the rebellion of Congress leader and former deputy chief minister of the state, Sachin Pilot and his 18 followers. This is Raje’s second meeting with a senior BJP functionary after she met party President JP Nadda yesterday following murmurs that she had been tacitly helping the Ashok Gehlot government survive the crisis in the state and was not in favour of any potential move to induct Sachin Pilot into the BJP.Raje has not addressed the allegations specifically but stated that she remained committed to party ideals as a loyal member while some people were trying to misinform without any factual basis.She is believed to have discussed the political situation in the state with Nadda with only a few days to go before the crucial assembly session beginning on August 14, which may end up deciding the fate of Gehlot government, surviving on a wafer thin support.Raje’s meeting with Nadda yesterday and Rajnath today will be watched keenly since she has largely maintained silence on the political machinations unfolding in the state in the aftermath of Pilot’s rebellion last month. She has also kept away from most BJP meetings in Jaipur since the crisis broke out. People familiar with the developments have suggested that Raje discussed the party’s options in Rajasthan in her meeting with Nadda and apprised him of her views.The fate of the Rajasthan Congress is also hinged on Rajasthan High Court’s verdict on the validity of last year’s announced merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress party. Earlier today, Rajasthan speaker CP Joshi sought transfer of petitions challenging the merger from the Rajasthan High court to the Supreme Court.The single judge bench of the HC was expected to deliver the verdict in the case on August 11, three days before the assembly session begins.Another key battle within the political war for power in Rajasthan could be influenced by the outcome of the Sachin Pilot’s legal challenge to disqualification petition served on him and other 18 Congress MLAs in his support. The matter is pending before the Supreme Court.A sign of political activities in the state heating up for a final showdown was also seen in the BJP’s bid to herd its MLAs, especially those from tribal areas, fearing they may be poached by the Congress ahead of the assembly session which may see a floor test to determine the power sweepstake in the state. Some BJP MLAs have been sent to Gujarat.The Congress has 107 MLAs in the Assembly, 19 of them are in Haryana with party rebel Sachin Pilot and are unlikely to vote for the Gehlot government. Assembly Speaker CP Joshi and a bed-ridden MLA are among the remaining 88 MLAs including 75 MLAs from opposition parties, the BJP and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party.Eighty-six Congress legislators, 10 Independents, 2 from BTP, one CPM and one RLD MLAs are supporting Ashok Gehlot government and are camping in two hotels in Jaisalmer. The 107 include six BSP MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-days-before-rajasthan-shodown-vasundhara-raje-meets-rajnath-singh/story-4m5e3BvgfAAMGCZKiM46tK.html
08-08-2020||India||J&K Police arrest 5 five alleged overground workers of LeT’s terror financing module||The special operations group (SOG) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police arrested five overground workers of the banned proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba in Jammu as the probe into a terror financing module busted last month continued, inspector general of police of Jammu region, Mukesh Singh said Saturday. Singh did not say when the five men were arrested but it came in the run up to Independence Day celebrations. The arrested men have been identified as Tauqeer Ahmad Batt, Asif Batt, Khalid Latief Batt, Ghazi Iqbal and Tariq Hussain Mir. All of them hail from Doda.On July 19, a team of the SOG Jammu had apprehended one Mubashir Farooq Batt with consignment of 1.5 lakh of Indian rupees meant for hawala transaction. The money was concealed in a tiffin box. “During investigation of the case, SOG Jammu apprehended five more suspects involved in the module. They have admitted their involvement in the case,” said Singh. The IGP also said that all the six accused were in contact with their handler in Pakistan identified as Mohammad Amin Batt who also uses aliases of Haroon Khubaib. Amin is the son of Dawood Batt of Kathawa, Thathri in Doda. “He remained a district commander of the LeT in Doda and exfiltrated to Pakistan in 2007,” said the officer. “All of them were tasked to identify naïve and gullible youth for recruitment in terror ranks, providing logistics and strengthening LeT cadre in the region, sharing information about presence of security forces and their important locations to Pakistani handlers, transportation of arms and ammunition from one location to another and distributing money among the families of active and deceased terrorists,” he added. During questioning of all the six overground workers police found that they received an amount of Rs 12,19,704 through different means on different occasions as part of this module. During interrogation of a suspect identified as Mohammad Irfan Khan of Bijarni in Doda, it came to fore in early July that he along with two of his associates Ghazi Iqbal and Amir Batt had hoisted the Pakistani flag at Lal Draman in Doda. “They were tasked by their Pak handler Haroon to do so. It has been further corroborated by Ghazi Iqbal, who admitted that he had received a call from Haroon for hoisting the Pakistani flag and subsequently he purchased cloth from a local shop at Doda town and stitched that flag by himself,” said the officer. On August 5, on the disclosure of Tariq Hussain Mir, SOG Jammu recovered three more tiffin boxes from his house which contained Rs 40,700, which he had received as consignment on different occasions from Pakistani handlers as part of this module, said the IGP. “The involvement of four accused from Kashmir has also surfaced. Moreover, it has come to notice that the module has its links in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab as well,” he said. Further investigation into the case is underway to unearth terror financing channels and overground workers network used for providing financial support and motivating youth to join terror outfits in Jammu and Kashmir, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-arrest-5-five-alleged-overground-workers-of-let-s-terror-financing-module/story-kMQx24KCIYceK6uzyBfUJM.html
08-08-2020||India||Six Rajasthan MLAs facing disqualification seek transfer of case to Supreme Court||Six MLAs from Rajasthan, who were elected to the assembly on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) tickets and subsequently merged with the Congress party in 2019, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking transfer to the apex court of a disqualification petition filed against them by BJP MLA, Madan Dilawar before the Rajasthan high court.The petitioners contended that they are seeking transfer of the case to the Supreme Court because the legal issues raised in the petition before the Rajasthan high court are already under the consideration of the top court in another case from Assam, Mr. Mithou Krose v. Imtilemba Sangtam.“Therefore, the present transfer petition is being moved so that there may be a uniform interpretation of the law,” the plea filed through advocate Amit Pai said.The Congress government in Rajasthan is resting on shaky foundations after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot along with 18 MLAs were rumoured to be quitting the party after he came out in the open against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Rajasthan assembly speaker, CP Joshi had initiated disqualification proceedings against them but the same was stayed by the high court on July 24. An appeal by the speaker against the high court order is pending before the Supreme Court.Pilot and other dissident MLAs have maintained that they never had the intention to leave the Congress party and were merely exercising their right to criticize the party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister.Meanwhile, Madan Dilawar had moved the Rajasthan high court on July 28 seeking disqualification of the six former BSP MLAS on the ground of defection under 10th schedule of the Constitution.The six MLAs, Lakhan Singh, Rajender Singh Guda, Deepchand, Joginder Singh Avana, Sandeep Kumar and Vajib Ali were elected to the Rajasthan assembly in December 2018 on BSP ticket. They later submitted a joint application to assembly speaker intimating the latter of their unanimous decision to merge with the Congress party on September 16, 2019. The request was approved by the speaker on September 18, 2019.This was challenged by Dilawar who filed a plea before speaker in March 2020 for disqualification of the six MLAs on the ground of defection. The 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India contains provisions relating to disqualification of lawmakers for defection. One of the grounds for disqualification as per paragraph 2 of the 10th schedule is voluntarily giving up membership of the political party on whose ticket the lawmaker was elected.The speaker had rejected Dilawar’s plea on July 22 after which he approached the high court challenging the speaker’s decision. The high court issued notice to the speaker on July 30.The petitioners submitted that as per paragraph 4 of the 10th schedule, when two-thirds of the members of a political party within the assembly merges with another political party in the assembly, then such members will be immune from disqualification. There is no requirement that the parent party, i.e. BSP merging with Congress at the national level so as to save the members of the party within the assembly from isqualification.“The entire basis for the petition (by Dilawar) pending before the high court is that there has been no merger between the BSP and the Congress. It is submitted that the speaker of the legislature, while acting under Paragraph 4, is not concerned with the happenings outside the legislature, so long as two-thirds of the legislature party (i.e. members of a party within the assembly) has accepted the merger,” the petition said. In the present case, the entire legislature party of the BSP merged with the legislature party of Congress, and therefore, the condition laid down in paragraph 4 is satisfied to not attract disqualification, the plea added.It was also pointed out that this issue was pending before the top court in the case of Mithou Krose. That case is an appeal against a 2015 judgment of the Gauhati high court which had taken the view that the only requirement under paragraph 4 is of the merger of the legislature party and there is no requirement of the merger of the parent political party. “There is an urgent need to clarify the law in respect to the scope of Paragraph 4 of the 10th schedule to ensure that there are no conflicting judgments,” the petitioners said seeking a transfer of the case to the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-rajasthan-mlas-facing-disqualification-seek-transfer-of-case-to-supreme-court/story-kqr1TZ3FEMHQvaBEgpauMN.html
08-08-2020||India||Activist Rehana Fathima surrenders before police||Controversial activist Rehana Fathima surrendered before the police here on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court dismissed her anticipatory bail plea in cases against her for circulating a video in which she was semi-nude, allowing her minor children to paint on her body. Police said Fathima presented herself before the South Police station under the Kochi Commissionerate this afternoon.Also read: No anticipatory bail, SC pulls up Kerala activist for ‘obscenity’ The activist will be produced before the magistrate court here after completing formalities of her arrest, they said. The allegation against Fathima, who made an attempt to enter the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala in 2018, is that she asked her children, a boy and girl aged 14 and 8 respectively to paint on her semi-nude body. The video was shot by her and uploaded on social media. After the video was found by the Cyber Dome of Kochi Police, a case was registered against the activist in June, for offences punishable under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Dismissing the anticipatory bail petition of Fathima, the Supreme Court on Friday had said the court is a little baffled at the kind of case that has come up before it. The top court further observed as to what kind of impression the children will get about the culture of this country through such videos.Also read: Rehana says kids painted her body for sex education, court rejects argument, bail plea A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said this kind of thing is unthinkable and would leave the society in a bad taste. She had moved the apex court after the Kerala High Court on July 24 dismissed her anticipatory bail plea, observing that it was not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner. Earlier, the woman was also booked by the police in Pathanamthitta district under the Information Technology Act and the Juvenile Justice Act on a complaint lodged by BJP OBC Morcha leader A V Arun Prakash. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights had also directed the police to register a case against the woman under various sections of the POCSO Act. After the Supreme Court allowed women in traditionally barred age groups of 10-50 into the Sabarimala temple in September 2018, Fathima made an attempt to enter the shrine, but had to retreat following protests by Hindu activists and devotees. Fathima was sacked from employment by the state-run BSNL in May this year for her intentional act of outraging the religious feelings of devotees through social media posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-rehana-fathima-surrenders-before-police/story-pig4ZhR47RYq1YkPkbpU4J.html
08-08-2020||India||Rajasthan CM Gehlot approves recruitment proposal for over 7,000 government posts||Rajasthan is experiencing a jobs bonanza amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the political uncertainty surrounding the ruling Congress government in the desert state, as Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved 7,624 government jobs in three departments in the last few days. The CM has also directed the officials to create posts for village development officer (VDO) and block development officer (BDO) for the 1,456 and 57 new gram panchayats and panchayat samitis, respectively. Sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who is engaged in a bitter power tussle with CM Gehlot and enjoys the backing of 18 rebel Congress lawmakers, was handling the rural development ministry. Gehlot has approved 6,310 new hires in the health department and 988 and 326 in animal husbandry and police, respectively. The CM has cleared the proposal for the recruitment of 6,310 community health officers (CHOs) on a contractual basis at districts and block levels. Under the Ayushman Bharat Abhiyan, all health care institutions up to the level of sub-centre in the state will be made operational as health and wellness centres by 2022. Gehlot approved the creation of 400 new posts, including 200 each for livestock assistants and Jaldhari, at the new veterinary sub-centres to be opened in 2020-21. A livestock assistant and Jaldhari will be posted at each veterinary sub-centre. The CM also approved the additional budget provision of Rs 20.72 crore for strengthening of 294 sub-division offices in the state by creating 588 additional posts. The new posts of information assistant and junior assistant will be deputed at each sub-division office. The CM gave financial and administrative approval to the proposal to fill 326 vacant posts of Class IV employees in the police department through direct recruitment. The posts are approved for Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) battalions, newly constituted Mewad Bhil core Banswara, Maharana Pratap RAC India Reserve Battalion, 14th battalion of RAC and district police Bhiwadi. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition in the state, has taken credit for CM Gehlot’s announcement for new job openings across government departments. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said his party has been raising the recruitment issue for long. “These posts should have been approved a year ago. But the state government is doing it, when its own fate hangs in balance. Employment could have been provided on time,” he alleged. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the Gehlot government is working towards a plan. “Initially, it was working on the right to healthcare and followed by Covid-19 management. Now, it is looking to provide employment, as part of its poll manifesto that it is trying to fulfil,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-approves-recruitment-proposal-for-over-7-000-government-posts/story-rlznc9og55i3w6cxtMHnuN.html
08-08-2020||India||CAT seeks response from Centre, U’khand on whistleblower’s plea for deputation in Lokpal||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) Allahabad Division Bench has sought responses from Centre and the Uttarakhand government within six weeks on Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi’s application that a decision be taken on his request to seek deputation in the national anti-corruption body Lokpal’s investigation wing. The order was issued on August 4, but a copy of the order was made available on Saturday. HT has a copy of the order and other related documents. In November last year, Chaturvedi, a 2002 batch IFS officer, who is currently Chief Conservator of Forests in Uttarakhand, had written a letter to Lokpal seeking deputation to serve in its investigation wing. The state government gave its no-objection certificate to Centre government regarding his deputation plea on December 23 last year, leaving it for Centre to take the final decision. Responding to the NOC, the Union ministry of environment and forests wrote to the state government on February 4 that “the notification of vacancy in Lokpal, relevant to subject matter, maybe furnished to this ministry to further process the request of Sanjeev Chaturvedi, IFS, at the earliest” Following the development, Chaturvedi filed an application in CAT Allahabad bench, whose circuit bench sits in Nainital for a week every month in normal times. During the epidemic, the circuit bench of CAT could not sit in Nainital and this case was heard through video conferencing. Chaturvedi in his plea had sought relief from CAT to summon the records of the case and issue directions to Centre to pass appropriate orders on his deputation plea in Lokpal “with positive recommendation in view of fulfilment of all the statutory requirements under IFS Cadre Rules, 1966, on grounds of equity.. in accordance with the objectives of the establishment of the institution of Lokpal.. in public interest” and not to reject his deputation plea on “any ulterior/subjective/oblique consideration.” In his application, Chaturvedi stated that “there may be attempts on the part of Respondent No.1 (Centre), to get the said NOC withdrawn so as to pre-empt the case of applicant…which if allowed would result in irreparable loss to applicant..” The IFS officer, while seeking interim relief, stated in his application that Centre and Uttarakhand government be directed to maintain status quo, in respect of NOC/recommendation granted by the state government in its December 23, 2019 letter till the disposal of the case (in CAT). Hearing the matter on August 4 through video conferencing, the Allahabad bench of CAT ordered “Let counter reply on behalf of both the respondents (Centre and Uttarakhand govt) be filed within six weeks. Applicant (Chaturvedi) is directed to file his rejoinder within two weeks thereafter. Both the counsels are also directed to file their objection separately on the request of interim relief within three weeks. The matter has been listed for next hearing on August 27. Chaturvedi served as Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of AIIMS, Delhi (June 2012 to June 2016), where he came into the spotlight for his fight against corruption and investigating over 200 cases of graft. In 2015, he was awarded Ramon Magsaysay Award for his fight against corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cat-seeks-response-from-centre-u-khand-on-whistleblower-s-plea-for-deputation-in-lokpal/story-6TooZLhGFC7cg15J9T72fK.html
08-08-2020||India||Pilots operating Air India flight were very experienced, no doubt over their competence: Puri||The Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of the Air India Express flight that crashed in Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night was recovered from the site on Saturday morning. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri who flew from Delhi to the accident site said there was no need to speculate as a probe has been ordered adding that there was no question over the pilots’ competence. The recovery of Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) will help piece together what happened during the last moments of the flight.Puri said the pilots operating the Air India Express flight were very experienced. Commander of the aircraft Deepak Vasant Sathe, a former fighter pilot with the Indian Air Force had 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft. Out of that he flew 6,662 hours as commander. Sathe had landed on the challenging air field of Calicut 27 times including more than 10 times this year itself while co-pilot, Akhilesh Kumar who was 32 years old also had experience of 1,728 hours of flying with the 737 aircraft.ALSO READ | Both Air India Express pilots killed as plane with 191 on board skids off runway in Kozhikode“The aircraft was captained and operated by one of our most experienced and distinguished commanders - Deepak Sathe. He had landed on this airfield as many as 27 times, including this year. He was a very accomplished, experienced, decorated person in command of the aircraft. There is absolutely no doubt over their competence,” Puri said.Puri left from Delhi to Kozhikode on Saturday morning along with two probe teams. One flight took off around 0200 hours from Delhi to Kozhikode carrying investigating officers from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), CEO of Air India Express and other officials of the national transporter. Another flight from Mumbai to Kozhikode took off around 0600hrs in the morning carrying rescue teams of Air India to provide support and assist families of those affected in this accident while a third flight will take off from Delhi around 0600hrs carrying the CMD and other senior officials of AI.ALSO READ | Co-pilot’s wife unaware of his death in Kerala crash. Is expecting a baby in 15 days“Reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status & implementation of relief measures after the air accident last evening. Will hold consultations with senior civil aviation officials & professionals. Digital Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder of the aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB is conducting investigations. It is very unfortunate that 18 people including the two pilots have lost their lives in this air accident. I once again offer my condolences to the families of the bereaved and wish a speedy recovery to those injured,” Puri tweeted.The civil aviation ministry’s accident investigation division Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will conduct a detailed investigation into the crash. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is a division of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India which investigates aircraft accidents. The bureau’s role is to conduct independent aircraft accident investigation and to obtain a preliminary report on the accident and assist in setting up of the committee of inquiry and formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules.According to Air India, there were 190 people on board the Air India Express flight AXB1344 including 174 passengers, 10 infants and four crew members. Air India Express is a subsidiary of state-run airline Air India.The so-called tabletop airport has limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines had stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues over the length of the runway.Puri said that there was no need to speculate on what happened during the crash till the probe has been completed and DGCA files an investigation report . He also said that it was fortunate that the plane didn’t catch fire.“ We will look into all the issues. Let me tell you that there are table-top airports not just in our country, but all over the world. These airports pose a problem but then landing clearances are given based on the experience of the pilots. Let us not speculate as a full and comprehensive probe will take place,” he added.According to a playback on flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the plane circled the airport twice before attempting to land. In its second instance, it aborted the attempt with 2,000 feet to go before the crash landing.The crash has claimed at least 18 lives including the two pilots. Air India Express on Saturday said it will provide an interim compensation of Rs 10,00,000 to the next kin of the deceased passenger 12 years and above, Rs 5,00,000 to the passengers below the age of 12 years, Rs.200,000 to critical injured passenger and Rs.50,000 to the passengers who are injured in the incident.“Air India Express regret to confirm that its flight IX-1344 from DXB to CCJ was involved in an accident on the 7th August 2020 at Calicut. As an immediate relief, the airline will provide interim compensation to the to the next kin of the deceased and to the injured,” the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-operating-air-india-flight-were-very-experienced-no-doubt-over-their-competence-puri/story-idRhMy91dXfCvs1TGmzh7I.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Banish squalor from India’: PM Modi appeals on Quit India movement anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled Mahatma Gandhi led Quit India movement started on this day in 1942 and termed it the perfect occasion to force squalor, poverty, open defecation, water scarcity, terrorism and discrimination to quit India. He also called for beginning a campaign for creating community toilets, especially in rural India. Prime Minister’s comments came while interacting with school children during the inauguration of the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra, an interactive experience centre on Swachh Bharat Mission, established at Rajghat in Delhi to showcase the various aspects of NDA government’s flagship social change drive between 2014 and 2019.“Was it possible to even imagine that cleanliness drive could be linked to the freedom struggle? Mahatma Gandhi not only saw it but also made it possible through a campaign to connect the masses with the freedom struggle,” PM said, stressing on the importance of cleanliness in empowering masses.The centre has been launched as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and to mark the country’s progress in achieving sanitation and mitigating squalid living through the Swachh Bharat Mission and to serve as an inspiration for its adoption by masses including the new generation.“Around 60 crore Indians were connected with cleanliness living in 60 months due to the drive. The drive has given poor and the downtrodden dignity and confidence while giving them conditions for a healthy life,” PM Modi told the children.He also outlined the importance of hygienic living in battling the coronavirus pandemic.“We have to step out and carry out our business and still safeguard ourselves from Corona. For this we have to wear masks, maintain 6ft distance and avoid spitting in the open,” said the PM.Earlier, he took a round of the new facility and watched an audio visual presentation highlighting its features. He also went through a 360 degree audio-visual show, which narrates the country’s sanitation journey in a story form.The centre has 11 zones representing the five year journey of the Swachh Bharat Mission from 2014 to 2019, often described as the largest behaviour change campaign in the history of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banish-squalor-from-india-pm-modi-appeals-on-quit-india-movement-anniversary/story-Isk6cE1DmhsitDewk8bw4L.html
08-08-2020||India||Kedarnath priest threatens bhoomi samadhi if Uttarakhand doesn’t scrap Char Dham Board||After a protest of almost two months against the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, a priest from Kedarnath has now threatened to take bhoomi samadhi (bury himself alive). Santosh Trivedi, the priest protesting since June 12 sits outside the temple bare chested and meditates as a sign of dissent, demanding the dissolution of the Board.The priests’ community in the state has been demanding the dissolution of Devasthanam Board and withdrawal of the Kedarnath master plan. Brijesh Sati, spokesperson for Devbhoomi Tirtha Purohit Haqhakudhari Mahapanchayat, a priests’ body in the state said that Trivedi has informed all other priests that he will find an auspicious time for bhoomi Samadhi at Kedarnath. “Upset with the state government’s response towards his protests, with no call for an amicable conversation Acharya Trivedi has decided to take bhoomi samadhi near Shankaracharya’s Samadhi at Kedarnath shrine. He will consult with priests of all the four shrines and find an auspicious time before the bhoomi samadhi,” said Sati. Vinod Shukla, president of Kedarnath Tirtha Purohit Mahasabha, said, “First the government constituted the Devasthanam Board without the consent of the priests and after that, under the Master Plan, efforts are being made to take over the property of Kedarnath’s priests’ under its control. We will continue to strongly oppose this move.” Officials from the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, could not be reached for a comment. On July 21, the Uttarakhand high court dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy against the state government’s takeover of the Char Dhams and 51 other shrines through the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. The court ruled that the ownership of the temple properties would vest in Char Dham shrines and power of the Board would be confined only to the administration and management of the properties. Last December, the Uttarakhand assembly had passed the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Bill. In January, Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent for the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019. Aggrieved priests had threatened that they would move the HC against the Act, as they claimed to have been kept in the dark about the new law. They had alleged that the government took the step to ensure its control over shrine-related issues, bypassing the powerful priest community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-priest-threatens-bhoomi-samadhi-if-uttarakhand-doesn-t-scrap-char-dham-board/story-EGfETFr7Ml4qmKqCtvom1M.html
08-08-2020||India||IMA says nearly 200 doctors in India have succumbed to Covid-19; requests PM’s attention||A total of 196 doctors in the country, majority of them being general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19 so far, said the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday, requesting the prime minister for his attention on the issue.“As per the latest data collected by the IMA, our nation has lost 196 doctors, out of which 170 of them are above the age of 50 years, with general practitioners attributing to around 40 per cent of it,” the IMA said expressing concerns over the safety of doctors losing their lives in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile an increasing number of doctors are getting infected and losing their lives every day, substantial number of them have been found to be general practitioners.  Since significant proportion of the population consult general practitioner due to fever and its related symptoms, they remain the first point of contact as well as care, said the doctors’ body.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the IMA requested him to ensure adequate care for doctors and their families who are a special risk group and extend the state-sponsored medical and life insurance facilities to doctors in all the sectors.  “The IMA represents over 3.5 lakh doctors spread across the country providing next door affordable healthcare, it is pertinent to mention that Covid-19 does not differentiate between government and private sector and affect all same.“Further disturbing are the reports that state that the doctors and their family members are not getting beds for admission and deficiency of drugs in most of the cases. The IMA thus requests the government of India to provide adequate attention for the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, National President, IMA Dr R V Asokan, Secretary General, IMA, said the mortality rate among doctors due to Covid-19 has reached an “alarming proposition” now. “Saving each and every life of a doctor will ensure safety of thousands of patients who depend on their care. Doctors who have died in line of their professional duty merit favourable consideration for succour and solace to their families. It is thus pertinent for the IMA to also draw your attention to the demoralising effect to our healthcare community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-says-nearly-200-doctors-in-india-have-succumbed-to-covid-19-requests-pm-s-attention/story-1K3dadvNuDUvgQYX7zSEhM.html
08-08-2020||India||Telangana Congress vice-president and 8-time MP Nandi Yellaiah dies of Covid-19 in Hyderabad||Veteran Congress leader and eight-time parliamentarian from Telangana, Nandi Yellaiah died of a brief illness after being detected positive for Covid-19 in Hyderabad on Saturday, a statement from the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) said. He was 78. He is survived by his two sons and two daughters. A prominent Dalit leader of the Congress party, Yellaiah was vice-president of the TPCC till his death. “He was admitted to the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad with complaints of pneumonia on July 29. He tested positive for Covid-19 subsequently. After undergoing treatment for 10 days, he passed away at 10.30 am,” the PCC statement said. Born on July 1, 1942 at Bholakpur in Hyderabad, Yellaiah, a prominent Dalit leader of the Congress, began his political career as a follower of former chief minister Dr Marri Channa Reddy and took part in the 1969 Telangana movement. He was a councillor in the Hyderabad Municipal Corporation in 1970s. Yellaiah got elected to the Lok Sabha for the first time in 1977, representing the Siddipet parliamentary constituency. Subsequently, he won the Lok Sabha elections from the same constituency for another four times. In 2014, he got elected from the Nagarkurnool parliamentary constituency defeating Manda Jagannatham of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. He was also nominated to the Rajya Sabha twice and also worked as a member of the state legislative council for some time. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, PCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and several other Congress leaders have mourned the death of Nandi Yellaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-congress-vice-president-and-8-time-mp-nandi-yellaiah-dies-of-covid-19-in-hyderabad/story-8UIoPgxRMDENGGxNeMh25H.html
08-08-2020||India||Lessons from Swachhta Mission important in fighting coronavirus, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi encouraged school children to adopt a hygienic way of living while linking its importance to containing the coronavirus pandemic while inaugurating the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra. The initiative is an interactive experience centre on Swachh Bharat Mission established in Delhi to showcase various aspect of the flagship social change drive undertaken by the NDA government in its first term between 2014 and 2019.“I am happy to see that you are interested in issues of cleanliness,” he told a group of 36 school kids, who were picked to represent the 36 states and Union Territories of the Indian federal state.“We have to step out and carry out our business and still safeguard ourselves from Corona. For this we have to wear masks, maintain 6 ft distance and avoid spitting in the open,” PM Modi told the children.Earlier, the PM watched a short video on ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ at the Rashtriya Swachhta Kendra. He also went through a 360 degree audio-visual show, which narrates the sanitation journey in a story form.The 11 zones at the centre represent the 5 year journey of the Swachh Bharat Mission from 2014 to 2019 depicting the behavioral change brought up in 6 lakh villages for giving up open defecation practice. This is often described as the largest behaviour change campaign in the history of the world.The first zone at the centre contains Mahatma Gandhi’s thoughts on sanitation and cleanliness, captured through hologram technology and audio visuals.Second zone presents the sanitation related problems that existed before the drive began including open defecation and safety and hygiene risks posed to women, elderly and children of the family who were forced to relieve themselves in the open.Fourth zone displays the process to be followed to achieve complete sanitation and the fifth zone displays various milestones, launches, campaigns and other information of the drive broken up into years.Sixth zone lists contributions of the women folk including women sarpanches, Aasha workers in making the drive successful through awareness drives.Another zone is dedicated to Swachhta Champions—listing inspirational stories of such personalities who have made remarkable and defining contributions in the field.The Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra is a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-from-swachhta-mission-important-in-fighting-coronavirus-says-pm-narendra-modi/story-hWGprrjJBxxDMtl8noL9vO.html
08-08-2020||India||45% of central funds for rural jobs, subsidised food spent till July due to Covid-19 crisis||Almost half of the central funds meant for rural employment guarantee scheme and subsidised ration – the two central schemes that have helped to deal with the economic distress due to Covid-19 - have already been spent in the first four months of financial year 2020-21, government data shows.While the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) enabled 90 million households to get work between April and July 2020, subsidised ration under National Food Security Act (NFSA), also called public distribution system (PDS), was provided to an average 720 million people every month during this period. According to the central government data, till July 2020, around 45% of Rs 1,01,500 crore for NREGA and 44% of 1,15,569 NFSA funds for the current financial year has already been allocated to the states.The data also pointed out that the demand in these two schemes came down in the month of July after peaking in June, indicating that who had left for villages may be migrating back to cities or moving elsewhere looking for work, as industrial activity has started in and around urban centres.Under MGNREGA, 24.2 million households were provided work in July as compared to 38.9 million in June (highest ever under the scheme for a month) and 33.1 million in May. “The employment in July was less because migrant workers returned to cities and labourers got engaged in sowing work that started in July after a good spell of rains,” said Nikhil Dey, former member of NREGA’s Central Advisory Council, and an activist working in rural areas of Rajasthan. This year, employment provided under the scheme, which guarantees 100 days of work in a year, is almost 50% more than in 2019 and 2018, he said. Also, the number of people provided 100 days of employment during the period is almost three times of the number in 2019. Himanshu, associate professor in department of labour studies in Jawaharlal Nehru University, who uses only his first name, said NREGA has provided social security to rural poor, for which, it was envisaged, and this is amply clear from the data. “Covid-19 has shown that wages under NREGA has to be realistic as they are very low as compared to minimum wages notified by the state governments,” he said. Similarly, the disbursement of subsidised ration peaked in the month of June with 94% of the 800 million identified beneficiaries under NFSA getting food grains. In July, the disbursement came down to 91%, which was about seven percentage points less than the number in June and July of 2019. In terms of food grain disbursed, 28 lakh tonnes of rice and 21 million tonnes of wheat was given to the needy in June, which went down to 24.41 lakh tonnes of rice and 19.91 lakh tonnes of wheat in July. Still, this is about 20% more food grains given to the beneficiaries as compared to June and July 2019, the official data showed. However, employment generated under NREGA and ration disbursed under NFSA in July was still higher than the pre-lockdown that started on March 24, 2020. The officials expect the off-take to remain high in these two schemes and other rural development programmes till the end of this year. Financial crunch The NREGA funds are given to states to pay wages to workers and buy raw material for asset creation. The money, in the form of food subsidy, is given to the Food Corporation of India for supplying grains from its stocks to different states for PDS. “We are left with very less money under NREGA for the current financial year,” said a rural development ministry official, while briefing the Parliamentary standing committee on labour on Friday. At this pace, the official said, the NREGA funds would be exhausted by early December. He, however, added that as NREGA is a demand driven scheme, the Central government has to pay to the states and the finance ministry has assured that there would be no shortage of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-of-central-funds-for-rural-jobs-subsidised-food-spent-till-july-due-to-covid-19-crisis/story-7Lyj8edgn1RuEabBTgBDZJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest officials rescue very rare Red Coral Kukri snake||A very rare Red Coral Kukri snake which was spotted in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district and rescued by forest department on Friday, officials said Saturday. The snake was rescued from Bindukhatta area of Nainital from a local resident’s house where it was hiding. According to forest officials, the rare snake was first spotted in Lakhimpur Kheri area of Uttar Pradesh in 1936 from where it got its scientific name ‘Oligodon kheriensis’. The suffix ‘kukri’ in its name comes from the kukri or curved knife of Gorkhas as its teeth are curved like the blade of the kukri. Nitish Mani Tripathi, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai East said, “Goula forest range team got a call for rescue of a snake on Friday morning from Kavindra Koranga, a resident of Kurriya Khatta village in Bindukhatta area of Nainital district”. “When we went there to rescue the snake, villagers had caught the snake and kept it a plastic sack” he said. Tripathi said after rescuing the snake from the spot, the team was surprised. “It was the rare of rarest snakes - Red Cora Kukri snake. The team rescued it and released it in the forest.” Vipul Mourya, wildlife expert from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) said Red Coral Kukri is a very rare snake and has been spotted only twice so far in Uttarakhand. “It was reported in 2015 in the Surai forest range of Terai East forest division. Earlier in 2014, this snake was reported in Surai forest range near Uttar Pradesh border but then it was found dead,” he said. Red Coral Kukri snake is listed in schedule 4 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. It is found in red and bright orange colours. This non-venomous snake is nocturnal and feeds on earthworms, insects and larvae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-officials-rescue-very-rare-red-coral-kukri-snake/story-a1JAjzNNeA3IYNdpb6GqVK.html
08-08-2020||India||Swollen rivers, flood-like situation in several parts of Karnataka due to heavy rainfall||Swollen rivers and flood like situation continue to threaten lives and property in several parts of Karnataka that have been ravaged by torrential rains over the last few days.Though there has been a respite from the downpour in some parts, rivers continue to flow above the danger mark, inundating low lying areas in several parts of Malnad, coastal and interior Karnataka.There are also reports of continued landslides in hilly areas of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru. In Dakshina Kannada, heavy rains have submerged several areas in Bantwala and Belthangady, among others, with the Netravati river overflowing and also water being released from nearby dams. Officials said incessant rains in Cauvery river catchment areas have led to increased inflow in the Krishna Raja Sagara dam in Mandya district. Water is being released from it and people living in low lying areas have been warned, they said. There is also a flood like situation in Najanagudu and nearby areas of Mysuru as the swollen Kapila river has inundated roads connecting Ooty in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with water being released from Kabini dam. There has been some respite from heavy rains in certain parts of Kodagu, which has been ravaged by floods and landslides. However several areas of the district continue to be in deluge with the Cauvery and Lakshmana Tirtha rivers overflowing due to rains in the hilly areas. There are also reports of landslides in some parts of the district. Meanwhile, continuing rains are hampering the search operation by NDRF and authorities to locate five people, including the priest at Talacauvery, the origin of the river Cauvery, who had gone missing due to massive landslides at Bramhagiri hills on Wednesday night. There are also reports of landslides at a few places in Charmadi ghat region of Chikkamagaluru and the road connecting to Dakshina Kannada has been closed temporarily. Though Belagavi district has had some respite from the heavy rains, flood like situation continues to persist as the Krishna river and its tributaries are swollen due to continued inflows because of rains in neighbouring Maharashtra. Some areas and roads in the district’s Chikkodi and Nippani are inundated, the sources said. Inflow has also increased to the Tungabhadra dam in Hosapete of Ballari district due to rains in the catchment areas of Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru. Authorities have alerted people living in low lying areas about opening dam gates to release water anytime with rising inflow. There is a similar flood like situation in parts of Yadgir, Raichur and Bagalkote districts with water being released from various dams.The state government has released Rs 50 crore for emergency relief and has announced Rs 10,000 as immediate relief each to affected families. An amount of Rs five lakh has been announced for completely damaged houses, while in the case of partially damaged ones, relief will be distributed considering the extent of damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swollen-rivers-flood-like-situation-in-several-parts-of-karnataka-due-to-heavy-rainfall/story-XJwMB5HXWNzy4QVSE1K0sI.html
08-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: All Air India crash survivors to be tested for Covid-19, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All Air India crash survivors to be tested for Covid-19: Kerala CM Pinarayi VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said all those who had been on board the Air India Express flight which skidded off the runway at the Kozhikode international airport killing 18 people on Friday evening, would be tested for the Covid-19 infection. So far, only one of the victims has tested positive for the viral disease.Read more. Abhishek Bachchan tests negative for Covid-19, gets discharged from hospital: ‘I told you guys I’d beat this’Actor Abhishek Bachchan has tested negative for Covid-19. He took to social media to share the news with his fans. “I TOLD YOU!!! Discharge plan: YES!! This afternoon I tested Covid-19 NEGATIVE.Thank you all for your prayers and wishes. I’m so happy to be able to go home. #believe My eternal gratitude to the doctors and nursing staff at Nanavati Hospital for taking such good care of me and my family and helping us beat Covid-19. We couldn’t have done it without them,” he wrote. He also shared a picture of a medical board on Instagram.Read more. Red alert sounded for five districts as Kerala battles flood-like situation, more rains till SundayThe weather department has issued a red alert for several districts in Kerala warning of heavy rains on Saturday, a day after a landslide in Idukki district caused at least 21 deaths in a reminder of the massive 2018 tragedy precipitated by flooding and landslides due to incessant rains and overflowing of dams.Read more. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the Rashtriya Swachhata KendraPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the ‘Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra’, an interactive experience centre on the Swachh Bharat Mission, in New Delhi on Saturday.Read more. ‘As long as I’m beating the fastest sprinter in team, I consider myself fit enough for international cricket’: MS Dhoni to ManjrekarRenowned commentator and former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar is confident about MS Dhoni having a wonderful IPL 2020 season for the Chennai Super Kings, believing the conditions are going to be tailor-made for the former India captain.Read more. Rana-Miheeka wedding: Bride’s Anamika Khanna ensemble took over 10,000 hours to make. See picsAfter vibrant and small Haldi and Mehendi ceremonies, Rana Daggubati and Miheeka Bajaj’s wedding day is finally here, and we are sure that like us, you too can’t wait for all the details. Earlier on the day of his wedding, Rana took to his Instagram handle and shared glimpses of the wedding and festivities. Read more. Michelle Obama’s new playlist post on Instagram wows people. Heard the songs yet?The former First Lady of the United States, Michelle Obama’s most recent Instagram post may excite many music lovers. Shared from her official account on August 8, the post lists all the songs on Obama’s new playlist. To say that the former First Lady’s musical selection is excellent would be an understatement.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-all-air-india-crash-survivors-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XnZ9tcEbztAcv8uJYYUp4M.html
08-08-2020||India||Co-pilot’s wife unaware of his death in Kerala crash. Is expecting a baby in 15 days||The family of 32-year-old Akhilesh Sharma, co-pilot of the Air India Express aircraft that crashed in Kozhikode in Kerala on Friday evening, is still in shock after learning about his death. Sharma’s wife Megha (29), who is expecting a child within a fortnight, has not yet been told about her husband’s death. The family lives in Govind Nagar locality of Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura.“Initially we got the news that bhaiyya (Akhilesh) was critical and hospitalized after the plane crash but we were later informed about his death on Friday night. My brother Bhuvnesh and brother-in-law Sanjeev Sharma have left for Kozhikode via Delhi,” Lokesh Sharma (24) who lives in Mathura said. Lokesh, too, wants to become a commercial pilot. ALSO READ | All Air India crash survivors to be tested for Covid-19: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan“We have not told bhabhi (Megha Sharma) about the death of her husband as she is expecting a child in a few days from now. She is aware of the plane crash though,” Lokesh said on Saturday. Akhilesh Sharma was the elder brother of Bhuvnesh Sharma ((28) and Lokesh Sharma (24) and also had an elder sister who is married. His father Tulsi Ram Sharma owns a business in Mathura and had come to Govind Nagar in Mathura city from his paternal village in Mathura district. “Akhilesh studied in Amarnath College in Mathura and joined CAE Oxford Aviation Academy in Gondia (Maharashtra) to train as a pilot. He joined Air India in 2017. He was married to Megha in 2018 and the couple was about to have a child but destiny snatched him from us,” Lokesh said. ALSO READ | Civil aviation expert’s 2011 warning about ‘unsafe’ KIA runway fell on DGCA’s deaf earsBhuvnesh, who has gone to Kozhikode, works in an IT firm in Gurugram. The family is now waiting for the mortal remains of Akhilesh to reach Mathura where the funeral will soon be held. Eighteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot, died when an Air India Express plane overshot the runway at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport and fell into a gorge, breaking into two on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/co-pilot-s-wife-unaware-of-his-death-in-kerala-crash-is-expecting-a-baby-in-15-days/story-8mJwTlM4s6vJ5czqnzBJ8O.html
08-08-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra, says cleanliness drive big support in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the ‘Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra’, an interactive experience centre on the Swachh Bharat Mission, in New Delhi on Saturday and said that Swacch Bharat Mission or the cleanliness drive has been a big support in fight against coronavirus. A tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra (RSK) was first announced by the prime minister on April 10, 2017 on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of Gandhiji’s Champaran ‘satyagraha’.After taking a tour of the RSK, located near Raj Ghat, the prime minister interacted with 36 school students, representing the 36 states and union territories, at the amphitheatre .He expressed satisfaction that the children were following social distancing norms and wearing masks to curb the spread of Covid-19.“We all are a part of a campaign now, ‘Gandagi, Bharat Chorho’. I am glad that all of us, including the children present here, are following social distancing norms and wearing masks, to control the spread of Covid-19,” he told the students.Speaking about Mahatma Gandhi, the PM said that the whole world was now coming forward to adopt his values.“The whole world is coming forward to adopt the values and principals of Mahatma Gandhi. When Gandhi ji’s 150th birth anniversary was celebrated last year, that was unprecedented. Singers of different countries learnt and sung his favourite song ‘Vaishnav Jan To’,” he said. He added that children are contributing to the fight against coronavirus due to their role in the cleanliness drive. Drawing a parallel with the 1942 Quit India movement, the PM said that there has been a ‘Bharat Chhodo’ mission going on in the country for the past six years including movements against use of plastic, against corruption, terrorism and for the promotion of cleanliness. The prime minister announced a week-long campaign from August 8 to 15 to free India of garbage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-inaugurates-the-rashtriya-swachhata-kendra/story-H5O1tfCA9uqwapSsLRCAvL.html
08-08-2020||India||Kozhikode plane crash turns spotlight on tabletop runway challenges||The tragic crash at the Kozhikode airport on Friday --- an Air India Express plane with 190 on board overshot the runway and fell into a gorge --- has turned the spotlight on the challenges pilots face while operating from table-top runways and the hazards of overshooting during take off and landing, three commercial pilots HT spoke to said on the condition of anonymity. Eighteen people, including the two pilots, were killed in the crash. “The most obvious challenge of a tabletop runway is the fact that on a normal runway if you run out of space you would still be on the ground. On a tabletop, you may find yourself on ground several hundred feet below,” said one of the pilots cited above. A report on the 2010 Mangalore air crash, prepared by a three-star officer, noted tabletop airports require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. Tabletop runways, located on a plateau or a hill, can also create optical illusions for pilots when they move from the instruments to the visual segment of the flight especially during bad weather, said a second pilot. “It can be tricky as the pilot may get the illusion of not being on the correct flight profile. Add-ons like heavy rain, wet runway and pilot fatigue can complicate things further,” he said. Tabletop airports have limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines had stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues over the length of the runway. However, pilots flying smaller aircraft are not immune to the hazards. “The runway is at a height which is higher than the surrounding areas and the weather conditions also differ. Sudden changes in wind pattern on approach is a common phenomenon which a pilot has to tackle. On an approach till such time you hit the tabletop you may be under the influence of some winds which vary suddenly when you reach the table making the approach management that much more difficult,” said a third pilot. Possible variation in instrument indication when the transition to the tabletop happens is another key challenge. “For example, the radio altimeter which calls out the height of the aircraft may call out 500 feet and a second later may call out 100 feet because you have entered the table zone. This transition to the table top is also when the winds may change which at times becomes a little tricky to manage,” the third pilot said, adding that the degree of difficulty increases manifold during the monsoons. The Air India Express flight from Dubai was a repatriation flight carrying Indian citizens back to the country under the Vande Bharat Mission, meant to bring home stranded people from other countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe (retd), the captain of the aircraft, was a top notch Indian Air Force fighter ace who learnt his trade flying the unforgiving Soviet-origin MiG-21 fighter planes during his 22-year military career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-plane-crash-turns-spotlight-on-tabletop-runway-challenges/story-hQnlUtFbn0RRAKA5sTXSyN.html
08-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: Among 23 critical passengers, 3 are on ventilators, 26 discharged||Three out of 126 injured passengers currently admitted in Kerala hospitals following the crash of Air India Express flight at Karipur Airport in Kozhikode on Friday night are on ventilator and are in a critical condition along with about 20 others while 26 injured have been discharged after treatment, said aviation minister Hardeep Puri after visiting the injured in a Kerala hospital.“A few patients are in critical condition, three of them are on ventilators,” Puri was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. 18 people on board the plane including the two pilots have succumbed so far.“There were 190 people on board the aircraft, out of them, 18 lost their lives. 149 people were also admitted to hospitals, of which 23 have been discharged,” Puri added while commenting on the current status of the injured.Kerala state government has announced that it would bear the treatment expenses of all those injured in the plane crash irrespective of the hospitals they are admitted in. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of each deceased. Watch: Kerala plane crash ‘murder, not accident’: Expert who flagged safety issuesVijayan confirmed that 23 people injured in the crash were in critical condition. “Currently, 149 people are in various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode, out of which 23 are in critical condition. Earlier, 23 were discharged after being provided initial medical assistance,” Vijayan was quoted as saying by the news agency.The CM also said that four out of the 18 people to die in the tragedy were children. An equal number of male and female casualties were among the 14 adults who lost their lives in the crash. The chief minister has promised any further assistance required to support the victims to return to normal life.While most passengers were from Kerala, a few also belonged to Tamil Nadu and Telangana.One of the victims of the crash has tested positive for Covid-19, the state government has said that all the accident victims will be tested for the contagion including the dead.The Air India Boeing 737, operating flight IX-1344 from Dubai to Calicut with 191 passengers and crew on board touched down at 7.40 pm in rain and adverse wind conditions on runway 10 of Karipur airport before it overshot the runway and slid into a gorge with its fuselage splitting into two on impact.Also Read: ‘Wait for the outcome of probe into Kerala plane crash’Two blackboxes of the aircraft have been recovered, which will be analysed during the probe ordered into the causes of the accident at the table top airport, similar to the Mangalore airport which witnessed the last air crash to take place in the country in 2010, killing everyone on board. Airport Authority of India’s chairman Arvind Singh has said that some issues had surfaced with the runway in 2015 but had been resolved with clearance obtained in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-among-23-critical-passengers-3-are-on-ventilators-26-discharged/story-6XrvNRxbyDa8PIX2Q5vV6M.html
08-08-2020||India||PM to launch financing facility worth Rs1 lakh crore under Agricultural Infrastructure Fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a financing facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agricultural Infrastructure Fund through a video conference on Sunday. He will also release the sixth instalment of funds under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna (PM-KISAN) scheme, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.“The PM will launch a financing facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agricultural Infrastructure Fund on August 9 at 11 am via video conferencing. He will also release the sixth instalment of funds of Rs. 17,000 crore to 8.5 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme. The event will be witnessed by lakhs of farmers, cooperatives, and citizens across the country. Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, will also be present on the occasion,” the statement said.It further said that the fund would bring about the creation of post-harvest management infrastructures and community farming assets such as cold storage, collection centres and processing units.“These assets will enable farmers to get greater value for their produce, as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reduce wastage and increase processing and value addition. Rs. 1 Lakh Crore will be sanctioned under the financing facility in partnership with multiple lending institutions. The beneficiaries of the scheme will include farmers, PACS, Marketing Cooperative Societies, FPOs, SHGs, Joint Liability Groups (JLG), Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, Agri-entrepreneurs, Startups, and Central/State agency or Local Body sponsored Public-Private Partnership Projects,” the statement added.The statement also said that PM-KISAN scheme that was launched on December 2018 had provided a direct cash benefit of over Rs 75,000 crore to more than 9.9 crore farmers and enabled them to fulfil their agricultural requirements and support their families.“The rollout and implementation of the PM-KISAN scheme have happened at an unparalleled pace, with funds being directly transferred into the Aadhaar authenticated beneficiaries’ bank account to prevent leakage and increase convenience for farmers. The scheme has also been instrumental in supporting farmers during the Covid-19 pandemic, through the release of nearly Rs 22,000 Crore to aid the farmers during the lockdown period,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-financing-facility-worth-rs-1-lakh-crore-under-agricultural-infrastructure-fund-tomorrow/story-7HC6zY2qX1iXqHBbXcMvfP.html
08-08-2020||India||Civil aviation expert’s 2011 warning about ‘unsafe’ KIA runway fell on DGCA’s deaf ears||Civil aviation expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan believes that the pilot of Air India Express Boeing 737 — a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) evacuation flight from Dubai — should have diverted to Coimbatore, as the conditions in Kozhikode International Airport (KIA), Kerala, were not conducive for a landing because of a downpour and had also warned the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) authorities in 2011 that the runaway is unsafe and needed to be reevaluated, especially in wet conditions. “The visibility was fine,” said Captain Ranganathan. “However, it was not prudent to land at the KIA because of the downpour,” he added. WATCH | The 2 other ‘dangerous airfields’ in India: Capt Ranganathan on Kerala crashCaptain Ranganthan, an aviation safety consultant and a former instructor pilot of the Boeing-737 specialising in wet runway operations, said he was surprised that the DGCA authorities gave permission to the flight to land at the KIA. “The KIA runway is not safe,” said Captain Ranganathan. “Not much has changed since I was there last. Fortunately, a Boeing-737 was landing and not a wide-body aircraft,” he said. Earlier, he had warned the DGCA authorities in 2011 that the KIA runway was unsafe for landing and needed to be reevaluated. “It is a dangerous situation, especially in wet conditions. KIA runway 10 approaches should not be permitted in view of the lack of RESA (runway end safety areas) and the terrain beyond the end of the runway,” Captain Ranganathan had said in his report. He had suggested that a 240-metre (m) RESA should immediately be introduced and the runway length should be reduced to make flight operations safe. “There should 150 m on either side to avoid aviation disasters,” Captain Ranganathan told HT. “But there is not sufficient area there. It has always been dangerous,” he added. He had cautioned DGCA authorities after Air India Express Flight 812 from Dubai had crashed in Mangaluru on May 22, 2010, killing 158 people on board. The KIA has a tabletop runaway similar to that of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). The flight with 190 passengers on board overshot the KIA tabletop runway and dropped about 35 feet into a gorge on Friday evening. Officials had said 18 people, including the pilot Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe and the co-pilot, have died in the accident and over 140 more are injured, some of them seriously. The images from the KIA showed the aircraft split into two pieces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-expert-s-2011-warning-about-unsafe-kia-runway-fell-on-dgca-s-deaf-ears/story-X5uZw88Xe3K3oYVY3KnRtI.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Only property of Sushant I have’: Rhea Chakraborty after ED questioning||A day after the Enforcement Directorate interrogated actor Rhea Chakraborty in connection with money laundering allegations levelled against her by Sushant Sing Rajput’s father, the actor said in a statement that the only thing she had in her possession were a note of gratitude and a water bottle - both belonging to the late actor. “I am grateful for my life, I am grateful for Lillu in my life. I am grateful for Bebu in my life. I am grateful for sir in my life. I am grateful for ma’am in my life. I am grateful for Fudge in my life. I am grateful for all the love in my life,” read the note released by Chakraborty.Explaining the names in the Sushant’s note, Chakraborty left a message, saying, “And this is his handwriting Lillu is Showik, Bebu is me, sir is my dad, ma’am is my mom, Fudge is his dog.” However, it wasn’t clear when the note was written or how she found it. “The only property of Sushant that I possess,” said Chakraborty posting the image of a water bottle which she claims is of the late actor.The ED questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for over eight hours on Friday.The agency, which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations, questioned Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, and her business manager, Shruti Modi, who also worked for Rajput.Their statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Requesting anonymity, ED officials privy to the details said the agency was looking into Chakraborty’s income tax returns and investments. The officials said Chakraborty responded to most of the questions. ED is expected to focus on Chakraborty’s income, business deals and professional deals.The ED filed a case on July 31 on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by the Bihar Police. The FIR was registered following a complaint by Rajput’s father KK Singh who accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor’s suicide and siphoning of his money. He also alleged that his son’s credit cards were with Chakraborty. In addition to the ED, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), too, has launched a probe on the request of Bihar and has named Chakraborty, her brother and four other family members apart from unknown persons as accused. Chakraborty initially refused to appear before the agency, citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court. She has requested that the FIR filed in Patna be transferred to Mumbai, arguing that Bihar Police have no jurisdiction. Bihar rejected the claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-property-of-sushant-i-have-rhea-chakraborty-after-ed-questioning/story-nHR1Q79J5JrpsnrhLt5B5J.html
08-08-2020||India||Fire at snack centre in Ulhasnagar kills one, 12 injured||One died and twelve were injured in a fire triggered by a cooking cylinder at a snacks centre in Maharashtra’s Ulhasnagar camp 4 on Saturday noon. The incident took place around 2 pm at Venus Chowk, following which firefighters from the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) rushed to the spot. Of those injured, three have sustained severe injuries while others have suffered minor injuries. The injured have been taken to the hospital. The person who died in the accident is identified as Pappu Gupta, 34, and ran the snack centre, the civic body claimed. As per the UMC’s primary investigation, the blast caused a major fire inside the shop which resulted in the charring of all properties inside the shop. “One person has died in the incident who was inside the shop while twelve others who were around and reached to help also suffered injuries. Primarily, we suspect that the blast in the cylinders led to fire. Our team is at the spot and investigating the case,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. Ulhasnagar Shopkeepers Association president Jagdish Tejwani said, ”As soon as I learned about the incident I rushed to the spot. One person has died in the incident while others who are severely injured were taken to the hospital. The fire also affected the nearby fruit shop. As per my observation, there were three cooking cylinders inside the shops without any fire safety norms.” He added, “According to the locals, the person who died in the accident slipped and a vessel containing hot oil fell over him which caused him severe burns.”A fire officer from the UMC, who did not wish to be named said, ”We have managed to cool down the blaze and bring it under control. We are investigating the cause of the blast and the fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-snack-centre-in-ulhasnagar-kills-one-five-injured/story-DjUFtzFNBXeUvagqjr0YNL.html
08-08-2020||India||Kozhikode mishap has striking parallel with 2010 Mangaluru crash||Friday night’s plane crash at Kozhikode international airport has striking similarities with the mishap at Mangaluru airport ten years ago when an Air India Express flight from Dubai carrying 166 passengers overshot the runway before bursting into flames, aviation experts say. Eight persons survived the crash. Both mishaps occurred during landing at tabletop airports in rainy conditions. Captain of the aircraft that crashed in Mangaluru, Z Glucia was an experienced pilot like Deepak V Sathe (59) who was in command of the aircraft in Kozhikkode. An inquiry into Mangaluru crash later found that pilots misjudged the length of the runway which resulted in the aircraft overshooting the air strip. In both cases, the pilot and co-pilot were among victims. “There are many similarities between two mishaps. Both airports have similar structure and in both cases it happened during landing. But in the latest case whether pilots were trying to save the lives of passengers can be ascertained only after an inquiry,” said aviation expert Jacob Philip. There are reports that Captain Sathe made three rounds to empty the fuel which prevented the plane from catching fire. A crew member of Capt Sathe’s aircraft later told airport authorities that the flight did not try to land some time due to poor visibility and they tried the touchdown only after visibility improved. She also said the flight landed almost safely but it went out of control on the runway and suddenly veered off the strip and crashed against the compound wall before plunging into a 35-feet road below the airstrip. The final conversation between the air traffic control(ATC) and pilot prior to the landing also showed no signs of any distress. Experts said a tabletop airport often creates an optical illusion, especially when the vision is affected by heavy rains. Airport officials said visibility was 2000 metres when the aircraft landed at the airport but it was raining heavily. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri who visited the accident site on Saturday said it is too early to compare the latest mishap with the Mangaluru crash. “Tabletop airports are everywhere. It is true they pose some challenges to pilots. We have learnt enough lessons from Mangaluru mishap and it is too early to compare the latest with it,” he said in Kozhikode. Tabletop airports are usually located at the top of a hill or high plateau surrounded by gorges Former Director General of Civil Aviation Bharat Bhushan told a news channel that he had warned several times about the short runway of the airport for the wide-bodied aircraft and during his tenure he tried his best to widen the airport runway but due to many pulls and pressure it failed to materialize. He said the spot where the plane crashed was included in the project for development. In initial plan for Kozhikode airport, which was opened in 1988, runway was 2860 m but later it was later reduced to 2700 m due to paucity of land. It has the shortest runway among the four airports in the state. The aircraft which crashed Friday night had flown to the UAE four times this week itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-mishap-has-striking-parallel-with-2010-mangaluru-crash/story-2lc709jV8ohEqZ9naDBDuN.html
08-08-2020||India||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar meets Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, sister||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh and his sister Rani Singh in Faridabad on Saturday. The actor was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14. After much deliberation and appeal from fans and politicians, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the case and registered FIRs against actor Rhea Chakraborty and five others on Thursday evening.Bihar’s Gagandeep Gambhir, an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the 2004 batch, will supervise the team investigating the death of the actor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-meets-sushant-singh-rajput-s-father-sister/story-zL6SaqzrVhXCopKHtB6w7O.html
08-08-2020||India||All Air India crash survivors to be tested for Covid-19: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said all those who had been on board the Air India Express flight which skidded off the runway at the Kozhikode international airport  killing 18 people on Friday evening, would be tested for the Covid-19 infection. So far, only one of the victims has tested positive for the viral disease.The chief minister also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the next of kin of the passengers who died in the air crash that took place at the Karipur International Airport last evening, a statement from the Kerala chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Besides the compensation for the victims, the Kerala government would bear the medical expenses of all those injured in the plane crash irrespective of the hospitals they are in, Vijayan said. The chief minister has given directions to the administration and health authorities to provide proper medical aid to all survivors.ALSO READ | Kerala plane crash: Flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder recoveredPinarayi Vijayan on Saturday also lauded the “fast response” of the local people in being the first to reach the aircraft crash site to rescue passengers, braving inclement weather and Covid-19 fears.The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway at the airport in Kozhikode while landing amid heavy rainfall and fell into a gorge 35 feet below splitting into two parts on Friday night.Vijayan, who has rushed to Kozhikode, said in a tweet that the fast response of the local people and the officials made all the difference. “Yesterday, the fast response of local people and officials made all the difference. They braved bad weather and Covid-19 fears to rescue their fellow beings,” the CM said in a tweet.The long queues of people who had volunteered to donate blood were just another example of locals coming forward to help, Vijayan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-air-india-crash-survivors-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-C1Jb0ya6KDJG6cT1Hynk3J.html
08-08-2020||India||MoS Kailash Choudhary tweets he has tested positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||Minister of State for the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Kailash Choudhary on Saturday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and asked those who came in contact with him in the recent past to get tested and isolate themselves.“As part of a health checkup after exhibiting some symptoms, I have tested positive for Covid-19. Those who came in contact with in the past few day are kindly requested to go into self isolatation and get themselves tested. Thank you to all my well-wishers,” Choudhary tweeted.He said that he had trouble breathing and has a low fever and is admitted to a hospital.“I have a little fever and am having trouble breathing. I am under observation of doctors at a hospital. I urge you all not to worry. You can call me if there is anything of importance,” Choudhary said in a following tweet.Responding to the series of tweets, BJP MP from Bihar’s Aurangabad Sushil Kumar Singh wished for his speedy recovery.Earlier, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena had tested positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-kailash-choudhary-tweets-he-has-tested-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised/story-vDxpdfucYA0Zh2vvgthNQJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Kozhikode crash: One boarded his last plane, another missed it in a narrow escape||Thirty-five-year-old Sharafu Pilassery was working in Dubai in a private firm and had been arranging for flight tickets for many stranded in the UAE amid the Covid-19 crisis. He had fed many people stranded without a job in the Arab country. Pilassery told his relatives and friends in India that he will be coming in the last along with his family, just that it turned out to be his last journey.Pilassery was among the 19 who got killed in Friday’s airplane crash in Kozhikode, however, his wife Ameena and daughter Fathima, escaped with injuries. An active social worker among the expatriate community in Dubai, he got many chances to return to the country earlier but insisted on going back once the rush subsided, his friends recalled.ALSO WATCH | Eyewitness recounts Air India Express plane crash at Kozhikode airportAlso read: ‘Kozhikode plane crash not an accident but murder’ - Air safety expertFour hours before the accident, he posted a photo with his family donning protective shields and masks. “Back to Home” he wrote on his Facebook post as the trio boarded the plane. One of his friends, Shafi Parakkulam, who runs a small hotel, shared a post saying “he was unusually tense” and handed over some money to him asking him to ensure food for the needy. “I even doubt he had some premonition about the impending tragedy. I never thought it will be our last meeting,” wrote Parakkulam paying rich tributes to his friend. Netizens have flooded the social media to pay tributes to him. Parammal Afsal’s story is different from Pilassery’s. Working in a shop in Dubai, when he arrived at the airport to board the Kozhikode-bound ‘Vande Bharat’ Air India flight on Friday, he realised that his visa period was over by a few hours. Also read: Kozhikode’s table-top runway risky for landing, officials warned 10 years agoThe airport authorities asked him to produce his employment details and other formalities. He immediately rushed to procure them from his room but by the time he returned, the boarding was closed and he was bluntly told to take the next flight. The delay saved his life.The 27-year-old was planning to return for his marriage which was fixed last year. Dejected, he called his relatives back home and returned to his room. Soon relatives called him to say that it was a miracle he missed the flight. Now he is planning to take the next flight to Kannur, Kerala. It is a two-hour journey from Kozhikode to Kannur. A small state, Kerala has four international airports, thanks to its teeming migratory skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-crash-one-boarded-his-last-plane-another-missed-it-in-a-narrow-escape-from-death/story-VwoQcWGBQLT1PQlilychSP.html
08-08-2020||India||Runway issue at Kozhikode airport was resolved, says AAI chairman||Airport Authority of India chairman Arvind Singh said Saturday that issues with the runway at the Kozhikode airport where an Air India Express flight crashed Friday evening had been resolved.“Directorate General of Civil Aviation had some issues with the runway in 2015, but after resolving those issues, clearance was given to it in 2019. The jumbo jets of Air India also used to land there,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.He also said that the aircraft could not land on the designated runway. “The aircraft could not land at a runway on which it had to, then landing was tried on another runway where the mishap happened. We are monitoring situation and the airport will become operational soon. An alternative facility in Nagpur is also under progress,” he said.At least 18 people, including the pilot and the co-pilot, were killed when the aircraft with 190 people on board overshot the runway amid heavy rain at Kozhikode airport and fell into a valley and split into two. The flight was bringing Indians stranded in Dubai amid Covid-19 pandemic under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission.A probe 10 years ago after a similar crash at Mangalore airport, had pointed out the dangers of tabletop runways. India has three tabletop airports from where scheduled flights operate. These are Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui (Mizoram). The probe report said that because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. “The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this (Mangaolre) accident. These table-top runways also have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents,” it added.Friday’s crash at Kozhikode has an eerie similarity to the Mangalore accident on 22 May 2010 when a Boeing 737-800 Air India Express Flight from Dubai crashed on landing at Mangalore amid rain. The aircraft had overshot the runway and fell a hillside and burst into flames killing 158 of the 166 people on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/runway-issue-at-kozhikode-airport-was-resolved-says-aai-chairman/story-SnK7bTaqvOLNz60d70NCNI.html
08-08-2020||India||HC asks jail authorities to provide HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan with his medical record||The Bombay High court on Friday directed the superintendent of the Arthur Road jail to provide Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan with all his medical record of his treatment at the jail hospital and two government hospitals in Mumbai.The division bench comprising justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht has ordered the jail superintendent to supply the record to Wadhawan, an accused in the massive fraud at Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank, by August 10.The directive came on a petition filed by the HDIL promoter seeking a direction to the jail authorities to forthwith shift him either to Nanavati, Lilawati or Criticare Hospital in Mumbai for necessary treatment.Arguing for him, senior advocate Amit Desai pointed out that though Rajesh Wadhawan has been suffering from various ailments such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, pulmonary disorder, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy, borderline high creatinine, chronic UTI, respiratory disorder, lung injury with hypoxic respiratory failure, he was being referred to various government hospitals for treatment.Desai also complained that none of the medical records of the HDIL promoter was furnished to him, though an application under the provisions of Right to Information Act was made by him. He added that the accused in the PMC Bank fraud case was not able to ascertain his health condition or the treatment provided to him.Additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde, however, submitted that the petitioner only required an endoscopy, which can be done at King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel. She also pointed out that all other parameters of the HDIL promoter were in order and thus he was not required to be shifted to any private hospital for treatment.Advocate Hiten Venegaonkar, who appeared for the Enforcement Directorate, pointed out that Wadhawan has filed a plea for the same relief before the sessions court and it has not been decided yet.In view of this, the bench directed the sessions court to decide the plea on or before August 19 after hearing both the sides. HC also granted liberty to the prosecution to produce his latest medical reports for consideration of the sessions court.On September 30, 2019, the economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police registered an offence in connection with the purported fraud at PMC Bank, a multi-state cooperative bank having 137 branches in six states.According to the Reserve Bank of India, the PMC bank had masked 44 problematic loan accounts involving advances to the tune of Rs. 7,457.49 crore, most of which went to the HDIL, by tampering with its core banking system to ensure the loan accounts did not reflect in the regular bank record and were not visible to auditors.The bank had created 21,049 fictitious accounts to ensure its master data matched with the loan disbursals of Rs. 7,457.49 crore, the RBI had stated in an affidavit filed in the High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-jail-authorities-to-provide-hdil-promoter-rakesh-wadhawan-with-his-medical-record/story-FCT99XMyCDt3TkKZnsjmBN.html
08-08-2020||India||Serum Institute to produce up to 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses priced at Rs 225||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday said it has entered into a new partnership with international vaccine alliance Gavi and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India as well as other low and middle-income countries (LMICs).“The collaboration will provide upfront capital to SII to help them increase manufacturing capacity now so that, once a vaccine, or vaccines, gains regulatory approval and WHO prequalification, doses can be produced at scale for distribution to India and LMICs as part of the Gavi COVAX AMC mechanism as early as the first half of 2021,” SII said in a statement. The company has set an affordable ceiling price of $3 (around Rs 225) per dose, it added.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The funding will support at-risk manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and WHO prequalification, the statement said.The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, via its Strategic Investment Fund, will provide at-risk funding of $150 million to Gavi, which will be used to support the SII to manufacture the potential vaccine candidates and for future procurement of vaccines for low- and middle-income countries via Gavi’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC), the statement said.     “In an attempt to make our fight against Covid-19 stronger and all-embracing; SII has partnered with Gavi and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to advance the manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of future COVID vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries in 2021,” Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Through this association, SII seeks to ramp up constant efforts to save the lives of millions of people from this dreadful disease, he added.  Serum Institute has a long history of partnerships with Gavi and pharmaceutical companies to manufacture vaccines that protect against meningitis, severe diarrhoea, pneumonia and measles, the statement said.“We are very happy to see SII enter this global partnership to respond to the global health crisis posed by COVID-19,” Renu Swarup, secretary in the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, said.India has a proven track record of manufacturing safe and cost-effective vaccines not only for India, but for the world, she added.   In a similar vein, Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava said: “ICMR is deeply supportive of our cutting edge vaccine research and manufacturing prowess, of which SII is one prominent example. This partnership signifies yet another step in India’s efforts to bolster the fight against this global pandemic.” Vaccines will be priced at maximum $3 per dose and made available to the 92 countries included in Gavi’s COVAX AMC, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-produce-up-to-100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-priced-at-rs-225/story-jV3oyhuLPk75Hi9Kb5qccN.html
08-08-2020||India||Centre to give Rs10 lakh to kin of deceased, Rs2 lakh to seriously injured in AI Express crash||As an interim relief, the central government will make a payment of Rs 10 lakh to the kin of each deceased who lost their lives in the aircraft crash in Kozhikode, while Rs 2 lakh will be given to the seriously injured, Hardeep Singh Puri, the Civil Aviation Minister said.Puri on Saturday reached Kozhikode Airport to take stock of the situation and implementation of relief measures being carried out at the crash site where an Air India Express flight crash-landed on Friday evening, killing 18 people.“As an interim relief, we will be making a payment of Rs 10 lakhs (to kin) of each deceased, Rs 2 lakhs for seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for those who suffered minor injuries,” said Puri. “We were fortunate that unlike the tragic accident at Mangaluru Airport 10 years ago, where the aircraft caught fire, here preventive action minimised the loss of lives,” he added.The Civil Aviation Minister continued saying that the aircraft was being captained and operated by one of our most experienced and distinguished commanders, Captain Deepak Sathe.“In fact, he had landed on this airfield as many as 27 times, including this year,” he added. Puri earlier took to Twitter and wrote, “My heart goes out to the families and friends of the 18 people who lost their lives in the air accident involving Air India Express Flight IX-1344 in Kozhikode last evening and offer my heartfelt condolences. Reasons for the mishap are being investigated.” At least 18 people including two pilots have lost their lives in the incident. However, the four-cabin crew members are safe, said the Air India Express in a statement. The injured are admitted to hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode, according to Kerala government officials.The flight was carrying 190 passengers including 10 infants when it skidded while landing at Karipur airport in Kozhikode on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-give-rs10-lakh-to-kin-of-deceased-rs2-lakh-to-seriously-injured-in-ai-express-crash/story-v5G6tExAB5iBE9jUd2V7XI.html
08-08-2020||India||AirAsia flight at Ranchi airport suffers bird hit, take-off aborted||An AirAsia flight was forced to abort operations after it suffered a bird hit during the take -off exercise at the Ranchi airport this morning, said the airline. This incident comes a day after a tragic plane crash in Kerala killed 18, including the two pilots. The plane, AirAsia flight (i5-632), was scheduled to fly from Ranchi to Mumbai. “AirAsia India aircraft VT-HKG operating from Ranchi to Mumbai as flight i5-632 encountered a bird hit during scheduled departure at 11:50 hrs, today, 8th August 2020,” stated an airline spokesperson.The aircraft is currently being inspected. The flight is scheduled to depart once the aircraft is cleared for operations. “AirAsia India prioritises the safety of our guests and crew and regrets the inconvenience caused on account of this delay,” said the spokesperson.The airline said an alternative aircraft is being made available to ferry guests from Ranchi to Mumbai. “All guests are being attended to and provided with refreshments by our guest services staff,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-asia-flight-at-ranchi-airport-suffers-bird-hit-take-off-aborted/story-TxhGj7V7QXFKzRfDXri67N.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Wait for the outcome of probe into Kerala plane crash’: Union civil aviation minister||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday that it was too early to compare Kerala plane tragedy with Mangaluru accident. He was addressing a press conference in Kozhikode where a plane crash on Friday evening left 18 people dead and several others injured.The minister said that a conclusion cannot be reached before probe begins into the crash.“Table top is everywhere. It is true it poses some challenges to pilot. We can wait for the outcome of the probe. We learnt lesson from Mangaluru mishap and it is too early to compare with the mishap that happened 10 years ago,” the minister said after taking stock of the situation at the crash site on Saturday morning.ALSO WATCH | Kerala plane crash ‘murder, not accident’: Expert who flagged safety issuesThe crash occurred at the Kozhikode airport when an Air Inidia Express plane with 190 passengers and crew members overshot, fell 50 metres off the end of the runway and broke into two. The flight was bringing Indians stranded in Dubai amid Covid-19 pandemic under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission.The minister said that the Centre was working closely with the state government to alleviate the suffering of the affected, announcing an assistance of Rs 10 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased. He said that 149 injured people were admitted to hospitals , out of which 23 have been discharged after being treated.Praising the pilot of the plane Capt Deepak Sathe, who along with co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar died in the crash, Puri said Sathe was a coveted professional. “The aircraft was being captained and operated by one of our most experienced and distinguished commanders, Captain Deepak Sathe. In fact, he had landed on this airfield as many as 27 times, including this year, ” the minister said.The digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the Air India plane have been recovered are being brought to Delhi for further investigation. (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wait-for-the-outcome-of-probe-into-kerala-plane-crash-union-civil-aviation-minister/story-tWP1EqdvvKm2DmEL0zPeXI.html
08-08-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to appoint over 6000 community health officers||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has cleared a proposal for the appointment of 6,310 community health officers under the National Health Mission, a statement said on Friday.The recruitment on the post of community health officer will be done in all blocks of the state, it said.The chief minister also cleared several other proposals including direct appointment of fourth grade employees on 326 posts in police department, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-appoint-over-6000-community-health-officers/story-VUOKaR0zqqQV0daOI0K9FJ.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Kozhikode plane crash not an accident but murder’: Air safety expert Capt Mohan Ranganathan||If appropriate steps are not taken, accident similar to Friday’s airplane crash in Kozhikode could occur next at Patna, Jammu airports, air safety expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan said in a conversation with Hindustan Times. During the interview, Ranganathan, who is a member of a safety advisory committee constituted by the civil aviation ministry, said he had submitted a report around nine years ago, warning that the Calicut (now Kozhikode) airport was not safe for landings.“The warnings were ignored... in my opinion, it is not an accident but a murder. Their own audits have had flagged safety issues” Ranganathan said, adding that the crash could have been well avoided. WATCH | Kerala plane crash ‘murder, not accident’: Expert who flagged safety issuesRanganathan explained how table-top runways, the one in the case of the Kozhikode airport, have very little space and therefore require more safety features. “There’s a drop of around 70 metres at the end of the runway at the Kozhikode airport, in the case of Mangalore it is about a 100 metres. There’s no escape for an aircraft if it overruns,” he explained. “You will find another major accident either in Patna or Jammu airport. Both of them are dangerous airfields and don’t have safety features” he said.  Also read: Kerala plane crash - Flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder recoveredAlmost a decade ago, in a letter addressed to the chairman of Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC) and civil aviation secretary, Ranganathan had pointed that the Runway 10 of the Kozhikode airport could be risky for landing in tailwind conditions in rain.“I understand that Runway 10 ILS is being used on a trial basis at Calicut. Some of the crew are accepting even VOR approach on Runway 10. The reason is the lower minima than Runway 28. However, all the flights that land on Runway 10 in tailwind conditions in rain, are endangering the lives of all on board,” he had said.He also said that the airport does not have the minimum Runway End Safety Area (RESA).Also read: Kozhikode’s table-top runway risky for landing, officials warned 10 years ago“The runway strip is just half the minimum width laid down in ICAO Annex 14. This fact was known to the DGCA team that has been conducting inspections and safety assessments during the past several years. Have they considered the danger involved? Has the DGCA or the airlines laid down any operational restrictions or special procedures?” he had written.At least 18 people, including the pilot and the co-pilot, have been killed as Air India Express flight IX 1344 overshot the runway at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport and fell into a valley, breaking into two on Friday evening. The flight was bringing Indians stranded in Dubai amid Covid-19 pandemic under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-plane-crash-not-an-accident-but-murder-air-safety-expert-capt-mohan-ranganathan/story-FmzwXnfwCFbUYgFQm7ySwJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Kozhikode’s tabletop runway risky for landing, officials warned 10 years ago||The tragic accident in Kerala last evening when a plane attempting to land amid heavy tailwinds and rain on the table-top runway at the Kozhikode airport has once again shone light on the safety concerns over flight operations at such runways in the country. Eighteen people, including two pilots, were killed in the accident. The safety concerns were first raised following the 2010 Air India Express crash in Mangalore that killed 160 people on board. A court of enquiry report by a former Indian Air Force chief had warned of the hazards of overshooting the paved surface during take-off.ALSO WATCH | Kerala plane crash ‘murder, not accident’: Expert who flagged safety issuesThe Air India Express flight crash on Friday brings back the memories of the 2010 air crash that too occurred after the plane overshot the runway at the table-top airport in Mangalore.The report by Air marshal BN Gokhale had noted tabletop airports require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. The hazard of ‘undershooting’ and ‘overshooting’, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in the Mangalore accident.The so-called tabletop airport has limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines had stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues over the length of the runway.“While the length of the runway 24/06 is adequate for operations by aircraft such as Airbus A320 and Boeing 737-800, the downward slope at end of R/W 24 leading into hill slope is not recommended if one is to consider the hazards of overshooting the paved surface during takeoff or landing. There is a concrete structure at the end of R/W 24, which cannot be classified as obstruction as per ICAO Annexure-14, since it is below the approach and take off funnel,” the report had said.“There are three tabletop airports in India from where scheduled flights operate. These are Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident. These table-top runways also have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents,” it added.The narrow and winding roads can delay and hinder the rescue operations, the report had said. The Air India Express flight with 190 on board overshot and fell 50 metres off the end of the runway at the Kozhikode airport in treacherous conditions on Friday, breaking into two - making it one of the deadliest commercial aviation disasters in the country in nearly 10 years.The crash occurred around 7.40pm, when it was raining. It bears eerie similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a table-top runway and crashed nose-first into the ground. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said it was raining heavily when pilots of the Boeing 737 plane from Dubai tried to land. The regulator said after landing at Runway 10, the plane continued running till the end of the runway and fell into the valley and broke into two portions. “The visibility was 2,000 meters amid heavy rain, after landing at runway 10 and it overshot the runway and broke down in two pieces,” a DGCA official said.According to a playback on flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the plane circled the airport twice before attempting to land. In its second instance, it aborted the attempt with 2,000 feet to go before the crash landing. The civil aviation ministry’s accident investigation division Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will conduct a detailed investigation into the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala. “An Air India Express flight took off around 0200 hours from Delhi to Kozhikode carrying investigating officers from DGCA and AAIB, CEO of Air India express and other officials of AI and AIE,” said AAIB.“A second aircraft took off from Mumbai to Kozhikode around 0600hrs in the morning carrying Angels of Air India and GO employees who will coordinate and liaise with various agencies and provide support and assist families of those affected in this incident,” the national transporter had said in a statement. The recovery of Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) will help piece together what happened during the last moments of the flight. Both have since been recovered, said aviation minister Hardeep Puri this morning. According to Robert A Clifford, lead counsel in the case against Boeing for the last major Boeing crash -- the 737 Max 8 crash in Ethiopia on March 10, 2019 -- and senior partner of Clifford Law Offices, Chicago, the investigation into what caused today’s Air India crash will likely focus on the plane itself and pilot error. “Early indications point to pilot error. The weather being involved probably speaks to pilot flight error, but the aircraft’s safety systems could have played a role. Investigators will need to evaluate the flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder, and other devices, along with expert evaluation, to determine what happened,” he said. The 2010 report had cautioned of operations at such ‘critical airfields’.The DGCA has classified certain airfields as critical which need special qualification for the flight crew to undertake operations. The criteria for classifying airfields as critical are based on various factors such as terrain, length of runway, predominance of inclement weather etc.“There are 11 such airfields, which include the table-top runways of Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. In addition, airfields such as Patna, Jammu, Leh, Port Blair, etc also qualify as ‘critical airfields’. The operators can add some more airfields as critical, in case additional caution needs to be exercised during operations. As per SOP of Air India Express, three airfields at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Pune qualify as ‘critical airfields’. These airfields are, therefore, cleared for operations by experienced flight crew and take off and landings have to be carried out by the pilot in command (PIC) only,” said the report.Following the Mangalore crash, the court of Inquiry recommended setting up of an independent Indian Civil Aviation Safety Board (ICASB) urgently in view of rapid growth of aviation in the country. Such independent safety organisations have been set up in the USA, UK, Canada, France and Indonesia to name a few. The ICASB will focus on all flight safety related issues to suggest proactive measures, to minimise accidents and incidents, it had said. Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC) had also warned the authorities 10 years back that Kozhikode runway was very risky for landing during rains and harsh weather conditions.In a letter addressed to the chairman of Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC) and civil aviation secretary, CASAC member Captain Mohan Ranganathan had pointed that the Runway 10 of the Kozhikode airport could be risky for landing in tailwind conditions in rain.“I understand that Runway 10 ILS is being used on a trial basis at Calicut. Some of the crew are accepting even VOR approach on Runway 10. The reason is the lower minima than Runway 28. However, all the flights that land on Runway 10 in tailwind conditions in rain, are endangering the lives of all on board,” he had said.He also said that the airport does not have the minimum Runway End Safety Area (RESA)“The runway strip is just half the minimum width laid down in ICAO Annex 14. This fact was known to the DGCA team that has been conducting inspections and safety assessments during the past several years. Have they considered the danger involved? Has the DGCA or the airlines laid down any operational restrictions or special procedures?” he had written.He also added that the Air India Express accident in Mangalore should have alerted the Airport Authority to make the runway conditions safe. “It is a dangerous situation, especially in wet conditions. Runway 10 approaches should not be permitted in view of the lack of RESA and the terrain beyond the end of the runway. RATIO of 240m should be immediately introduced and the runway length has to be reduced to make the operations safe,” he had said.The Boeing 737 jet, on a Vande Bharat mission as flight AIX 1344 from Dubai, was bringing in Indians who were stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In all there were 174 adult passengers on board, 10 infants, two pilots, and four crew members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-s-table-top-runway-risky-for-landing-officals-warned-10-years-ago/story-0Gxz1WNuL7wqYq44Rte71M.html
08-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, China holding senior military-level talks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, China to hold senior military-level talks, disengagement at friction areas on agendaSenior military commanders from India and China are holding talks on Saturday to discuss the next stage of disengagement by the Chinese side along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector, people familiar with the development said. Read MoreKerala plane crash: Flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder recoveredCivil aviation ministry’s investigation agency, Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), has recovered digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the Air India plane that crashed in Kozhikode, Kerala on Friday evening. Read MoreGovt sets up task force for Covid-19 vaccine distributionIndia has formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan, from identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration. Read MoreRhea Chakraborty shares page from Sushant Singh Rajput’s diaryActor Rhea Chakraborty has shared a picture of a page from Sushant Singh Rajput’s diary, in which she says he expressed gratitude for her and her family. Read More‘When Shoaib Akhtar apologised to MS Dhoni for ‘purposely’ bowling a beamerFormer Pakistan quick Shoaib Akhtar has admitted that he regrets bowling a beamer to MS Dhoni on purpose during the second Test of the 2006 series against India in Faisalabad. Read MoreGoogle has made certain words taboo for employees to head off regulators, handle lawsuitsGoogle’s internal documents show that employees are being coached to avoid creating legal risks by using certain problematic words even in casual communication as the company deals with at least four major antitrust investigations on two continents. Read MoreKrishna Janmashtami 2020: History, Significance, Date, Time, Interesting FactLord Krishna was born at midnight, hence devotees observe a fast and sing devotional songs for him as the clock strikes twelve. As a part of the ritual, statues of baby Krishna are washed and placed for worship. Devotees then break their fast and share food and sweets. Read more to know other interesting facts about the festival.Police departments, Paytm, Tinder add smart twist to bizarrely hilarious ‘Binod’ Twitter trendIf you’re a regular Twitter user, chances are yesterday, on August 7, your feed was flooded with posts and memes related to the latest trend ‘Binod.’ Mumbai, Nagpur, and Uttar Pradesh police departments have now joined the trend to share essential information but in the funniest way possible. Read MoreKozhikode crash: Rescue operation ends, Civil Aviation Minister forms probe teamsThe rescue operation in Kozhikode plane crash incident has ended. Eighteen people, including the plane’s two pilots, were killed in the mishap after the Air India Express Boeing 737 from Dubai plunged down a slope in heavy rain on its second attempt to land in Kozhikode.Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has formed probe teams.Watch the video for details||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-china-holding-senior-military-level-talks-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v3tOpQA38t2tV9Wnye3taJ.html
08-08-2020||India||2 policemen suspended in MP’s Barwani district for manhandling a Sikh||Two police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), was suspended in Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Barwani district, located about 313 kilometres (km) south-west of the state capital Bhopal, by the superintendent of police (SP) on Friday evening after a video clip went viral on social media. The 50-second clip showed a policeman is dragging a Sikh by his hair in public amid pushing and jostling, while his companion, belonging to the same faith, is pleading with the law enforcers not to beat him, with folded hands. The incident, which reportedly occurred at Palsud, a town in Barwani district and located about 35 km from the district headquarters, on Thursday, sparked a nationwide outrage among the members of the Sikh community and its backlash echoed on social media. The MP unit of the Congress, which is the main opposition in the state, demanded stern action against the two police personnel responsible for the incident that reportedly occurred during a routine check on vehicles. The Sikh, identified as Prem Singh, is a resident of Palsud and a granthi at the local Gurdwara, even though the police claimed otherwise. The district police authorities, however, denied the charges of excesses. They claimed that Singh is facing three criminal charges and his turban fell off during an argument with the policemen, who had stopped him to check his vehicle. Barwani district police administration put out a press release to calm down the frayed nerves and the social media outrage over the purported manhandling of a member of the minority Sikh community. “Superintendent of Police (SP) Nimish Agrawal has suspended ASI Seetaram Bhatnagar and head constable Mohan Jamre for not initiating action, as per the laid-down procedure. A probe into the incident has been assigned to the sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP), Rajpur,” the release stated. “During a check on vehicles on Thursday evening, two Sikligars (members of Sikh community), who were travelling on a motorbike were stopped. One of them is Prem Singh, a resident of ward no. 15 of Palsud. Police record showed Prem Singh is facing theft charges under three police stations in Jabalpur district. He got into an altercation, when he was asked to show his two-wheeler’s papers. The on-duty police personnel suspected him of driving the vehicle under the influence of alcohol and wanted him to accompany them to a police station for a medical examination. The police personnel has been suspended and a probe has been initiated since they didn’t follow the laid-down procedure while conducting the check on the vehicle,” it added. Later, Singh alleged that the police personnel had demanded Rs 250 from him after he had failed to furnish his two-wheeler’s papers. He further alleged that they started thrashing him, when he pleaded his inability to pay up Rs 250 because he had earned only Rs 200 on that day. MP Congress president Kamal Nath has spoken in favour of Singh. “Prem Singh, who is a granthi, was beaten by the police personnel in an inhuman manner. Such atrocities are an insult to the Sikh religion and can’t be tolerated. The state government must take strict action against the guilty,” he said, Union minister for food processing, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, a Sikh herself, tweeted, “Beastly attack on Giani Prem Singh granthi and other Sikhs in MP is an outrage against humanity. Utterly reprehensible & unacceptable. Sikhs all over the world are deeply shocked. I urge CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan to take immediate and exemplary action against all those guilty of this brutality.” Several other Sikh leaders, including Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and national spokesperson of SAD, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, condemned the incident and demanded immediate action against the guilty police personnel. MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is under home quarantine after his recovery from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also tweeted, “In Barwani district, ASI Seetaram Bhatnagar and head constable Mohan Jamre have been suspended immediately for inhuman treatment to our Sikh brothers. Such brutality with Sikhs will not be tolerated in any way. The matter will be probed by the DIG (deputy inspector-general), Indore, and strict action will be taken in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-policemen-suspended-in-mp-s-barwani-district-for-manhandling-a-sikh/story-Hzhm2e8lPFBGVxP5KkEH6I.html
08-08-2020||India||DGCA issued notice to Kozhikode airport in July 2019 over safety lapses: Official||Aviation regulator DGCA had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found “various critical safety lapses”, officials said on Saturday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice.Follow latest updates on Kerala plane crash here The DGCA conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a “tail strike” while landing at the Calicut (Kozhikode) airport on July 2 last year, an official said. A little over a year later, on Friday evening, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot “runway 10” at the Calicut airport in heavy rain and went down 35 feet into a gorge before breaking into two pieces, killing at least 18 people.“After the July 2 incident last year, the DGCA inspected the airport on July 4 and July 5 and found various critical safety lapses,” said a senior DGCA official.Also read: After AI Express crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode, Angels of Air India fly in to offer support On July 11, Kozhikode airport director K Srinivasa Rao was issued a show cause notice, added another DGCA official. However, it is not clear if any action was taken against Rao after the show-cause was issued. The show-cause notice, which PTI accessed, said “cracks are observed at runway 28 TDZ (touchdown zone) and along runway C/L (center/left) marking at runway 10 TDZ”. The touchdown zone (TDZ) is the part where the aircraft first contacts the surface while landing. The touchdown zone is ahead of the threshold area of the runway. The notice also said “excessive rubber deposit” was observed in the area from runway C/L marking to three metres on both the sides of touchdown zone of runway 28.Also read| He saved our lives: Air India Express plane crash survivors laud brave pilot Similar excessive rubber deposits were found by the DGCA along runway C/L marking of touchdown zone of runway 10, according to the notice. “Water stagnation of about 1.5 metre length was observed on the area between runway edge and intermediate turn pad on runway 28,” it said. Besides, the DGCA found several cracks in aircraft stand number 5. It also observed that a “portion of Apron surface” of about 111 metres was damaged, it said. Apron is the area of the airport where aircraft are parked, refuelled and where passengers board. “A steep downward slope of approximately five feet depth is observed immediately after the apron behind aircraft number 1, which needs to be levelled and graded,” the notice said. The DGCA observed a shortage of reserve stock of 6,630 litres of Aqueous Film Forming Foam concentrate (AFFF) and 140 kg of “DCP complementary agent” - both are used to put out fires - at the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) station of the airport. Air India Express, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, said on Saturday that three relief flights had been arranged to Kozhikode in Kerala to assist passengers and their family members affected by the plane crash a day ago. Officials said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will go to Kozhikode on Saturday. Officials of the AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau), the DGCA and the flight safety department of the airline have reached the accident site to investigate the accident, said the airline on Saturday morning. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-issued-notice-to-kozhikode-airport-in-july-2019-over-safety-lapses-official/story-rBjEcofrP7Mrr3Qp7OpjcJ.html
08-08-2020||India||India, China to hold senior military-level talks, disengagement at friction areas on agenda||Senior military commanders from India and China are holding talks on Saturday to discuss the next stage of disengagement by the Chinese side along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector, people familiar with the development said.The major general level meeting, which comes after the fifth round of talks between corps commander ranked officers on August 2, began at 11am in the Daulat Beg Oldi area on the Chinese side of LAC. The situation in the Depsang plains will also be discussed.The last round of negotiations was held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC as talks entered a critical phase due to serious differences between the two armies in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso. It also came amid the Chinese People’s Liberation Army reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims to be Indian territory. Also Read: The PLA Aggressors: China’s eight top commanders who led Ladakh adventureThe Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution, one of the officials in the know of the developments had said then. The August 2 military negotiations had come three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. The ambassador’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger area, said a second official. Also Read: China offers a new normal to end Ladakh border standoff. India shoots it downThe Indian Army used to patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8km apart. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger Eight, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger Four where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last three months. Tensions between India and China have risen since May after India said it had detected multiple intrusions into its territory by Chinese troops. The ties strained further after a violent clash between soldiers of the two sides in June in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-senior-military-level-talks-disengagement-at-friction-areas-on-agenda/story-A0oH1XwAGMz0qFkGgRkS5O.html
08-08-2020||India||Bihar Police probe into Sushant’s case made good progress until...: IPS officer||The Bihar Police’s investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput had progressed well until it got stymied on August 2, said IPS officer Vinay Tiwari who visited Mumbai on that date to lead the probe but ended up being quarantined by municipal authorities. Upon his return to Patna late Friday night, Tiwari, who is posted here as the SP City (East), however, declined to spill the beans on the findings of the investigation carried out by his team asserting that doing so would be “inappropriate”.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty has ‘nothing to hide’, will return for questioning a second time if need be, says lawyer “I had duly informed my counterparts in Mumbai about my official tour. I had sought accommodation and requisitioned a vehicle. Since my visit and its purpose were well known, people from the media approached me with their questions at the airport itself to which I replied,” Tiwari told reporters upon his arrival at the airport here. The IPS officer, who was released from quarantine on Friday, remarked with disappointment that despite intimation about his tour “nobody came to the airport to receive me”. “Nonetheless, I checked into a guest house and then went out to meet members of my team, who had been in the city since July 27, and take stock of the investigation. At around 10 pm, I received a call from BMC authorities who spoke about the need to quarantine me. As a law abiding person, I returned to the guest house and extended my cooperation,” Tiwari said.Also read| Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Centre seeks to be party in Rhea’s SC petition “It is for all to see that a few visitors to Mumbai, where so many people reach every day, are quarantined in this fashion. Even my four subordinates were not placed in quarantine. Now, try to make sense of that,” he remarked wryly. The four junior rank officials had returned from Mumbai on Thursday. Tiwari, however, hastened to add that he did not wish to take personal affront for being quarantined and pointed out that “it was our constitutional right and obligation to carry out an investigation into the FIR lodged in Patna. Things moved fine till August 2 after which everything got derailed”. To prying queries whether his investigation sensed any connivance of the Mumbai Police with actress Rhea Chakraborty, accused by Rajput’s father of abetting his son’s suicide, Tiwari said, “I would not say anything on that. It would be inappropriate to do so.” “But I must add, our investigation had progressed at great speed in 10 days and had moved in the right direction,” he concluded. The case filed by the deceased actor’s father K K Singh at Rajiv Nagar police station has now been taken over by the CBI, upon a recommendation of the state government which acted on a request to the effect by the complainant to DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. Pandey, who had fumed at the forced quarantine of the young IPS officer, terming it a “house arrest”, was among those who were at the airport at the unearthly hour to receive Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-s-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-case-made-good-progress-until-ips-officer/story-NuRYCcshfxhOKQYwcXU8xM.html
08-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: Flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder recovered||Civil aviation ministry’s investigation agency, Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), has recovered digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the Air India plane that crashed in Kozhikode, Kerala on Friday evening. The recovered components, that make up the black box of the aircraft, will help investigators figure out what prevented the Boeing Co. 737 from making a landing on Friday. The equipment will be brought to Delhi for further investigation. At least 18 people, including the pilot and the co-pilot of the plane, have been killed as Air India Express flight IX 1344 overshot the runway at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport and fell into a valley, breaking into two. The flight was bringing Indians stranded in Dubai amid Covid-19 pandemic under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission.  Also read: 18 dead, hundreds injured in AI Express plane crash - What all we knowDigital Flight Data Recorder & Cockpit Voice Recorder of the ill-fated aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB is conducting investigations. pic.twitter.com/WCOPV5ETTfThe accident took place at around 7:41 pm on Friday when the Air India flight from Dubai was making a descent and preparing for landing with 190 passengers and plane crew on board. The Union civil aviation ministry and the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will hold an urgent meeting with Air India officials over the incident on Saturday at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union minister Amit Shah, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, among many other leaders and politicians expressed grief over the accident. United Nations’ specialised aviation agency, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), also regretted the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-flight-data-recorder-cockpit-voice-recorder-recovered-for-investigation/story-FiHVmCatKR0Zha958VxI8I.html
08-08-2020||India||GC Murmu breaks the glass ceiling, first tribal to take charge as CAG||Former Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu took oath as the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) on Saturday. The oath was administered by President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others. Murmu stepped down as the Jammu and Kashmir’s L-G on Wednesday and was appointed the CAG on Thursday.“By virtue of the power vested in him by clause 1 of article 148 of the Constitution of India, the President has been pleased to appoint Shri Girish Chandra Murmu to be the Comptroller and Auditor General of India with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office,” the finance ministry notification signed by joint secretary Rajiv Kumar Mishra read. Delhi: President Kovind administers the oath of office to GC Murmu as Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), at Rashtrapati Bhavan.Murmu stepped down as the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu & Kashmir earlier this week. pic.twitter.com/SeQiqnPclkAs the CAG, Murmu will be responsible for auditing all expenditures of the state and central governments and will hold the post for six years or till he turns 65 whichever comes first.A 1985 IAS officer who quit the service weeks before his retirement last year, Murmu hails from Odisha’s Betnoti town in tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district. When he took charge as the first L-G of Jammu and Kashmir on 31 October 2019, his town and village had celebrated the achievement.“A tribal boy got such a major opportunity to serve the people. Shall I not be happy?” his mother Parbati Murmu had said, according to a 2019 report by News18.Former Union minister Manoj Sinha was sworn in as the new Jammu and Kashmir L-G on Friday, becoming the first political leader to take charge of the union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-j-k-lieutenant-governor-gc-murmu-takes-oath-as-comptroller-and-auditor-general/story-bVlcpLFdgTbXF2aiyygYSP.html
08-08-2020||India||After AI Express crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode, Angels of Air India fly in to offer support||As investigators combed through the site on Saturday where an Air India Express plane carrying 190 people on-board crashed in Kerala’s Kozhikode, a special team is also in the city doing its job quietly. Air India Express said “Angels of Air India”, the special assistance team, were flown into Kozhikode from Mumbai to coordinate relief and counsel the passengers, who have been injured, and their family members. They will also look after the relatives of the dead passengers.“The Go Teams and Angels of Air India have reached Calicut for being with the injured passengers as well as with the family members of the injured as well as dead passengers,” Air India Express said in a statement.The Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rains, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 19 people and injuring more than 100. Air India Express also said that two special relief flights have been arranged from Delhi and one from Mumbai for humanitarian assistance to all the passengers and their family members.“The Chairman and Managing Director of Air India, Chief Executive Officer of Air India Express, Chief of Operations as well as the Chief of Flight Safety of Air India have already reached Calicut,” the airline said.One of those planes also carried investigating officers Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) from Delhi to Kozhikode.“The Emergency Response Director is coordinating with all the agencies in Calicut, Mumbai as well as Delhi, Dubai for effective emergency response. The AAIB, DGCA & Flight Safety Departments have reached for investigating the accident,” Air India Express said.DGCA has said the aircraft’s Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR), also known as the black box, has been recovered from the aircraft and that the plane’s floorboard is being cut to retrieve the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR).The pilots of the Boeing 737, one of them a former ace Indian Air Force (IAF) officer, attempted two landings before the final one at the tabletop runway but aborted due to tailwind.“According to weather radar, the approach was for runway 28 but as pilots found difficulties they went around twice and came from the opposite side on runway 10 and the plane crash-landed at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport,” a senior investigator from DGCA told news agency ANI.The Air India Express flight IX-1344 from Dubai to Calicut was operating under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad because of coronavirus pandemic.There were 184 passengers on the plane, including 10 babies, the two pilots and four cabin crew members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ai-express-crash-in-kerala-s-kozhikode-angels-of-air-india-fly-in-to-offer-support/story-LBBlJBHfiwBVlIJ7FMzMwK.html
08-08-2020||India||South India accounts for over 40% of India’s active cases, Delhi’s count continues to improve: Covid-19 state tally||India has reported over 60,000 Covid-19 cases, 61,537 to be precise, for the second day in a row. As many as 62,538 fresh infections were reported the previous day. With 933 fatalities in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 death toll has climbed to 42,518. India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 2 million-mark earlier in the week with 619,088 active cases while 14,27,005 patients have beaten the deadly contagion. India is the third worst-hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil. The virus has infected more than 19 million people worldwide while over 7 lakh have died from the disease across the globe.The government has maintained that the coronavirus situation across the country is on a road to recovery with more and more people recovering from the virus. India’s Covid-19 death rate, slightly over 2 percent, is among the lowest in the world. While the recovery rate nears 70 percent. Also read: India records over 60,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight day, recoveries cross 1.4 millionThe national capital continues to register improvement in its Covid-19 situation with less number of active cases than states like Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan. As of today, over 10,000 people suffer from Covid-19 in Delhi while 128,232 have beaten the virus. The coronavirus death toll here stands at 4,082.Here’s taking a look at the situation in the top-affected states:MaharashtraAs per the data by the Ministry of Health, Maharashtra has 145,889 active cases of coronavirus. As many as 327,281 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far. In the past 24 hours, the state has seen nearly 11,000 recover from Covid-19 or discharged from hospitals. The state Covid-19 death toll stands at 17092. Andhra PradeshThe state has the second-highest number of active cases in the country - 84,654 - after Maharashtra and death toll here stands at 1,842. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in Andhra Pradesh stands at 120,464. KarnatakaThe southern Indian state has reported 77,694 active cases of coronavirus in the state. The number of recoveries in the state are over 84,000 while the death toll stands at 2,998.Tamil Nadu The south India state has 52,759 active cases of coronavirus while 4690 patients have succumbed to death. As many as 227,575 patients have recovered from the infection in Tamil Nadu.   Uttar Pradesh The state has witnessed a spurt in its Covid-19 tally, its active cases stand at 44,563. Over 66,000 people in Uttar Pradesh have recovered from the infection while the death toll nears 2,000.  BiharAt present, as many as 26,453 people suffer from Covid-19 in Bihar. The virus has claimed 369 lives while over 44,482 patients have recovered or have been discharged from hospitals.  West BengalThe number of active Covid-19 cases in West Bengal stands at 24,652. The virus has claimed nearly 2,000 lives across the state while 63,060 patients have beaten the disease.   TelanganaOver 22,000 people currently suffer from Covid-19 in Telangana while 615 people have been killed by the virus. The number of recoveries in the state stands at 54,330. AssamThe north-eastern state has over 16,000 active cases of coronavirus cases with 132 fatalities. Over 38,000 people here have beaten the deadly contagion. GujaratPM Modi’s home state has reported 14,443 active cases of Covid-19 till date while the death toll stands at 2,605. The number of recoveries in the state is reported at 51,720.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-india-accounts-for-over-40-of-india-s-active-cases-delhi-s-count-continues-to-improve-covid-19-state-tally/story-t8AkOpi8YJgoq1Vyfj4s3N.html
08-08-2020||India||India confident in standing solo against China in any future border dispute: European think tank||Post the violent June 15 Galwan Valley clashes, India has shown the confidence of standing solo against China in any future border dispute despite the United States’ offer of forming a Quad alliance against Beijing, a Europe-based think tank said.Since the clashes in Eastern Ladakh, several negotiations between India and China have taken place. Though they have yielded some results as troops of both countries started pulling back in some of the disputed sectors, Chinese troops are still present in the Depsang Plains region, Gogra, and the Fingers region along the Pangong Tso.“In the initial phase of disengagement at Pangong Tso, the Chinese moved back from Finger 4 to Finger 5, but continued with their deployment on the ridge line. India is insisting that China move back from Finger 5 to its old position on the Finger 8 spur. In the face of repeated demands by the Chinese negotiators that India move its troops back from the forward areas, India has refused to consider any de-escalation until the disengagement process through the withdrawal of Chinese intrusions is complete,” the European Foundation for South Asian Studies (EFSAS) said in its commentary.“Just like in Doklam in 2017, the firmness and resolve displayed by the Indian political and military leadership in the face of the Chinese transgressions have surprised China,” the think tank said.Citing a recent report by the Indian Defence Ministry, EFSAS said, “While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level are continuing to arrive at a mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged.”In other words, both countries are prepared to “dig in for the winter despite the harsh climatic conditions that prevail at such high altitudes. India has mounted a massive logistics and stocking exercise similar to what it does every year to retain its hold over the even more unwelcoming Siachen glacier”.This preparedness by India shows that it is strong enough to counter any serious confrontation at the border despite China offering a lucrative offer of focusing on improvement of the bilateral relations instead of the border issue.“There has been an argument in Indian public opinion on the boundary question, which worries me, suggesting the Indian government adjust its policy towards China, and change its stance on issues related to Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong and the South China Sea to put pressure on China...(Both sides need to) correctly analyse and view each other’s strategic intentions and prevent misinterpretation and miscalculation in a positive, open and inclusive attitude,” Sun Weidong, Chinese Ambassador to India was quoted as saying at a webinar on ‘India-China Relations: The Way Forward’ organised on July 30.He further said, “The purpose of clarification of Line of Actual Control (LAC) is to maintain peace and tranquillity. When we look back into history, if one side has unilaterally stated its own perception on the LAC during the negotiations, then that will lead to disputes. That is why this process cannot...move on. I think that this is a departure from the original purpose.”“The important thing is that we must follow those agreements and continue our discussion and consultation along the diplomatic channels and also among corps commanders, and also find out a way to de-escalate the situation and restore peace and tranquillity,” he added.According to EFSAS, “China has periodically been needling India at the border and routinely violating agreements reached between the two sides to maintain peace and tranquillity there, India has now been bitten enough times to realise the futility, even counter-productivity, of dealing with the border issue in isolation.”“Despite the temptation to take the easy road proposed by the Chinese, India believes that it is now resolute and strong enough to sustain a serious confrontation at the border in order to secure the future from unpredictable and unprovoked acts of aggression by China,” the think tank added.“India realises as well the potential serious consequences of a Chinese intrusion that goes out of hand, as the one on June 15 in Galwan well-nigh did,” the commentary stated.“While India hopes that the current standoff will be resolved through dialogue, it has also left little doubt about its preparedness for conflict escalation in order to safeguard its territory. It may, therefore, be the optimal option for India and China to work out a mutually acceptable solution that involves a face-saving Chinese exit. Russia, as India’s traditional partner and China’s newfound ally, could potentially play a useful role in hammering this out,” it said.Meanwhile, several offers of “help” from the US to India have been made since the Galwan clashes. US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo was quoted as saying, during a Congressional hearing on July 30, “They talk about bringing socialism with Chinese characteristics to the world. Claims that they have now made for real estate in Bhutan, the incursion that took place in India, these are indicative of Chinese intentions, and they are testing, they are probing the world to see if we are going to stand up to their threats and their bullying.”“I am more confident than I was a year ago that the world is prepared to do that. There is a lot more work to do and we need to be serious about it. Our diplomatic efforts are working and momentum is building to mitigate the threats that the Chinese Communist Party presents,” he said.Proposing a new alliance to counter China, Pompeo said, “Our Quad (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) -- the US, Australia, India, and Japan -- has been reinvigorated. We have worked hard at this. Our diplomats have done wonderful work. I am very proud of the progress we are making.”“The challenge of China demands exertion, energy from democracies -- those in Europe, those in Africa, those in South America, and especially those in the Indo-Pacific region,” he further said.Earlier this week, Chairman and Ranking Democrat Member Eliot Engel and Ranking Republican Member Michael McCaul wrote on behalf of the US House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs to India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar saying that they wanted to demonstrate the strong bipartisan support for the India-US relationship.“Members of both parties recognise the impact that a strong US-India partnership will have on the trajectory of the 21st century. As Prime Minister Modi said in February this year, our ties ‘are no longer just another partnership. It is a far greater and closer relationship’. This closer relationship is all the more important as India faces aggression from China along your shared border, which is part of the Chinese government’s consistent pattern of unlawful and belligerent territorial aggression across the Indo-Pacific. The United States will remain steadfast in support of India’s efforts to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the letter read.Citing another instance of US trying to woo India, EFSAS said, “In early July, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows stressed that the US will continue to stand strong in the ongoing conflict between India and China. He alleged that no one in China’s periphery was safe from Chinese aggression.”On July 2, Republican Senator Rick Scott wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, “Communist China believes that in order for them to be strong, America, India and other freedom-loving countries must be weaker. They are cracking down on freedom and autonomy in Hong Kong, and continue to threaten Taiwan and India. As you continue to stand against Communist China and General Secretary of the Communist Party Xi (Jinping), I want to offer help in any way I can to the Republic of India, the world’s largest democracy and our ally. The United States will always defend our allies and those fighting for freedom.”Instead of accepting the US’ help, India has maintained that it will not join the US and other countries who have been victims of China’s aggressive behaviour unless pushed to the brink.The EFSAS quoted Jaishankar at a virtual conference held on July 20, “Non-alignment was a term of a particular era and geopolitical landscape. One aspect was independence, which remains a factor of continuity for us.”“The consequence of repositioning of the United States, that the big umbrella is now smaller than it used to be, has allowed many other countries to play more autonomous roles. It does not affect us as much because we were never part of an alliance system and we will never be. But countries who depended more on the US are finding they have to take a call themselves on many issues,” he said.The EFSAS stated that the US should move “beyond general assurances of standing by India and spelt out exactly what it was willing to offer to attract India enough to take the plunge and the risk” of aligning with forces against China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-confident-in-standing-solo-against-china-in-any-future-border-dispute-european-think-tank/story-nTHJ6DgOHp3sOuAKDTHjdM.html
08-08-2020||India||India records over 60,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight day, recoveries cross 1.4 million||India recorded 61,537 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 933 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry, even as 16 districts in four states were asked to ramp up measures to control high mortality rates.The country’s infection rally is now 2,088,611 and 1,427,005 patients of the coronavirus disease have been cured across the country, 48,900 between Friday and Saturday morning, taking the recovery rate to 68.32%. This is the second day in a row that India has reported a daily rise of more than 60,000 Covid-19 cases—there were 62,538 on Friday morning. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The gap between active cases—619,088 so far—and recoveries has further widened to more than eight lakh, data also showed. The death toll stands at 42,518, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.“Test, track, treat - effective implementation by the Centre and States/UTs has ensured that India has one of lowest Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population compared to several other countries,” the government said on Friday.It also said that India has continued testing more than six lakh samples for the third consecutive day in a row. “India’s resolve to rapidly increase the number of tests done per day has resulted in a successful march towards 10 lakh/day testing capacity with 6,64,949 tests conducted in the last 24 hours,” a government release said.The cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,21,49,351 and the tests per million have also seen a sharp rise to 16,050.The health ministry has asked 16 districts in four states reporting higher Covid-19 mortality to adhere to measures suggested by central advisories and guidelines.Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary, met officials of district and state administration to analyse the factors driving the high mortality to come up with ways and means to reduce the rate.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage These include Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat; Belagavi, Bengaluru urban, Kalaburagi and Udupi in Karnataka; Chennai, Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Theni, Thiruvallur, Tiruchirappalli, Tuticorin and Virudhnagar in Tamil Nadu; Hyderabad and Medchal-Malkajgiri in Telangana.Apart from the higher case mortality, these districts account for 17% of India’s active cases, high daily new cases, low tests per million, and high confirmation percentage. The districts were advised to ensure that the advisories, guidelines and clinical treatment protocols issued by the Union health ministry are adopted and effectively implemented to reduce the mortality among Covid-19 patients and other preventable deaths among all sections of the people, particularly those with co-morbidities, pregnant women, the elderly and children.“The states were advised to ensure optimum capacity utilisation of testing labs, increase tests per million population and reduce confirmation percentage, in addition to ensuring timely availability of ambulances with target zero refusal,” the ministry said in a release.The government has also formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan.The panel’s tasks include identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration—a move that comes even as six vaccines are in Phase 3 or combined Phase 2-3 trials and as countries around the world scramble to strike deals with multiple vaccine makers.It will pick the vaccine or vaccines that India can use, plan the finances for what is sure to be an expensive purchase running into billions of dollars, and prioritise the sequence of administration.India crossed two million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, three weeks after it crossed a million cases on July 16. It is the third worst-hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil as more than 19.6 million people across the world have contracted the viral disease and 720,074 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-60-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-recoveries-cross-1-4-million/story-rhnWYOa5jxjNmtdJNiq8JN.html
08-08-2020||India||4 cabin crew members of AI Express that crashed in Kozhikode are safe: Airlines||Four cabin crew members of the Air India Express flight that crash landed at the Karipur airport here are safe, the national transporter said on Saturday. “The four cabin crew members are confirmed safe,” Air India Express said in a bulletin. Air India Express Employees Union said cabin crew suffered some injuries and are under treatment at the Kozhikode hospital. Eighteen people including two pilots were killed and scores injured when an AIE flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway in Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-cabin-crew-members-of-ai-express-that-crashed-in-kozhikode-are-safe-airlines/story-f908yDJCE6fekeuJanuJiI.html
08-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients spread virus similar to symptomatic ones, finds study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Soaked in blood of injured’: Locals rush in to save Air India Express passengersDozens of local residents rushed to the airport in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday as they heard a “terrible thud” after the Air India Express plane overshot the tabletop runway at the airport and fell into a valley 35 feet below. Read more ED questions Rhea Chakraborty for 9 hours in Sushant Singh Rajput death caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for over eight hours on Friday in a money-laundering case it has registered in connection with Bollywood celebrity Sushant Singh Raput’s suspected suicide on June 14. Read more Study finds asymptomatic Covid-19 patients spread virus similar to symptomatic onesA South Korean study, published in medical journal JAMA Internal Medicine, has found that asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19 spread the virus similar to the symptomatic patients. Read more ‘Our thoughts are with everyone’: UN aviation body ‘saddened’ by Kerala plane crashThe International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the United Nations’ specialised agency for aviation, expressed grief over the tragic plane crash that occurred in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday. Read more Kapil Dev, MS Dhoni on same page as leaders: Former India spinner Maninder Singh picks Sourav Ganguly as the best India captainManinder who has represented India in 35 Tests and 49 ODIs between 1982 and 19993 taking 88 and 66 wickets respectively, believes it is very important for a captain to instill belief in his team and also back his players. Read more Kriti Sanon posts cryptic message as Rhea Chakraborty is questioned about Sushant Singh Rajput: ‘Sun will shine again’Actor Kriti Sanon has shared a post on social media, in which she has expressed the importance of waiting patiently for the storm to subside, and for the sun to shine again. Read more Capybara gets pranked by naughty meerkat, video will make you laugh out loud. WatchShared on Twitter by IFS officer Susanta Nanda, a clip shows a meerkat’s mischievous practical joke may just brighten up your morning. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-spread-virus-similar-to-symptomatic-ones-finds-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YCACcpc5vHsz0PGBVDPz3L.html
08-08-2020||India||18 dead, hundreds injured in AI Express plane crash: What all we know||Investigating officers from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will on Saturday start their probe into the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala.Nineteen people, including the plane’s two pilots, were killed on Friday when the jet ripped in two after it overshot and skidded off the runway upon landing, officials said. Hundreds of people were injured, many seriously, after the Air India Express Boeing 737 from Dubai—a coronavirus evacuation flight—plunged down a slope in heavy rain on its second attempt to land in Kozhikode.Catch all the updates from the Kerala air crash hereOfficials said that 190 passengers and crew were onboard the plane that plummeted 35 feet off the table-top runway of Karipur airport, also known as Kozhikode International Airport.Here is what we know so far:• An Air India Express (AIE) flight took off around 2am from Delhi to Kozhikode carrying investigating officers from DGCA and AAIB, AIE’s chief executive and other officials of AI and AIE.• A second plane took off from Mumbai to Kozhikode around 6am on Saturday carrying Angels of Air India and GO employees who will coordinate and liaise with various agencies and provide support and assist families of those affected in this incident.• The third flight took off from Delhi around 6am carrying the AI’s CMD and other senior officials.• The civil aviation ministry has said the aircraft overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport at 7.41pm on Friday. “No fire was reported at the time of landing,” it said.• “Visibility was 2,000 metre and rains were reported. Aircraft was at full speed while landing and overshot the Runway 10. It continued running to the end of the runway and fell down in the valley and broke down into two pieces,” civil aviation regulator DGCA has said.• The Air India Express pilots attempted two landings before the final one at the tabletop runway but aborted due to tailwind.• “According to weather radar, the approach was for runway 28 but as pilots found difficulties they went around twice and came from the opposite side on runway 10 and the plane crash-landed at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport,” a senior investigator from DGCA told news agency ANI.• Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot-in-command, and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died. Sathe, 59, was a former wing commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force’s flight testing establishment.• The four-cabin crew members are safe, said the Air India Express in a statement. • All the passengers have been rescued in operations, which took place amid heavy rains, and injured are being treated at various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode.• There were 184 passengers, including 10 infants, two pilots and four cabin crew onboard the aircraft, the ministry added.• It was a repatriation flight operated by the Centre under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission to bring home Indians hit by international travel restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic.• AFP reported 15 of those on board had lost their jobs and 12 were returning for a medical emergency. Two people on board were coming back for their weddings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-dead-hundreds-injured-in-ai-express-plane-crash-what-we-know-so-far/story-A6XTmYd0ONTd0twIkdd8yK.html
08-08-2020||India||Body of Covid-19 patient in Kolkata swapped with one who died of kidney ailment||The Railways has ordered an inquiry after body of a Covid-19 patient was allegedly swapped with the body of another patient who died of a kidney ailment at a railway hospital in Kolkata, officials said on Friday.While the body of the patient, who died of a kidney ailment, was cremated by the civic body following Covid-19 protocols, the body of Covid-19 positive patient is now lying in the hospital as it can’t be handed over to the family.“The family members of the Covid-19 patient identified the wrong body. As per the protocols of the hospital, we have recorded the entire body-identification process on video camera. There was no fault on our part,” said a senior official of the BR Singh Hospital.Also read: Study finds asymptomatic Covid-19 patients spread virus similar to symptomatic onesOn August 1, 68-year-old Kalpana Bhakat was admitted in the hospital with kidney ailments. On August 3, her swab tests were sent for Covid-19 test. She, however, died on the same day. The body was kept in the hospital as test results were awaited. On Friday, when the test results came, it was found that Bhakat had tested negative.“But when we went to take the body we found that it was not the body of our patient but belonged to someone else. The hospital authorities later checked the records and found that another family has taken our patients body. The body which was being handed over to us was that of a Covid-19 positive patient,” said a relative of Bhakat.Soon after the incident, the local police station and the Kolkata Municipal Corporation were alerted as the body of the actual Covid-19 positive patient needed to be cremated following safety protocols.“We have been intimated,” said Ajoy Prasad, Deputy Commissioner of Kolkata Police (eastern suburban division). The railways have formed an enquiry committee to probe the incident.“A four-member enquiry committee has been set up to probe into the incident,” said a spokesman of the Eastern Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-covid-19-patient-in-kolkata-swapped-with-one-who-died-of-kidney-ailment/story-nbdyORScCOnyBGvXIbaQHK.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Soaked in blood of injured’: Locals rush in to save Air India Express passengers||Dozens of local residents rushed to the airport in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday as they heard a “terrible thud” after the Air India Express plane overshot the tabletop runway at the airport and fell into a valley 35 feet below. Eighteen people were killed and more than hundred injured when the flight, which was coming in from Dubai with 190 people on board, overshot the tabletop runway while landing in heavy rains, fell into the valley and broke into two.Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot-in-command, and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died. The 59-year-old Sathe was a former wing commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force’s flight testing establishment.People living nearby brought shocked passengers out of the Boeing 737 aircraft even before first responders could reach the airport. “Small kids were trapped under the seats and it was such a distressing sight. When we reached there some were deplaned,” a local resident was quoted as saying by PTI. “Many of them were seriously injured. Legs were broken... My hands and shirt were soaked in the blood of the injured persons,” he added.Television footage from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces and the debris lay scattered on the ground.Another man in the rescue operations told a television news channel that the “injured pilot of the aircraft was taken out from the cockpit after breaking it”.“By the time ambulances started reaching the spot, the locals had already started shifting injured passengers in cars to various hospitals in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts,” he said, according to PTI.Other residents said trapped people with blood-soaked clothes were screaming in pain as terrified children cried. They said things from shoes to baggage were strewn around as they looked for survivors amid heavy rain.Rescue personnel, including the local civil police, then rushed in to pull out the injured from the aircraft as children, some as young as four or five years old, clung on to them.The scene was similar in hospitals where the injured were rushed as health workers tried to help them.K Gopalakrishnan, Malappuram’s district collector, said earlier that more than 100 people were admitted to seven hospitals in Kozhikode.“Remaining are under treatment and their condition are at different stages. Among the 80 people admitted to Malappuram hospitals, we have received information about six deaths there. Some of the patients are critical,” Gopalakrishnan said according to PTI.The official also said two passengers, who got trapped at the tail portion of the aircraft, were rescued with great difficulty.The condition of a mother and child injured in the accident was very serious, Kerala’s health minister KK Shailaja said.There were 184 passengers, including 10 infants, two pilots and four cabin crew onboard the aircraft.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soaked-in-blood-of-injured-locals-rush-in-to-save-air-india-express-passengers/story-6zIAvgQ0VaDHMDXp6G2qmN.html
08-08-2020||India||Day after Idukki landslide, rainfall in Kerala likely to continue, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that rainfall is likely to continue over Kerala.“Rainfall likely to continue over Kerala state,” the IMD tweeted giving an update on rainfall data in respect of the state from “08:30 hrs IST of August 7 to 04:30 hrs IST of August 8 (in mm)”. “Kerala - Idukki (Peermade)-176 mm, Kannur(Irikkur)-173, Kasargode(Vellarikkundu)-162, Kottayam (Poonjar)-141, Kottayam (Kumarakom)-82, Kozhikode (Kakkayam)-258, Palakkad(Adakkaputhur)-117, Pathanamthitta (Seethathode)-111, Wayanad (Padinjarathara_dam)-158, Kollam (Valiyapadam)-51, Ernakulam (North Paravar)-129, Allappuzha (Kanjikkazhy)-79, Thrissur(Poringalkuthu)-79, Chalakkuddy-81,” the IMD tweeted.Meanwhile, the death toll in Kerala’s Idukki landslide incident has surged to 17, said Devikulam sub-collector on Friday.“The death toll in Idukki landslide rises to 17. Twelve people have been rescued so far,” said Devikulam sub-collector.On Friday, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakhs to kin of the deceased.While Congress MP Rahul Gandhi through a post on Facebook urged the Congress party workers and leaders to lend a helping hand to people of Kerala during this difficult hour.“Heavy rains in Kerala have resulted in floods and a massive landslide in Munnar in which many have lost their lives. This is a terrible tragedy. I urge all our Congress party workers and leaders to lend a helping hand at this time and do whatever they can to mitigate the suffering of our brothers and sisters who are in need of help,” he wrote.The Congress leader said he is closely monitoring the situation at his parliamentary constituency, Wayanad.“I am particularly concerned about my parliamentary constituency, Wayanad and I am closely tracking the situation over there,” he said.“The yearly flooding and landslides in Kerala are a grim reminder that we have to work harder to protect our environment and create sustainable development models that allow us to cope with changing weather patterns and extreme climatic disturbances,” the Congress MP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-idukki-landslide-rainfall-in-kerala-likely-to-continue-says-imd/story-wAhyqpCP4Y3r1X5jsizrrO.html
08-08-2020||India||Indian consulate in Dubai to remain open to share info related to Air India Express plane crash||The Indian Consulate in Dubai will remain open on Saturday to help those who need assistance to travel to Kerala and provide information about the crash of the Air India Express flight that skidded off a hilltop runway and split in two while landing in heavy rain at an airport in Kozhikode, killing at least 17 people. According to the civil aviation ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft on a flight from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport at 7.41pm on Friday. There were 184 passengers including 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew on board the aircraft, the ministry added.Follow latest updates on Kerala plane crash here  Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot-in-command, and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died, police and airline officials said on Friday. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force’s flight testing establishment. “We are with all the families of injured and deceased and will do our best to assist them,” the consulate tweeted on Friday evening. It said the consulate will remain open on Saturday to share any information related to the crash. India’s newly appointed Consul General to Dubai Dr Aman Puri said that there were all kinds of Indians on-board the IX 1344 flight, which took off from Dubai and fell into a valley 35 feet below before broking into two portions. “Some were visa cancellation and expiry cases, some were travelling to meet their family members, some having lost their jobs, and some were travelling on medical emergencies,” Puri told the local media. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the deceased and the injured passengers. “We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew and will keep you updated as and when we receive further updates. Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090571, +971543090575,” Puri told PTI on Friday. The helpline number to call in Sharjah for updates is +97165970303, the Gulf News reported. Air India Express has also established a helpline number in Sharjah at +971 6 5970303. The Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India and it has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. TV footage from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces and the debris lay scattered on the ground. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among several leaders who expressed shock at the accident. Modi also spoke to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover at the earliest,” the prime minister tweeted. The mishap brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport. The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-consulate-in-dubai-to-remain-open-to-share-info-related-to-air-india-express-plane-crash/story-iXUeLtaaHIURikBz19EQUM.html
08-08-2020||India||‘Our thoughts are with everyone’: UN aviation body ‘saddened’ by Kerala plane crash||The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the United Nations’ specialised agency for aviation, expressed grief over the tragic plane crash that occurred in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday. “ICAO is saddened by reports of the tragic loss of life on Air India’s Express flight IX 1344. Our thoughts are with everyone who has been affected by this terrible tragedy,” the agency tweeted. At least 19 people have been reported dead, including the pilot and the co-pilot of the plane - as Air India Express flight IX 1344, with 190 people on board, overshot the runway at the Kozhikode airport and fell 50 metres off the end, breaking into two. ICAO is saddened by reports of the tragic loss of life on Air India Express flight IX 1344. Our thoughts are with everyone who has been affected by this terrible tragedy.The accident happened around at around 7:41 pm on Friday when the Air India flight from Dubai was making a descent and preparing for landing.The Boeing 737 jet, on a Vande Bharat mission as flight AIX 1344 from Dubai, was bringing in Indians who were stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: Aircraft shot past runway in rainy conditions and fell into a gorge - How it happened“It was a Dubai to Kozhikode Air India Express flight. It made an over-speeding landing, overshot the runway, and fell into a valley. The aircraft has broken into two parts but it is being reported that it has not caught fire, which increases chances of rescue. Rescue teams are on spot and we are yet to get final figures on casualties,” said Arun Kumar, chief of directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA).President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and several other leaders, politicians and eminent personalities offered their condolences over the accident.The Union civil aviation ministry and the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will hold an urgent meeting Air India officials over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-thoughts-are-with-everyone-un-aviation-body-saddened-by-kerala-plane-crash/story-VUCMYWgtxpLmzfqgjYjCkJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Kerala’s Kozhikode airport shut, flights diverted after Air India Express plane crash||Kerala’s Kozhikode airport was closed temporarily and all incoming flights diverted to either Kannur and Cochin international airports on Saturday, officials said, hours after an Air India Express plane from Dubai crashed while landing killing at least 20 people.Authorities have said the Air India Express flight from Dubai to Kozhikode with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway at the Kozhikode on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and snapped into two.Follow latest updates on Kerala plane crash here The pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Sathe, a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF), and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died, officials said. “Unfortunately the pilots have passed away and we are in touch with their families in grief,” said an Air India Express statement past midnight.The Boeing 737 aircraft on a flight overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport at 7.41pm on Friday, the civil aviation ministry said. “No fire was reported at the time of landing,” it said.Also read| ‘He saved our lives’: Air India Express plane crash survivors laud brave pilotThere were 190 people, including 10 infants, and two pilots and four cabin crew, onboard the aircraft, the ministry added.It was a repatriation flight operated by the Centre under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission to bring home Indian nationals hit by international travel restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-kozhikode-airport-shut-flights-diverted-after-air-india-express-plane-crash/story-WPnApKibTpK7GPqnO3WMCO.html
08-08-2020||India||The PLA Aggressors: China’s eight top commanders who led Ladakh adventure||An Arabic speaking General with over 20 years of enforcing the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) diktat in Tibet, four Lieutenant Generals and three divisions commanders are currently overseeing the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggression on the 1597-km long Line of Actual Control bisecting Ladakh in India and occupied Aksai Chin in China.With both the Indian Army and PLA locked in a stalemate after the latter’s reluctance to move its troops, the India-China military stand-off may well continue through this winter and beyond. It is led by the military architect of 2017 Doklam face-off which lasted 73 days, the 65-year-old Gen Zhao Zongqi, who is no stranger to military stand-offs.The Hindustan Times has put together details of Chinese military commanders involved in the on-going Ladakh stand-off. Many are CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping’s men.  1. General Zhao Zhongqi, Western Theatre Commander .leftgfx {width: 25%; padding: 0px; margin-right: 10px; float: left}@media only screen and (max-width: 400px) {.leftgfx {width: 100%; margin-right: 0px}}An expert in specialized reconnaissance, Gen Zhao, 65, was appointed the Western Theatre Commander of PLA on February 1, 2016. Born in Bin county, Heilongiang province, he was assigned to 118 regiment of Chengdu based 14 group army (now disbanded) in 1970. He was part of the reconnaissance unit during the Vietnam-China war in 1979 and conducted special operations and high-value reconnaissance missions for the PLA. Gen Zhao served as a military advisor to Tanzania in 1988 before becoming 52 Mountain Brigade Commander in Tibet Military District. He has had a succession of high profile postings including as head of intelligence department of 14 Group Army before taking over as its commander in 2004. Gen Zhao commanded the 13th group Army in Kunming in the Chengdu military region before becoming the Chief of Staff of the Jinan Military region that covers Shandong and Henan provinces. Promoted to Lt General in 2009, Zhao becomes the commander of Jinan Military district in 2015 and then Western Theatre Commander with a rank of full general in 2016. Even though theatre commanders of PLA retire at the age of 65, Gen Zhao, who crossed that mark in April, followed up by transgressing across the LAC.2. Lt General Xu Qiling, Commander PLA Ground Force, Western Theatre CommandThe 57-year-old Henan-born general is responsible for deploying tanks and big artillery guns in the occupied Aksai Chin area. The PLA ground force is responsible for not only the artillery elements but also air defence batteries including anti-aircraft guns and surface to air missiles as well as long-range missiles. Xu was commander of the Henan based 83 Group Army before taking over as Commander of 79 Group Army in Shenyang, Liaoning in Northern Theatre Command in 2017. He was commander of PLA ground force, eastern theatre commander in 2018 and was promoted to be the deputy commander of the entire eastern theatre. He brings firepower and logistics to the current stand-off.3. Lt Gen Wang Qiang, Commander PLA Air Force Western Theatre Command.Wang is responsible for providing air support to the PLA with four fighter divisions, one transport division and one bomber division. He has held a string of high-profile command assignments starting with Commander of Air Force Aviation Division of Jinan Military District. He has served in various positions in the Western Theatre Command since 2016 including Deputy Chief of Staff, Chief of Staff and Deputy Commander of Air Force. He was appointed as Commander of PLA Air force in Western Theatre in December 2019. 4. Lt Gen Haijiang Wang, Commander, Tibet Military DistrictHaijiang, 57, was named the boss of the highly-sensitive Tibet military district since December 10. 2019. He joined the army in 1977 and was awarded First Class Merit in Vietnam-China war in which China was on the losing end. He has held a string of positions including Deputy Commander South Xinjiang Military District, which is responsible for the defence of occupied Aksai Chin. He was deputy commander of Tibet military district in 2016 before taking over as commander after being promoted to Lt Gen. He has published several papers on the physical and tactical aspects of training in mountainous regions, and the importance of defence structures n Tibet. He is an expert in patrolling and reconnaissance missions.Also read: Army chief asks commanders to keep guard up in eastern, central sectors  5. Lt Gen Liu Wanglong, Commander, Xinjiang Military DistrictThe head of the Uighur Muslim dominated and often restive Xinjiang province, the 58-year-old general has served in this area since 2008. He was commander of Gansu Military District in 2016 and become the Xinjiang Commander in 2017. He was promoted to Lt General in July 2018. Liu’s military assessment will be critical to Theatre Commander Zhao Zongqi. 6. Major General Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military DistrictMajor General Liu, 57, is a known in India as the principal Chinese interlocutor with XIV Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh and involved in not only disengagement but also de-escalation talks through marathon meetings at Moldo and Chushul. An artilleryman, Gen Liu participated in Zurihe military parade in 2017 as leader of the self-propelled artillery team. He was commander of 8 Xinjiang Military division before being promoted to major general in 2015 and Deputy Commander of the present formation. It is his troops that are locked in a stand-off which the Indian Army at Kugrang River, Gogra and Pangong Tso. He took over command of the Military District in 2019 after serving as its Chief of Staff. 7. Major General Liu Geping, Commander Qinghai Military DistrictMajor General Liu was appointed to this post in April 2020 after being promoted in July 2017. He has served in Ngari military sub-district facing Demchok in Ladakh sector. He was commander of the military department of production and construction corps in 2017.Also read: China arrests citizen for claiming Chinese soldiers died in clash with India because of corruption 8. Major General Qu Xinyong, Commander, Sichuan Military DistrictHe was appointed to this post on April 21. Born in Shandong, the 59-year-old commander was head of 31 infantry division in 2013. He became the deputy commander of Yunan military district in 2014 and was commander of Qinghai military district in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-pla-aggressors-china-s-eight-top-commanders-who-led-ladakh-adventure/story-qbin0tWtJ0wgfQkal0o5cO.html
08-08-2020||India||He saved our lives: Air India Express plane crash survivors laud brave pilot||Survivors of Friday’s plane crash in Kerala’s Kozhikode said the aircraft’s captain, who was killed, helped save their lives as he used his presence of mind and averted a fire after the accident.At least 19 people were killed, including the two pilots, and more than 100 injured when the Air India Express passenger plane repatriating Indians stranded by the coronavirus pandemic from Dubai overshot the runway in heavy rain.The Boeing-737 flight from Dubai to Calicut International Airport was carrying 190 passengers and crew, including 10 infants, the civil aviation ministry said in a statement.  Survivors said the brave pilot and vigilant local residents averted a major tragedy. They said people rushed to the spot and retrieved them before help came in as they entered the plane ignoring the smoke and minor fire.Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe was an ace Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter with a 22-year career. Sathe, 59, was awarded the coveted “sword of honour” (a recognition of his skills) when he graduated from the Air Force Academy at Dundigal near Hyderabad in June 1981. The former IAF fighter, an alumnus of the prestigious National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, was also an accomplished test pilot.“It was raining heavily. The pilot had given a warning before landing saying the weather was really bad. He tried for safe landing twice but lost control. The aircraft shot off the runway and skidded off and it broke into two pieces. It was a miraculous escape for many,” V Ibrahim, one of the passengers who survived with minor injuries, said.Out of the 190 people on board, 123 people have been injured and 20 are in serious condition, said hospital sources adding some of them received spinal cord injuries in the impact.Officials said 38 passengers are in Kozhikode MIMS Hospital, 28 in Baby Memorial Hospital and 14 in Medical College Hospital.It was India’s worst passenger aircraft accident since 2010, when another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the table-top runway at Mangalore and slid down a hill, killing 158 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-plane-crash-survivors-laud-brave-pilot-say-he-saved-our-lives/story-4Mz1mkmkBJqyH58klsaT3O.html
08-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Friday, Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, which was founded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), Serum Institute of India, and BGMF struck a $150 million deal to produce 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax for 57 and 92 countries that are part of Gavi Covax AMC, which aims to provide up to two billion doses of vaccines to eligible countries, including India, by the end of 2021.Also on Friday, the Indian government finally set in motion the process of identifying the vaccine or vaccines it wants to buy, and planning other aspects including financing and procurement by setting up a panel to oversee all these aspects. Also read: Govt sets up task force for vaccine distributionCovax is led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and the World Health Organization (WHO), and it hopes to ensure “fair and equitable” access to Covid-19 vaccines to “every country in the world”. India, as a lower middle income country (its GDP per capita is about $2,100), is eligible for vaccines under Covax (one criteria is that the country should have a per capita GDP less than $4,000), and until it formed the committee on Friday, it seemed that it was pinning its hopes on this mechanism to access a vaccine or vaccines that provide immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Covax stands for Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access. Some countries have struck direct deals with companies for vaccines in anticipation of their development, investing upfront in them and bearing some of the risks. The US, under Operation Warp Speed, a Covid-19 vaccine development programme, has pumped billions of dollars into vaccine makers (almost every major one). More than any country, the US appears to have a clear plan on how to build a vaccine stockpile – impressive for a country that has pretty much got every other part of its response to Covid-19 wrong. The UK has signed deals with AstraZeneca, the BioNTech-Pfizer combine, and Valneva, for a (total) of around 200 million doses of the three vaccines. The European Union has signed a deal with Sanofi for 300 million doses of a potential Covid-19 vaccine. WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus referred to the rush, among nations that can afford it, to throw money at vaccine makers and sign advance deals. “Vaccine nationalism is not good; it will not help us,” he said at an event on Thursday. “No country will be safe until we are all safe,” he added. Covax intends to ensure that the vaccines that work are distributed fairly around the world. It aims to make available two billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2021, for which it is raising $18 billion, but some of the money is coming from around 75 countries that have signed up as donors in return for a share of the vaccines. Like the 92 low and middle income countries, they too will get, through Covax, enough doses to vaccinate 20% of the population. Some health activists have criticised this part of the programme (giving donors vaccines), but in the absence of this sweetener, it is unlikely that Gavi will be able to raise as much money as it needs. The UK, Singapore, Switzerland, Japan and New Zealand are among the donor countries. In the first phase, Covax will make available vaccine doses to cover 3% of the population of countries that are part of the programme (this proportion is expected to cover essential workers). India has not signed deals with any of the vaccine makers yet. The Department of Biotechnology and the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, DBT-BIRAC, have funded some Indian vaccine candidates (including those of Cadila Healthcare and Bharat Biotech), but this doesn’t come with any strings attached. To be sure, as a country with enough vaccine-making capacity (and huge expertise in this area), it can always play catch-up with countries that have already planned their Covid-19 vaccine stockpiles, but it wouldn’t hurt to do this now. The creation of a panel suggests that New Delhi has realised this. Serum Institute is the world’s largest vaccine maker and its CEO Adar Poonawalla has previously said to the New York Times that he would split his company’s production 50:50 between India and the rest of the world . With two-thirds of the year gone, there are six vaccine candidates in Phase-3 or Phase 2/3 trials, according to WHO. Three of these are Chinese – from Sinovac, Sinopharm and the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products, and Sinopharm and the Beijing Institute of Biological Products. The other three are from Oxford-AstraZeneca, Moderna, and BioNTech/Pfizer. There are other companies developing vaccines too – 20 candidates are in human trials (other than the six). At this stage, the probability of not having a vaccine (leaving aside details such as whether it will be single-shot, and how well it will work) for Covid-19 in 2021 is very low. That’s all the more reason why India has to start focusing on its vaccine acquisition plan now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-xGsA6ho4sT9NnoXXl2jy7L.html
08-08-2020||India||L-G: Need to start Kashmir dialogue for peace, stability||Authorities will initiate a dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) without any discrimination in order to usher in peace and development, Manoj Sinha, who was sworn in as the second lieutenant governor (LG) of the Union Territory, said on Friday, sending out a message of unity in his first speech after taking charge.Sinha, 61, a three-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian, stressed that “peace and stability” should prevail in J&K while “uncertainty and terrorism” should end. “Achieving all this along with accelerated development will be our aim, our mission,” he said after the oath ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Srinagar.The appointment of Sinha, a former Union minister, is being seen as an indication of the Centre’s will to initiate the political process in J&K at a time when the region is grappling with multiple issues, from security concerns to a tumultuous social and political landscape. After years of isolation, J&K has joined the national mainstream, Sinha said, referring to the central government’s move to nullify Article 370, which conferred special status to the erstwhile state, and bifurcate it into two UTs — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — on August 5, 2019.“I have been told that many works which could not be completed in years have been completed in the past one year. I want to accelerate that development,” Sinha said. “We need to establish a dialogue with the common people of Jammu and Kashmir. We don’t have any agenda in that; there will be no discrimination against anyone. Constitution will be Gita in that,” he added.Later in the day, Sinha chaired a high-level meeting of administrative secretaries of the government at the civil secretariat. He was briefed on development projects in the UT, among other issues.Sinha, who was administered the oath of office by J&K chief justice Gita Mittal, takes over from Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Girish Chandra Murmu, who resigned on Wednesday night and was later appointed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India.BJP leaders such as Jitendra Singh, minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office; former deputy chief ministers Kavinder Gupta and Nirmal Singh; and BJP state president Ravindra Raina, among others, were present at the event. The newly launched Apni Party was represented by Ghulam Hassan Mir, Mohammad Ashraf Mir and former legislator Zaffar Manhas. The National Conference (NC) did not attend Sinha’s oath ceremony though both Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were invited.Justice (retd) Hasnain Masoodi, a senior NC leader and a parliamentarian, said: “Nothing will happen unless there is a change in the approach towards the people. Changing faces have no meaning. As a matter of principle, nobody from the NC attended the oath ceremony.”J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said nobody from his party got an invite. “This is how the BJP intends to start the political process in J&K...” he said.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesperson Tahir Sayed, too, said his party did not attend the event. “Nazir Ahmad Laway (a Rajya Sabha member) attended the ceremony, but he was expelled from the PDP long back.’’Asem Bhat, a political commentator, underscored the challenges before Sinha in starting a political process. “...dozens of political leaders are under house arrest. One former CM (PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti) is detained under PSA (Public Safety Act)...”As protests erupted in the wake of the August 5 announcement last year, several political leaders and activists, including three former CMs — Farooq and Omar Abdullah, and Mufti — were detained as a preventive measure. While prominent politicians, including the Abdullahs, have been released, Mufti and several others are still in detention.Sinha’s political career began when he was elected the president of Banaras Hindu University students’ union in 1982. He became a Lok Sabha member for the first time in 1996 from Ghazipur, and won election from the seat in 1999 as well.He was elected to the Lower House for a third time in 2014, when the BJP came to power at the Centre with a landslide win, and Modi became the PM. Sinha held the portfolio of minister of state for railways between May 2014 and July 2016, and was later given the independent charge of the ministry of telecommunications.An alumnus of Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi, formerly known as Banaras Engineering College, Sinha is not unfamiliar with a tricky turf. He overcame the caste faultiness in his constituency of Ghazipur, which was also once a Left bastion. J&K, however, is a challenge of a different magnitude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-need-to-start-kashmir-dialogue-for-peace-stability/story-XbvZSVjkAjFmQ2JX6QENOP.html
08-08-2020||India||ED questions Rhea Chakraborty for 9 hours in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for over eight hours on Friday in a money-laundering case it has registered in connection with Bollywood celebrity Sushant Singh Raput’s suspected suicide on June 14.The 28-year-old Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend at the time of his death, arrived at the agency’s office in Balard Estate area around 11:50am after her request to defer the questioning was turned down. She left the ED office around 8:45pm. The agency, which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations, questioned Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, and her business manager, Shruti Modi, who also worked for Rajput. Their statements were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Requesting anonymity, ED officials privy to the details said the agency was looking into Chakraborty’s income tax returns and investments. The officials said Chakraborty responded to most of the questions. ED is expected to focus on Chakraborty’s income, business deals and professional deals. A property located in the Khar area of Mumbai is also being probed by ED for the source of its purchase and ownership. Chakraborty told interrogators that she took around Rs 60 lakh home loan for the property worth Rs 84 lakh, according to the officials. When ED officials asked her about the remaining amount, she said she managed to arrange the rest on her own and made the payment through cheques, the officials said. Investigators also tried to get more information into the formation of four companies by Rajput, Chakraborty and her family. While two of these companies were registered, the rest of the two were under the process of getting registered. She said she did not siphon of anyone’s money, the officials said.“She has been examined and her statement... (has been) recorded... She’s always cooperated with investigations with police and ED. She’s nothing to hide. In the event she’s called again, she will appear at the appointed time,” Satish Maneshinde, her lawyer and senior counsel, said. ED filed a case on July 31 on the basis of a first information report (FIR) by the Bihar Police. The FIR was registered following a complaint by Rajput’s father KK Singh who accused Chakraborty and her family of abetting the Bollywood actor’s suicide and siphoning of his money. Singh accused that close to Rs 15 crore were transferred from Rajput’s account to unknown persons not linked to him. He said that his son’s credit cards were with Chakraborty. Alongside ED, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), too, has launched a probe on the request of the Bihar government and has named Chakraborty, her brother and four other family members, apart from unknown persons, as accused. The Bihar Police have handed over their case files to CBI in the midst of a jurisdictional dispute with the Maharashtra Police, who have filed an accidental death report (ADR). “Rhea Chakraborty is a law-abiding citizen. In view of the fact that ED has informed the media that the request to postpone the attendance is rejected, she appeared before the ED at the appointed time and date,” Maneshinde, said in a statement earlier in the day. Chakraborty initially refused to appear before the agency, citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court. She has requested that the FIR filed in Patna be transferred to Mumbai, arguing that Bihar Police have no jurisdiction. Bihar rejected the claim. Rajput’s roommate, Siddharth Pithani, too has been called by ED to appear on Saturday, PTI reported. Pithani, an IT professional stated to be living with Rajput for about a year, is stated to be out of Mumbai and he has said in news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14, when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. The agency has already questioned Rajput’s chartered accountant (CA), Sandeep Shridhar, and his house manager and staffer, Samuel Miranda, twice in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-rhea-for-9-hours-in-sushant-case/story-HR0IoZLWsPSwhYnBHt855L.html
08-08-2020||India||20 dead in Kerala as repatriation flight skids off runway, breaks in two||An Air India Express flight with 190 on board overshot and fell 50 metres off the end of the runway at the Kozhikode airport in treacherous conditions on Friday, breaking into two and killing at least 20 people -- including both the pilot and the co-pilot -- in what is the deadliest commercial aviation disaster in the country in nearly 10 years. The Boeing 737 jet, on a Vande Bharat mission as flight AIX 1344 from Dubai, was bringing in Indians who were stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The crash occurred around 7.40pm, when it was raining, and the incident bore striking similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a tabletop runway and crashed nose-first into the ground – the last time there were as many or more people killed in a plane crash. Also read| Kerala plane crash: All passengers evacuated from crash site, urgent meeting called in Delhi“It was a Dubai to Kozhikode Air India Express flight. It made an over-speeding landing, overshot the runway, and fell into a valley. The aircraft has broken into two parts but it is being reported that it has not caught fire, which increases chances of rescue. Rescue teams are on spot and we are yet to get final figures on casualties,” said Arun Kumar, chief of directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA).In all there were 174 adult passengers on board, 10 infants, two pilots, and four crew members. Flight records reviewed by HT showed that several of the passengers cited job loss as the reason for returning to the country. “It was raining heavily. The pilot had given a warning before landing saying the weather was really bad. He tried for safe landing twice but lost control. The aircraft shot off the runway and skidded off and it broke into two pieces. It was a miraculous escape for many,” said V Ibrahim, among the passengers who survived with minor injuries.Among the 20 casualties were four children, officials said.“We are in touch with local authorities... Relief teams from Air India and AAI are being immediately dispatched from Delhi and Mumbai. All efforts being made to help passengers. A formal enquiry will be conducted by Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB),” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Also read: Govt orders probe into Air India crash, first team leaves for Kozhikode at 2 am“I have asked minister for local self government AC Moideen to rush to the airport and coordinate rescue efforts. It is another shocking incident,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on a day when the state was also hit by a landslide that killed 15 people.The fatalities include the flight’s commander Deepak V Sathe, a former Air Force Pilot, and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. Rescue personnel were on the scene and more than 150 people were taken to the hospital. “We regret that there has been an incident regarding our aircraft,” Air India Express said in a statement. Help centers were being set up in Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates.According to a playback on flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the plane circled the airport twice before attempting to land. In its second instance, it aborted the attempt with 2,000 feet to go before the crash landing.The so-called tabletop airport has limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines had stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues over the length of the runway.“Both Mangalore and Calicut airport do not have the required space on either side of the runway for safe landing. The Calicut runway does not have mandatory 155m side strip and there is a 70m drop at either end. We at the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council had warned the authorities ten years back that the runway is very risky for landing during rains,” said aviation safety consultant Mohan Ranganathan, a former instructor pilot of Boeing 737 who specialised in wet runway operations training. “The visibility was 2,000 metres (which is not considered to be bad) along with heavy rains. Calicut is a table top airport like Mangalore but at a lower height. The gorge at the end is not very deep and has a road going through it. Landing an aircraft is all about managing the energy of aircraft. The atmospherics play a major part,” said a senior air traffic controller in Mumbai, asking not to be named.Watch| Kozhikode crash: Pilots among 19 dead; PM Modi speaks to Kerala CM; NDRF rushed “Head winds and good runway friction conditions help a pilot in managing the energy so that the aircraft is brought to a stop from landing speeds of 250 km per hour. When atmospherics are not in favour then a mishap can happen, as it has in this case. But it means the pilot would sight the runway only about a minute before landing so it’s quite challenging as well,” this person added.President Ram Nath Kovind, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and several other opposition leaders offered their condolences over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-flight-with-190-on-board-skids-off-runway-breaks-into-2/story-id2Sqz17JWy6bOHBOac0FL.html
08-08-2020||India||MPs divided at first House panel meet on EIA||The first meeting of a parliamentary panel on the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 on Friday saw sharp division among lawmakers with Bharatiya Janata Party MPs trying to stall the discussion. The MPs said that it was not the appropriate time to discuss the draft.At Friday’s meeting, ministry officials in a detailed presentation, said that there have been 55 amendments and many court orders on the EIA since 2006, people familiar with the matter said. In the presentation, officials stressed that EIA 2020 is key to ease of doing business and the much needed systematization. The meeting was attended by just 14 out of 30 MPs. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar and his predecessor, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, have exchanged a series of letters on the EIA. Ramesh is the chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on environment, forests and climate change and science and technology. During the meeting, some members welcomed the notification, even as AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi raised 15 questions and some parties, including the DMK, opposed the clauses which seek to dilute public hearings and regularisation of violations.All MPs stressed on need for transparency, consistency and clarity in the draft rules, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-divided-at-first-house-panel-meet-on-eia/story-UWeqA3jSFlGJuHP8OuXCrJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Govt orders probe into Air India crash, first team leaves for Kozhikode at 2 am||The civil aviation ministry’s accident investigation division Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will conduct a detailed investigation into the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala. An Air India Express plane with 190 on board from Dubai overshot Karipur’s, also known as Kozhikode international airport, table top runway and dropped about 30 feet into a valley on Friday evening killing two pilots and at least 20 passengers. “Deeply anguished and distressed at the air accident in Kozhikode. The Air India Express flight number AXB-1344 on its way from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 people on board, overshot the runway in rainy conditions and went down 35 ft. into a slope before breaking up into two pieces,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said in a statement issued late on Friday.ALSO READ | Both Air India Express pilots killed as plane with 191 on board skids off runway in Kozhikode“We are in touch with local authorities. State police have reported 20 deaths. Relief teams from Air India and AAI are being immediately dispatched from Delhi & Mumbai. All efforts being made to help passengers. A formal enquiry will be conducted by AAIB,” he added.The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is a division of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India which investigates aircraft accidents. The bureau’s role is to conduct independent aircraft accident investigation and to obtain a preliminary report on the accident and assist in setting up of the committee of inquiry and formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules.Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said it was raining heavily when pilots of the Boeing 737 plane from Dubai tried to land. The regulator said after landing at Runway 10, the plane continued running till the end of the runway and fell into the valley and broke into two portions.ALSO READ | Air India plane overshoots Karipur’s table top runway, drops into valley; 20 dead“The visibility was 2000 meters amid heavy rain, after landing at runway 10 and it overshot the runway and broke down in two pieces,” a DGCA official said.According to Air India, there were 190 people on board the Air India Express flight AXB1344 including 174 passengers, 10 infants and four crew members. Air India Express is a subsidiary of state-run airline Air India. “Air India statement: Air India Express flight IX 1344 operated by B737 aircraft from Dubai to Calicut overshot runway at Kozhikode at 1941 hrs tonight. No fire reported at the time of landing. There are 174 passengers, 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew on board the aircraft,” the national transporter said in a statement.The flight from Dubai was part of the Centre’s repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. The Vande Bharat flights became operational from May 6 to repatriate citizens stranded since the lockdown reach their destinations via international repatriation flights. During the suspension of international flights due to the Covid-19 outbreak in India and other countries, more than 2,500 repatriation flights by foreign carriers to evacuate stranded nationals to and from India were approved by the government.Several passengers part of the flight from Dubai to Kozhikode had cited loss of jobs as the reason to travel back home according to their repatriation flight list reviewed by HT. A large number of workers based in the Gulf have lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the ministry of civil aviation, national carrier Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express have evacuated 2,67,436 stranded passengers and other flights have brought back 4,86,811 passengers between May 6 to July 30. The fifth phase of the mission began from August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-formal-probe-into-air-india-express-crash-at-kozhikode/story-d2t6kCJH8wueaypgcKHN6O.html
08-08-2020||India||Landslides kill 17, bury 60 under rubble in south India||Landslides killed 17 people and trapped 60 others under a mound of slush and debris across Kerala and Karnataka on Friday as torrential rainfall pounded India’s western coast. In Kerala’s Idukki district, three days of heavy showers triggered landslides in the early hours of the morning that razed a tea plantation workers’ settlement. Fifteen were declared dead and 60 were missing – most of whom were sleeping. Idukki district collector H Dineshan said the downpour and mist hampered rescue even as the showers snapped communication lines. “I heard a deafening sound and came out of the two-room house. I saw a big portion of the mountain coming out with a heavy flow of water and slush. I ran outside but got into the swirl of waters,” said Deepan, who was admitted at a hospital in Munnar.In neighbouring Karnataka, two people died in the Malnad region and another five reported missing. Rescuers were also searching for five people missing at Talacauvery, the origin of Cauvery river, where massive landslides and floods inundated villages on Wednesday night. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Rajamalai, Idukki. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover quickly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Heavy rains would continue in the region till Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. This is the heaviest rainfall this monsoon in the two states, where massive floods have killed 803 people and displaced 12.8 million, according to home ministry data. “Our analysis of rainfall data over the last 70 years, show a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India. This is because the monsoon winds over the Arabian Sea are now exhibiting large fluctuations, thanks to a warmer environment,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. According to IMD, average rainfall in the coastal regions of Karnataka and Kerala in the past 24 hours was 20 cm with Idukki receiving 26 cm and Malnad receiving 23 cm. At the almost half-way mark of the monsoon this year, Karnataka received excess rainfall by 53% and Kerala by 102%, whereas states in northern and central India have rainfall deficiency of 56% to 95%. The eastern states have received heavy rainfall in the latter part of July and first week of August, causing massive floods. At least 239 deaths have been reported from West Bengal, the highest for any state. Rainfall has subsided in the worst-affected northern districts of Bihar, where close to 6.9 million people have been affected, according to the state disaster management department. Sixteen districts remain flood-hit. The situation may worsen in many districts if it rains heavily in the catchment areas of rivers such as Gandak, Bagmati and Kamla Balan, which are still flowing above the danger mark. In Assam, where close to 200 animals in Kaziranga National Park and 136 people have died, the flood situation has improved in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-kill-17-bury-60-under-rubble-in-south-india/story-iNArm363bY5lie8mXxN10M.html
08-08-2020||India||Top-notch ex-IAF pilot killed in Kerala Air India Express crash||Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe, the captain of the ill-fated aircraft that crashed at Calicut on Friday, was a top-notch Indian Air Force fighter who learnt his trade flying the Soviet-origin MiG-21 fighter planes during his 22-year IAF career, people who have known him said.Sathe, 59, was awarded the coveted “sword of honour” (a recognition of his skills) when he graduated from the Air Force Academy at Dundigal near Hyderabad in June 1981. The former IAF fighter, an alumnus of the prestigious National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, was also an accomplished test pilot.Also read: Twenty dead in Kerala as repatriation flight skids off runway, breaks in two“This is sad. Sathe was a comrade in arms at the Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment STE (IAF’s flight testing establishment) with me. RIP Tester. The call signs of all test pilots have the ‘Tester’ prefix,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Sathe joined the air force in June 1981 and quit the IAF prematurely in June 2003, said another ex-IAF pilot who knew him.Also read: All passengers evacuated from crash site, urgent meeting called in Delhi“He was an extremely skilled pilot who loved flying. He was a mentor to many young pilots,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-notch-ex-iaf-pilot-killed-in-crash/story-QmnqWOvZCQNVma8b97psgP.html
08-08-2020||India||Probe launched in Kerala plane crash, 2 teams to arrive in state||The civil aviation ministry’s Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will conduct a detailed probe into the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday. In a statement, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said he is “deeply anguished and distressed” due o the accident that killed at least 20 of the 190 people on board the plane. “...All efforts being made to help passengers. A formal enquiry will be conducted by AAIB,” he added. Later, in another tweet, he said two investigation teams comprising officials of Air India, the Airport Authority of India and AAIB will leave for Kozhikode at 2am and 5am, respectively. “Everyone has now been rescued from the aircraft. Rescue operations are now complete. Injured being treated at various city hospitals,” he said. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is a division of the civil aviation ministry that investigates aircraft accidents. Its role is to obtain a preliminary report on an accident and assist in setting up of an inquiry committee for a formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said it was raining heavily when pilots of the Boeing 737 plane from Dubai tried to land. “The visibility was 2000 meter amid heavy rain. After landing at Runway 10... (the plane) overshot the runway and broke down in two pieces,” a DGCA official said. According to Air India, there were 190 people on board the Air India Express flight AXB1344 — 174 passengers, 10 infants, two pilots and four crew members. The flight from Dubai was part of the Centre’s repatriation programme called the Vande Bharat Mission, which was launched on May 6 to evacuate citizens stranded due to the Covid-19-prompted lockdown. Several passengers part of the flight from Dubai to Kozhikode had cited loss of jobs as the reason to travel back home, according to their repatriation flight list reviewed by HT. A large number of workers based in the Gulf has lost their jobs due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-launched-in-kerala-plane-crash-2-teams-to-arrive-in-state/story-kMjJAvkkAGkjxiwxoHdFkO.html
08-08-2020||India||Capt Deepak Sathe, pilot of Air India Express flight, was NDA alumnus||Capt Deepak Sathe, pilot of the Air India Express flight who died after the plane crashed at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport on Friday, was an alumnus of the National Defence Academy (NDA) here.Twenty people were killed and several injured when a Dubai-Calicut Air India Express flight with 191 passengers and crew on board overshot the runway and fell into a valley, breaking into two portions, on Friday evening.“Capt Deepak V Sathe was from 58th course of National Defence Academy, Pune. He was from Juliet Squadron,” said Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (Retd).“Sathe passed out from Air Force Academy with Sword of Honour in June 1981 and was a fighter pilot in the Indian Air Force,” he added.Sathe was also an excellent squash player, he reminisced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capt-deepak-sathe-pilot-of-air-india-express-flight-was-nda-alumnus/story-VenK5nukB1gHu2uMinTZXK.html
08-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Centre seeks to be party in Rhea’s SC petition||The Union government approached the Supreme Court on Friday, seeking to be a party in a petition by actor Rhea Chakraborty who has appealed that a first information report (FIR) filed against her over Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput’s death be transferred from Patna to Mumbai.The FIR, which is based on a complaint by Rajput’s father and accuses Chakraborty of abetting her 34-year-old boyfriend’s suicide, is now being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Centre allowed the agency to take up the case on the basis of a request by Bihar, Rajput’s home state.The department of personnel and training (DoPT) plea in the Supreme Court said the Union of India is a “necessary and proper” party to the proceedings. The move came in the wake of Chakraborty’s legal team raising objections to the Centre’s intervention. Maharashtra, Bihar, and KK Singh — Rajput’s father — are parties in her petition in the top court.DoPT filed its impleadment plea through under secretary Satya Prakash Ram Tripathi. “The present impleadment application has been necessitated by virtue of the events that have taken place after filing of the present transfer petition,” it said.At the heart of the case is a question of who the case originally belongs to — Mumbai or Bihar. Chakraborty’s legal team says the Bihar government cannot recommend a CBI probe since the police from that state do not have any jurisdiction to even investigate the case. The Mumbai Police, too, have claimed that they have exclusive right to probe the case since the incident occurred under its jurisdiction.Rajput, who had a short but promising career, was found hanging at his Bandra residence in suburban Mumbai on June 14.On Friday, Bihar filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court, stressing that Section 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) allows an offence to be “tried either at the place where the offence has been committed or where the consequence ensues”. In this case, the consequence of the unnatural death was in Patna, where the late actor’s family resides, it argued.The Bihar government also sought the dismissal of Chakraborty’s transfer plea, and termed it “premature, misconceived and non-maintainable”.The affidavit, filed through advocate Keshav Mohan, said the Bihar Police have the jurisdiction in the case and accused Mumbai Police of non-cooperation. It said the Mumbai Police are “apparently siding with the petitioner (Chakraborty) for the reasons best known to them”.Hearing Chakraborty’s plea on Wednesday, the court asked Bihar, Maharashtra and Rajput’s father to reply to Chakraborty’s plea within three days, and asked about the status of investigation by the Mumbai Police. The Mumbai Police have found the cause of Rajput’s death as “asphyxia due to hanging”, filed an accidental death report (ADR) and began an investigation. While Bihar filed its affidavit on Friday, Maharashtra and Singh are yet to file their replies. The hearing is expected to resume next week.“The possibility of the Rhea Chakraborty case being argued out on the next date in the Supreme Court can only be possible if Maharashtra government defends its jurisdiction. The CBI cannot operate without express consent of Maharashtra. I also see the possibility of Mumbai Police completing its probe and putting it before the court on the next date and saying ‘we have nothing more to investigate’. Only a thin chance remains that Maharashtra will accept the situation as fait accompli and concede ground to CBI, which I doubt will happen,” senior advocate Sanjay Hegde told HT.Meanwhile, another petition before the Supreme Court on Friday said the entire case has not yet gone to CBI as the agency is only examining the FIR filed by Bihar Police on July 25.The petition by law student Dwivendra Dubey failed to impress a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. “You are a total stranger who is unnecessarily interfering in the case. The victim’s father is pursuing the case,” the bench said through video-conferencing, while dismissing the petition.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared in the matter to inform that CBI has taken over the probe from Patna Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-death-case-centre-seeks-to-be-party-in-chakraborty-s-sc-petition/story-bhhVkpbAQSUkLZBxwRkpiN.html
08-08-2020||India||Kisan Rail ferrying perishables flagged off from Maharashtra for Bihar||The first ‘Kisan Rail’ train for transportation of perishable goods with refrigerated coaches to assist farmers by ensuring fast transportation of agriculture produce across the country was flagged off on Friday from Deolali in Maharashtra) to Danapur in Bihar.It is expected to reduce transportation costs by Rs 1,000 per tonne compared to roadways and also reduce travel time by around 15 hours, a railway ministry official said. The train will operate from Deolali to Danapur. This is a weekly service running every Friday form Deolali, and returning on Sunday from Danapur. The scheduled time of the journey is 31 hours and 45 mins (one-way).“Nasik and surrounding regions produce a huge quantity of fresh vegetables, fruits, flowers, other perishables, onions and other agro products,” the railway ministry said. In her Budget 2020 speech, Nirmala Sitharamam said the Indian Railways will set up a ‘Kisan Rail’ through public private partnership (PPP) with refrigerated coaches for transportation of perishable goods inclusive of milk, meat and fish. “The Nasik/Bhusawal region has a huge production of fruits as well as green vegetables, such as onions and green chilies. This produce was moving largely by road towards the eastern part of country, and Railways’ share in this transportation was miniscule. But with efforts of Railway officials, this traffic is now coming towards Railway – as the time to be taken by Rail is approximately 15 hours lesser than the road, and the freight charges are also cheaper by more than ₹1,000 per tonne,” the official said. Reefers, or refrigerated containers, facilitate the movement of cargo that requires a strict temperature-controlled environment. At present, the railways’ subsidiary CONCOR provides reefer services. Cold chains as a business area involves providing transportation to perishable products from source to end-user while maintaining a certain temperature along the route.“Out of nearly 2000 loaded freight trains running every day, around 10 trains are of perishables where onion is the main commodity. When loaded in wagons we are nearly 25%, when loaded in parcel we would be around 10 % cheaper approximately. As of now we are pretty insignificant in perishables but since there are volumes here we have targeted this for getting a larger share,” the official said. .“Indian Railways aims to help double farmers’ income with the launch of Kisan Rail. This train will help in bringing perishable agricultural products like vegetables, fruits to the market in a short period of time. The train with frozen containers is expected to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables, inclusive of fish, meat and milk, the ministry said in a statement. The train is presently planned with 10 parcel vans with a total capacity being 238 tonnes. ““Any farmer or any other interested party can directly book their consignments in this train, without any lower limit on the size of consignment. The consignment can be as small as 50-100 kgs, and can be booked from any stopping station to any other stopping station. Regarding loss/damage of products for any reason, Railways already has a well-established claim/compensation system – through which the party can get compensation for its losses,” the official added. The train was flagged off via video conferencing by union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal. Speaking on the occasion, Goyal said, “This train will serve as a milestone in doubling farmers’ income. Indian Railways and farmers had been forefront in battle against Covid challenges. Foodgrains freight was doubled during the period. Interest of Indian farmers is being looked after like never before. I am looking forward to see the day when apples of Kashmir reach Kanyakumari through Kisan Rail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-rail-ferrying-perishables-flagged-off-from-maha-for-bihar/story-RUVnxiORYUv2PpS7WyuKRK.html
08-08-2020||India||Pilatus jet case: ED raids locations in multiple cities||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted raids at 14 locations in Delhi, Surat and Gurgaon in connection with its money laundering probe in the purchase of 75 Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2009, officials familiar with the development said. The ED had filed a money laundering case against fugitive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari in June 2019 on the basis of a CBI FIR the same month. In the deal worth Rs 2,895 crore, CBI had named unknown officials of the IAF, defence ministry and Switzerland-based Pilatus Aircraft Limited apart from Bhandari. It was alleged that Pilatus had entered into a criminal conspiracy with Bhandari and dishonestly and fraudulently signed a Service Provider Agreement with him in June 2010, which was in violation of the Defence Procurement Procedure, 2008. The agreement was signed to get the contract for supply of 75 basic Trainer Aircraft to the Indian Air Force, CBI said. It has further alleged that the company made a payment of Swiss Franc 1,000,000 in the account of Offset India Solution Private Limited, a company linked to Bhandari, with the Standard Chartered Bank, New Delhi in two tranches in August and October, 2010. In addition, Rs 350 crore was also transferred in Swiss Francs from 2011 to 2015 in the bank accounts of Dubai-based Offset India Solutions FZC, also belonging to Bhandari. CBI further said in its FIR that Pilatus dishonestly and fraudulently signed a Pre-contract Integrity Pact on November 12, 2010 with the defence ministry, deliberately concealing the facts about service provider agreement with Bhandari. It also concealed the payments made to Bhandari in India and Dubai. The agency had claimed that the commission was paid to influence the officials of the IAF, the MoD and other government departments associated with the procurement. Pilatus bagged the contract on May 24, 2012 for Rs 2895.63 crore. Bhandari is currently hiding in the UK. Both Bhandari and Pilatus’s spokesperson/lawyer could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilatus-jet-case-ed-raids-locations-in-multiple-cities/story-YgdzrAv5A5WzFaGumriTEM.html
08-08-2020||India||US global advisory: India continues to be on ‘do not travel’ list||The United States on Thursday lifted a “Do Not Travel” Global Health Advisory for Americans but retained it for India saying that not only does the risk of contracting Covid-19 remain high there but, most alarmingly, “if you get sick in India and need medical care, resources may be limited (and overwhelmed)”.The state department announced the lifting of the global travel advisory for Americans saying in a statement “with health and safety conditions improving in some countries and potentially deteriorating in others” it was switching back to “our previous system of country-specific levels of travel advice (with Levels from 1-4 depending on country-specific conditions).”For India, the country-specific advisory was “Level 4: Do Not Travel”. The state department said in the updated advisory, “Do not travel to India due to Covid-19.”The Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which guided the state department revision, said on its own updated travel webpage Americans should avoid “all non-essential travel” to India as the risk of contracting Covid-19 is “high” and, it added, most significantly “if you get sick in India and need medical care, resources may be limited.” In an interactive cartographic representation of its assessment on the pandemic, the CDC framed its India warning a little differently: “If you get sick in India and need medical care, healthcare resources may be overwhelmed.”But this advisory can change. “CDC continues to monitor every country in the world, and as they identify that a country is either improving or that a country may be going in the other direction, they will let us know and we will, in turn, make the adjustment,” Karin King, deputy assistant secretary for overseas citizen services, told reporters at a news briefing.Of the more than 19 million Covid-19 infections worldwide, nearly a fifth — close to 4.9 million — are in the United States, followed by Brazil with 2.9 and India with 1.9 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Of the 713,406 global fatalities, nearly a fifth once again by the same count — over 160,000 — were in the US. Brazil was next with 98,000 deaths and India fifth with 40,699.Pakistan, by comparison, was safer at Level 3 — “reconsider travel” — in America’s estimation. Nepal and Sri Lanka were both at Level 3. Bangladesh was the same as India at Level 4, India is resuming limited international travel through bilateral arrangements with other countries under a new set of guidelines that go into effect Saturday, specifying a seven-day institutional isolation for all incoming travelers, followed by another sevens days of isolation at home.The Trump administratio issued a travel advisory on March 19 asking Americans to avoid all international travel. It had begun banning incoming travelers from certain countries in January starting with China, where the epidemic had started with first human-to-human transmission reported in December.Over succeeding weeks travelers were banned from Iran, European Union countries, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Brazil. These orders remain in force.Travelers from the United States were banned from EU countries subsequently and they remain on the unwelcome list because of the resurgence of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-global-advisory-india-continues-to-be-on-do-not-travel-list/story-qRNHwjDErtrtbDX7Ng75pK.html
08-08-2020||India||Govt plea for closure on Italian marines’ case: SC to hear victims’ kin on compensation first||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the central government to ensure that families of the two Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines off the coast of Kerala in 2012 are adequately compensated if the government wants to close the proceedings before the top court and the criminal trial pending before the special court in Delhi. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde said that it will dispose of the case only after the families of the victims are heard and given compensation.“We expect you to pay adequate compensation. You will have to bring the cheque here. We will then dispose of the case,” the CJI said.The central government moved the Supreme Court on July 3 stating that it has agreed to accept and abide by the award passed on May 21 by the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at Hague in Netherlands. It requested that the proceedings pending before top court in relation to the incident be closed.The Supreme Court, on Friday, noted that the victims’ families are not party to the case before the Supreme Court.“Victims’ families are not parties here. But they are appearing before the special court in Delhi (which is conducting the trial). We will not pass an order without hearing victims’ families,” the court said. It granted one week’s time to the central government to file an application making the families party to the case before Supreme Court. The matter will be now be heard after a month.The case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled that the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen was in defence of neither the vessel nor the state.The trial against the marines, which was initially proceeding in Kerala, was later shifted to Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of the proceedings pending before the tribunal.The two marines, accused of killing fishermen Ajesh Binki and Valentine Jalastine, crew members of the fishing boat St Anthony, were granted conditional bail by India’s Supreme Court and allowed to return to Italy in 2014 and 2016. The marines shot the fisherman under the mistaken impression that they were pirates. Their ship then tried to make a getaway but was intercepted by the Indian coast guard. The arbitral proceedings before PCA were instituted under United Nations Convention on Law of Seas (UNCLOS) on June 26, 2015 after Italy served notice on India under the UNCLOS. UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of marine natural resources.The arbitral tribunal ruled on May 21 that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.The tribunal, however, also ruled that Italy violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat , and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.“The Republic of India has taken a decision to accept and abide by the award passed by the (arbitral) tribunal which would have the bearing on the continuance of present proceedings before the Supreme Court. The applicant (central government) is, therefore, placing the award on record with a prayer that the proceedings with regard to the incident dated February 15, 2012 be disposed of in conformity with the Award passed by the tribunal”, the application filed by centre before the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plea-for-closure-on-italian-marines-case-sc-to-hear-victims-kin-on-compensation-first/story-kMh8ezTHHKBoA0FKsQhYUJ.html
08-08-2020||India||No anticipatory bail, SC pulls up Kerala activist for ‘obscenity’||The Supreme Court on Friday censured a Kerala activist for obscenity over a video showing her two minor children painting on her semi-nude body, saying such acts are in bad taste. It reprimanded Rehana Fathima AS while rejecting her anticipatory bail plea; she faces arrest for uploading the video on YouTube.The activist was booked under the stringent Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Information Technology Act after she uploaded the clip on the video streaming platform in June.“You might be an activist but why do you do all this? What kind of nonsense is this? What impression will your kids get about the culture of the country?” said Justice Arun Mishra while dismissing the plea. “It is an obscenity. And you are spreading it [by uploading it on the internet]. It will leave a very bad taste.”Justice Mishra headed a three-judge bench that heard the activist’s anticipatory bail plea.Fathima was previously in the news for upsetting the sentiments of Ayappa devotees through some social media posts, and in 2018 was among the women who tried to enter the temple with police protection after a Supreme Court order allowed women of all ages to enter the temple. In 2019, the court referred the issue, along with a few more sensitive issues to a larger bench. Fathima approached the SC after the Kerala high court on July 24 rejected the bail plea of the activist; she faces charges of child pornography and for publishing such content that is an offence under the Information Technology Act.Senior counsel Gopal Sankaranarayanan, who appeared for Fathima AS, argued provisions relating to child pornography cannot be invoked since the children were neither nude nor being forced into any sexual act. “How can it be child pornography? The children are fully clothed.”He contended the activist was trying to sensitize her children to the female body and was trying to dispel skewed notions on obscenity and female nudity. “If a man stands with his dhoti tucked up, it is fine but not when a woman is half-nude, it is considered obscene,” said Sankaranarayanan.He argued that Fathima is not someone likely to abscond and there is no requirement of her custodial interrogation in the case.Fathima was dismissed as a Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited junior technician in April after a string of complaints. She spent two months in jail after she was arrested last year on charges of hurting Hindu religious feelings by posting an objectionable picture on social media. In October 2018, she sparked outrage by attempting to trek to Sabarimala temple amid protests over a Supreme Court order allowing women of all ages to enter the shrine. “The issue here is not whether exposing certain parts of a woman’s body is obscene or not. Rather, it is about involvement of children in painting on an human organ which represents sexuality because children are not capable of giving consent. In my personal opinion, provisions under POCSO are maintainable. That said, the court should have issued notice and heard all parties at length instead of dismissing the case at admission stage,” said Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-anticipatory-bail-sc-pulls-up-kerala-activist-for-obscenity/story-8MYwOYhXiYnn5RghdAGtNL.html
08-08-2020||India||New education policy free from any bias, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday emphasised the importance of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction until Class 5, and said the new National Education Policy (NEP) that the Union Cabinet cleared on July 29 -- it has a recommendation in this regard -- is free from any “bias or inclination”.The first such policy in at least 28 years recommends primary education in local languages, but does not make it mandatory. It also seeks to increase public spending on education to nearly 6% of GDP from around 4% now, change the structure of board exams, and shift the pedagogical structure from a 10+2 system to 5+3+3+4, as part of a series of reforms to make the education system more contemporary and skill oriented.“There is no debate that children when taught in school in the same language that is spoken at home; their pace of learning becomes faster. This is a major reason, wherever possible, permission has been granted to teach students till Class 5 in their mother tongue,” Modi said in his address to educationists at a conclave on reforms in higher education.The medium of instruction has been a contentious issue, and the Centre has tried to avoid controversies by repeatedly emphasising that no language would be imposed on any state or region. The Centre in June 2019 dropped a controversial clause in the draft NEP that mandated the compulsory teaching of Hindi in schools across the country after protests by southern states over the alleged imposition of the language.Modi said there has been no allegation from any region or segment of the society that NEP has any kind of bias or inclination. He called it an indicator that people have seen the changes they wanted for years in the education system. Modi added the route to good, quality education falls somewhere between autonomy and government control.However, Kerala education Minister Prof C Raveendranath said the new education policy will destroy the federal structure of education system and snatch the power granted to states to design their syllabus. “We have reservations over several proposals. We have suggested many recommendations but they were overlooked,” he said. Telangana Congress leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said the Prime Minister’s talk on the new education policy was more of an emotional appeal, rather than logical thinking. “While Modi talks of the NEP laying foundation for new India of 21st century, in reality, it appears he is taking India into medieval periods,” Vikramarka said. Modi on Friday said the policy could even lead to changing the way the society thinks, rather than just effecting changes to the teaching and learning system. He added that he is totally committed to NEP and has the political will to see it through.Modi said every country aligns its education policy with its values and carries out reforms keeping in mind the national goals, and NEP will lay foundation of the 21st century India.“The aim is to ensure the education system can make coming generations future-ready... For a long time, there were no major changes in our education system. Rather than promoting curiosity and imagination, the emphasis was on a rat race whether it was to become doctor, engineer.”The PM said that a new world order is evolving, and India has to make its students global citizens who stay connected to their roots. “In the new policy, the focus is on how to think,” he said. “We are also moving towards an era where a person may not stick to a profession throughout life and re-skilling and up-skilling are important aspects,” he added.Welcoming the policy, Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy, a former University Grants Commission member said “It [NEP] aims at rebooting the entire education system from pre-primary to advance research stages. Emphasis upon teaching in the mother tongue or the local language, is one of the most potent step in this direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-free-from-any-bias-says-modi/story-RuCHzBjgcqHizEDTOUcSZJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Covid-19: SOP ready, no plan to open schools for now||The government has had standard operating procedures or SOPs for reopening schools for at least a month, said people familiar with the matter, although one of them added that there are no immediate plans to open schools when the current restrictions, in place to manage the coronavirus disease and limit its spread, end on August 31. While the SOPs have been approved, the people added, asking not to be named, the final decision on reopening schools will be taken by the ministry of home affairs. The technical wing of the directorate general of health services in June drafted SOPs on reopening educational institutions in the lines of SoPs issued for reopening of malls, hotels, restaurants, gymnasiums, yoga classes, religious places, they said, but having the SOPs in place doesn’t mean schools will reopen as soon as the restrictions end. The issue is a contentious, controversial, and complex one -- everywhere in the world. The Australian state of Victoria, for instance, has just shut schools for six weeks after a resurgence of the pandemic, although this hasn’t been traced back to the schools. In May, Israel was forced to do the same after a so-called second wave of infections -- and in the country’s case, these were directly attributable to the schools. In the US, some states have reopened schools, but many have also shut down again following Covid-19 infections. The education ministry requested that the SOPs be created after other facilities were being opened in phases, the people said. They added that the health ministry drafted them. They recommend getting only senior school children in at first -- and in shifts -- and stringent social distancing norms with neither student nor staff strength exceeding a third of pre-pandemic strengths. Still, one of the officials familiar with the matter said, “the decision of reopening around September 1 seems remote as of now but since it is a dynamic situation, and decisions tend to change as per requirement. The SOPs will come into effect only when a decision is taken in this regard.” To be sure, the decision is also likely to be left to the states. Part of the desire to reopen schools in India also stems from the digital divide which affects many students from underprivileged backgrounds from attending online classes. A second official added that the issue of schools reopening came up for discussion ahead of the last set of guidelines issued on July 29, but that no decision was taken because” taken as it was believed that education ministry was still engaging with states, and more importantly with parents.” The first official said that several rounds of discussion with the states have been held and that “most states and almost all parents are not in favour of reopening.” The discussion on schools comes amidst a surge in Covid-19 cases. India crossed the 2 million mark in terms of number of cases on Thursday, becoming only the third country in the world to reach this number. It added its second million in exactly three weeks. There has been no let up in the number of daily cases too and the pandemic has clearly moved into the hinterland and the peninsula. The people said that the SoPs suggest reducing student strength in a class, maintaining physical distancing, wearing of masks, training teachers in picking up early signs of respiratory distress, and keeping gadgets such as pulse oximeters handy . Those students already suffering from any of the chronic respiratory illnesses should avoid attending, they added. According to paper published in JAMA Pediatrics by doctors from the infectious diseases and pediatrics departments of the Ann and Robert H Lurie Children’s Hospital, Chicago, and from the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, children younger than five have higher viral loads and could be “drivers” of the infection in “the general population.” The study was silent on the role of older children as potential super spreaders. Doctors say that the government should wait for some more time before going ahead with reopening of schools. “More time should be given before schools are reopened. Children will be moving in closed spaces and could get infected and be carriers. They will bring infection home, and many will have grandparents and other vulnerable people at home who will be at risk. It is a strict no-no not only for places where disease burden is high but also in places where we are seeing a steady decline, the government should wait and consolidate the gains. Ideally, I would say, open only next year,” said Dr Rahul Nagpal, senior paediatrician, Fortis Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sop-ready-no-plan-to-open-schools-for-now/story-YuTjqLxlBcRmJILxJ7EgfI.html
08-08-2020||India||OCI card holders can travel to India now||The Union home ministry on Friday issued a notification allowing Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) cardholders from the US, the UK, France, and Germany, with whom India has signed bilateral air travel arrangements, to enter the country. Other citizens of these countries can apply for Indian visas for business, medical and employment purposes while Indians can also travel there on any visa type.India has signed so-called air bubble arrangements with the US, UK, Germany, and France for bilateral air travel amid international travel restrictions during the coronavirus pandemic.A bilateral air bubble refers to a travel corridor between two countries that wish to reopen their borders and re-establish connections with each other.International flights to and from India were suspended since March 23 as the Covid-19 pandemic spread across the world. The notification said for Indians travelling to these four countries, it would be the responsibility of airlines concerned to ensure that there is no travel restriction on their travel with a particular visa category before the issue of tickets, and boarding passes. It added the existing restrictions on incoming passenger traffic into India through the immigration check posts will not apply to any movement of cargo or goods and supplies in any vehicle, aircraft, ship, train, etc along with their crew.The government in June allowed certain categories of foreign nationals, including OCI cardholders to enter India. They included foreign nationals married to Indian citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oci-card-holders-can-travel-to-india-now/story-ON9NryZ4Ol3ciNgXBMpoxO.html
08-08-2020||India||Explore restoring J&K’s 4G services, Supreme Court tells Centre||The Centre should explore the possibility of restoring high-speed 4G mobile internet services in Jammu & Kashmir in view of the statements of GC Murmu, the former lieutenant governor of the Union territory, backing the restoration, the Supreme Court said on Friday.“L-G Murmu has said that there is no difficulty in restoring 4G. You have to give an explanation to that,” justice R Subhash Reddy told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Jammu & Kashmir administration.Justice Reddy is a part of a three-judge bench hearing a petition of NGO Foundation for Media Professionals seeking contempt proceedings against the Centre and Jammu & Kashmir administration for their failure in complying with the Supreme Court’s May 11 directions for a review of restrictions on the mobile internet speed. Murmu, who was succeeded by Manoj Sinha as the lieutenant governor on Friday, said on July 24 the restoration of 4G services will not be a problem and Pakistan will continue with its propaganda even if the mobile internet speed is restricted to 2G. The Centre has cited Islamabad’s propaganda while justifying the restrictions.The petitioners highlighted Murmu’s statement to argue for the restoration of 4G services when the matter was heard on July 28.Mehta sought time to file a response to the petitioner’s rejoinder. The court allowed it and adjourned the case until August 11 even as it said no further adjournments will be allowed.“L-G is not part of the review committee. In your response, do not go strictly by whether or not contempt is there. You should also say whether 4G can be restored in areas [where there are no troubles,” justice Reddy said.The Centre on July 28 told the Supreme Court it will verify media reports that said Murmu has advocated the restoration of high-speed 4G internet services. This came days after the Centre filed an affidavit before the court on July 21, saying a special panel constituted as per the latter’s May 11 order has decided against any relaxations for now. The Centre said the restrictions would continue for two more months before they are reviewed again. It added the panel constituted for the review on June 10 considered all aspects of the matter, including terror strikes, before deciding to continue the restrictions on 4G services.The May 11 order was passed after the NGO in April challenged restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G. The NGO sought restoration of 4G services saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 pandemic because of the restrictions. It pointed out that slow internet speeds make telemedicine, or online consultation, impossible.The Supreme Court on May 11 refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead ordered a constitution of the panel comprising high-level government officers, including the Union home secretary, to take a call on the matter.The NGO in June filed the contempt petition saying there was no information available whether the constitution of the panel was notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.The Centre told the court the panel was constituted by virtue of the May 11 order and no separate notification was required. The panel met on May 15 and sought further inputs before taking any decision. It again met on June 10 and decided not to relax the restrictions, the Centre said.A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in Jammu & Kashmir in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as mobile internet remains restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explore-restoring-j-k-s-4g-services-sc-tells-centre/story-wUCkEO0uEb1XCc2D7KeD6M.html
08-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: All passengers evacuated from crash site, urgent meeting called in Delhi||The Union civil aviation ministry has called an urgent meeting with officials of Air India Express and the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in New Delhi in the aftermath of the Kerala plane crash that has now led to loss of 20 lives and serious injuries to scores of passengers, according to the latest report late on Friday night. The meeting comes after the ministry’s announcement of a probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) into the tragic accident of Air India express flight number AXB-1344, which was landing from Dubai at around 7:41 pm with 191 persons on board and overshot the runway in rainy conditions and went down 35 ft into a slope before breaking up into two pieces.Captain Deepak Sathe, a former Indian Air Force pilot, who was flying the aircraft and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar have died. Initial reports suggested that the pilots tried to land twice and Sathe tried his best to control the aircraft while landing on a wet runway after heavy rains but it skidded off the runway. The maximum impact was felt at the front of the aircraft, according to initial assessments carried out at the spot by authorities.Kozhikode plane accident: MEA says its 24X7 helplines are openAs per the latest information from Malappuram collector, search and rescue operation had been finished and all injured including the one person who was stuck in the aircraft till late, have been shifted to various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode.Officials said the death toll, which includes four children, is likely to go up as many injured are in serious condition. Kozhikkode airport has been closed for now.Air India Express has set up help centres at Sharjah and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Dubai helpline is +97142079444.Kozhikode collector has also set up a helpline number-- 0495 – 2376901—for providing information related to the crash.Also read: Govt orders formal probe into Air India Express crash at KozhikodeThe flight was one among the several being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission being run by the Indian government to bring home Indian citizens stuck abroad due to restrictions on international travel due to coronavirus pandemic. After the crash, Air India Express issued a statement of regret and added that the flights under the mission will continue.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier spoken to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Viajayan to take stock of the relief and rescue missions, which involved several departments of state government and NDRF teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-all-passengers-evacuated-from-crash-site-urgent-meeting-called-in-delhi/story-s2XX25u8IrQSnVd2PRoUyJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: SII partners with vaccine developers for 100mn doses||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) announced on Friday that it has partnered with Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) to manufacture and deliver 100 million doses of two Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the first deal yet to secure doses for India as well as 91 other low- and middle-income countries. The deal involves SII – the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer -- receiving $150 million to produce 100 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine by the first half of 2021 and offer it at $3 (roughly ₹225) for a shot. The Serum Institute has partnered with the developers of two potential vaccines – UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca and United States’ Novavax. The UK vaccine is largely considered the front-runner, having proven to be effective and safe in large human trials. Under the partnership, BMGF will provide US$150 million to Gavi to support SII for manufacturing one or both of the vaccines to be distributed under a fair-access mechanism developed by the World Health Organization. The mechanism, called Covax, has till now seen 78 well-off countries expressing interest to fund acquisition and distribution of the vaccines among them as well as 92 low- and middle-income countries.Which vaccines will finally be produced depends on the results of the clinical trials underway, and the regulatory approvals that will need to be secured. Subsequently, GAVI will procure these for US$3 or less for 92 LMICs included in Gavi’s COVAX advance market commitment, with an option of obtaining additional doses, if needed. In all, there are six vaccine candidates in phase III trials with the frontrunners expected to show conclusive signs of viability by the end of 2020 or early 2021. Several of these developers have entered into separate deals with countries. The Union health ministry on July 30 said India is yet to enter into any such deals and will first wait for more clarity on an effective vaccine from among the candidates. “Making sure everyone has access to them (safe and effective vaccines for Covid-19), as soon as possible will require tremendous manufacturing capacity and a global distribution network. This collaboration gives the world some of both: the power of India’s manufacturing sector and Gavi’s supply chain,” said Bill Gates, co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in a statement. “To ensure maximum immunisation coverage and contain the pandemic, it is important to make sure that the most remote and poorest countries of the world have access to affordable cure and preventive measures. Through this association, we seek to ramp up our constant efforts to save the lives of millions of people from this dreadful disease,” said Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India, which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, in an email. “The vaccines will cost a maximum of $3 per dose, but the pricing will ultimately depend on which product is procured. We cannot guarantee a price until the regulatory and procurement processes are complete, according to the vaccine-manufacturer,” SII said. SII produces 60% of the world’s vaccines that are used across the world, and Gavi has been a key procurer, having bought vaccines against meningitis, severe diarrhoea, pneumonia and measles for LMICs. Apart from the 100 million doses being procured by GAVI, AstraZeneca reached a licensing agreement with SII to supply one billion doses for LMICs by the end of 2020. On July 30, SII also partnered with the US-based Novavax for exclusive rights for development, distribution, and commercialisation of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, and non-exclusive rights in LMICs during the ‘pandemic period,’ as defined by the WHO. “It’s encouraging to see an Indian vaccine manufacturer collaborate with global partners to provide affordable Covid-19 vaccines for India and the world. Normally, it would take more than a decade to develop such a vaccine but with the efforts of our researchers, academia and private sector, working closely with global collaborators, we are hopeful of accelerating the availability of a successful vaccine at reasonable cost and in sufficient quantities to fight the pandemic,” said K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Government of India. Friday’s collaboration supports the efforts of the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator’s vaccines pillar, also known as COVAX, co-led by Gavi, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and World Health Organization (WHO), to accelerate the development and ensure rapid, global access to of vaccines. If successful, AstraZeneca’s vaccine will be available to 57 Gavi-eligible countries, and Novavax’s candidate vaccine will be available to all 92 countries supported by the advanced marketing commitment. “It’s just a start. Organizations like Gavi and CEPI need much more support to facilitate development and delivery of hundreds of millions -- maybe billions -- of vaccine doses by next year,” said Gates. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said three experimental vaccines have entered stage 2/3 clinical trials in India this month. Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin is being developed in collaboration ICMR is readying for phase-2 trials, while the DST-supported Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine began phase 2 trial on August 6. SII will begin phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of AstraZeneca’s vaccine Covishield in 17 sites over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-partners-with-vaccine-developers-for-100mn-doses/story-mbazDK6PIBhY3W6ttfvYKJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Half of annual job quota of MGNREGS over by July||The migrant workers, who were forced to return to their homes after losing their jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, continue to face an uncertain future as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) funds are quickly getting exhausted and the Union skill development ministry has been able to provide jobs to only a few thousand people.At a meeting of Parliamentary standing committee on labour on Friday, rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha informed lawmakers that 1.55 billion person-days have been generated out of the targeted 3 billion person-days for the entire year. He said in July this year, the demand for jobs was three-fold than last year.On the other hand, the skill development ministry has been able to provide jobs to just 5,000 migrant workers so far out of 2.4 million skilled workers they mapped across 116 districts, underlining a slow pace of job generation for the daily wagers.At the meeting, skill development ministry secretary Praveen Kumar said they have been able to map 2.4 million workers under the PM’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna. They also found that 0.21 million job opportunities have been posted on a dedicated portal for migrant workers.Kumar said finally 48,000 jobs were offered and out of them, just 5,000 workers found placement.The panel, led by Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab, asked Sinha about MGNREGS and expressed concerns the Rs 1 lakh crore fund for it may soon get exhausted.But the ministry claimed the demand for MGNREGS jobs is expected to slide in the coming months as more and more people are going to be engaged with other works and return to cities.Sinha did not commit if the government has any plan to increase the ceiling of 100 days of work under MGNREGS amid job losses.Officials said increasing annual limit might be difficult as the ministry might not get so many resources to handle an expanded programme. Sinha told the panel that some funds such as state mineral funds and finance commission funds are stuck with some states.The flagship job scheme, once criticized by a section of the politicians for rampant corruption, has emerged as the main source of income for the rural poor in this distress. The government pumped in an unprecedented Rs 1.01 lakh crore in the programme to generate 3 billion person-days of work to help jobless migrant labourers in their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-nregs-jobs-for-migrant-workers/story-YCp7Zuf1iZDNsGRWwLHg8N.html
08-08-2020||India||Covid-19: 600k Asha, Anganwadi staff on 2-day strike over payments||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and Anganwadi workers, who have been at the forefront in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, took to the streets on Friday demanding regularisation of their wages and payment of dues accrued over the last few months.The workers, who went on a two-day strike from Friday, have been conducting door-to-door surveys and were enlisted by the Centre for the fight against the pandemic. They were also involved in the screening of the migrant labourers, who were forced to return to their homes after they were left jobless by the Covid-19 pandemic.Many of Bihar’s nearly 90,000 ASHA workers have been on a strike since August 6. Sarita Roy, 37, who has been staging a sit-in protest along with 30 other ASHA workers in Bihar’s Begusarai, said they have also not been provided proper personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. “We go to areas where there are hundreds of cases but have not even been provided with personal protective equipment kits,” said Roy, who has been an ASHA worker since 2007.Roy said they have not been paid for the last four months. She added two of her fellow workers, Kiran and Sarita Devi, have tested Covid-19 positive and lost two others to the disease. “We are not provided with the equipment even as we carry out all immunization tasks and even document maternity rates.” She said they are paid just Rs 5,000 a month and that too they have not received for the last four months.Also read: Centre releases Rs 890 crore as 2nd tranche of package for Covid-19 health system preparednessThe ASHA workers have been credited with helping India eradicate polio and reducing the number of women dying during childbirth. They have been involved in ensuring maternal health and immunization in rural areas with limited medical facilities.Jyoti Sahare, a 45-year-old Aanganwadi worker in Maharashtra, said that the government must provide safety equipment to them. “We have families too. If we contract the virus, they will be at direct risk,” she said. “We need protective equipment.”HT reached out to the women and child development ministry, which oversees the Anganwadi programme, for comments but received no reply.Jeet Kaur, 48, who has been ASHA worker in Punjab for 12 years, said people are not forthcoming when they go for door-to-door surveys. She added they have also been attacked. “We have been slapped, chased and abused,” said Kaur, who visits nearly 50 houses daily.The Initiative of Health Equity and Society director Mira Shiva said the workers would not have needed to go on strike if they were given their due. “If ASHA workers, who are basically women, were given due remuneration for their work, measures for the protection and treated with dignity after their many appeals, they would not have needed to go on strike.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/600k-asha-anganwadi-staff-on-2-day-strike-over-payments/story-s02f8mYsC9kR8mGz6s74ZP.html
08-08-2020||India||Air India plane overshoots Karipur’s table top runway, drops into gorge; 20 dead||An Air India Express plane with 190 on board from Dubai overshot Karipur’s table top runway and dropped about 35 feet into a gorge on Friday evening. Officials said 20 people, including the pilot Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe and the co-pilot have died in the accident and over 140 more are injured, some of them seriously.Images from Karipur airport, also known as Kozhikode international airport, showed the aircraft split into two pieces.Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said it was raining heavily when pilots of the Boeing 737 plane from Dubai tried to land. According to reports, the plane continued to run at a high speed and skidded off the runway when the pilots tried to stop it.The regulator said after landing at Runway 10, the plane continued running till the end of the runway and fell into the valley and broke into two portions.Watch | Plane skids off runway at Kozhikode, pilot suspected dead, several injured The accident took place at about 7.40 p.m.There were 190 people on board the Air India Express flight AXB1344 including 174 passengers, 10 infants and four crew members. Air India Express is a subsidiary of state-run airline Air India.The flight from Dubai was a repatriation flight carrying Indian citizens back to the country under the Vande Bharat Mission, meant to bring home stranded people from other countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Regular commercial flights have been halted in India because of the coronavirus outbreak.Officials said the plane did not catch fire or the casualties would have been higher.ALSO READ | Kerala plane crash: PM Modi briefed on rescue operations by Kerala CM, expresses painHome Minister Amit Shah, who is recuperating at a Gurugram hospital, ordered National Disaster Response Force teams to rush to the airport to help with the rescue operations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who expressed his pain at the tragic accident, picked up the phone to speak to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover at the earliest. Spoke to Kerala CM @vijayanpinarayi Ji regarding the situation. Authorities are at the spot, providing all assistance to the affected,” he said.Four hours after the crash, Kerala police officers said two people were still trapped and the operation to pull them out was still on. Deeply anguished & distressed at the air accident in Kozhikode. The @FlyWithIX flight number AXB-1344 on its way from Dubai to Kozhikode with 191 persons on board, overshot the runway in rainy conditions & went down 35 ft. into a slope before breaking up into two pieces.Officials said the runway - like the one in Mangalore - is on a hilltop with gorges on either side that increases chances of casualties if the plane overshoots the runway.The accident is similar to the Mangaluru air tragedy when an Air India Express flight from Dubai crashed while landing at Mangaluru airport on 22 May 2010 that killed 158 lives. Eight passengers had a miraculous escape. It was the first major mishap involving the budget airline of the national carrier.“It was raining heavily. The pilot had given a warning before landing saying the weather was really bad. He tried for safe landing twice but lost control. The aircraft shot off the runway and skidded off and it was broke into two pieces. It was a miraculous escape for many,” said a passenger V Ibrahim.Kerala has been facing heavy rains and inclement weather in large parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-aircraft-from-dubai-to-calicut-with-191-passengers-crashes-reports/story-EC7jvZELVkWi32EgT2ZOmJ.html
08-08-2020||India||India grants three important relaxations for international travellers, details here||The Indian government has announced three important relaxations for international travellers including allowing OCI card holders from US, UK, Germany and France to visit India, according to an official notification issued by the civil aviation ministry on Friday.India had earlier established air bubbles with the above four countries creating an air corridor for operation of limited flights between India and these countries. In the second important relaxation, the ministry has also given a nod to Indians holding any valid visa-- including for tourism-- issued by these four countries to travel to these destinations, provided there are no restrictions imposed on entry of Indian nationals holding a particular kind of visa, by authorities in these countries. The government has put the onus of checking, if such restrictions specific to each country exist, on the airlines operating to these destinations.“Any Indian national holding any type of valid visa of such countries may be permitted to travel to the country concerned provided there is no travel restriction for entry of Indian nationals in that country. It would be for the airlines concerned to ensure there is no travel restriction for Indian nationals to enter the country concerned with the particular visa category before issue of tickets/boarding pass to the Indian passenger,” the new order said.The third relaxation allows foreigners in the above four countries to travel to India for business, medical and employment purposes.The latest notification modifies the last guidelines issued on June 30 listing out conditions for international travel.International flights were suspended in March earlier this year after the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. Government later allowed Air India and other careers to evacuate Indian citizens stuck abroad under the Vande Bharat mission. The relaxations were later expanded to include more categories of passengers, including from countries with which India signed agreements for creation of air bubbles. Regular international travel has not resumed yet. Earlier this month, the ministry of civil aviation extended restrictions on limited domestic flight operations and caps on air fares till November 24 in an order issued on July 24. Centre at present has allowed domestic flight operations to function at 45% of their total capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-grants-three-major-relaxations-for-international-travellers-details-here/story-er99Xju9F4hEoz6Wy6SAHM.html
08-08-2020||India||RBI allows one-time recast of retail loans to soften Covid blow||:The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept interest rates on hold on Thursday and gave lenders the power to restructure certain loans – including individual as well as corporate loans – as it sought to strike a balance between helping revive growth in pandemic-battered economy and keeping rising inflation in check.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das sounded a note of caution that a prolonged spread of Covid-19 poses “downside risk” for the domestic economy, but assured that the central bank will use the available monetary space “judiciously” to boost growth.“At the end of its deliberations, the monetary policy committee (MPC) voted unanimously to leave the policy repo rate unchanged at 4% and continue with the accommodative stance of monetary policy as long as necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of Covid-19, while ensuring inflation remains within the target going forward,” Das said after the rate-setting panel concluded its three-day meeting.Das warned India’s real gross domestic product (GDP) growth is set to contract in 2020-21, but did not give a specific forecast. “An early containment of the Covid-19 pandemic may impart an upside to the outlook. A more protracted spread of the pandemic, deviations from the forecast of a normal monsoon and global financial market volatility are key downside risks,” he said.The repo rate was left at 4.0% and the reverse repo rate at 3.35%. To ease debt pressure on borrowers hit by a fall in earnings as well as lenders staring at bad debt, the RBI said it would allow restructuring of corporate and retail loans, a move that was widely awaited by the industry. Banks can strike rescheduling agreements with borrowers that were on track to repay their loans on March 1, in the early days of the coronavirus outbreak. The move came ahead of the expiry of a blanket loan moratorium later this month. Industry estimates peg the total quantum of loans coming up for recast at ₹5-8 trillion, or 5-8% of the ₹101 trillion loan book.“A large number of firms that otherwise maintain a good track record under existing promoters face the challenge of their debt burden becoming disproportionate, relative to their cash flow generation abilities,” Das said.Borrowers will be eligible for resolution under this framework if they were classified as standard, but not in default for more than 30 days with any lending institution as on March 1, 2020. The central bank said the resolution plan may be invoked till December 31, 2020 and shall have to be implemented within 180 days (90 days for retail accounts) from the date of invocation.The central bank set up an expert committee under the chairmanship of veteran banker KV Kamath to make recommendations to RBI on the required financial parameters, along with the sector-specific benchmarks for the special window. The underlying theme of the plan “is the preservation of the soundness of the Indian banking sector,” Das added.Banks have been struggling with stagnating credit growth to revive the economy, which is set for its first annual contraction in more than four decades. The decision to slow forbearance differs from Australia -- where policy makers granted hard-pressed borrowers a further four months before they must repay their loans -- and China, which extended some relief through March 2021.“It is good that the RBI didn’t extend the moratorium because it was purely kicking the can down the road,” news agency PTI quoted Ananth Narayan, a professor of finance at SP Jain Institute of Management and Research and regional head of financial markets for South Asia at Standard Chartered Plc as saying. “With restructuring, disclosures from banks and financial institutions will improve dramatically. The RBI is trying to give relief, at the same time make sure the package is credible and is not seen as dilution of norms,” he added.While economic activity started to recover from the lows of April-May, a surge in fresh infections forced several states to return to lockdowns, the governor said during the RBI press briefing. The MPC sees upside risks to food prices and elevated headline inflation during July-September, which would ease in the second half of 2020-21 fiscal, and forecasts a contraction in real GDP growth for April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal, the central bank head added.Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, speaking at an event in Mumbai on Thursday, called on policymakers to focus on protecting the economy instead of being overly focused on what ratings agencies think.“It is also important to convince both domestic and international investors that after the crisis associated with the pandemic is over, we will return to fiscal responsibility over the medium term, and the government should do more to convince them of that,” Rajan told the Global Markets Forum.“The RBI and government have certainly been cooperating, but it seems like it is elsewhere, the ball is in the government’s court to do more,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-allows-one-time-recast-of-retail-loans-to-soften-covid-blow/story-Uc3hSRPiSZNZ3VZqy6rmvJ.html
08-08-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Land rights, lack of jobs still haunt 2 regions||In the picturesque village of Kreeri in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, block development council chairman Sofi Ghulam Mohiuddin is at home listening attentively to the grievances of a group of people. The 55-year-old, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2014 after spending three decades as a National Conference (NC) activist, says that political workers like him have been “empowered” by the BJP’s sidelining of old political faces and “dynasts” over the past year. People who see the BJP as a communal entity do question him for joining the party, he says, but calls it “fake propaganda.”“Villagers come to me with hope and I try to get their work done. For workers like me, the [effective] abrogation of special status was the biggest achievement, which opened the doors for us and development of panchayats,” Sofi says, taking notes from his visitors as four armed police guards keep watch on the road leading to his house.A year after Parliament pushed through constitutional changes that divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and bifurcated the state into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh, people associated with the BJP have a new sense of empowerment. Other mainstream politicians have been sidelined, and many are still under house arrest.Even Syed Altaf Bukhari, the chief of the fledgling Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, which was conceived as an alternative to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the NC, is complaining.“We were promised that abrogation of Article 370 would bring massive development, employment opportunities, industrialization, and an influx of tourists. One year down the line, nothing has happened,” said Bukhari, a former minister. “The economy has gone from bad to worse, the tourism sector is in shambles and there is nobody on the ground to hear the voices of people. Bureaucracy is unresponsive, indifferent, and insensitive.”Hasnain Masoodi, the NC MP from south Kashmir, who was the first to challenge the revocation of Article 370 that conferred special status on J&K, said the admission of the petition by the Supreme Court had sent a message that opponents of the move had a strong case.“One year has passed and from one lockdown to another lockdown which the people have faced... the Centre should read the writing on the wall and undo what has been done to J&K. The people are silent but they have not reconciled [with the decision],” Masoodi said.Negative PeaceMost PDP leaders, including party president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, are under detention. Mufti, detained under the Public Safety Act, had her detention extended by three more months on July 31.“Last time when I spoke, I was detained for a year and continue to remain under house arrest. The situation is as fragile as it was always. People are sad. There is complete silence in Kashmir particularly in South Kashmir,” said PDP youth wing president, Waheed Ur Rehman Parra. Parra called the silence “negative peace which is enforced by fear.”“There is the absence of politics and dissent is criminalised...Cases against media, mainstream people, and sidelining of locals in the system have further gripped us with insecurity,” he said. “BJP deleted our 70 years of investment in peace, democracy, and changed definitions of democracy across India.”Sofi Yusuf of the BJP said the party had only fulfilled its years-old promise by revoking Article 370. “Due to restrictions and now Covid-19, development could not take place but now things have started moving up and many developmental projects are being completed,” Sofi said. “Leaders of other parties should come forward to accelerate the process.”Sense of alienationMuzaffar Shah, vice president of the Awami National Conference, said not only the Kashmir Valley, but even the Jammu region and Ladakh want the return of Article 370 and Article 35A, which allowed the erstwhile state assembly to define permanent residents of J&K. “Earlier, it was India, Pakistan, and the people of Kashmir that were party to the dispute, now there is China also. This is what BJP has done to J&K,” he said and vowed to fight the case in the Supreme Court. China has opposed the Indian moves in J&K.The business community also feels aggrieved. Chairman of the Kashmir Chamber of Industries, Sheikh Ashiq, said: ‘’Forget about development, our survival is at stake. We have lost ~40,000 crores. The employers here have turned unemployed,’’ he said. Even ordinary people nurse a sense of disenchantment. “People here are seething in anger and can erupt any time as they feel they have been pushed to the wall and robbed of everything ,” said lawyer Mudasir Naqashband.Opinion in the Ladakh region appears divided with many in Muslim-majority Kargil seeking to be a part of a J&K state. The sentiment appears to finds no traction in the predominantly Buddhist Leh. Both regions have common concerns about their rights to land and jobs.“We never demanded a UT [Union Territory]. We were and will remain against the abrogation of the special status and bifurcation of the state. Today people in Ladakh have no land and job security,” said Sajjad Kargili, a social activist in Kargil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-land-rights-lack-of-jobs-still-haunt-2-regions/story-kYa1xl2COoHgGPpkZFwkiN.html
