09-08-2020||India||Goa registers 506 new Covid-19 patients in a day, the highest surge so far||Goa registered 506 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday; the highest in a 24-hour period so far with the surge nearly double the daily average cases registered in the state. The state administration has now announced the setting up of a new dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the state and has promised better treatment protocols as the numbers have taken a decisive turn for the worse. “We will be setting up a new Covid-19 Hospital at the Sub-District Hospital, Ponda to cater to rising coronavirus cases in the state,” State health minister Vishwajit Rane said. Prior to this the state had only one dedicated hospital for Covid-19 with a capacity of 220 beds. The hospital soon filled up prompting the decision of the state government to set up care centres for asymptomatic patients. Those too soon filled up prompting the government to allow asymptomatic patients to go in for home quarantine. The new Covid-19 hospital, which will function out of the sub district hospital in Ponda town in South Goa and has the capacity to cater to nearly 440 patients.Goa has witnessed a total of 8,712 cases of which 5,995 have recovered and 75 have succumbed while 2,642 are undergoing treatment either at care centres or at the state’s dedicated hospital. “Our government is committed to provide the best healthcare facilities to the people in this challenging period. I urge everyone to come together and support the authorities to fight against this pandemic and avoid politicising issues related to healthcare,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. The government has rolled out rapid antigen testing to help cope with the demand for tests despite their knack for false negatives but with a rider that they will only be used on asymptomatic patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-registers-506-new-covid-19-patients-in-a-day-the-highest-surge-so-far/story-IKWHDXFvgntD8pLpHQtQxL.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Can’t take more than Rs 50k as deposit from Covid-19 patients: Bengal govt tells pvt hospitals||Flooded by complaints of exorbitant rates being charged from Covid-19 patients by private hospitals, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has stated in an advisory that no hospital can charge more than Rs 50,000 as advance deposit during admission and patients’ families have to be given 12 hours to get the money. If a family cannot provide the money then it can take the patient to another hospital, the commission has said. In another advisory issued on Saturday evening the commission has also said that sanction from patients’ families have to be taken for pathological tests if these cost more than Rs 2000 and necessity of the tests have to be explained to the families in advance. The commission has, however, said that if a test is considered urgent then it can be conducted but the attending doctor will bear the responsibility. With these, the commission has issued 10 advisories to private hospitals. Eight advisories were issued last week. Senior state health department officials said the Mamata Banerjee government may in the future fix the rates of treatment in intensive care unit (ICU), critical care unit (CCU) and ventilation facilities as well. “The chief minister (who is in charge of the health department as well) has taken note of numerous complaints. In one of these cases, a family had to pay Rs 1.5 lakh in one and a half days although the patient was not in critical state,” said an official who did not want to be quoted. While the government’s decision to put a ceiling on advance deposit has not drawn any adverse reaction from hospitals, some have questioned the logic behind explaining the necessity of tests to a patient’s family during critical care. Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said, “We have received two advisories. There are some aspects of advisory No 10 which need some clarification. We will request the commission to share some more clarity.” Saturday’s advisories came a week after the commission issued seven advisories in one go, saying numerous anomalies have come to its notice. All hospitals and laboratories in the state are registered under the Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act The government last week said most hospitals were charging patients for the most expensive antibiotics, antifungals, analgesics and other drugs although these are available in different price ranges. In one of the advisories, the commission said, “Patients’ relatives shall be offered to choose which brand they would like to purchase.” “The government has already fixed a sum of Rs 1,000 per day on account of PPE to be charged in the in-patient bill. However, some of the clinical establishments are charging additional amounts on account of sanitizer, additional gloves, head gear, etc,” said an advisory issued last week. “It has come to the notice of the commission that the pathological laboratories authorized to conduct Covid-19 tests by way of home collection are charging additional amounts over and excess of Rs 2250 fixed by the government,” said another advisory issued last Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-take-more-than-rs-50k-as-deposit-from-covid-19-patients-bengal-govt-tells-pvt-hospitals/story-g6aeo46Cc8mBMu8z4IHRMJ.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Knit India’ into one single fabric, says Venkaiah Naidu on Quit India movement anniversary||To mark the 78th anniversary of the Quit India movement,Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday called for an intensified campaign for Knit India to enable a strong and emotionally integrated nation. The vice president also urged people to pledge to drive out poverty, illiteracy, inequality, gender discrimination, corruption and all kinds of social evil. In a social media post, the vice president said the hard fought independence in 1947 was not just about ending the colonial rule of the preceding 200 years but also bringing down curtains on the 1000 year-long dark age during when the country was plundered at will by the invaders, traders and the colonialists taking advantage of the lack of unity among the Indians.“Lack of sense of belonging to each other and unity of purpose and action had led to long subjugation and exploitation of India. Learning from this, all Indians need to be bound by the shared sense of Indianness while pursuing their respective cultural value and ethos. This is all about nourishing the spirit of nationalism. A perception of divided India would make us an easy target for others for fishing in troubled waters. A strong, unified and emotionally integrated India is the best defence against those casting an evil eye on us with questionable intentions,” he wrote in the post.Naidu pointed out that the country paid a heavy price in the form of cultural subjugation and economic exploitation that enfeebled the once rich India.The vice president also stressed on the need to ‘Knit India’ into one single fabric by ensuring equality of all and equal opportunities for all and noted that a divided and iniquitous society does not enable the fullest development of all Indians to their capacity.Elaborating on the adverse impacts of a stream of foreign invasions resulting in the loot of the country’s wealth since the year 1000, Naidu referred to the destruction of the Somnath temple and the long period taken to rebuilt the same after independence and the gap of about 500 years taken to begin reconstruction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.Referring to the celebration of 75 years of independence in 2022, the vice president urged the people to take a pledge to||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/knit-india-into-one-single-fabric-says-venkaiah-naidu-on-quit-india-movement-anniversary/story-SjlAF88zKgW9VBMyjsGseK.html
09-08-2020||India||Telangana to ramp up Covid-19 testing to 40,000 samples per day, says KTR||The Telangana government is presently conducting 23,000 Covid-19 tests per day and the number would soon be scaled to 40,000, state Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao said on Sunday.“We are testing nearly 23,000 samples per day and it will soon go upto 40,000. Tests are being carried out in 1,200 plus centres. Our fatality rate is less than 1 percent and recovery rate one of the best in the country at 72 percentage. Of course there is more to do,” he noted.Rao was responding to a query posed by a twitter user on whether testing in Telangana was low compared to states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.The question was part of an #Ask KTR session held by him.As of 8 PM on August 8, the state has conducted 6.13 lakh tests.The tally of positive cases in the state was 79,495. The case fatality rate was 0.78 per cent, while the recovery rate was 70.44 per cent.When a twitter user alleged that there was no proper health infrastructure in the state and also sought to know of the situation in state-run Gandhi hospital, he said the same facility and its team has treated thousands of coronavirus patients and sent them home safely.“Of course there is scope for improvement and we will take necessary steps,” he said.Reacting to complaints of private hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients, he said the government has already taken action against a couple of private hospitals.“We have already acted against a couple of private hospitals and will not hesitate to act on more. The government hospitals are offering their best services.. request people to realise this,” he said.To another query as to why the Centre’s ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme was not implemented in Telangana, he claimed that the state’s ‘AarogyaSri’ health insurance scheme was more comprehensive than ‘Ayushman Bharat.’ “Arogyasri is more comprehensive than Ayushmann Bharat and in fact the central government’s scheme is modelled on it,” he pointed out.To a suggestion to focus on rural healthcare infrastructure in the state, Rama Rao said the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that a lot more needs to be done in the healthcare sector.When a doctor, posted at a Covid-19 centre at government medical college in Nalgonda, pointed to the lack of proper accommodation for healthcare personnel, Rao said the college was a newly-established institution and that it would take time to develop it.The minister, however, said he would request the District Collector to provide better amenities to frontline warriors.Asked when city buses, the Multi-Modal Transport System (MMTS), trains and metro rail services would resume in the city, he said the state government was awaiting the nod from the Centre.When a twitter user took exception to his reported remarks that there won’t be any prizes given for conducting more Covid-19 tests, Rao said he only meant to convey that the Telangana government was not in race with any other state.“Each state has its own set of challenges and we will work towards combating the pandemic as per WHO and ICMR guidelines,” he said.Asked about the state’s contribution for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, he said, “We will pray and hope for ‘Ram rajya,’ where people of all faiths, castes and classes are respected and treated equally as enshrined in the Constitution of our great country.” Asked about his stand on Pothireddypaadu issue, he said the state government would fight for its rightful share in Krishna river water.“We will fight for our rightful share in Krishna waters.Already an SLP has been filed in Supreme Court by Telangana government,” Rao said.The opposition Congress and BJP have accused the TRS government of not doing enough to protect the state’s interests on the issue. To a query on major investments expected this quarter, the Minister said some big announcements will be made soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-to-40-000-samples-per-day-says-k-t-rama-rao/story-ihmrXldGBmifu40DUfuruK.html
09-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 case count goes beyond 39,000; death toll at 996||The coronavirus tally in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 39,000-mark on Sunday with the addition of 868 cases, health officials said.The case count now stands at 39,025, they said.According to them, the death toll went up to 996 after 19 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24-hours.Of them, three each died in Bhopal and Indore, two each in Jabalpur, Morena, Betul and Singrauli and one each in Dewas, Vidisha, Damoh, Satna and Alirajpur.The highest number of 173 new positive cases were reported from Indore, followed by 142 in Bhopal and 76 in Gwalior.Meanwhile, 667 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery on Sunday.The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state, rose by 173 to 8,516 and death toll to 333 in the district, the state health bulletin said.Bhopal now has 7,681 Covid-19 patients, of whom 214 have succumbed to the infection.The case count in Gwalior went up to 2,885.At 2,284, Indore has the highest number of active cases in the state, while Bhopal has 2,048 such cases.No new coronavirus case was reported from three districts since Saturday evening although all 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh have active cases.The health officials said that there are 3,088 active containment zones in the state at present.During the last nine days, Madhya Pradesh recorded 7,219 fresh cases and 129 deaths.As on July 31, the case count was 31,806 and the death toll 867.The coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 39,025, active cases 9,009, new cases 868, death toll 996, recovered 29,020, total number of people tested 8,91,698.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-case-count-goes-beyond-39-000-death-toll-at-996/story-ggybUvnjwXJXnLVigkWaEL.html
09-08-2020||India||Karnataka registers 5,985 fresh Covid-19 cases, 107 deaths||With 5,985 new Covid-19 cases and 107 casualties, the number of those infected by the deadly virus in Karnataka reached 1.78 lakh on Sunday, the health department said.According to the health bulletin issued by the department, 5,670 discharges on Sunday took the total discharges to 93,908 whereas there were 80,973 active cases including 678 in the ICU.Bengaluru alone recorded 1,948 fresh cases and 22 deaths due to the pathogen.The capital city has seen 1,240 fatalities so far.According to the bulletin, 455 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Mysuru, 380 in Ballari, 282 in Udupi, 235 in Belagavi followed by others.With 107 deaths, the toll in the state rose to 3,198.Twelve deaths were reported from Mysuru, nine each in Ballari and Davangere, eight in Kolar, seven in Hassan, six each in Dharwad and Dakshina Kannada and four each in Kalaburagi, Tumakuru and Bidar.Most of those who died on Sunday were above 50 years of age though there were a few victims in their twenties, thirties and forties, the health bulletin said.A majority of the victims had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, or the Influenza Like Illness.However, there were two people who neither had any pre- medical conditions nor any complications after contracting Covid-19, yet they died.The government said as on Sunday, 2.11 lakh primary contacts and 1.72 lakh secondary contacts were under observation.The state has so far conducted 17.06 lakh tests including 37,936 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-registers-5-985-fresh-covid-19-cases-107-deaths/story-Yw0NN2Z60LPPGBUDhOJNqO.html
09-08-2020||India||Haryana govt planning to set up modern libraries in rural areas: Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said the Haryana government will set up modern libraries for students in rural areas if panchayats provide some land for the purpose.He said these libraries will be fully equipped and help youths in villages to prepare for competitive exams. Chautala, who also holds the panchayat portfolio, in a statement said that he has set a target of opening modern libraries in every village.He called upon all village panchayats to give a room or two or some space in their villages for setting up libraries.“The state government will build a modern library at its own expense. The students in the rural areas can immensely benefit from these libraries,” he said.Chautala said he had also pushed the idea when he was a Member of Parliament between 2014 and 2019.The deputy chief minister said the state government will initiate many other steps in the coming months for the betterment of education facilities in rural areas. “In the education sector, we need to make full use of technology and the government is doing continuous work in this direction. The state government is taking steps in constructing Sanskriti model schools in each block on the pattern of central government model schools and to make primary schools bag free,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-govt-planning-to-set-up-modern-libraries-in-rural-areas-deputy-cm/story-WNvLpGWNoVKNq0OyRGyOzK.html
09-08-2020||India||Record spike of 506 Covid-19 cases in Goa, 3 deaths||Goa witnessed its highest single- day spike in Covid-19 cases with 506 people being detected with the infection on Sunday, taking the state’s count to 8,712, while three deaths increased the toll to 75, an official said.A total of 193 people were discharged during the day, taking the count of such cases to 5,995, he said.“Of the 3,474 samples tested on Sunday, 1,788 are negative while reports of 1,180 are awaited. During the day, a 50-year-old man, an 84-year-old woman and a 77-year-old man died,” the official informed.Goa’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 8,712, new cases 506, deaths 75, discharged 5,995, active cases 2,642, samples tested till date 1,49,304.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-spike-of-506-covid-19-cases-in-goa-3-deaths/story-m7AWBT6l1vSN2qFRxCYxbK.html
09-08-2020||India||Kerala logs 1,211 fresh coronavirus cases; tally reaches 34,331||Kerala on Sunday recorded 1,211 fresh Covid-19 cases and two more fatalities, taking the total infection count in the state to 34,331.Health Minister K K Shailaja said the new cases were through local transmission.“At least 1,026 cases are of local transmission and the contact source of 103 is not traceable. 76 cases are returnees from foreign countries while 78 from other states,” she said in a release.With two more deaths being reported in the state, the toll in the state climbed to 108.Meanwhile, 970 people were cured on Sunday.“The National Institute of Virology in Alappuzhahas confirmed that Abdul Khader (67) from Kasaragod district who died on August 4 and K V Rafi (64) from Ernakulam district who died on August 06 were infected with Covid-19,” minister said.The district-wise figures of those infected through contact are Thiruvananthapuram 281, Malappuram 145, 115 in Kottayam, 99 in Alappuzha, 88 in Kollam, followed by others.The minister said 27 health workers were also infected by the disease.Currently, 1.49 lakh people are under observation in the state out of which 11,742 are in various hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-1-211-fresh-coronavirus-cases-aggregate-reaches/story-4soAn2ps9qoXtFrorQeyDJ.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Was asked if I’m Indian by CISF official as I don’t know Hindi’: DMK lawmaker Kanimozhi||DMK lawmaker Kanimozhi on Sunday said that a CISF official asked if “she was an Indian” when she expressed her inability to speak in Hindi. The Member of Parliament also asked if “being Indian was equal to knowing Hindi”.“Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if “I am an Indian” when I asked her to speak to me in tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being indian is equal to knowing Hindi,” Kanimozhi said in a tweet. Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if "I am an Indian" when I asked her to speak to me in tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being indian is equal to knowing Hindi.#hindiimpositionThe incident reportedly happened at Chennai airport when the Thoothukkodi MP arrived there to board a flight to Delhi in the afternoon, news agency PTI reported quoting DMK party sources.Reacting to her tweet, the Central Industrial Security Force, which is responsible for security at airports in the country, asked the MP to share details of the incident and said an enquiry has been ordered into the matter.“The CISF has ordered an Enquiry into the matter. It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language,” said a tweet by the paramilitary force.The MP thanked CISF for the “immediate response and assurance to take action.” The CISF has ordered an Enquiry into the matter. It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language.The issue of so-called imposition of Hindi language has been a sore point with the southern states including Tamil Nadu where the DMK is the main opposition party. It is once again in news following the Centre’s announcement of the New Education Policy (NEP) last month which has adopted a three-language formula.Earlier this week, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami rejected the three-language formula, saying that the state will not change its two-language policy.“We are saddened by the three-language formula introduced by the central government in National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Our state is already following two-language policy (of Tamil and English) for decades and there will be no changes in it,” Palaniswami said after chairing a cabinet meeting in Chennai.He requested the Prime Minister to “allow states to make a decision as per their own policy”.The MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and many opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have also opposed the new education policy and want a review of the sweeping reforms it has proposed.The DMK chief has said the NEP was an attempt at alleged imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit and vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and chief ministers of other states.However, the Centre has denied the charge of trying to impose any language on any state. Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has said that the Centre will not impose any language on any state through NEP. Nishank posted the clarification through a tweet in Tamil while replying to former Union minister from Tamil Nadu Pon Radhakrishnan.“I would once again like to insist that the central government will not impose any language on any state,” Nishank said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-asked-if-i-m-indian-by-cisf-official-as-i-don-t-know-hindi-dmk-lawmaker-kanimozhi/story-c0i3QrknnomGmwdli3KnTL.html
09-08-2020||India||Surrender of 82 Maoists under ‘Lon Varratu’ holds hope for Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh’s ‘Lon Varratu’ initiative has met with considerable success with the surrender of 82 Maoists, looking to return to mainstream following disillusionment with the ideology of the banned outfit. The initiative received a further shot in the arm on Sunday with the surrender of 12 ultras including five with a collective reward of Rs 6 lakh on their heads for their involvement in an ambush of security forces in the past. The Maoists surrendered in Dantewada district of the state.The surrender took place in a ceremony attended by state officials, where Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava told PTI that the cadres were drawn to the rehabilitation campaign being run by the local police and had given up the Maoist ideology. Dantewada MLA Devti Karma was also present on the occasion, he said.“All 12 ultras said in their statement that they were disappointed with the hollow Maoist ideology, and were impressed by the ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign being run by the police in Dantewada,” Pallava was quoted as having told PTI.Lon Varratu is a term from the local dialect and it means ‘return to your village’.The police officer quoted above said that one of the surrendered ultras, Chanduram Sethiya, was an active member of platoon no 26 of Maoists and is suspected of involvement in three attacks on security forces, including the one in Bhusaras-Chingavarm in 2008 that resulted in deaths of 23 policemen and two civilians. Sethiya was carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, Pallava said.Lakhmu Hemla, Sunil Tati, Manu Mandavi and Maituram Barsa were the other four surrendered Maoists carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, he added. They were all operating in separate areas of south Bastar.The remaining seven ultras to have laid down their arms on Sunday were among the lower-rung of the outfit, Pallava told PTI.One of them, Amit Kawasi was allegedly involved in the October 2018 Nilawaya attack, in which three policemen and a Doordarshan cameraman were killed in Dantewada.Under the Lon Varratu initiative, the surrendered ultras will be rehabilitated as per the government’s surrender and rehabilitation policy, which includes financial assistance.Posters asking Maoists to surrender have been put up by the police in their hotbeds in the state since the launch of the programme in June. The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to join the mainstream, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-of-82-maoists-under-lon-varratu-holds-hope-for-chhattisgarh/story-67NhAcz35RL6Uw5UE0aslJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Rains continue to lash Kerala; landslide toll touches 43||Rains continued to lash many parts of Kerala on Sunday amid predictions of extremely heavy rainfall in six districts, raising concerns of aggravated flood situation in low lying areas, even as the death toll in the recent massive landslide in Idukki district rose to 43 with 17 more bodies being retrieved from the debris.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Alappuzha districts.Sounding a red alert, the IMD said these districts are likely to receive over 20 cms rain in the next 24 hours.IMD officials said almost all districts north of Alappuzha are likely to receive over 20 cms rains.There is likely to be a reduction in rainfall from Tuesday, they said.Three days after the settlements of estate workers were swept away by devastating landslides at Pettimudi near Rajamala, various agencies engaged in the rescue operations on Sunday recovered 17 bodies.Despite adverse weather conditions in Pettimudi, rescue operations by NDRF, fire and police department personnel are continuing to recover bodies of more people feared trapped in the landslide, officials said.While 12 people were rescued, 43 bodies were found.Meanwhile, incessant rains, landslides and opening of shutters of dams across rivers have led to rise in water levels in rivers and streams in central Kerala, aggravating the flood situation.Six shutters of Pamba dam in Pathanamthitta district were opened this afternoon after its water level rose to 983.45 meter mark, raising concerns about floods in Ranni, Chengannur and Kuttanad regions.The shutters were opened to bring down the water level in the dam to 982 meters in nine hours, Pathanamthitta district officials said.There will be a 40 cm rise in water level in river Pamba, they said.Anticipating breach of the river in areas downstream of Pathanamthitta, the district administration has sought the assistance of fishermen to carry out rescue operations.Fishermen from Neendakara and Alappad in neighbouring Kollam district will reach vulnerable areas of Pathanamthitta, including Thiruvalla and Adoor with 15 boats, officials said.Last month, 30 fishermen arrived from Kollam with 10 boats deployed at Kozhencherry and Ranni, officials said.Nearly 100 families living in the vulnerable areas in Ranni have been shifted to safety, they said.Normal life of people in low lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha has been affected with flood waters entering their homes.Low-lying areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts have been badly hit due to flooding.Hundreds of families have been shifted to relief camps from-low lying areas, including Kumarakom and Kuttanad regions of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts, they said.Farming in Kuttanad ‘Below Sea Level Farming System’, the only such one in India practicing rice cultivation below sea level for the past two centuries, has been affected due to the breach of bunds due to floods, farmers of the area said.An airport taxi driver was washed away in flood waters at Manarcad area in Kottayam district in the wee hours of Sunday.The body of the man, identified as Justin from Angamaly, was later recovered by the rescue personnel.Officials said four cases of drowning have been reported from Kasargod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Alappuzha districts in the past 24 hours.Considering the spread of Covid-19, the authorities have opened separate camps for different categories of the flood affected people.In Ernakulam district, 1,203 flood affected people have been shifted to relief camps.While 1,118 people have been lodged in general relief camps, 67 senior citizens are in camps for those above 60 years of age.Eighteen people are staying in the camps set for quarantined people, district administration officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-continue-to-lash-kerala-landslide-toll-touches-43/story-6NUEcJ52Dp2PaG2jBo4YJI.html
09-08-2020||India||Kozhikode air tragedy: CISF personnel who rescued survivors told to go into quarantine||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Sunday asked its personnel who took part in the Air India Express plane crash rescue operation to go for quarantine after two of the injured passengers tested positive for coronavirus even as the black box of the flight was sent to Delhi.At least 18 passengers including both the pilots were killed after the flight carrying 190 people on board including 10 children skidded while landing at the Kozhikode international airport on Friday, a major air accident after the 2010 Mangaluru tragedy.“We have asked all CISF personnel who took part in the rescue mission to go into quarantine after the health ministry informed that two injured persons had tested positive. Earlier local people who were the first to carry out rescue work were also asked to go for quarantine,” said a senior airport official. The CISF had praised the service of its personnel during the accident and said they will be rewarded properly.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri who visited the accident site on Saturday announced Rs 10 lakh interim relief to the families of the deceased and requested all to refrain from speculating over the cause of the accident. Many theories were floating around like excess rubber deposits on runway, water stagnation and aqua-planning and overshooting may have resulted in the crash. There were also reports that the airport failed to heed some of the warnings of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).At least 50 injured passengers were discharged from various hospitals on Sunday and 28 are still in hospital. Out of this, 15 received serious injuries, said the Kozhikode district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikkode-air-tragedy-cisf-personnel-who-rescued-survivors-told-to-go-into-quarantine/story-m5UUg6taaZ30CJxlgLI2KO.html
09-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amit Shah applauds Centre’s move to ban import of 101 items and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre’s move to ban import of 101 items will give major boost to defence sector: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah, who is recovering from the Covid-19 infection at a private hospital in Gurugram, on Sunday, lauded the Centre’s move to put 101 items on embargo to boost Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement) in defence production. Read moreCornered by rivals, PM Oli is back with a ‘ludicrous’ claim on Ram’s birthplacePrime Minister KP Sharma Oli this week attempted to ignite a fresh row over Lord Ram’s birthplace, telling a delegation that he was convinced that Lord Ram was born in south Nepal’s Ayodhyapuri and not Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. Read more‘Well-established, undeniable fact’: Nepal disputes Jaishankar’s Buddha ‘greatest Indians’ remarkNepal on Sunday responded to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that Gautam Buddha was one of the two greatest Indians for people around the world by saying historical and archaeological evidence shows the founder of Buddhism was born in Nepalese territory. Read moreAnil Kumble used to bowl bouncers, batsmen fended him like they’d do against Brett Lee: Sanjay ManjrekarSanjay Manjrekar said batsmen at times used to fend Anil Kumble’s balls like they would do against Brett Lee, who was known for his express pace and often used to fight for the tag of being the fastest bowler of the world along with Pakistan Shoaib Akhtar. Read moreFrom Google Pixel 4a to Samsung Galaxy Note 20, top new phones launched this monthThe month began with Google launching its much-awaited Pixel 4a smartphone after three months of delay owing to the pandemic. It was followed by Xiaomi introducing its Redmi 9 Prime smartphone in India. Read moreKangana Ranaut now attacks Ayushmann Khurrana: ‘Chaploos outsiders support mafia only for their mediocrity’Kangana Ranaut’s war with Bollywood actors--star kids or otherwise-- is far from over. The actor has now launched a mean attack at Ayushmann Khurrana, calling him a ‘chaploos outsider’. Read moreTravel plans coming soon? Make sure you pack these must-havesWhile we are waiting with bated breath for the coronavirus pandemic to die down, all we can do is dream about the gorgeous landscapes that await us when we have the freedom to roam the corners of the world once again. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amit-shah-applauds-centre-s-move-to-ban-import-of-101-items-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6FcM3OjtbUlSdlJslq3FvL.html
09-08-2020||India||Iran’s Ayatollah Khamenei opens a Twitter account in Hindi||Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayyid Ali Khamenei has opened a Twitter account in Hindi. He has also opened accounts in other languages like Persian, Arabic, Urdu, French, Spanish, Russian and English. After the opening of the account, he posted two tweets in Hindi.Iran has long standing historic ties with India and the cooperation between the two countries has recently been marked by projects such as development of Chabahar port and Chabahar-Zahedan rail link despite US sanctions on business with Iran. अल्लाह के नाम से, जो अत्यन्त कृपाशील तथा दयावान हैKhamenei’s twitter accounts have been in the news in the past including last year in November, when several Iranian activists demanded a ban on his social media account, angry over the regime’s decision to shut off internet access in a clamp down on anti-government protests over fuel prices among other things.In February this year, a group of Republican senators in the US urged Twitter to suspend Khamenei and Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif’s accounts to comply with US sanction law.China’s increased cooperation with Iran has also been in news recently with the United States warning that the partnership could destabilise the Middle East.“China’s entry into Iran will destabilise the Middle East. Iran remains the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, and to have access to weapons systems and commerce and money flowing from the Chinese Communist Party only compounds that risk for that region,” said US secretary Mike Pompeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iran-s-ayatollah-khamenei-opens-a-twitter-account-in-hindi/story-4aHSk70xUEwH3NfLeEYenO.html
09-08-2020||India||24 members of family injured after mini-truck overturns||At least 24 members of a family were injured when a mini-truck in which they were travelling overturned and fell into a drain in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred near Simauni in Tindwari on Saturday after the driver apparently lost control over the vehicle, an officer said. Twenty-four members of the family who were injured have been admitted to a primary health centre, Tindwari police station incharge Neeraj Kumar Singh said. The condition of six people is serious and they were admitted to the district hospital, Singh said. The family members were going to a village in Tindwari area to attend the last rites of one of their relatives, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-members-of-family-injured-after-mini-truck-overturns/story-AMSqbz7L4hcXmdvQoX4OjL.html
09-08-2020||India||Indian Army gifts 10 ventilators to Nepali Army||HighlightsWhile the Oli govt is disputing with India on birth of Lord Ram, Lipulekh-Kalapani area, the Modi government is cementing it’s people-to-people contact not withstanding the current political differences.In this context, India today gifted 10 ventilators to Nepalese army chief Genral Puran Chand Thapa as the coronavirus is spreading in the Kathmandu and Pokhra valley.Despite India at one point banning the export of HCQ, the Indian Army ensured that their Nepalese counterparts got the drug as and when required.Puran Chand Thapa is also the honorary General of Indian Army.The Indian Army on Sunday gifted 10 ventilators to the Nepali Army to support its efforts to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic that has claimed 75 lives in the Himalayan nation. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra handed over the ventilators to Nepal Army chief Purna Chnadra Thapa during a ceremony at Nepali Army Headquarters on Sunday, the Indian mission said in a statement. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe ventilators are designed for a broad range of applications to include advanced invasive or non-invasive respiratory support. Further, due to their compact nature, they are portable and handy in transportation of patients requiring intensive care, the statement said. The Indian Army has a long record of extending support to the Nepali Army as a first responder for humanitarian assistance and relief. The gifting of ventilators is part of this continued humanitarian cooperation between the two armies, it added.Ambassador Kwatra reaffirmed India’s commitment to provide all necessary help to the people of Nepal in prevailing over the pandemic that has claimed 75 lives and infected 22,972 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-gifts-10-ventilators-to-nepali-army/story-gejuTygg8kudy3sdnHENMK.html
09-08-2020||India||Centre’s move to ban import of 101 items will give major boost to defence sector: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is recovering from the Covid-19 infection at a private hospital in Gurugram, on Sunday, lauded the Centre’s move to put 101 items on embargo to boost Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement) in defence production“Modi govt’s decision of import embargo on 101 items and a separate budget for domestic capital procurement of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for the current financial year will surely provide a major boost to the indigenous defence sector. I thank PM @NarendraModi & RM @RajnathSingh for this historic decision,” the home minister tweeted on Sunday evening.He also said the move to ban the import of 101 items would open up new avenues for the Indian defence sector as contracts worth Rs 4,00,000 crore would be given to defence equipment manufacturers.ALSO READ | Rajnath Singh announces import ban on 101 defence items. Here’s the full list“This move will surely open up new avenues for the Indian defence industry as contracts worth Rs 4,00,000Cr would be given to them. This futuristic decision further reinforces PM @NarendraModi ji’s continuous endeavour towards MakeInIndia and his vision of a self-reliant India,” Shah said in another tweet.On Sunday morning, defence minister Rajnath Singh announced that the government had prepared a list 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to indigenous defence production as part of the government’s self-reliant India drive.ALSO READ | Bharat Forge welcomes India’s import ban on 101 defence items, calls it a ‘strategic step’The embargoed list includes artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini UAVs and different types of ammunition. The statement also indicates when the embargo kicks in for different items --- between 2020 and 2025.Beginning with raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and now notifying a list of weapons and defence equipment that cannot be imported, the Centre has announced a slew of measures this year to boost manufacturing in the defence sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-move-to-ban-import-of-101-items-will-give-major-boost-to-defence-sector-amit-shah/story-SrsXvyMloplmaRSOcS2PdI.html
09-08-2020||India||Party chief will be elected in ‘not too distant future’, Sonia Gandhi to remain interim president till then: Congress||The Congress on Sunday sought to set at rest the speculation over extending the tenure of Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief beyond August 10, saying she will continue to occupy the post till the process of electing a new president is completed. A Congress functionary said the extension is a technical requirement as per the party constitution given that a regular president is yet to be elected. The party also has to inform the election commission of its decision as a prerequisite. The party has maintained that the process of electing a new president could not be initiated due to the coronavirus and the nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the pandemic. “Soon after her appointment, there were assembly elections in Maharashtra and Haryana in October-November last year followed by polls in Jharkhand and Delhi. Then the Covid-19 struck,” added the functionary quoted above. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) had named Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back his resignation. The CWC has powers to appoint a provisional president pending the election of a regular president by the All India Congress Committee (AICC), the party’s central unit comprising around 2000 members from across the country. “Neither nature nor politics nor political parties permit or tolerate a vacuum. Just like nature abhors a vacuum, political parties cannot function in a vacuum. It is true that the tenure is expiring tomorrow (Monday). There is a laid down procedure in the constitution for elections,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, addressing a virtual news conference. “In the meanwhile, if anybody is suggesting that the Congress will become headless on the stroke of midnight of August 10. Is it possible? Is that a fair interpretation of any constitution that August 10 midnight happens and the seat suddenly becomes vacant? Nobody can suggest that. No point giving simple views as they have to be in accord with common sense,” he added. Singhvi said the process of electing a new party chief will be completed soon and till then Sonia Gandhi will remain at the helm. “Sonia Gandhi ji is the president and she will continue till such time a proper procedure is implemented and it will be implemented in the not too distant future. It is as simple as that,” he said. A veteran Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity that general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal will have to inform the election commission that the organisational polls could not be held due to certain reasons and till the time such process is completed Sonia Gandhi will continue to discharge her responsibilities as the party’s interim president.The CWC can ratify this decision anytime, he added. “There is a process that goes to the CWC and the AICC and this will start anytime and you will get the results soon. We are bound by our party constitution,” added Singhvi. In the run-up to the August 10 deadline, some sections of the Congress had started demanding that Rahul Gandhi return to the post he gave up in May 2019, owning responsibility for the party’s rout in the general elections. He was elected the Congress president in December 2017 for five years till 2022. Congress leaders say that while Rahul Gandhi is not keen to accept that responsibility in the immediate future, Sonia Gandhi is also unwilling to continue in the post for long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-chief-will-be-elected-in-not-too-distant-future-sonia-gandhi-to-remain-interim-president-till-then-congress/story-OnKZ7VoXrMFfl0vPswvImJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Frontline doctor among 13 Covid-19-related deaths in J&K, toll rises to 472||A frontline doctor was among the 13 people who died of Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the death toll in the region to 472. The total number of positive cases in the Union Territory rose to 24,897 with 507 more infections reported during the day, officials said.M Ashraf Mir, in his early 40s, was working as medical officer at District Hospital, Pulwama and was infected last month in the line of duty. He died at Shere Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar on Sunday morning. Officials said that the doctor died of post-Covid complications.“He had turned already Covid negative more than a week back and died of Covid complications,” a health official said.Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, while expressing his condolences over his death, termed Mir a ‘Corona Warrior’ who will be missed by all. “Lt Governor prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul of this great Corona Warrior, who laid his life for welfare of humanity and strength to the bereaved family members to bear this irreparable loss,” an official spokesman said.Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary, said in a tweet: “The limitless cruelty of this global pandemic has put us all in grief & sorrow. Braving all odds, health professionals continue to risk their own lives to save others’. Condolences to the family & fraternity. RIP”.Mir is the second doctor in Kashmir to have died of Covid while on duty. Last month, medical officer of Gurez, Dr Shabir Ahmad Malik, died of novel coronavirus. So far, around 240 doctors and other health care workers have been infected with the novel coronavirus in the region.Officials said of the 13 people who succumbed to the disease on Sunday, 12 were from Kashmir and one in Jammu. Over all, Kashmir has reported 437 fatalities while there have been 35 deaths in Jammu division. The highest single day spike of 17 deaths, since the pandemic spread, was recorded on July 30.The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, has been witnessing around 10 deaths daily on an average for the past more than a month. As many as 276 persons died in July alone. Srinagar is the worst affected district with 6,155 total cases and 152 deaths. The active cases in the district reached 2,400 after 144 recovered today, a government spokesman said.The recovery rate in J-K is now 68.27% after 336 more people were cured and discharged from various hospitals, taking overall recoveries to 17,003. Active cases in the UT stand at 7,422.A total of 196 doctors in the country, majority of them being general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19 so far, news agency PTI quoted the Indian Medical Association (IMA) as saying on Saturday. The organisation has requested the prime minister for his attention on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frontline-doctor-among-13-covid-19-related-deaths-in-j-k-toll-rises-to-472/story-kYK5RgxONn3OZyWFpn7zbJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Heavy to very heavy rain likely to lash Uttarakhand for next two days: IMD||With the second phase of the monsoon season beginning in the state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in six districts of Uttarakhand over the next two days. In a weather bulletin issued on Sunday morning for the next 24-hours, the MeT department predicted that heavy rainfall with intense spells is likely to occur at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun and Pauri districts of the state. It also issued an orange and yellow alert for the state for August 9-10 respectively. On Monday, the MeT department predicted that light to moderate rainfall or thunderstorms are likely to occur at most places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital, Champawat, Pauri, Dehradun, Haridwar and Tehri districts and many places in Almora, Udham Singh Nagar, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi districts of Uttarakhand. In Uttarkashi district, five villages of Mori block have been cut off since the past ten days after connecting bridges broke due to heavy rainfall. The five villages; Osla, Gangad, Pawani, Dhatmir and Srigad in Mori block are located about 220 km away from the district headquarters. The villages were connected through a bridge over a stream. The villagers have since been commuting using broken logs as a makeshift bridge. Sohan Singh Saini, sub-divisional magistrate of Purola under which the area falls said that concerned officials have been asked to look into the matter and repair the bridge at the earliest. On Sunday afternoon, the Badrinath highway was also blocked after a landslide was triggered by rainfall at Lambagad region, a landslide-prone area. Till Sunday afternoon, around 12 roads were blocked in the Chamoli district, where work was underway to open them. In Mussoorie, a large tree was uprooted and fell on the road near the kindergarten on Lal Bahadur Shastri Administrative Academy Road, blocking the road. A mild landslide was also reported from the Mussoorie-Dehradun highway on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-very-heavy-rain-likely-to-lash-uttarakhand-for-next-two-days-imd/story-2NsZ2Ikoxwk6pYvNq2KhdI.html
09-08-2020||India||Firemen saved 18 Covid patients from death in Vijayawada blaze that took 10 lives||Firemen rescued 18 Covid-19 patients caught in the early morning blaze in a Vijayawada hotel in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday and saving them from certain death, said officials.About 31 coronavirus patients were caught in the fire at hotel Swarna Palace, being used as a Covid-19 care centre by the well known Ramesh Hospitals, apart from six medical personnel and six hotel staff at the time of the incident. The fire service personnel, who were the first to reach the site, were able to rescue 18 patients by evacuating them through the windows, using ladders. It was a difficult exercise given the single staircase.All the rescued persons were rushed to Ramesh Hospital, where they were declared out of danger. Three others have been moved to a different hotel at Labbipet. Ten other patients, however, could not be saved and died due to suffocation from the fire, officials said. According to state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Prasad, the blaze started at around 4.45 am on the ground floor of the hotel before spreading to the first and second floors. Preliminary investigations suggest a short-circuit in the electric wiring caused the fire. Also Read: 10 Covid-19 patients killed as hotel turned care centre catches fire in Andhra PradeshFlames engulfed the hotel building and thick plumes of smoke billowed in the entire building, leaving the patients suffocated. Some of the medical personnel and hotel staff managed to escape through the exit on the ground floor while four of them jumped off the first and second floors. A security guard, Krishna Reddy, suffered injuries after falling on the ground. Many of the patients, who were fast asleep, woke up to scenes of commotion and fire and smoke filled surroundings. “I did not know in which direction I was moving. I managed to open the window panes and come out shouting for help. I picked up courage and informed the police,” a young patient Pavan Sai said in a video message. Vijayawada city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the control room had received a call at around 5.15 am about the fire breaking out in the hotel. The minister, however, said the fire station, which is situated less than a kilometre away from the hotel, received the first call at 5.09 and within five minutes, the fire tenders arrived at the hotel. “The fire was brought under control within a couple of hours,” the minister said. After putting out the fire, the firemen and personnel of the National Disaster Response Force brought out the bodies of 10 patients, most of whom died of suffocation. The bodies were shifted to the Vijayawada government hospital for post-mortem. Also Read: PM Modi ‘anguished’ by fire at hotel being used as Covid-19 facility in VijayawadaFollowing a formal complaint from Vijayawada Central tehsildar (block revenue official), the Governorpet police registered criminal cases against the managements of Ramesh Hospital and Swarna Palace Hotel under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 308 read with 34 (acts amounting to culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The deceased were identified as: Kosaraju Suvarnalath (42) of Nidabrolu village of Ponnur block in Guntur district; Dokku Siva Brahmaiah (59) of Machilipatnam in Krishna district; Potluri Purnachandra Rao, Kodali of Krishna district; Sunkara Babu Rao (80), Indira Nagar, Vijayawada; Majji Gopi (54), Machilipatnam; G Venkata Jaya Lakshmi (52) of Kandukuru in Prakasam district; Venkata Narasimha Pavan Kumar (40) of Kandukuru in Prakasam; Sabbili Ratna Abraham (48), Rajakumari (40), both from Jaggayyapet; and Maddali Raghu (40) of Moghulraja Puram, Vijayawada. The tehsildar said Ramesh Hospital had entered an MoU with Swarna Palace Hotel to operate a Covid-19 facility on paid basis. “It appears that the management of the hotel and Ramesh Hospital had known that there were electrical defects in the lodge (hotel), and as rectification of defects involved a huge amount, they avoided repairing it. Knowing the fact that if the defects were not rectified, there is a possibility of an accident, they opened the Covid care centre,” the official said. The health minister said a committee involving the director of health and Arogya Sri director and other officials was formed to give a detailed report on the accident within 48 hours.“Preliminary report says the hospital and the hotel management are at fault. We asked for a detailed report so that stringent action can be initiated against those responsible”, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firemen-saved-18-covid-patients-from-certain-death-in-vijayawada-blaze-that-took-10-lives/story-2vLO9oyuq5BrsTaihh17PK.html
09-08-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh: FIR registered in Vijayawada fire incident||A first information report (FIR) was registered in the Vijayawada hotel fire incident, which claimed at least 10 lives on Sunday morning. The FIR has been filed by Tahsildar and Incident Commander, Vijayawada Central that read, “I am to state that the Ramesh Hospital Vijayawada had MoU with the Swarna Palace Hotel for running Covid-19 Centre in order to give treatment to the Covid-19 patients on a paid basis. It appears that the management of the Hotel Swarna Palace and the Ramesh Hospital had knowledge that there are electric defects in the lodge, and as rectification of defects involved with huge amount, avoided to repair it.” Knowing the fact that if defects were not rectified, there is every possibility of shortage of electricity, they opened the Covid-19 Centre in the Swarna Palace on August 9 and electric shortage occurred in Swarna Palace, resulting in the death of 10 persons while 20 patients and other staff of the hospital have received injuries, the FIR further read. “I request you to register a case against the Swarna Palace and Ramesh Hospital management and take necessary action,” Tahsildar and Incident Commander, Vijayawada Central stated in the FIR. Meanwhile, K Naresh, Station Fire Officer, stated that out of the 10 people who have died in the incident, nine died due to suffocation while one woman succumbed to burn injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-fir-registered-in-vijayawada-fire-incident/story-WnXY0CaSCJmcX8OkLUZnpJ.html
09-08-2020||India||PM Modi to present new outline for self-reliant India on August 15: Rajnath Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The defence minister said various departments and ministries of the government are working seriously to implement Modi’s initiative for a self-reliant India and that it is an attempt to give a fresh dimension to Mahatma Gandhi’s push for ‘Swadeshi’. Singh was speaking at an online event organised to pay tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Udham Singh. Talking about the ‘Atmanirbhar’ initiative, the defence minister said that the coronavirus pandemic has shown that a country may not be able to effectively protect its sovereignty if it is not self-reliant. “Our government will not allow any harm to India’s self respect and sovereignty at any cost,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present before the nation a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the Independence Day,” Singh said. Referring to the defence ministry’s decision to ban import of 101 military weapons and platforms, Singh said major and tough decisions are being taken to promote self-reliance in defence production. He said big weapons systems will now be produced in India and the country will look for their export to make it a hub for defence manufacturing. In a major push to promote the domestic defence industry, Singh on Sunday morning announced restrictions on import of 101 weapons and military platforms including light combat helicopters, transport aircraft, conventional submarines and cruise missiles by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-present-new-outline-for-self-reliant-india-on-august-15-rajnath-singh/story-Mu0mYlnGy5ZMOypg0dfY3N.html
09-08-2020||India||Mukhtar Ansari aide and dreaded shooter killed in Lucknow encounter||A dreaded shooter associated with gangster turned politician Mukhtar Ansari and also an accused in BJP leader Krishnanand Rai’s 2005 murder was gunned down by Uttar Pradesh special task force on the outskirts of Lucknow on Sunday morning, police officials said. Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, officials added. They said Pandey was involved in several murders and shoot-outs, carried out allegedly by Mukhtar Ansari’s gang in the past 27 years. Ansari was accused of hatching a conspiracy to kill Rai-- an MLA from Mohammadabad assembly constituency in Ghazipur-- while in jail, but was acquitted during trial in a lower court. Mukhtar Ansari and another gangster Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi are also accused in Rai’s murder case.Bajrangi was shot dead by another gangster Sunil Rathi inside Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018. STF inspector general (IG) of police Amitabh Yash said a team was continuously trying to track Pandey for the past many months.“Pandey was gunned down in retaliatory firing while the team was trying to arrest him when he came to meet one of his accomplices on Kanpur Road, under Sarojini Nagar police station limits,” Yash said.He said Pandey was in a four-wheeler with four other people but the others managed to escape during the encounter. Another STF official said Pandey had at least 10 criminal cases registered against him between 1993 and 2012. He added that no criminal case was lodged against him after 2012, however, his involvement surfaced in two cases, including fraudulent procurement of firearms licence in his wife Saroj Lata Pandey’s name in Mau in 2004 and purchase of two pistols from a gangster Neeraj Singh in May 2020. The official said a case of procuring firearms licence was lodged against his wife and the then station officer of Kopaganj police station Mritunjay Mishra (for negligence) at the Kopaganj police station of Mau on July 8 this year. He added that the STF was, however, tracing him since May 28 this year when the arrest of two criminals -- Neeraj Singh and Shubham Mishra -- revealed that Pandey was collecting firearms and ammunition and was planning some crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-ansari-aide-and-dreaded-shooter-killed-in-lucknow-encounter/story-SBhUVldvZZwUrjoTP7TlfI.html
09-08-2020||India||Returning migrant workers boost tractor sales in Bihar, state records highest June sales in country||The return of migrant workers in Bihar has given an impetus to the sale of tractors in the state, with the state recording the highest increase in percentage terms in June in the country . Experts say the migrants are looking at agriculture as an alternate employment opportunity to compensate for loss of jobs during Covid-19. According to figures released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) in the last week of July, tractor manufacturing companies registered a growth of 122.54% Year over Year (YoY) sales in Bihar while the sales figure for the entire country was a mere 10.36 per cent.In June, 4,304 tractors were sold in Bihar --2,370 more as compared to June 2019--which is the highest in the country.Rajasthan clocked the second highest sales figures by selling 1,505 more tractors as compared to June 2019, while Assam secured third position by selling 1,276 more tractors. Bihar Agriculture University director RK Sohane, says that buying tractors will help augment their income.“The sales figures indicate that small farmers are buying tractors, which will help in augmenting their income. During farming season they can deploy their tractors in the agriculture field and earn money and after that they can use it for transportation of sand and bricks,” said Sohane. Tractor dealers say that they are struggling to meet the demand in August which is generally considered lean for the sale of these farm machines.The massive rise in tractor sales in Bihar was due to not just the return of migrant workers but also because of a bumper rabi crop in the state, said Jivan Kumar, general manager of Patna-based Ananya Tracto“Two factors are sparking the sale of tractors in Bihar - return of migrant labourers and bumper Rabi and potato crops in the state. The farmers have become cash rich by getting good prices for their crops. Also, the migrant workers who have returned to Bihar want to get engaged here and they are buying tractors,” he said. “About 60% of our buyers are first-time customers, who have returned to Bihar and don’t want to return to the place from where they have come in near future, so they are investing in tractors. The three-month moratorium in payment of EMI after purchase of tractors by finance companies is also boosting up the sales,” he said, adding, “August is considered a lean month for sale of tractors, as the agriculture activity stops and a ban on sand lifting also starts. However, we are getting lots of queries for purchase of tractors, but are unable to meet it as supply is less because of lean production in plants,” he said. According to another person engaged in the business of selling tractors, another reason for the rise in sales is that those who returned to the state could not get any other jobs and thus, they are investing in the purchase of these farm machines which can be used for other commercial activities as well.“The major reason for rise in sale of tractor is that the migrant labourers who have returned to Bihar are not getting any jobs, so they are buying tractors, which are being used for farming and transportation of sand and bricks. Besides this, the deferment of marriages due to Covid-19 has left the farmers with extra cash in hands so they are investing in buying tractors,” said Kumar Ranjan, proprietor of Maa Shitla tractors in Patna.State agriculture minister Prem Kumar said that the state government may consider providing incentives to farmers to buy tractors.“The scenario of agriculture has changed in Bihar with several schemes and incentives by the Centre and state government, so people are buying tractors to increase their income. The government might consider providing incentives to farmers to buy tractors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returning-migrant-workers-boost-tractor-sales-in-bihar-state-records-highest-june-sales-in-country/story-SdDQAy3lSiLoFpizZutN1N.html
09-08-2020||India||Week after CM Yediyurappa, Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, barely a week after chief minister BS Yediyurappa tested positive for the viral infection last Sunday.Taking to Twitter, Sriramulu said that he was tested after he went down with flu-like symptoms. He added that he was hospitalised because he had been visiting the state’s 30 districts amid the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The health minister has been admitted to the state-run Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru.“From the time of Corona’s appearance, I have had the opportunity to visit the 30 districts and work in harmony with the government’s desire to treat people well. It is in this backdrop that I am going to be hospitalised and treated,” he said in Kannada in a series of tweets.ALSO READ | Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19“All those who have been in contact with me recently have been requested to take precautionary measures,” he added.To reassure the people of Karnataka, the health minister said, under the leadership of the chief ministers, all the departments of the state government, including the health department, have been working hard against the Covid-19 pandemic.A week earlier, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa had tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister had said that though he was fine, he was being hospitalised as a precaution on the advice of his doctors. He also asked all those who had come in contact with him to go for self-quarantine. The chief minister has not been discharged from hospital yet and is believed to be stable. A day later, Yediyurappa’s elder daughter, BY Padmavati too had tested positive for the infectious disease.Karnataka on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike of over 7,000 cases and 93 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 1,72,102 and the death toll past the 3,000 mark, a health department statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-cm-yediyurappa-karnataka-health-minister-b-sriramulu-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Y6wwAwP7vR2r3yQ9bYrC3J.html
09-08-2020||India||Melody and good music will remain in our hearts forever, says Alka Yagnik||Known for her magical voice, singer Alka Yagnik is more than elated to resume shoot of her ongoing singing reality show. “Absolutely, it’s good to get back on the sets. Due to pandemic, this has been a long phase which does not seem to end so soon. So, to be back on the sets with little singing wonders, who are competing to prove their singing prowess, is an add-on. And then, I’m in my musical land where it’s music everywhere.” Talking about what all kept her busy, Alka said, “When this lockdown happened I was good in a way that I got time to be at home, spend time with my daughter and son-in-law and I also got time to go back to my singing practice. But now I want normalcy to prevail in the world as soon as possible.” She recorded a few Covid-19 anthems from home and did two online concerts during the phase. “Such concerts can never ever replace live shows. The energy and magic of being on the stage is so different. Also, the audience connect is something I am longing for and now wish to get back to my live shows soon.” Alka has been judging reality shows for quite some time and enjoys her stints. “As I said music is my life and anywhere where there is music I would love to be there. Also doing reality show is super fun. When we restarted shooting for ‘Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs,’ I was very excited as in March we had to stop the show midway due to coronavirus crisis. So, getting to meet all the little champs again was thrilling experience,” she said over the phone. Getting back to shoot was a daunting task for her. “When I got a call last month informing about fresh shooting schedule I was glad as well as a bit apprehensive but my family downright said ‘no going back!’ After much persuasion I got back to judging the wonderful singers from across the country. Also, the way our production team was taking complete precautions, it made me more confident to be back to work.” For Alka all her songs are close to her heart. “For me picking one or two favourites will not be possible. Also, there a few memorable albums that I still cherish like ‘Qayamat se Qayamt Tak,’ ‘Refugee’ and ‘Kuch Kuch Hota Hai’. That kind of music will always be in demand even after so many years. See melody and good music will remain in our hearts forever and I am proud that I belong to that melodious era.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/melody-and-good-music-will-remain-in-our-hearts-forever-says-alka-yagnik/story-0andTqmaMWl5XuqsxyDkJK.html
09-08-2020||India||Adityanath’s office refuses to comment on reports of mosque trust’s invite for library, hospital event||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office has refused to respond to reports that the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust constituted by the Sunni Waqf Board for the construction of an alternative mosque in Ayodhya instead of Babri Masjid, has decided to invite the chief minister for the inauguration of a hospital, school, library and other public utility facilities on the proposed five-acre mosque complex. The proposed mosque complex will come up at Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village.A government spokesperson said, “it is not the time to respond to it. It would be inappropriate on our part.”An advisor to the chief minister said, “It would be inappropriate to comment on something that’s only an idea. Currently, there are divisions in the Muslim community and stakeholders over the utilisation of the land. Let’s wait and watch.”Also read: Sunni Board may invite PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath to Ayodhya eventOn Saturday, Athar Hussain, the spokesperson for the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation had said that the trust would invite the chief minister for the foundation stone laying for various public facilities at the proposed mosque. He had also made it clear that there would be no foundation laying ceremony for the mosque itself as there was no provision for it in the four schools of thought in Islam.Hussain’s statement came days after CM Adityanath, in an interview to a TV channel on the day of the Ram temple bhoomi pujan on August 5, had said, “No one will invite me, nor will I go.” His response came after he was asked whether he would go for the mosque construction event if invited.“I am not a party to it (mosque) in any manner. So neither will anyone invite me nor will I go. I know I am not going to get any such invitation. If I get any such invitation, then secularism of many people will be in danger. So I better work silently and send benefits of the government schemes to all without any discrimination,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-adityanath-s-office-refuses-to-comment-on-reports-of-mosque-trust-s-invite-for-library-hospital-event/story-V4aVJtIrUOT4G4KtDglRYP.html
09-08-2020||India||Bihar becomes first state to have 10 lakh self help groups run by women||Bihar has become the first state in the country to have 10 lakh self-help groups (SHGs) managed by women. The groups have been functioning under Jeevika, a World Bank-supported poverty alleviation programme operational in the state since 2007 to empower women and make them self-reliant.Arvind Kumar Choudhary, principal secretary, rural development department, said that the Jeevika model has ensured empowerment of women in a big way. “It has been a project closer to the heart of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the Jeevika model has ensured financial inclusion and empowerment of women in a big way. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the women of Jeevika worked as bank correspondents and ensured over Rs 543 crore worth transactions through POS machines to take banking to the doorsteps of the needy people in the remotest corners of the state. Besides, it reached out to 1.09 crore households to create awareness, extend a helping hand for relief work, food security, work on sanitation etc.,” he added.Bihar rural livelihood promotion Society (BRLPS), an autonomous society under the rural development department of the state government, has been designated as the State rural livelihoods Mission by the government to scale up the ‘Jeevika’ model in all 534 blocks of 38 districts under the national rural livelihood Mission (NRLM). It has promoted sustainable livelihood and financial inclusion through women-based community institutions and enterprises. Balamurugan D, mission director, NRLM said that nearly 1.20-crore women had got involved with over 10 lakh SHGs. “They have scripted a new saga of women empowerment, which is visible in the rural areas. They have availed Rs 12200 crore worth loan from banks so far to start their own income-generating activities and repayment has been timely. They have repaid loan worth Rs 5,000 crore to avail fresh loan. They also have Rs 1,350 crore worth savings for inter-loaning amongst its members,” he added. Two years ago, chief minister Nitish Kumar had also commended the way women ran their SHGs and the huge increase in bank credit to them. “Big shots take huge money from banks and run away from the country, while these women running SHGs make timely payments. This shows how committed and disciplined they are in financial matters,” he had said.Balamurugan said that these SHGs under Jeevika programme have been helping over 45 lakh households during the Covid-19 pandemic.“During Covid-19 pandemic, Jeevika has benefited 45.5 lakh households through its various activities, such as production of 2.14-crore masks, running ‘Didi in Rasoi’ outlets to serve food to quarantined people and in-patients, disbursal of Rs 350 crore worth loan to village organisations for food security and health risk mitigation, running community-led rural retail shops for supply of essentials and organising community professionals for extensive campaigns,” he said.Besides financial inclusion of a strong women workforce, the government has also been using their services for various social campaigns and initiatives of the education, health and welfare departments. “This is a model that can take Bihar miles to achieve self-reliance in the true sense, something that India dreams to achieve. Bihar has shown how it could be done. This has been a very positive initiative. All that is needed is to integrate the activities of SHGs and give them further opportunities for scale up to also become employment generators in the rural areas, which would further give a boost to the state economy,” said former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-becomes-first-state-to-have-10-lakh-self-help-groups-run-by-women/story-8s6vHbFSQaGy06cigPLweO.html
09-08-2020||India||Submarine optical fibre cable will transform Andaman: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked BJP workers to take the development story of Andaman and Nicobar islands under the NDA rule to people and advised them to ensure that government’s developmental schemes reach every person in their territory. The Prime Minister also listed a host of initiatives taken to aid business and tourism in the archipelago.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was interacting with BJP workers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands through a video conference in the presence of BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday.The meeting comes a day before inauguration of the submarine optical Fibre cable connecting Chennai and Port Blair on August 10. The submarine cable, which will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat of the Island group, is expected to transform life in the remote Island including defence, business and tourism sectors.“The internet connectivity in Andman and Nicobar will go through a sea change after the inauguration of the facility on Monday. This will facilitate online education, tourism and business in the island,” the PM said.Highlights: Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure FundIt is expected to deliver faster and more reliable mobile and landline telecom services at par with other parts of the country. PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for this project on December 30, 2018 at Port Blair.The internet services in the island have not been reliable and 4G mobile services were disrupted due to limited bandwidth provided via satellite. A government statement said that the enhanced telecom and broadband connectivity will boost tourism and employment generation in the islands, give an impetus to the economy and raise standards of living while facilitating delivery of e-Governance services such as telemedicine and tele-education.An estimated 2,300 km of submarine optical fibre cable (OFC) has been laid at an expenditure of about Rs 1,224 crore and the project has been completed well within deadline. During the interaction, party workers described to the Prime Minister how they provided food and medical aid to people stuck in the island during the lockdown. Modi lauded their efforts in serving distressed people in the island during the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi had interacted with party workers of Rajasthan and Bihar via video conferencing as part of party’s ‘Seva Hi Sangathan’ programme last month.‘You have taken the spirit of ‘Seva hi Sangthan’ to nook and cranny of the island to every poor person’s house and have passed in this exercise with flying colours,” PM Modi told the workers in Andaman and Nicobar.Total number of coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands has reached 1,222 on Saturday. The Union Territory has 778 active cases, while 425 have been cured of the disease so far. 19 patients have died in the archipelago.Speaking about other development initiatives in the region, the Prime Minister said that 12 islands of Andaman and Nicobar have been chosen for the expansion of high impact projects and people will soon be able to access the islands through seaplanes. He added that the expansion work of the Port Blair airport was a work in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-asks-party-workers-to-tell-andaman-development-story/story-cirqBxSD9LChQ7o1EumuQM.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Listen to the people’s voice, they have elected you’: Gehlot in letter to MLAs||Barely a few days before the Rajasthan Assembly session is due to commence, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday appealed to all Congress legislators to save the democratic set-up of governance and to listen to the voice of people who had elected them.“My appeal to all MLAs is that to save democracy, to maintain people’s confidence in us and to avoid wrong traditions, you should listen to the voice of the people,” Gehlot wrote in a letter to all MLAsGehlot has been locked in a bitter power tussle with his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot with about 100 Congress MLAs supporting him. The Congress legislators loyal to Gehlot are currently lodged in a Jaisalmer hotel as the party has accused the BJP of horse-trading following the open revolt by Pilot and 18 MLAs in his camp.ALSO READ | Rajasthan police file final report in 3 cases related to toppling of Gehlot govtAmid the severe political crisis, which Rajasthan has witnessed over the past few weeks, after Pilot’s open rebellion against the chief minister, the assembly session in the state will begin on August 14. The Rajasthan chief minister will probably seek a floor test to prove his majority in the 200-member assembly.Former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot was removed from his post and also sacked as the president of the state unit of the Congress party after he and some legislators loyal to him rebelled against CM Gehlot. “You may be a legislator from any political party, you should ensure and take a decision after understanding the voter’s feeling about how a people’s elected government continues to work strongly for the state’s welfare,” Gehlot said, stressing that efforts to topple the elected government had not been successful in Rajasthan.ALSO READ | Will welcome back rebels if party brass forgives them, says GehlotAhead of the assembly session, nearly six BJP MLAs from Rajasthan have shifted to Porbandar in Gujarat.BJP MLA Nirmal Kumawat had alleged that the Congress government in Rajasthan was “harassing” opposition MLAs, and said they were on a pilgrimage to Somnath to seek mental peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-the-people-s-voice-they-have-elected-you-gehlot-in-letter-to-mlas/story-MYYFvncHCfxEyw9lRgGHZK.html
09-08-2020||India||‘For development of new India, entire nation needs to progress’: PM Modi to BJP workers||Prime Minister Modi on Sunday said that for the development of a new India, the entire nation needs to progress. He also said that the government’s work should reach out to the last person at the end of the development ladder. The PM said this while addressing Bharatiya Janata Party workers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands via video conferencing.The PM’s interaction came a day before he will inaugurate the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair via video conferencing. The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat.Talking about the submarine OFC, the PM said that the islands will not face in getting virtually connected to outside world once the work on the project is complete.Here are the highlights of the PM’s address to the party workers: - India is fortunate that we have various things in different areas which can be developed. In Andaman and Nicobar, we are going to lay emphasis on industries related to sea-food, organic products and coconut-based products- Andaman and Nicobar Islands contributed in India’s struggle for Independence. It will also play a key role in Aatmanirbhar Bharat and the security and growth of New India- I’m sure that high-speed broadband connectivity that will be launched tomorrow will help people of Andaman & Nicobar Islands to have a virtual connect with other parts of the country. Everyone will be able to avail the benefits of all kinds of online services, amid pandemic- For the development of New India, the entire nation needs to progress. The government may function from a specific point, but its work should reach out to every one and more importantly, to the person at the end of the ladder- Be it a pandemic or any other problem, we all have to work together and stay connected with the people. We have to provide assistance to all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-andaman-nicobar-islands-bjp-workers-highlights/story-sUabd8DapIGnrfo4U4BshO.html
09-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress needs to find new chief to arrest perception of being rudderless, says Shashi Tharoor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress needs to find new chief to arrest perception of being rudderless, says Shashi Tharoor Senior Congress leader from Kerala Shashi Tharoor has said that the party needs to find a new full-term president to counter the perception that it is “rudderless”. He also said that it is unfair to be expecting Sonia Gandhi to carry interim chief’s burden indefinitely. Read more.FIR lodged against MP Congress working president Jitu Patwari for tweet on PMPolice in Indore lodged an FIR against state Congress working president and MLA Jitu Patwari on Sunday for his alleged undignified remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and for tampering with his photo in his social media post on Saturday, said police. Read more.Amit Shah works from hospital, to be tested for Covid-19 in next 2 daysAlthough singer turned politician Manoj Tiwari shot off his mouth on Union home minister Amit Shah’s health condition, the BJP leader is expected to be tested for coronavirus in the next two days. Read more.Ian Bishop names two batsmen who remind him of Sachin TendulkarSachin Tendulkar is widely regarded the best batsmen to have played the game. He holds a plethora of records including the most centuries and runs in international cricket. Some of the records may never be broken in the future with the scale of task incredibly high. Cricket fans still remember the sight of Tendulkar hitting straight drives and leg glances to fast bowlers. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law dismisses ‘toxic Bihari families’ comment: ‘This FIR is anti-Rhea, not anti-women’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law, Vishal Kirti, has slammed a recent news article that called out ‘toxic Bihari families’ for putting undue pressure on their male children. Vishal said he is responding to the article as it affected not only his ‘loved ones but people from Bihar in general’. Read more.Indian Air Force tweets video of ‘Akashganga’ skydiving team, it’s amazing. Seen the clip yet?A video shared on the official Twitter account of the Indian Air Force showing the ‘Akashganga’ skydiving team is something you definitely cannot miss. Chances are the video will leave you in awe. Read more.Alkazi: A guiding light of theatre in IndiaWe know Ebrahim Alkazi as the man who headed the National School of Drama for 15 epoch-making years, teaching the likes of Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri and Rohini Hattangadi; who brought modern Western classics to the Indian stage and professionalised theatre; who established the Art Heritage gallery with wife Roshen in New Delhi; and who left behind a trove of art, photography and books, now looked after by the Alkazi Foundation for the Arts. Read more.Latest Windows bug could let hackers hijack your printer, and there’s no fix for nowYour connected printer is at risk, you don’t know it and there’s no fix for it. All these have been confirmed in a report by the Bleeping Computer website. The report, citing researchers, states that there is a security flaw in Windows that can let hackers take control of a private network and hijack connected printer devices. The bug is said to be in regards with Windows Print Spooler. The service basically manages the printing process. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-needs-to-find-new-chief-to-arrest-perception-of-being-rudderless-says-shashi-tharoor-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QQh6sUDe18ZZUfdcwG1ZcO.html
09-08-2020||India||Sunni Board may invite PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath to Ayodhya event||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) has said it would like to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to lay the foundation stone of the public utility establishments, other than the mosque, on the five-acre land that was allocated to the board. The land at Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village was allocated to the board in compliance with the Supreme Court verdict of November 9 last year in the title dispute case. The UPSCWB officials said they would soon approach Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to seek an appointment for the foundation-laying ceremony that is likely to be held in September-end or in October.SM Shoeb, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Sunni Waqf Board, said, “We would like to invite the PM and the UP CM to lay the foundation of establishments of public utility like the community kitchen, hospital, museum, library, etc. The list of invitees would be finalised in the board meeting after a discussion with the other members. It would be a matter of pride for the board if PM joins us for the inaugural programme.”Also read: PM Oli lights up Ayodhya row again, says Lord Ram was born in NepalThe CEO made it clear that there was no provision for any groundbreaking ceremony for any mosque in Islam. “In all schools of thought, no ulema (cleric) has confirmed a provision for any ritual and groundbreaking ceremony for a mosque. Hence, there is no point in organising any such event or inviting anyone for such an event (for the mosque),” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, the trust constituted to oversee construction of the mosque and public utility establishments on the allocated five acres of land. With this comment, he made it clear that the ceremony would only be for the public utility facilities.“Since we are also providing public utility facilities around the mosque in the Dhannipur area, and those facilities are for the betterment of UP residents, we would be inviting the chief minister also to the inauguration programme, once we have a plan,” said Hussain. The board may also invite former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and other political and non-political personalities. The list of invitees would be finalised after the board meeting that will be held shortly.“It was just a week back we got the land papers. The physical possession of the land is expected by the next week. Once we get the possession, we will go for land measurement. Then, we will chalk out the blueprint for the development work to be carried out on the land, which would be followed by the foundation stone laying ceremony of the public utility establishments. It will take a month or so for us to start the work,” said the CEO of the UPSCWB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunni-board-may-invite-pm-modi-yogi-adityanath-to-ayodhya-event/story-hcHoVgTWQ6WaOyhdWLYzkN.html
09-08-2020||India||Cornered by rivals, PM Oli is back with a ‘ludicrous’ claim on Ram’s birthplace||Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli this week attempted to ignite a fresh row over Lord Ram’s birthplace, telling a delegation that he was convinced that Lord Ram was born in south Nepal’s Ayodhyapuri and not Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya.PM Oli’s remark on Ayodhya, the second in a month, comes against the backdrop of an acrimonious power struggle within the ruling Nepal Communist Party that is widely seen headed for a split. PM Oli has made it clear that he isn’t going to step down anytime soon as demanded by the rival camp led by the party’s co-chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal and the two other former PMs, Madhav Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal.PM Oli’s rivals have the majority within the party but have been unable to dislodge the prime minister who has been needling India - Nepal’s new map was one such effort - to endear himself to China’s communist party.Also read: Nepal okays map tweak, India calls it ‘untenable’PM Oli’s claim last month that Lord Ram was born in south Nepal’s Ayodhyapuri, and not UP’s Ayodhya, was delivered in this context. The remark was described as “ludicrous” by his party who spotted a pattern in the prime minister’s “undiplomatic” and “irritating” pinpricks targeting India.New Delhi had then let it pass after the foreign ministry in Kathmandu rushed to put out a clarification, clarifying that the prime minister only meant to highlight the importance of further studies and research of the cultural geography represented by Ramayana.PM Oli worked hard to rake it up again on Saturday.The prime minister, who has been bunking meetings of the NCP’s top leadership for weeks, took out two hours to meet a delegation from Madi in Chitwan district to discuss his plans for Lord Ram’s birthplace. He told the delegation led by Madi mayor Thakur Prasad Dhakal that they should get down to prepping for Lord Ram’s idol and promote Ayodhyapuri as his place of birth. A suggestion to rename the municipality to Ayodhyapuri was also floated at this meeting.PM Oli’s continuing effort to appropriate Lord Ram’s birthplace has drawn sharp reactions from religious leaders in Nepal including the priests at the Janaki temple. Acharya Durga Prasad Gautam, the Nepalese priest who participated in the bhumi poojan at Ayodhya, had run down PM Oli’s claims, describing the claim as absurd.Also read | ‘Keep Lord Ram out of regional politics’: Ayodhya saints lash out at Nepal PM OliKathmandu watchers say the shrewd communist leader’s sudden interest in religion lately appeared to be designed to signal to China and its ambassador Hou Yanqi that he was their best bet against India and should receive Beijing’s support.Ambassador Hou, derisively described as Nepal’s new viceroy to reflect her influence over the prime minister, has been quietly working to avoid a split in the Nepal Communist Party. At one point, she is learnt to have messaged to Oli’s rivals that the Chinese Communist Party’s sole interest was to ensure that the NCP - formed in 2018 after the merger of Nepal’s two communist parties - did not split.“PM Oli is trying hard to tell China that he is indispensable to serving Beijing’s interests in Kathmandu,” a Kathmandu watcher in New Delhi said.PM Oli last month made it clear that the NCP could split if he was pushed out of the government when his camp re-registered his old party CPN-UML as a political party with the election commission. The ruling NCP was formed with the merger of the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Dahal’s Communist Party of Nepal- Maoist Centre in 2018PM Oli hasn’t spoken about it. But Dahal, who suspects the move to register the new party is part of PM Oli’s Plan B; to split the NCP in case he is forced to resign, has told his followers to prepare for the “worst”.Diplomats in Kathmandu said they had not been able to decipher why Dahal, a former guerilla leader, and Madhav Nepal had not pushed PM Oli hard enough so far though he has had the numbers on his side.“It is a little curious,” he said, wondering if PM Oli’s upper hand over his rivals had something to do with some “political vulnerabilities”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-oli-lights-up-ayodhya-row-again-says-lord-ram-was-born-in-nepal/story-SreuEJe32EohO1O0WtOJoN.html
09-08-2020||India||Air India Express pilot Captain Deepak Sathe’s mortal remains reach Mumbai||The mortal remains of crashed Air India Express flight’s commander pilot, Captain Deepak Sathe reached Mumbai on Sunday afternoon in a cargo flight. Sathe’s family members have also arrived in Mumbai.“The body was taken from the cargo terminal to Air India GSD Triangular plot building at around 3.10pm. The family has landed at T2 and is reaching the Air India building,” said authorities.Captain Sathe’s co-pilot and first officer Captain Akhilesh Kumar was cremated earlier today in his home town of Mathura in the presence of his family and officials of Air India and Air India Express, who paid their respect to the departed soul.Captain Sathe’s remains were flown to Mumbai from Cochin International Airport in Kerala Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri had yesterday said that both the pilots operating the Air India Express flight that fell 35 ft into a valley after overshooting the runway in wet and rainy conditions at Karipur Airport in Kerala on Friday evening killing 18 people on board, were very experienced. Also Read: Pilots’ move may have saved many, say expertsDeepak Vasant Sathe, a former IAF pilot, had 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft. He had flown 6,662 of these hours as the commander.Aviation experts believe that casualties in the accident at Kozhikode airport were restricted to 18 because Sathe and Kumar decided to shut down the engines after touching down which was instrumental in ensuring that the aircraft did not catch fire.A family member disclosed that Sathe had planned to pay a surprise visit to Nagpur to celebrate his mother’s 84th birthday on Saturday. He had last met his parents in March and was constantly in touch with them over the phone since then. They had last spoken a day before yesterday.Also Read: Co-pilot Akhilesh Sharma’s wife is expecting a childCaptain Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the IAF and had served at the force’s flight-testing establishment. He is said to have survived an air crash in the early 1990s when he was in the Air Force.Captain Sathe’s mother Neela and her husband Vasant Sathe, a retired colonel, live in Bharat Nagar locality of Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-pilot-captain-deepak-sathe-s-mortal-remains-reach-mumbai/story-MKJFVHdVZO1qjEY8MHLC8K.html
09-08-2020||India||FIR lodged against MP Congress working president Jitu Patwari for tweet on PM||Police in Indore lodged an FIR against state Congress working president and MLA Jitu Patwari on Sunday for his alleged undignified remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and for tampering with his photo in his social media post on Saturday, said police. The FIR was lodged under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 464 (Making a false document) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the minister by Indore’s Chhatripura police station on a complaint signed and submitted by member of parliament from Indore Shankar Lalwani and several other BJP leaders. “On his Twitter account, the Congress MLA posted a photo of the PM snapped when he was performing bhoomi poojan for construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya on August 5. Jitu Patwari tampered with the photo and made undignified remarks against the PM which caused damage to his dignity and hurt sentiments of people”, said the complaint. However, talking to media persons, Jitu Patwari, who has deleted his post now, said he didn’t make any defamatory or undignified remark against the PM. His comment was on failure of the central government on economic and employment fronts. Harinarayanchari Mishra, DIG of police, Indore said, “Police are investigating the matter. Any further action will be based on the facts which come to light during investigation.” Earlier in June, Jitu Patwari regretted his comments he made on his Twitter handle when chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan attacked him for his alleged derogatory remarks against women. Jitu Patwari had tweeted: “Five daughters were born namely demonetisation, goods and sales tax (GST), employment, inflation and economic slowdown while anticipating a son called development (vikas).”He deleted the tweet after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit out at him and the Congress and called them anti-woman. Patwari regretted his comments and said daughters are like goddesses. “My tweet was to suggest how people have been waiting for years for development promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but they got instead demonetisation, GST, unemployment, inflation and economic slowdown which have broken the backbone of the economy.”(With input from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-lodged-against-mp-congress-working-president-jitu-patwari-for-tweet-on-pm/story-wK2GiQhCk6FQE1NErNLFPP.html
09-08-2020||India||Delhi to get moderate to heavy rain for next four days beginning today: IMD||Thunderstorms with light to moderate rainfall are likely to occur over national capital Delhi, including areas near IGI Airport, Safdarjung, Dwarka and Bahadurgarh on Sunday afternoon and evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The weather agency indicated that the southwest monsoon will become active again in the coastal areas of Maharashtra on August 10 and it has also predicted moderate to heavy rainfall for Delhi beginning Sunday. Moderate to heavy rainfall activity in the national capital is likely to continue over the next four days, till Wednesday, according to the IMD. Sporadic spells of rain on Sunday brought some relief to people living in Delhi from the sultry weather conditions that had been prevailing in the national capital and adjoining areas over the last one week. The IMD said light to moderate showers were reported from many places in south and south west Delhi. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting center, said the monsoon trough is likely to shift northward and will stay close to Delhi-NCR from Sunday to Wednesday.“During this period, southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal will reach Haryana, Delhi-NCR and west Uttar Pradesh in lower levels. A cyclonic circulation will also develop over Madhya Pradesh and adjoining UP at the same time,” he said.For northern India, the department has issued a yellow weather warning for Himachal Pradesh for the next two days, and it predicted heavy rains for Haryana and Punjab and lights showers for Rajasthan, which saw light rainfall on Saturday too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-get-moderate-to-heavy-rain-for-next-four-days-beginning-today-imd/story-6JXGlcR6naLIWiXH6UI1mO.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Congress needs to find new chief to arrest perception of being rudderless’: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader from Kerala Shashi Tharoor has said that the party needs to find a new full-term president to counter the perception that it is “rudderless”.He also said that it is unfair to be expecting Sonia Gandhi to carry interim chief’s burden indefinitely.“Congress needs to expedite process of finding full-term president to arrest perception of being rudderless and adrift,” Tharoor said on Sunday.His comments come just ahead of Sonia Gandhi completing one year as interim chief on August 10.“I certainly believe we should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia ji’s appointment as interim president last year, but I do believe it’s unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely,” Tharoor told news agency PTI.Tharoor also said that he certainly thinks Rahul Gandhi has the “mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party”, but if he does not wish to do so then the party must “take action” to elect a new chief. A section of the Congress has started demanding that Rahul Gandhi should return to the post he gave up in May 2019, owning responsibility for the party’s rout in the general elections.The demands came in three meetings - the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on June 23; at Sonia Gandhi’s deliberations with the party’s Lok Sabha members on July 11; and during her interaction with the party’s Rajya Sabha MPs on July 30.One Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that he sees it as the responsibility of Rahul Gandhi to assuage the concerns of both veterans and members of the young brigade because there is visible unease between the two groups over the leadership issue and their future in the party.His reference is to the long-simmering conflict between the party’s old guard and its younger members - which came to fore most recently during Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with Rajya Sabha MPs.While Sonia Gandhi is not keen to continue in the post, Rahul Gandhi has not shown any inclination to take up the responsibility.Tharoor said that Rahul Gandhi has done a remarkable job in holding the present government accountable for its actions and failures.“Through his activities during this lockdown, whether it has been on the issue of the COVID-19 virus or Chinese transgressions, Rahul Gandhi has without a question and almost single-handedly done a remarkable job in holding the present government accountable for its actions and failures,” the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.Experts have said the clamour for Gandhi’s ascendancy to Congress president once again highlights the fact that the party does not want to take the tougher route of holding elections and finding a new leader from outside the Nehru-Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-needs-to-find-new-chief-to-arrest-perception-of-being-rudderless-shashi-tharoor/story-VkyuXgTJMYk5Wxikb3PfTN.html
09-08-2020||India||Jharkhand registers 1,084 new Covid-19 cases, 40 security staff of CM’s residence test positive||Jharkhand on Saturday reported the highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities after 1,084 people were found infected with coronavirus and 14 patients died in different hospitals across the state.As many as 40 security personnel deployed at chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence, 73 inmates of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) and 41 police personnel in Giridih district were among the 1,084 new patients detected on Saturday.The state, however, also witnessed the highest ever single-day recoveries after 888 patients were cured and discharged in the last 24 hours.With these new cases, the state’s total count touched 17,626 including 9,067 active cases, 8,391 recovered cases and 168 deaths.According to the health department’s bulletin released on August 8 night, Ranchi topped the list after detecting a maximum of 412 cases, the highest ever single-day spike of any district. Besides, Giridih reported the second highest number of cases adding 286 patients.Of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, seven occurred in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, four in Dhanbad and one each in Ranchi, Godda and Koderma districts.With the addition of 412 new Covid-19 cases, Ranchi has so far reported 3,563 cases including 2,074 active cases, 1,460 recoveries and 29 deaths.“The 40 people in the chief minister’s residence are security guards. They came in contact with two cooks, who had tested positive earlier,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Kulkarni.He added, “People still are not following the preventive measures like using masks and maintaining social distancing in their true sense leading to a spike in cases. Police personnel living in barracks get easily infected due to ignorance of social distancing norms.”On August 4, chief minister Hemant Soren along with his family members and staff had undergone the Covid-19 test after 19 people associated with his office and residence including some cooks and security guards were found infected.However, test reports of the CM and his family members returned negative. A day later, another 22 staff of the CM’s residence were found infected with the disease.This is the second time in less than a month that the CM had undergone the Covid-19 test and was found negative. Earlier in July, the chief minister had placed himself in home quarantine after coming in contact with a minister and his party’s legislator who was found infected with the virus.According to the health department’s bulletin of August 8, the pandemic’s seven days growth rate stood at 5.24% and disease’s doubling period was 13.57 days. The recovery rate was 47.65% and mortality rate was 0.91%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-registers-1-084-new-covid-19-cases-40-security-staff-of-cm-s-residence-test-positive/story-w8hXAx1sNt80RmdgLIRSlL.html
09-08-2020||India||11 Pak migrants found dead in Rajasthan||Eleven members of a family of Pakistan Hindu migrants were found dead at a farm in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district on Sunday morning, police said. A person of the family, however, was found alive outside the hut they lived at Lodta village of Dechu area, an officer said. “But he claimed to have no idea about the incident, which believed to have happened in the night,” said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Rahul Barhat. “We are yet to ascertain the cause and means of death. But apparently, all the members appeared to have committed suicide by consuming some chemical in the night,” Barhat said. He said there was a smell of some chemical around in the hut, suggesting that they consumed something. All the family members were Hindu migrants from Pakistan from the Bhil community and had been living on the farm in the village, which they had hired for farming. “There was neither any injury mark on any of the bodies nor any evidences of any foul play,” the SP said. “But we have roped in the forensic team and a dog squad to arrive at any final conclusion.” Preliminary information indicated that there was some dispute in the family over some issue. “Once we interrogate the survivor, we would be in any position to find out that what had led to this incident”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-pak-migrants-found-dead-in-rajasthan/story-aDbQNbbp9rxGi8wsdf2wSP.html
09-08-2020||India||Body of 6-month-old baby recovered, Kerala landslide death toll rises to 43||Rescue workers have found 16 more bodies from the landslide site in Rajamalai in Kerala’s Idukki district, bringing the death toll to 43, as they continued to look for more than 30 people who are still missing, officials said on Sunday.Sniffer dogs were used by the rescue team to help retrieve many of the bodies, after a colony of tea plantation workers was buried under slush after heavy rains triggered the landslide on Friday, they said. A portion of Pettimala hill caved in razing the settlement of tea plantation workers.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedhran, who belongs to Kerala, and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala visited the site. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued alerts for heavy rainfall in several districts of the state, which continued to be lashed by downpours. A red alert was issued for Alapuzha, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasargod.Also read: Kerala landslide death count rises, more than 40 still missingThe weather department has issued an orange alert for Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad and a yellow alert for the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram.The number of missing people is likely to go up as many students staying in hostels had returned to their homes in the area due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Idukki district administration has said.The estimate of the missing people is based on the employment registry of the workers’ employer, Kannan Devean Hill Plantation (KDHP) Limited. But local leaders said many like students and guests are not accounted for in the registry.Also read: Day after Idukki landslide, rainfall in Kerala likely to continue, says IMDOfficials have said at least six teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are involved in the rescue operations in Idukki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-recover-10-more-bodies-from-kerala-landslide-site-toll-rises-to-37/story-W7zFcJ04q40YClqwoUJY5K.html
09-08-2020||India||Sanjay Raut dares Devendra Fadnavis to protest removal of Shivaji statue in Karnataka, says Shiv Sena will support||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut took on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra on the silence over the removal of Shivaji statue in Mangutti village of Karnataka’s Belgaum district. Raut said that “conspiracy” by the BJP government in Karnataka to remove the statue in the night is “condemnable”.The Sena leader challenged the state’s Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to lead an agitation to Belgaum over the district and promised support from the Shiv Sena. Raut said that days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid respects to the Maratha warrior king during the bhoomi pujan of Ram temple, the same party’s government conspired in the dark of the night to remove the statue.“The manner in which the Karnataka Police removed the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is condemnable. Nobody from Maharashtra’s Opposition party is ready to talk on it. Prime minister Narendra Modi paid respects to Chhatrapati Shivaji during the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The same party’s government in Karnataka removed the statue in the night by switching off the lights. Maharashtra government should take serious note of this incident. Without indulging in politics, the Opposition party in the state should be taken in confidence. If needed, we are ready to go to Belgaum and agitate under the leadership of the Opposition leader. Ask him, if he is ready,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.Belgaum district of Karnataka, which has a sizeable Marathi-speaking population, is the subject of a protracted boundary dispute between the two states.On Saturday, Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde demanded that the Karnataka government reinstate the Shivaji statue.In a letter to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Shinde, who is coordinator minister for border areas along Karnataka, claimed that a life-size statue of the warrior king was removed at Mangutti village by the police and district authorities. The statue had been installed with the permission of the gram panchayat, but the administration removed it deliberately, the minister claimed, demanding action against the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-dares-devendra-fadnavis-to-protest-removal-of-shivaji-statue-in-karnataka-says-shiv-sena-will-support/story-x60Fr2oCjYUjFoXmpXgF5H.html
09-08-2020||India||India gives 10 ventilators worth Rs 28 million to Nepal amid Covid-19||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India on Sunday handed over 10 ventilators worth Rs 28 million to Nepal.“India hands over ten ventilators worth Rs 28 million to Nepal. It was handed over to Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) General Purna Chandra Thapa by Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra in a ceremony at Grand Hall, Army Headquarters on Sunday,” said Indian Embassy in Nepal.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to a statement issued by the Embassy, “These ventilators are designed for a broad range of applications to include advanced invasive or non-invasive respiratory support. They can be used in support of secondary care in hospitals with ICU, tertiary multispecialty hospitals and dedicated ICUs. Further, due to their compact nature, they are portable and handy in the transportation of patients requiring intensive care.”“The Indian army has a long record of extending support to the Nepali Army as a first responder for humanitarian assistance and relief. The gifting of ventilators is part of this continued humanitarian cooperation between the two Armies,” the Embassy said.During the handing over, Ambassador Kwatra reaffirmed India’s commitment to providing all necessary help to the people of Nepal in prevailing over the Covid-19 pandemic.Nepal has recorded a total of 22,592 positive cases of coronavirus and 73 people have succumbed to the disease so far, according to Johns Hopkins University dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gives-10-ventilators-worth-rs-28-million-to-nepal-amid-covid-19/story-sUc0DJlLskdkPpRbp5zDqO.html
09-08-2020||India||Bodies of missing Gorai fishermen recovered at Dahanu||Five days after the fishing vessel of fishermen based in Gorai capsized, the partially decomposed bodies of two of them were found at Dahanu coast on Sunday morning. The fishermen were allegedly drowned after their fishing boat named ‘Lucky Star’, carrying 13 people, capsized around 10 nautical miles from Gorai coast on August 4. Another fishing boat named ‘God King’ had rushed to their help and the crew members rescued 11 fishermen while two went missing, said senior inspector Sanjeev Narkar of the Gorai police station. The deceased have been identified as Mangesh Kadam, 24, and Satish Jagtap, 25, who were the residents of Gorai. Soon after the accident, the Indian Coast Guard and the Indian Navy were informed and a search and rescue operation was launched for two days. However, due to rough weather and high wind, the missing fishermen were not found, said an official. The fishermen and the ICG were jointly involved in the search. On Sunday morning, a local resident, who went to see his farm, spotted a body lying on the shore. He then informed another resident Manoj Raut and the police was informed. Another body was spotted at the seashore in Gholvad, said Narkar. The police circulated messages about the two missing fishermen in the neighbouring area soon after the incident. The local police, who were aware of the incident, alerted the Gorai police station. The missing fishermen’s family was informed in Gorai village and rushed to the spot. The family identified them with clothes as the bodies were partially discomposed, said Josef Kolaso, vice chairman of Gorai Society. The fishermen went for fishing on August 1 in ‘Lucky Star’ boat and the accident occurred around 1:30 pm on August 4 while they were returning. The boat capsized around 10 nautical miles away from the coast. Another fishing boat ‘God King’ from Uttan was nearby and immediately reached on the spot and rescued 11 members onboard. Two people, however, went missing. An accidental death report was registered in Gorai police station and later the case was transferred to the Yellow Gate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-missing-gorai-fishermen-recovered-at-dahanu/story-XDbB8jTdDgxFWvJQA9xXYJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Vijayawada Covid-19 hotel facility violated fire safety norms: Official||A hotel being used as a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) facility in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city where a fire killed 10 patients violated safety standards, a senior fire department official said on Sunday.The fire was reported from Swarna Palace, being used as a care centre for Covid-19 patients by Ramesh Hospitals, early on Sunday.“The alarm bell didn’t ring at the time of the accident and there was a delay in opening the back door,” Jairam Naik, the fire safety director, said. “Investigation has been initiated and there will be action on hotel management after it,” Naik added.An electric short circuit is said to have caused the fire, according to officials. Staff noticed flames from the first floor at around 5am and it spread to the third to fifth floors quickly. Patients were on the third, fourth and fifth floors of the hotel. There were about 30 patients of the coronavirus disease and 10 medical personnel at the time of the accident.YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Andhra Pradesh’s chief minister, said he spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the accident. “We are ensuring that things are under control. An ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh has been announced to the families of the deceased. My thoughts & prayers are with the bereaved families & the injured,” he added.The Prime Minister had also condoled the deaths. “Anguished by the fire at a Covid Centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan Ji and assured all possible support,” he had tweeted.Jagan Reddy has also directed officials to take up rescue measures and admit the injured to nearby hospitals. He also instructed officials to conduct an inquiry into the accident.Rescuers brought 17 Covid-19 patients to safely using ladders even as two staff members, including a security guard, jumped from the second and third floors of the hotel after the fire. On Thursday, eight people were killed in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private Covid-19 designated hospital in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayawada-covid-19-hotel-facility-violated-fire-safety-norms-official/story-UosgdZsPrCYDmtC7VgBj7J.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Spirit of solidarity’: Hardeep Puri lauds locals who rescued Kozhikode crash victims||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday appreciated the response of local residents of Kerala’s Kozhikode, who were among the first to help in the rescue operation after an Air India Express plane crashed in the city while landing in heavy rain.The Air India Express aircraft was bringing back 184 people, who were stranded abroad amidst the coronavirus pandemic, from Dubai to Kozhikode under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). Eighteen people, including the two pilots of the Air India Express aircraft, died and more than 100 were injured in the accident on Friday evening. “I salute the spirit of solidarity & brotherhood shown by the people of Kozhikode who took great personal risks in providing immediate relief & help to the victims. This has helped in averting a greater tragedy,” Puri tweeted.The minister also said the Kozhikode airport, also known as Karipur locally, has started functioning after the country’s worst passenger aircraft accident since 2010.“What also speaks volumes for the undaunted spirit of the aviation professionals & people of Kerala that despite this accident operations from the airport recommenced with 2 @FlyWithIX flights landing yesterday morning,” he tweeted.“VBM will continue with the same undaunted spirit. We will continue to bring back our stranded citizens from wherever in the world they are. I join the people of the state & every Indian in paying tribute to the 18 people who lost their lives in this air tragedy,” he said.Puri had visited the accident site on Saturday to assess the situation on the ground. “It (the plane) overshot the runway while trying to land amid what were clearly inclement weather conditions prevailing at that time,” he had said at a news briefing.Officials have said the black box of the Air India Express was recovered on Saturday, even as authorities launched an investigation into the air disaster.After the accident, local residents helped shift injured passengers to various hospitals, eyewitnesses said.“It was raining heavily and we suddenly heard a deafening sound, and the aircraft came out of the boundary wall and fell on the road. We couldn’t believe it. Soon we heard cries for help. Smoke was billowing and there was the smell of fuel also,” Mohamad Sahal, a local resident who was among the first to reach the accident spot, said.According to P Afzal, another resident of the area, many of them helped rescue officials. “Initially we did not wait for ambulances and evacuated the passengers in private vehicles and taxis. We also helped police in controlling traffic to make way for ambulances,” he said.Investigating officers from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) are probing the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spirit-of-solidarity-brotherhood-locals-who-rushed-to-rescue-ai-express-passengers-earn-civil-aviation-minister-s-praise/story-u1G1RPGBA3a7ZOj7ZtarnN.html
09-08-2020||India||Amit Shah works from hospital, to be tested for Covid-19 in next 2 days||Although singer turned politician Manoj Tiwari shot off his mouth on Union home minister Amit Shah’s health condition, the BJP leader is expected to be tested for coronavirus in the next two days.According to official sources, Shah is asymptomatic and is clearing home ministry files from his Gurugram hospital bed as well as monitoring the internal security through a dedicated team of officers. He is expected to return home next week provided he tests Covid-19 negative.Former president of BJP’s Delhi unit Manoj Tiwari had this morning tweeted that home minister Shah had tested negative. This caught everyone in the BJP as well as government with surprise including the home minister’s family who is personally monitoring his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-in-next-two-days-mha-refutes-negative-report-claim/story-iBHx9rtChbQ71j6mTZKaVM.html
09-08-2020||India||Bharat Forge welcomes India’s import ban on 101 defence items, calls it a ‘strategic step’||Baba Kalyani, chairman and managing director of Bharat Forge, India’s leading forging company, welcomed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s announcement of banning import 101 defence items in a bid to bolster PM Modi’s resolve of making India self-reliant or Atmanirbhar. Kalyani called the decision a strategic step that will “propel the Atmanirbhar Bharat narrative and bolster Indian defence equipment manufacturing industry”. Kalyani further said that as a result of the move, the domestic sector will grow, leading to getting India closer to achieving 5 trillion economy. “We at Kalyani Group, welcome the move announced by the honourable Union Minister, Rajnath Singh, this strategic step will propel the Atmanirbhar Bharat narrative and bolster Indian defence equipment manufacturing industry,” the statement read. Also read: From big guns to missiles, India bans import of 101 defence items to boost self relianceAfter today’s announcement, the government is set to introduce an import embargo on 101 items beyond a given timeline to boost the indigenisation of defence production. The ministry has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them. “This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence,” Singh said. The list includes guns to missiles and what Singh described as equipment that will fulfil “needs of our defence services” such as “high tech weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, LCHs, radars & many other items”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-forge-welcomes-india-s-import-ban-on-101-defence-items-calls-it-a-strategic-step/story-1u3iphpaqjX55TioOdAAXJ.html
09-08-2020||India||No new Covid-19 test on home minister Amit Shah, says MHA||No fresh test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been conducted on Union home minister Amit Shah since last week, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Sunday.The MHA’s comment came after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari tweeted that Shah had tested negative for Covid-19. Tiwari, the former president of the BJP’s Delhi unit, deleted his tweet later.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Nothing other than the official health bulletin released either by the treating hospital, MHA or his own Twitter feed should be referred to,” a government official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.The Union minister had tested positive for Covid-19 last Sunday and was admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Shah, the first Union cabinet minister to have tested positive for Covid-19, had announced the news on Twitter.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had posted.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Union home minister had also urged those who came in his contact in the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-test-on-home-minister-amit-shah-says-mha/story-655p6xaclGaWSYRowXqHZK.html
09-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Conspiracy against Maharashtra’, says Sanjay Raut on Sushant Singh Rajput case going to CBI and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Conspiracy against Maharashtra’: Sanjay Raut on Sushant Singh Rajput case going to CBIShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has slammed the Centre for handing over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He said that the decision has been taken for political gains and as part of pressure tactics. Read moreSingh’s ‘import embargo high sounding jargon’: Cong’s Chidambaram takes a jibeThe defence minister promised a “bang and ended with a whimper”, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday after Rajnath Singh’s announced a ban on the import of 101 items. Read moreVidya Balan says she was labelled ‘jinxed’ after her first film was shelved, was replaced in 7-8 projectsActor Vidya Balan has said that after her debut film was shelved abruptly, she was labelled ‘jinxed’ and lost out on many of her future projects. Read moreLife Hacks by Charles Assisi: Winning the work-from-home warAs we continue to work from home with no foreseeable end in sight, more people are reporting feeling stressed and stretched. Read more‘Such opportunities cannot be wasted’: Shahid Afridi, Michael Vaughan react to Pakistan’s loss to England in 1st TestThe first Test between England and Pakistan was a cliffhanger. There were moments where it looked like Pakistan had the upper hand, then it looked like England were cruising. Read moreHere’s a tiny Android-based PC that is as big as Amazon Fire TV StickWhile smartphones can be considered as one of the most powerful palm-sized computers at today’s date, the possibilities still remain endless and these could go more powerful and compact in future. T98 Mini PC seems to have been built on the same notion. Read more‘I like messy beds’: Harsh Goenka shares small joys of life, prompts people to post the sameFrom smelling the pages of a new book to sleeping an extra hour on a Sunday, people may share various things when they’re asked about the small joys of life or the little things they like. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-conspiracy-against-maharashtra-says-sanjay-raut-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-going-to-cbi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ibmivKTgyU5S9wXzZ9N7VI.html
09-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh’s ‘import embargo high sounding jargon’: Cong’s Chidambaram takes a jibe||The defence minister promised a “bang and ended with a whimper”, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday after Rajnath Singh’s announced a ban on the import of 101 items.The Congress leader’s comments came after defence minister Rajnath Singh said that the government’s step will give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ or Self-Reliant India Mission.“The only importer of defence equipment is the Defence Ministry. Any import embargo is really an embargo on oneself. What the Defence Minister said in his historic Sunday announcement deserved only an Office Order from the Minister to his Secretaries!” Chidambaram tweeted.“Import Embargo is high sounding jargon. What it means is we will try to make the same equipment (that we import today) in 2 to 4 years and stop imports thereafter!” the Congress leader added.Singh had said while announcing the development on Twitter that it would be a big step towards self-reliance in defence.Artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini UAVs and different types of ammunition have been included in the list, Singh had said.The embargo will kick in for different items between 2020 and 2025, the defence minister had said.The defence minister said the list of the embargoed items comprises of “not just simple parts but also some high tech weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, LCHs, radars & many other items to fulfil needs of our defence services”.He also said the list was made after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the armed forces, public and private industry to “assess current and future capabilities of the Indian industry for manufacturing various ammunition & equipment within India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-s-import-embargo-high-sounding-jargon-cong-s-chidambaram-takes-a-jibe/story-cIcDWJ4wrXJCvCUq1J4AHP.html
09-08-2020||India||‘Conspiracy against Maharashtra’: Sanjay Raut on Sushant Singh Rajput case going to CBI||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has slammed the Centre for handing over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He said that the decision has been taken for political gains and as part of pressure tactics.Terming it as a “conspiracy against Maharashtra”, the resident editor of party mouthpiece Saamana said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has politicised the case by linking a state minister with it.Raut, in his weekly column Rokhthok, has said that the decision of handing over the investigation is an attack on the state’s autonomy. He has also pointed at the ‘misuse of the central agencies’ like CBI and said that the Centre’s intervention in the case is an insult to Mumbai Police. He said that though the CBI is a central agency, it has been proved time and again that it is not independent and impartial. “Many state governments have banned the CBI. People in West Bengal took to streets against the agency when it tried to intervene in the Saradha Chit Fund case,” the Shiv Sena leader stated.“Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were of the same opinion about the CBI when they were active in Gujarat politics. They had opposed the transfer of Godhra riots and the subsequent killings (in Gujarat in 2002). What is wrong if the same feelings are expressed after the transfer of the Sushant Singh death case to the central agency,” he questioned.Raut also accused the BJP of defaming the state government under Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray with the help of a section of media. “One channel has been using derogatory and threatening language for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. This has anguished many including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. Expressing his discontent over the disrespect to Thackeray who holds constitutional post, Pawar asked me what action the government has taken. The section of media has support from the Opposition party, which wants to destabilise the government,” he said.“It appears that the script of the entire Sushant episode was pre-determined. The Opposition has been linking state minister Aaditya Thackeray with the case just because he shared cordial relations with some of the Bollywood actors. More disturbing is the Opposition’s stand on the entire episode as they have stood firm in support of the Bihar Police. The Opposition and a few news channels have been insensitive and inhuman about the Disha Salian and her family members who have been going through tremendous trauma,” Raut said in his column.He has also slammed Mumbai Police for enormous delay in the investigation and said that it needs to be checked if the case was used to “terrorise” Bollywood. “Sensing the high profile character of the case, they should have ensured briefing of the case to the media every next day. Police came under tremendous pressure after the linking of a state minister to the case. The police should have clarified that they will register a statement of the politician or minister if they found any connection. By inviting the Bollywood stars to record statements, the police gave room to gossiping,” the column reads.Raut said that Aaditya Thackeray shares cordial relations with actor Dino Morea who had hosted a party at his residence before Rajput’s death, but linking it with the case was wrong. Mudslinging against any politician without having any firm proof is unethical, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conspiracy-against-maharashtra-sanjay-raut-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-going-to-cbi/story-B0ric9knbKGaQnqVQTCSXL.html
09-08-2020||India||Ex-air marshal, who probed Mangaluru accident, lists reasons for Kozhikode crash||Air Marshal (Retired) Bhushan Gokhale, who investigated the Mangaluru plane crash in which around 158 passengers were killed in 2010, listed possible causes behind the Kozhikode plane tragedy and stated that inquiry panel will go into detailed issues related to the mishap.“In the 2010 Mangalore incident, 158 people had died. The casualties are low in this Kozhikode tragedy. The reason why 158 people died in the Mangalore incident as the plane caught fire. The plane went down deep and people died due to asphyxiation and only 8 survived. In the Kozhikode incident, the plane went down for around 30-40 foot,” he told ANI. Also read: Kozhikode crash puts spotlight on tabletop runway risksHe also explained about problems during landing if the rainwater is accumulated on the runway. “It was raining heavily in Kerala. The accumulation of rainwater on the runway surface in the rainy season is the riskiest thing. There should be proper drainage on runaway and a maximum of around 3 mm water film is allowed. During braking, the wheel of aircraft gets locked while landing and later released. At that time, if there is a film, then the plane will skid off. In this case, the plane can go in right or left direction or it cannot stop,” Bhushan said. “Rubber in the plane tires melts while landing and that’s why smoke comes out. In this case, if the water is on the runway, there will be a problem while landing,” he said. Also read: Part of perimeter wall demolished, cockpit cut open to pull out pilots, say rescuersEarlier, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) officials told ANI that the visibility was 2,000 metres at Kozhikode due to heavy rain and after landing at Runway 10, the plane continue running to the end of the runway and fell down in the valley and broke into two pieces.Bhushan said that there is no problem in the operations of table-top runways but extra skill and caution are required while carrying out flight operations there.“There are many table-top runways in India and across the world. There is no reason to be afraid of it. The airport in Kozhikode has a longer runway than Mangalore. But there is a rule by DGCA in landing at tabletop runways. Differents tests of pilots were taken before they get clearance to land at table-top runaways. Every runaway has its speciality. Different precautions are taken for these airports,” he said. Also read: Investigators find black box of crashed Air India Express jet, probe beginsThe retired Air Marshal said that the inquiry panel will also look into why pilots have to take the decision to land compulsorily in Kozhikode if visibility was a problem there. “As media reports say 2000 metres was the visibility. If that’s true it was good visibility because in our field we consider 500 metres also good visibility. The inquiry should find out what was the visibility at that time. Another is the wind factor. The wind is erratic in tabletop runaways. The pilot ensures safe landing while considering all this. Maybe the situation was not well, that’s why they took a round of the airport and then landed. There is a standard operating procedure set up by DGCA for clearing water from the runway. The inquiry panel will check this aspect during the investigation,” he said. “Pilot can land somewhere else but it is important how much fuel was left in the aircraft. Another thing is what was the weather in other airfields as if there would not be any different. In case of rain around those airfields. It will come out after inquiry about why they have to take the decision to land compulsorily in Kozhikode,” he said. Bhushan said that the Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) that have been recovered from the Air India Express aircraft will reveal reasons behind the tragedy.“It is good that DFDR has been found. CVR has been found which will help to find out what pilots were talking like if there was an engine problem, fuel availability, control issue, and braking issue. These things will be recorded in DFDR. This two equipment were badly damaged in the Mangalore incident,” he said.As the DGCA has ordered an inquiry into the mishap, Bhushan said that exact reasons will be known if the inquiry panel formed should be a composite team.“I was the chairman and there was an experienced pilot with me. Two engineers were there and ATC officials who were experts of the runway, weather experts, and doctors. There should be a composite team. Medical reasons should also come out in these cases,” he said. “After the inquiry in the 2010 Mangalore incident, we gave 40-50 suggestions and those were implemented also. We will get to know about inquiry in this incident also. The pilot in the Mangalore incident had fallen asleep,” he said. On Friday, Air India Express aircraft carrying 190 people including 184 passengers and six crew members on board crash-landed at the Kozhikode airport. At least 18 people lost their lives in the incident. Both the pilot and the co-Pilot are among the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-who-investigated-mangaluru-accident-lists-reasons-for-kozhikode-plane-crash/story-MUEA13xMTAwaz96muovwVJ.html
09-08-2020||India||IAF night flies Chinook over DBO as PLA ramps up troops in occupied Aksai Chin||The Indian Air Force’s rapid deployment Chinook helicopters have flown in the night over 16,000 feet Daulet Beg Oldi, Indian Army’s last outpost near Karakoram Pass, after the deployment and road building activity of China’s People’s Liberation Army deployment increased in the area across the Line of Actual Control (LAC).According to authoritative sources, the divisional commander level meeting at Teinweindien (TWD) post in occupied Aksai Chin was to lower the temperatures in the DBO sector with the Indian Army demanding that patrolling in Depsang Plains should be allowed unhindered. The DBO dialogue is separate from the military commanders on-going dialogue on Chushul-Moldo area with the specific task of disengagement and de-escalation of troops on the four friction points.The decision to fly Chinook over DBO advance landing ground during night time was taken to test the Indian Army’s capability of rapid insertion of special forces and infantry combat vehicles in case the situation deteriorates in the sub-sector north (SSN) area. “ While Apache attack helicopters have been patrolling Chushul area, the US made Chinook flew over DBO to test its night fighting capabilities…..we have already deployed T-90 tanks and artillery guns in the area,” said a senior commander. The US built Chinook has a proven record of night flying in Afghan mountainous terrain and is used for rapid military retaliation by the special airborne forces. The twin rotor platform has two heavy calibre machine guns deployed at the front and back of the chopper to suppress ground fire.While the Chinese have raised objections to the deployment of tanks and guns at DBO, the Indian Army have pointed to recent accretion of PLA troops in the area along with air activity across the SSN. Both sides are matching each other’s deployment in the area even as the PLA is indulging in fast paced construction of roads in the area for rapid deployment. The interesting part is that while China raises objections to India building border infrastructure, there is no slowing down of the same all along the LAC---from occupied Aksai Chin to Kibuthoo in Arunachal Pradesh.At the divisional commander level meeting on Saturday, India has also raised the issue that both sides should be allowed to do unhindered patrolling of their respective claim lines in the area including the Depsang Bulge, south of DBO. This was a clear indication of the Indian intent that it is not going to back down from patrolling rights at the Bulge or at any other place on the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-night-flies-chinook-over-dbo-as-pla-ramps-up-troops-in-occupied-aksai-chin/story-fxOObHJcV8Btt2qu8oOAtL.html
09-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh forest department wants to improve conviction in wildlife offences, issues strict directions for officers||Worried over low conviction rate in wildlife offences, the Chhattisgarh forest department has issued directives to its officials to strictly follow the Wildlife Protection Act and instructed that the statement of the witnesses in a case should be recorded by an officer not below the rank of Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF) in the presence of the accused.The department has also moved a proposal to the government seeking permission to get call detail records and locations of the accused people during the course of the investigation, for which the department is not presently authorised.However, activists claimed that the directives issued by the Chhattisgarh forest department is already in Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and show that department has not followed the act seriously which is reason behind the high acquittal rate.The directive has been issued on August 6 to the field officers following other directions to cope-up with the problem of high acquittal rate in wildlife offences in the state.“This is fact that in most of the cases in which acquittal took place, the sections of Wildlife Protection Act was not followed. In last three years, more than 150 cases of wildlife have been registered in which the field forest officers have investigated the cases and charge sheeted in appropriate courts of law but the scrutiny of the earlier wildlife offence cases revealed that the acquittal rate is very high. In around 90 per cent of the cases the accused get acquitted in the court,” said an IFS officer of Chhattisgarh, on condition of anonymity. The main reason being that the statement of the witness is nearly all cases till now were recorded in front of Range Officer not Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF) in the presence of the accused, officer claimed. “Most of the ACF officers don’t want to involved in these cases because of apathy and court cases and hence acquittals took place,” added the officer. The forest department has also decided that if any officer will not follow the directives, departmental action will be taken. “We have clearly mentioned in our directive that action will be taken if it is not followed. The instructions to all the field officers says that all wildlife crime will be investigated by an officer not below the rank of Range Officer (RO) as the RO is empowered by the government to place challan in the court. Further it has also been directed that the statement of the witnesses will be recorded by an officers not below the rank of Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF) in the presence of accused person,” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey talking to Hindustan Times. This has been instructed to ensure that the statement recorded in this way will be admissible in the court of law during trial. It is worth mentioning that section 50(9) of Wildlife Protection Act 1972 gives a unique power to forest officers (of the rank ACF and above) that the statements recorded by them of witnesses in presence of accused will be admissible in the court during trial. In simple words, magisterial power with respect to statements of witnesses has been given to ACF rank forest officers. “The department has also moved a proposal to the government seeking permission to get call detail records and live tower locations of the accused persons during the course of investigation and also to form a special task force for investigation of the wildlife crime,” said Pandey. The wildlife activists claimed that the directive reflects how serious Chhattisgarh forest department was about the wildlife crime. “After so many years, the department has now realised about the implementation of Wildlife Act reflects the seriousness of department. Secondly, the department should focus of capacity building of its officials, which are very apathetic about the wildlife crime. The forest officers are least bothered about the crime investigation,” said Meetu Gupta, member of the State Wildlife Board. Chhattisgarh’s 44 per cent area is forest with three tiger reserves, namely Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve, Achanakmar Tiger Reserve and Indravati Tiger Reserve, and two national parks - Kanger Valley National Park and Gurughasidas National Park. The state also has eight sancturies - Barnawapara, Bhoremdev, Gomarda, Bhairamgarh, Pamed, Semarsot, Badalkhol and Tamor-Pingla Sanctuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-forest-department-wants-to-improve-conviction-in-wildlife-offences-issues-strict-directions-for-officers/story-39uWv5ulY3vAgzr2r9Mv8O.html
09-08-2020||India||Highlights: Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a financing facility of Rs 1 lakh crore under the Agricultural Infrastructure Fund through a video conference. During the ongoing conference, PM Modi will also release the sixth instalment of funds under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna (PM-KISAN) scheme.According to the the statement by prime minister’s office, PM-KISAN scheme had provided a direct cash benefit of over Rs 75,000 crore to more than 9.9 crore farmers and enabled them to fulfil their agricultural requirements and support their families. The scheme was launched in December 2018.Follow the highlights here:PM Modi launches financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund PM Modi launches financing facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund and releases benefits under PM-KISAN scheme.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar lauds PM Modi“The prime minister has always understood the importance of this sector and introduced many measures for the growth and development of the sector,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said.PM Modi interacts with PACS membersPM Modi interacts with Basave Gowda, from Hassan district, Karnataka, a member of the UGANE Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS) to discuss his experience of being financed under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund.‘He changes lives of 1,100 families’When an educated person goes back to his village and and becomes a farmer, he changes lives of 1,100 families, says PM Modi to Mukesh Sharma, a member of the Lateri PACS from Vidisha district in Madhya Pradesh.Use less urea during farming, urges PM ModiPM Modi calls on farmers to use less urea fertilizers, in view of its damaging effects on climate.PM Modi congratulates agriculture ministry and banking officialPM Modi congratulates agriculture ministry and banking officials who organised the event successfully on ‘hal shashti’, a festival farmers celebrate widely in the country.PM Modi extends his wishes on Halshashti to farmers Today is Halshashti, the birth anniversary of Lord Balarama. Wishing all the countrymen, especially the farmers. On this very auspicious occasion, a special fund of one lakh crore rupees was launched to prepare agricultural facilities in the country: Prime Minister Narendra ModiMission of one country, one market is now complete: PM ModiNow solutions are being sought for all these questions related to farmers and farming under the self-reliant India campaign.The mission of one country, one market, for which the work was going on for the last 7 years, is now being completed:, says PM Modi‘Now farmers will be able to make modern facilities of storage’“Today the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund has been launched, with this the farmers will be able to make modern facilities of storage in their villages also,” says PM Modi‘It is our farmers who did not let the country suffer from the problem of food and drink’“It is our farmers who did not let the country suffer from the problem of food and drink during Covid-19 lockdown. When the country was in lockdown, our farmer was harvesting the fields and creating new records of sowing,” says PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-prime-minister-narendra-modi-launches-financing-facility-under-agriculture-infrastructure-fund/story-CrSoHA3OOv7ybpkDJlzYXN.html
09-08-2020||India||In big boost to farmers, PM Modi launches Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund||In a bid to give a boost to the country’s agriculture sector and aid farmers amid the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund on Sunday. The prime minister also initiated the transfer of Rs 17,000 crore to an estimated 8.5 crore farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. On the occasion, the prime minister expressed happiness and said that Rs 17,000 crores of PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi have been deposited into bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers “with a single click”.  आज जो Agriculture Infrastructure Fund launch किया गया है, इससे किसान अपने स्तर भी गांवों में भंडारण की आधुनिक सुविधाएं बना पाएंगे: PM @narendramodi #AatmaNirbharKrishi“No middlemen or commission, it went straight to farmers. I am satisfied because the objective of the scheme is being fulfilled,” the prime minister said. He said that the in the last year and a half, through this scheme, Rs 75,000 crores have been deposited directly in the bank accounts of farmers. Of this, 22,000 crores have been passed on to the farmers during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The farmer is now exempted from the purview of the mandi and the mandi tax. Now the farmer has several options,” PM Modi said.The fund has been launched in a bid to making farmers self-reliant under PM Modi’s clarion of an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). The Fund will give a boost to farmer’s earnings.  किसानों से जुड़ी ये जितनी भी योजनाएं हैं, जितने भी रिफॉर्म हो रहे हैं, इनके केंद्र में हमारा छोटा किसान है।यही छोटा किसान है, जिस पर सबसे ज्यादा परेशानी आती रही है: PM @narendramodi #AatmaNirbharKrishi“Today, our farmers have a choice. If he wants to deal with his produce in his field, he can. Or he can directly connect with the warehouse or whoever pays the higher price,” he said. “The agriculture sector will benefit a great deal from this modern infrastructure,” the PM added. Under the scheme, a loan amount of Rs 1 lakh crore will be made available for four years. While Rs 10,000 crore will be made available in loans to farmers between 2020 to 2021. Rs 30,000 crore will be provided in the remaining three years. Three percent subsidy on interest will also be provided to farmers on loan amounting to 2 crore or less up to seven years. PM Modi said all these schemes and reforms are aimed at the country’s farmers. “Our small farmers face the most trouble,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-rs-1-lakh-crore-agriculture-infrastructure-fund/story-yNuciDCczMgWzK71VcWdgM.html
09-08-2020||India||From big guns to missiles, India bans import of 101 defence items to boost self reliance||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the government has prepared a list 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement). Announcing the development on Twitter, Singh said it would be a big step towards self-reliance in defence. The list includes artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini UAVs and different types of ammunition. The list also spells out when the embargo kicks in for different items --- between 2020 and 2025. Also read: Rajnath Singh announces embargo on import of 101 defence items. Check full list hereAll necessary steps would be taken to ensure that the timelines for the production of the equipment on the negative import list are met, Singh said. “The list also includes, wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicles (AFVs) with indicative import embargo date of December 2021, of which the Army is expected to contract almost 200 at an approximate cost of over Rs 5,000 crore,” the minister said. He said the ministry has split the capital procurement budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. “A separate budget head has been created with an outlay of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement in the current financial year,” he said. Also read: Rajnath Singh announces import embargo on 101 defence items, says ‘big step towards self-reliance’From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government had announced a raft of measures to boost self reliance in the defence sector in May 2020. Singh said the embargo on imports would be progressively implemented between 2020 and 2024. “Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the armed forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenization,” he said. The list of weapons banned for import will be reviewed every year and more items will be added to it after discussions with the department of military affairs (DMA). This implies India will have to compulsorily develop technology for the defence systems and platforms figuring on the negative import list. “More such equipment for import embargo would be identified progressively by the DMA in consultation with all stakeholders. A due note of this will also be made in the Defence Acquisition Procedure to ensure that no item in the negative list is processed for import in the future,” the minister said. The list has been prepared by the ministry after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the military and the industry, and factoring in future capabilities of the defence sector to locally manufacture equipment and ammunition. “Almost 260 schemes of such items were contracted by the Tri-Services at an approximate cost of Rs 3.5 lakh crore between April 2015 and August 2020. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years,” Singh said. One of the key responsibilities assigned by the government to the DMA, headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, is to promote the use of indigenous military equipment in the armed forces. Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers. India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-big-guns-to-missiles-india-bans-import-of-101-defence-items-to-boost-self-reliance/story-KN7V3wBHpKnGPZmCdxYWqJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Mahinda Rajapaksa takes oath as Sri Lankan Prime Minister||Sri Lanka’s former president Mahinda Rajapaka was sworn in on Sunday as the country’s new prime minister at a historic Buddhist temple, days after his party won a landslide victory in the General Election.The 74-year-old Sri Lanka People’s Party (SLPP) leader was administered the oath of office for the ninth Parliament by his younger brother and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa at the sacred Rajamaha Viharaya in Kelaniya, a north Colombo suburb.Mahinda Rajapaksa completed 50 years of parliamentary politics in July this year. He was elected as a Member of Parliament at the young age of 24 in 1970. He has since been elected President twice and has been appointed Prime Minister thrice. The SLPP, led by Mahinda Rajapaksa, registered a landslide victory in the August 5 general election, securing two-thirds majority in Parliament needed to amend the Constitution to further consolidate the powerful Rajapaksa family’s grip on power.Also read: Fresh opportunity for India, Sri Lanka to enhance bilateral engagement, says Indian High CommissionMahinda Rajapaksa polled over 500,000 individual preference votes -- the highest ever recorded by a candidate in the history of elections.The SLPP won in 145 constituencies, bagging a total of 150 seats with its allies, a two-thirds majority in the 225-member Parliament. The cabinet ministers, state and deputy ministers are expected to be sworn-in on Monday.The Rajapaksa family -- including SLPP founder and its National Organiser 69-year-old Basil Rajapaksa, who is the younger brother of Gotabaya Rajapaksa, 71, and Mahinda Rajapaksa -- has dominated Sri Lankan politics for two decades. Mahinda Rajapaksa previously served as the president for nearly a decade from 2005 to 2015.President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had won the November presidential election on the SLPP ticket.In the parliamentary election, he was seeking 150 seats mandatory to execute constitutional changes, including to repeal the 19th Amendment to the Constitution which had curbed the presidential powers while strengthening the role of Parliament.Activists, already alarmed by the diminishing space for dissent and criticism in the island nation, fear such a move could lead to authoritarianism.The biggest casualty from the election outcome was the United National Party (UNP) of former prime minister Ranil Wickremesinghe which managed to win only one seat. The country’s grand old party failed to win a single seat from any of the 22 districts.UNP leader and four-time prime minister Wikremesinghe was unseated for the first time since he entered Parliament in 1977. PTI SCY/CORR AKJ SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahinda-rajapaksa-takes-oath-as-sri-lankan-prime-minister/story-0mLYzRRz1ggrxTyqIaF3EL.html
09-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh announces import embargo on 101 defence items, says ‘big step towards self-reliance’||The government is ready for a big push to the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative and would introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond a given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday.“Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi has given a clarion call for a self-reliant India based on the five pillars, i.e., Economy, Infrastructure, System, Demography & Demand and announced a special economic package for Self-Reliant India named ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’,” Singh tweeted. Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi has given a clarion call for a self-reliant India based on the five pillars, i.e., Economy, Infrastructure, System, Demography & Demand and announced a special economic package for Self-Reliant India named ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’.“Taking cue from that evocation, the Ministry of Defence has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them. This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence,” Singh said.The embargo on imports is planned to be “progressively implemented” between 2020 to 2024, he said.“This decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry to manufacture the items in the negative list by using their own design and development capabilities or adopting the technologies designed & developed by DRDO to meet the requirements of the Armed Forces,” he added.The defence minister said the list of the embargoed items comprises of “not just simple parts but also some high tech weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, LCHs, radars & many other items to fulfil needs of our defence services”.He also said the list was made after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the armed forces, public and private industry to “assess current and future capabilities of the Indian industry for manufacturing various ammunition & equipment within India”.“All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that timelines for production of equipment as per the Negative Import List are met, which will include a co-ordinated mechanism for hand holding of the industry by the Defence Services,” Singh tweeted.The announcements made by Singh on Sunday are part of the government’s recent emphasis on the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission after PM Modi’s push for self-reliant India during his address to the nation in May. Modi had in his address stressed the importance of promoting local products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-announces-import-embargo-on-101-defence-items-says-big-step-towards-self-reliance/story-CJXX56iyLQ1oMFV4BsaWQM.html
09-08-2020||India||With nearly 3.5 lakh Covid-19 cases in a week, India’s tally reaches 2,153,010||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) jumped to more than 2.15 million on Sunday morning after 349,315 cases and 5,244 deaths were recorded in one week, according to the Union health ministry’s data.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, there are 2,153,010 infections after 64,399 Covid-19 cases and 861 fatalities were reported from across the country between Saturday and Sunday morning. On Monday, there were 1,803,695 Covid-19 cases, including 38,135 deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSunday saw a record one-day jump in the number of daily coronavirus disease cases even as more than 60,000 infections were reported for the third straight day. There were 61,537 cases on Saturday and 62,538 on Friday.The health ministry dashboard showed there are more than 1.48 million people who have recovered from the viral disease as of Sunday morning, taking the recovery rate to 68.78%. It showed 53,877 people recovered in the last 24 hours.There are 628,747 active cases and 43,379 death in the country so far.“In the last one month, Covid-19 Recovery Rate has shot up from 48.20% to 68.32%. Effective Clinical Management based on a Standard of Care approach has led to more patients recovering and lesser fatality,” the health ministry said in a tweet on Sunday.It also said Covid-19 testing in India has increased exponentially and that “a new high of 7 lakh tests were done in the last 24 hours”. “Such high level of testing will also lead to a high number of daily positive cases, however, states have been advised to firmly focus on comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation and effective treatment,” it added.The Centre on Saturday advised 13 districts across eight states and a Union territory to focus on ramping up testing and addressing delays in diagnosis results, flagging that the Covid-19 case fatality rate in these regions was higher than the national average and that they contributed 14% of all deaths due to the disease in India.At a meeting chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the states were told to ensure adequate availability of ambulances, according to the Union health ministry.The 13 districts are Kamrup Metro in Assam, Patna in Bihar, Ranchi in Jharkhand; Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Ganjam in Odisha, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; North 24 Paraganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah in West Bengal, and Delhi.The districts account for 14% of all deaths due to Covid-19 in India, according to the Centre’s data.According to data shared by the health ministry, India has reported one of the lowest Covid-19 mortalities compared to the total cases, with about 30 deaths per million population. The global average stands at 91 deaths per million population. The highest mortality rate has been reported by the United Kingdom with 684 deaths per million population, followed by the United States with 475 deaths per million.Bhushan had held a similar meeting on Friday with 16 other districts in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national and states’ averages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-3-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-india-s-tally-surges-over-2-15-million/story-ylQTQzcor3FXzPDASeeiqL.html
09-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh announces import ban on 101 defence items. Here’s the full list||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that India is now ready for the big push to the atma nirbhar or self-dependent initiative announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The defence ministry has decided to put 101 items put on embargo to boost indigenisation of defence production. Here is the list of the items that have been put under embargo by the defence ministry:1.120mm Fin Stabilised Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot (FSAPDS) Mark II Ammunition 2.7.62x51 Sniper Rifle3.Tracked Self Propelled (SP) Gun (155mm x 52 Cal)4.Towed Artillery Gun (155mm x 52 Cal)5.Short Range Surface to Air Missiles (Land variant)6.Shipborne Cruise Missiles7.Multi Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL) (Pinaka Variant)8.Simulators Presenting Smart Ranges And Multi-Function Targets9.Battalion Support Weapons Simulators10.Container-based Simulators for Live Fire Training11.Tailor-made Simulators for Counter Insurgency (CI)/Counter Terrorism (CT) based Training12.Force-on-force Live Tactical Simulators / Infantry Weapon13.Tank Simulators (driving, as well as, crew gunnery)14.155mm/39 Cal Ultra-Light Howitzer 15.Successor of Flycatcher &Upgraded Super Fledermaus (USFM) / Air Defence Fire Control Radar (ADFCR)16.Component Level Repair Facility for Tank T-9017.Shipborne Close in Weapon System 18.Bullet Proof Jackets19.Ballistic Helmets20.Missile Destroyers21.Multi-Purpose Vessel 22.Offshore Patrol Vessel 23.Next Generation Missile Vessels24.Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Water Crafts25.Water Jet Fast Attack Craft26.Ammunition Barges27.50ton Bollard - Pull Tugs28.Survey Vessels29.Floating Dock30.Diving Support Vessels31.Pollution Control Vessels32.Anti-Submarine Rocket Launchers33.Shipborne Medium Range Gun34.Torpedo Tube Launcher for Light Weight Torpedoes35.Magneto - Rheological Anti Vibration Mounts36.All variants of Depth Charges37.Shipborne Sonar System for Large Ships38.Hull Mounted Submarine Sonar 39.Short Range Maritime Reconnaissance Aircraft40.Anti-Submarine Rocket 41.Chaff Rockets42.Chaff Rocket Launcher43.Integrated Ship’s Bridge System 44.Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) MK I A - Enhanced Indigenised Content45.Light Combat Helicopters46.General Purpose Pre Fragmentation Bombs between 250-500 Kg47.Radar Warning Receiver (RWR) for Transport Aircraft48.Ground Based Mobile ELINT System49.Transport Aircraft (Light) 50.GSAT-6 Satellite Terminals51.Aerial Delivery Systems for Transport Aircraft52.Digital Tropo Scatter/LOS Communication System 53.Low Level Transportable Radar 54.High Power Radar (HPR)55.CBRN Detection & Monitoring System56.CBRN Decontamination & Protection System57.Parachute Tactical Assault (PTA)- G258.Dragunov Upgrade System59.PKMG Upgrade System60.Simulators for A Vehicles / B Vehicles61.Simulators for Towed and Self Propelled Guns of Air Defence62.Simulators for Correction of Fire by Observers63.Military trucks of 4x4 and above variants: 12x12, 10x10, 8x8, 6x664.Fixed Wing Mini UAVs65.500 Ton Self Propelled Water Barges66.Software Defined Radio (TAC) for IN67.Next Generation Maritime Mobile Coastal Battery (Long Range)68.Advance Landing Ground Communication Terminals (ALGCTs)for AGLs 69.Field Artillery Tractor (FAT) 6X6 for Medium Guns70.Wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicle (AFV)71.Light Machine Gun72.125 mmFin Stabilised Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot (FSAPDS)New Generation Ammunition73.Assault Rifle 7.62 x 39mm74.30 mm Ammunition for Infantry Fighting Systems75.Mine Fragmentation76.Mine Anti-tank77.Mine Anti-Personnel Blast78.Multipurpose Grenade79.Inertial Navigation System for Ship Application80.Conventional Submarines81.40mm UBGL (Under Barrel Grenade Launcher) 82.Lightweight Rocket Launcher83.155 mm Artillery Ammunition84.EW Systems85.Material Handling Crane 2.5 to 7.5 Tons (Vehicle Mounted) 86.GRAD BM Rocket87.30MM HEI/HET88. ASTRA-MK I Beyond Visual Range Air to Air Missile (BVR AAM)89.EW Suit for MI-17 V590.Communication Satellite GSAT-7C91.Satellite GSAT 7R 92.Basic Trainer Aircraft (BTA)93.Expendable Aerial Targets94.Small Jet Engines with 120kgf thrust95.Light Low Level Terrain Radar (LLLWR)96.Close in Weapon System (Land based)97.23 mm ZU Ammunitions98.30mm VOG 1799.Electronic Fuses for Artillery Ammunitions100.Bi- Modular Charge System (BMCS )101.Long Range – Land Attack Cruise Missile||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-announces-embargo-on-import-of-101-defence-items-here-s-the-full-list/story-GFYz2cBxsbxvyFMrEif6sN.html
09-08-2020||India||In push for self-reliance, defence ministry to put embargo on import of 101 items||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that India is now ready for the big push to the atma nirbhar or self-dependent initiative announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The Ministry of Defence is now ready for a big push to #AtmanirbharBharat initiative. MoD will introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production,” Singh announced on Twitter.“Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi has given a clarion call for a self-reliant India based on the five pillars, i.e., Economy, Infrastructure, System, Demography & Demand and announced a special economic package for Self-Reliant India named ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’,” he further said in the deries of tweets.The defence minister said that taking cue from PM Modi’s evocation, the defence ministry has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them. “This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence,” he said on Twitter.“This decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry to manufacture the items in the negative list by using their own design and development capabilities or adopting the technologies designed & developed by DRDO to meet the requirements of the Armed Forces,” said Singh.The defence minister said that the list of 101 items has been prepared by the defence minister after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the armed forces, public and private industry.“Almost 260 schemes of such items were contracted by the Tri-Services at an approximate cost of Rs 3.5 lakh crore between April 2015 and August 2020. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years,” Singh tweeted.“The list of 101 embargoed items comprises of not just simple parts but also some high technology weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircrafts, LCHs, radars and many other items to fulfil the needs of our Defence Services,” his tweet further said.Singh said that the embargo on imports is planned to be progressively implemented between 2020 to 2024. “Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the Armed Forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-push-for-self-reliance-defence-ministry-to-put-embargo-on-import-of-101-items-to-boost-indigenisation-of-defence-production-rajnath-singh/story-K5nwhLqXREYfLGjyV8NxzM.html
09-08-2020||India||MoD to place contracts worth Rs 4 lakh crore to boost self-reliance||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh announced on Sunday that the defence ministry will embargo 101 items to give a boost to indigenous defence production in a bid to strengthen the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative taken by the PM Narendra Modi.   Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi has given a clarion call for a self-reliant India based on the five pillars, i.e., Economy, Infrastructure, System, Demography & Demand and announced a special economic package for Self-Reliant India named ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’.Singh said that over the 6-7 years the Indian defence industry will get contracts worth almost four lakh crore. The current contract of items that were taken by the tri-services between 2015 and 2020 from the embargo list cost Rs 3.5 lakh crore. The union defence minister said that the decision to achieve self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and said the announcement was made early to allow time for the armed forces to acclimatise and also to provide time to domestic industries for preparation.• Rajnath Singh said that the decision to embargo 101 items will give a big boost to India’s self-reliant initiatives in the defence sector. Singh said that this presents an opportunity for the nation’s defence industry to manufacture the items in the embargoed list by using their own design or by adopting the technologies developed by the DRDO. • Rajnath Singh highlighted that the domestic defence industry can expect defence contracts worth Rs 4 lakh crores to be given to them within the next 6-7 years.  Almost 260 schemes of such items were contracted by the Tri-Services at an approximate cost of Rs 3.5 lakh crore between April 2015 and August 2020. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years.• Union minister says that the list of embargoed items was made after holding discussions with several stakeholders which included public & private industry members along with the armed forces. The exercise was conducted to assess the current capability and ability to handle demand in the future.  The list is prepared by MoD after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the Armed Forces, public & private industry to assess current and future capabilities of the Indian industry for manufacturing various ammunition & equipment within India.• The list of embargoed items include artillery guns, LCH, sonar weapons system, high-tech weapons systems, corvettes, assault rifles, transport aircrafts and armoured fighting vehicles. Check out the full list here. The list of 101 embargoed items comprises of not just simple parts but also some high tech weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, LCHs, radars & many other items to fulfil needs of our Defence Services: Defence Minister https://t.co/adSforDvW5 pic.twitter.com/TUBcfthOO6• The office of the defence minister said that the measures will be implemented within 2020 to 2024. The announcement was made early to apprise the Indian defence industry of the need and requirements for India’s armed forces.  The embargo on imports is planned to be progressively implemented between 2020 to 2024. Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the Armed Forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenisation.• The defence ministry also said that the Indian Navy and Air Force will receive items worth almost Rs 1,30,000 crore from the list of items and the Navy shall receive items worth almost Rs 1,40,000 crore. The Army is also expected to import wheeled 200 Armoured Fighting Vehicle worth Rs 5,000 crore each whose embargo date is December 2021.  Of these, items worth almost Rs 1,30,000 crore each are anticipated for the Army and the Air Force while items worth almost Rs 1,40,000 crore are anticipated by the Navy over the same period. #AtmanirbharBharatThe list also includes, wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicles (AFVs) with indicative import embargo date of December 2021, of which the Army is expected to contract almost 200 at an approximate cost of over Rs 5,000 crore. #AtmanirbharBharat• The defence minister also said that the ministry will hand hold the defence industry and co-ordinate a mechanism to make sure that timelines are met for domestic production of the items which are on the embargoed list. All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that timelines for production of equipment as per the Negative Import List are met, which will include a co-ordinated mechanism for hand holding of the industry by the Defence Services. • Singh said the identification of further items which could be added to the embargoed list shall continue. More such equipment for import embargo would be identified progressively by the DMA in consultation with all stakeholders. A due note of this will also be made in the DAP to ensure that no item in the negative list is processed for import in the future.• MoD says a capital procurement budget has been announced for the initiative. The capital procurement process is bifurcated between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. A separate budget head has been created for domestic capital procurement in the current financial year with an outlay of Rs 52,000 crore.  MoD has also bifurcated the capital procurement budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. A separate budget head has been created with an outlay of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement in the current financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-defence-to-embargo-101-items-to-boost-indigenous-defence-production/story-Mm7h67xcpn0vazIwclOBCM.html
09-08-2020||India||10 Covid-19 patients killed as hotel turned care centre catches fire in Andhra Pradesh||A fire broke out at a hotel being used as a Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city early on Sunday, killing 10 patients and trapping several others, police said.The hotel – Swarna Palace – was being used as a care centre for Covid-19 patients by Ramesh Hospitals, a popular private hospital. There were about 30 patients of the coronavirus disease and 10 medical personnel at the time of the accident. Vijayawada city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the control room had received a call at around 5.15am about the fire breaking out in the hotel. “We rushed tenders immediately and the fire was brought under the control now,” he said. About 17 patients were brought out safely using ladders. Two staff members, including security guard Krishna Reddy, jumped from the second and third floors of the hotel after the fire. So far nine bodies have been brought out and they were found to have died of suffocation. Rescue operations were underway with teams of the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) swinging into action when the reports last came in. Smoke billowing out of the hotel surrounded the entire area, causing suffocation to the patients inside the rooms. The patients were crying for help from their rooms on the top floors, eyewitnesses said.Unable to breathe, some patients were seen trying to jump from the top floors. However, fire and police personnel reached them with the help of ladders. Officials said an electric short circuit is said to have caused the fire. Staff noticed flames from the first floor at around 5 in the morning. Flames spread to the third to fifth floors quickly. Patients were on the third, fourth and fifth floors of the hotel. Authorities were trying to bring the patients out safely and shift them to another hotel at Labbipet area. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas and top police and district officials reached the spot to supervise rescue operations. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the accident at Swarna Palace hotel in Vijayawada and enquired about its cause. Jagan Reddy has also directed officials to take up rescue measures and admit the injured to nearby hospitals. He also instructed officials to conduct an inquiry into the accident as he announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh to each of the families of those killed in the hotel fire.Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan also expressed his deep shock over the accident and expressed his condolences to the bereaved families.“Shocked and distressed by the news of fire at a Covid centre in Vijaywada, Andhra Pradesh. NDRF teams have joined the local authorities in relief operations. Prayers for the families of the bereaved and safety of others,” G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of state for home, said in a statement.Kishan Reddy is a member of Parliament who represents Secunderabad in the Lok Sabha.Eight people were killed in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private Covid-19 designated hospital in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Thursday. Police had said the fire broke out due to a short circuit on the fourth floor of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-covid-19-patients-killed-as-a-hotel-turned-care-centre-catches-fire-in-andhra-pradesh-s-vijayawada/story-G1TjCgdic2Y6I3yLe8EtJK.html
09-08-2020||India||PM Modi ‘anguished’ by fire at hotel being used as Covid-19 facility in Vijayawada||Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief on the loss of lives in fire at a hotel that was being used as a Covid-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. PM Modi tweeted out saying he is “anguished” by the accident and hoped for the recovery of those injured. At least nine people have been killed in the accident. “Anguished by the fire at a Covid Centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan Ji and assured all possible support,” the prime minister tweeted.  Anguished by the fire at a Covid Centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan Ji and assured all possible support.Union home minister Amit Shah also condoled the tragic accident. “Deeply anguished by the news of tragic fire accident at a COVID-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. Centre assures all possible support to the state govt. My condolences are with the affected families in this time of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured,” Shah tweeted.  Deeply anguished by the news of tragic fire accident at a COVID-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. Centre assures all possible support to the state govt. My condolences are with the affected families in this time of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured.At least nine people were killed in a fire that broke out at a hotel in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Sunday morning. The hotel was being used as a Covid-19 dedicated facility, news agency ANI reported.“The incident took place around 5am. Around 22 patients are being treated in the hospital. We are evacuating the entire building,” Mohammad Imtiaz, Krishna’s district collector, was quoted as saying by ANI. He said that the cause of the fire appears to be a short circuit, as per the preliminary report but needs further investigation.This comes days after eight people were killed in a fire at a private Covid-19 designated hospital in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Thursday. According to the police, the fire broke out due to a short circuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-anguished-by-fire-at-hotel-being-used-as-covid-19-facility-in-vijayawada/story-yv7Wwnoz3CXfYg79TUep5H.html
09-08-2020||India||Important points from defence minister Rajnath Singh’s 10 am announcement||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday made an “important announcement”, where he listed the decisions being taken by his ministry to boost self-reliance in defence production. In a series of tweets, he made some major announcements and said that defence ministry has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them.Listing some of the big announcements, Singh said that the defence ministry has bifurcated the capital procurement budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. A separate budget head has been created with an outlay of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement in the current financial year, he said. “The Ministry of Defence is now ready for a big push to #AtmanirbharBharat initiative. MoD will introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production,” Singh tweeted.He further said that the ministry has decided to embargo 101 items from being imported. “This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence. #AtmanirbharBharat”,” he said.The list includes artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini UAVs and different types of ammunition. The defence minister said that the decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry to manufacture the items in the negative list by using their own design and development capabilities or adopting the technologies designed and developed by DRDO to meet the requirements of the armed forces.“All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that timelines for production of equipment as per the Negative Import List are met, which will include a co-ordinated mechanism for hand holding of the industry by the Defence Services,” he said.Singh’s office had earlier tweeted about the scheduled “important announcement”.“Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make an important announcement at 10.00 am today,” RMO India tweeted.The development came a day after senior military commanders from India and China met in the Daulat Beg Oldie sector and held talks on reducing tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The talks focussed on thinning the buildup of troops and weaponry in Depsang plains where the forward deployment of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has disrupted the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns, people familiar with the developments said.The outcome of Saturday’s talks wasn’t immediately known as there was no official word from the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-make-important-announcement-at-10-am-today-tweets-his-office/story-WtmEpjwgnOk2GeLKzNJiHJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Rajasthan CM directs use of RT-PCR instead of rapid antigen test for Covid-19||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed officials to use reliable kits such as Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) to detect Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), instead of the antigen-based rapid detection test. Gehlot said the state government will not use antigen test kits as the experts have questioned its credibility.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Reviewing the situation of coronavirus pandemic in Rajasthan, Gehlot said plasma therapy should be adopted on a large scale for the treatment of the viral disease. He suggested that a campaign should be launched to motivate patients, who have recovered and are healthy after treatment to donate plasma.“To achieve the goal of saving the lives of people from this pandemic, work should be done making plasma therapy as the theme,” he said. The chief minister expressed his concern over the perception among people that there has been some laxity in the fight against the pandemic. He directed officials to be vigilant and strict to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Officials said in the meeting that the Covid-19 death rate in the state is 1.53%, which is lower than the national average of 2.1%. Gehlot asked officials to focus on reducing the death rate. “If despite the increase in the number of infected people, the death rate remains controlled, it will be a big achievement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-directs-use-of-rt-pcr-instead-of-rapid-antigen-test-for-covid-19/story-OLNDzLe5baffVrEiW2zIDP.html
09-08-2020||India||Kerala pounded by rains, govt asks people in coastal areas to be ready for evacuation: Latest updates||Kerala continues to be pounded by heavy rains, which have triggered floods and landslides in the past few days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red alert for heavy rainfall for five districts in the state.Meanwhile, the death toll in the massive landslide, which occurred on Friday and flattened a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in Idukki district climbed to 28 on Sunday.As per the district administration, more than 40 people are still missing. The authorities gave pressed sniffer dogs into service to locate bodies.Here are the latest updates on floods in Kerala:• The carcass of a wild elephant was found floating in Periyar river in Neryamangalam. Three days ago, another carcass was found. Forest officials blame landslides for the loss of animals’ lives in the forest. Periyar in a tiger reserve and favourite habitat of elephants.• The road route to the famous Sabarimala hill temple has also been disrupted due to landslides.• The Kerala government has issued warning for people living on the banks of major rivers in the state. The government said that the situation has worsened in some areas which have been receiving incessant rain since last night. The state government has also asked the people to prepare an emergency kit and be ready for evacuation if the situation continues to aggravate.• The four shutters of Neyyar dam have been opened in Thiruvananthapuram district. Shutters of Aruvikkara dam have also been opened as the catchment areas of both the dams are receiving heavy rainfall since Saturday, the district administration said.• The Ernakulam district administration said on Saturday that they have suffered a loss of Rs 1.22 crore in widespread damage caused by the heavy rainfall. According to the District Administration, many houses and agricultural lands have suffered huge damage including in Chellanam, the coastal village in the city.• There are 852 people including 97 children in 30 relief camps in the district. The district administration has set up eight camps for people aged above 60.• A portion of the Shiva Temple (situated on the bank of the Periyar River) in Aluva in Kochi district continues to remain submerged.• According to the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), Kerala received an average rainfall of 95 mm in the last 24 hours (till Saturday) while Vadakara in Kozhikode recorded 32.7 cms of rain, the heaviest in the state.• Vaythiri in Wayanad received 19.3 cms of rain while Peerumedu in Idukki district 18.5 cm, news agency quoted SDMA officials as saying.• In the Southwest monsoon season, which began in June first week, Kerala has reported a total of 51 deaths till Thursday night due to various incidents of drowning, landslides, and tree fall, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-pounded-by-rains-govt-asks-people-in-coastal-areas-to-be-ready-for-evacuation-latest-updates/story-7nsN4FEcbWrO0vTHrvBudI.html
09-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 350 police officers in quarantine to make up August 15 guard of honour and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.350 police officers in quarantine to make up August 15 guard of honourThe newly built police colony at the Delhi Cantonment is largely vacant, the families are yet to move in. Read more7 killed in fire at hotel being used as Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh’s VijayawadaAt least seven people were killed in a fire at a hotel, which is used as a Covid-19 facility, in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Sunday, news agency ANI reported. Read moreRana Daggubati-Miheeka Bajaj wedding: Rana and Miheeka complement each other in ivory, gold and zardozi. See latest picsActor Rana Daggubati has tied the knot with Miheeka Bajaj in Hyderabad in a close-knit ceremony on Saturday. The first picture of the newly-weds was by actor Ram Charan on Instagram. Read moreNetizens cannot stop gushing over this Twitter user’s book collection. Check it outIf you’re a bibliophile, then this Twitter post may tug at your heartstrings. Read moreRhea Chakraborty shares WhatsApp messages with Sushant Singh Rajput, in which he’d called sister manipulativeActor Rhea Chakraborty has shared screenshots of a WhatsApp conversation she had with boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput, in which he’d expressed concerns about his sister Priyanka’s behaviour with Rhea. Read more‘He would play me easily’: Shoaib Akhtar names India batsman who was difficult to play againstMany Indian batsmen over the years have been at the receiving end of Shoaib Akhtar’s lethal pace, but it turns out there’s always been this one batsman, whom the former Pakistan quick feels did not have much trouble batting against him. Read moreKerala plane crash | ‘Precise cause...’: Minister says black boxes hold keyA day after the shocking plane crash in Kerala, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri paid a visit. Hardeep Puri visited the spot of the plane crash in Kozhikode and said that the black boxes have been retrieved and will help find the cause. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-350-police-officers-in-quarantine-to-make-up-august-15-guard-of-honour-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EagCXk3MhnwnPnHWbKJoMI.html
09-08-2020||India||Pakistan shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||The Pakistan Army shelled mortars at forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday morning, prompting retaliation by Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. The shelling in Mankote sector was going on when last reports were received, but there was no report of any casualty, the spokesperson said. “At about 6.45 am, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Mankote sector. Indian army retaliates befittingly,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-aLmzwR2LbXzmsugOaN5YvO.html
09-08-2020||India||Encounter breaks out in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam||An encounter broke out between militants and the security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district early on Sunday, police said.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Sighanpora area in the south Kashmir district following inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area, a police official said.The search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, he said.The exchange of fire is going on and further details were awaited, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam/story-WDVcI9iESPDbrg08Gl0JbN.html
09-08-2020||India||Jaishankar talks of RCEP, says it is important not to get into false choice on FTAs||Advising against overhyping decisions not to join Free Trade agreements (FTAs), External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said it is important not to get into false choices and that there was a need to have detailed honest debates.Speaking at a discussion in India@75 Summit organised by CII, the minister said proponents of Free Trade Agreements make out as if that is the only vehicle to engage the world.He also referred to India’s decision not to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) last year and said apprehensions that it reflected protectionist tendencies were not correct.“It’s important not to get into false choices. The choice is not today between will India engage or not engage the world. Proponents of FTAs make out as if that is the only vehicle to engage the world and if you missed out of RCEP, you are missing something very big in the world,” he said. “I am not sure that it’s an accurate assessment of RCEP or FTAs... We need to drill down, get to basics, have detailed honest debates and not make these mantras ‘oh my God, we’re retreating and becoming protectionists’. A lot of our problems arise when we start overhyping it,” heIn November last year, India decided not to join the RCEP agreement as its key concerns were not addressed. The key issues behind New Delhi’s decision not to be part of RCEP included inadequate protection against import surge, insufficient differential with China, possible circumvention of rules of origin, keeping the base year as 2014 and no credible assurances on market access and non-tariff barriers.In May, China said it will welcome India back to negotiations on the RCEP at an appropriate time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-talks-of-rcep-says-it-is-important-not-to-get-into-false-choice-on-ftas/story-Ii99K8aJgYm2bodW5M7wMM.html
09-08-2020||India||Man found dead in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind, police register case||A man allegedly killed his three daughters and later died by suicide on Friday night in Madhya Pradesh, police said. The incident took place in Bhind district, 490 kilometres north of state capital Bhopal.The police quotes the man’s family to say that he had a fight with his wife before the incident.The police have registered a case and are investigating the matter. A team of Daboh police station reached the spot and fished the bodies out of a well.The cops said that the man was working in a brick kiln. He had returned from Mumbai on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-found-dead-in-madhya-pradesh-s-bhind-police-register-case/story-H5SFCIRblAjhx7MpzcGUYN.html
09-08-2020||India||Fresh opportunity for India, Sri Lanka to enhance bilateral engagement, says Indian High Commission||Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay on Saturday called on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa to congratulate him on the emphatic victory of the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) in the parliamentary election. The High Commission said in a statement that the strong mandate received by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa provides a fresh opportunity for New Delhi and Colombo to enhance bilateral engagement including mitigating the adverse economic effects of the Covid-19.The SLLP has secured a landslide victory in the country’s parliamentary election winning 145 seats in the 225-member legislature. It can also count on the support of at least five allies.During the meeting with Rajapaksa, Baglay recalled the phone conversation between the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Sri Lankan leader earlier this week.“The High Commissioner recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had complimented the people and Government of Sri Lanka on the successful conduct of elections and had acknowledged the impressive electoral performance of the SLPP,” the statement said.Baglay reiterated the strong desire and the commitment of the Indian government to work very closely with the new government and Parliament in Sri Lanka for further strengthening comprehensive bilateral cooperation.PM Modi had spoken to Rajapaksa on Tuesday and congratulated him as early results of parliamentary polls indicated an impressive electoral performance by SLPP.The leaders agreed to remain in close touch as both countries address the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic and resolved to take bilateral relations to newer heights in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-opportunity-for-india-sri-lanka-to-enhance-bilateral-engagement-says-indian-high-commission/story-kWaMJnzjSGhiGbms76ZpxO.html
09-08-2020||India||BJP worker out on morning walk fired upon in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam, third attack in 5 days||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was attacked in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam. He has been shifted to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital.The police said that Abdul Hamid Najar was on morning walk when unidentified gunmen fired at him near Ompora.Thirty eight-year-old Najar (who belongs to the Other Backward Class) was the district president of the BJP.This is the third attack on a BJP leader or worker in last five days. Earlier, a sarpanch was killed in South Kashmir’s Qazigund area on Thursday.The sarpanch, Sajjad Ahmad, was attacked outside his residence, the police said. He was rushed to the hospital where authorities declared him brought dead.Another sarpanch Arif Ahmad Shah was also critically injured in the attack by terrorists in the same district.After these attacks, three BJP workers had announced their dissociation with the party.“We have resigned from the BJP. I am an unlettered person and earn my living as a labourer. I had joined BJP a few months back. I thought it is better to focus on my living and feed my family happily without any tension,” said Wani, a baker by profession.Two other panchayat members - one of them affiliated with the Congress - had resigned after the attack.Last month, former BJP district president Waseem Bari, his father and brother were killed inside their shop after militants fired on them from close range. Bari had a 10-member police security and all of them were suspended and arrested because they were not with him when he was attacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-out-on-morning-fired-upon-in-budgam-third-attack-in-5-days/story-XTPZDs6drMdwTBpvL1NIcK.html
09-08-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s recovery rate rises to 68.32%, fatality rate further dips to 2.04%||Focused and effective efforts towards containment, testing, isolation and treatment by the Centre, states and Union Territories have resulted in the recovery rate rising to 68.32 per cent and fatality rate steadily declining to 2.04 per cent, the Health Ministry said on Saturday.India has one of the lowest cases per million at 1,469 as against the global average of 2,425, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the ministry, effective surveillance and improved testing network have ensured early detection of cases, consequentially leading to timely clinical management of severe and critical cases.Coordinated implementation of ‘test, track, treat’ strategy by the Centre, states and Union Territories has ensured that case fatality rate has been low compared to the global scenario, it said.“It (fatality rate) has continued to fall progressively and stands at 2.04 per cent as on date. With focused efforts to reduce mortalities due to Covid-19, India has registered one of the lowest deaths per million at 30 as compared to the global average of 91 deaths per million,” the ministry said.The UK has 684 deaths per million population while the USA, Brazil, Mexico and Russia have 475, 458, 385 and 101 deaths per million population respectively, the ministry said.As far as cases of coronavirus infection are concerned, 13,451 cases per million population in Brazil and 14,446 in the US are respectively nine and 10 times that of India, it said.There has been a sharp increase in Covid-19 recoveries. With 48,900 patients discharged in 24 hours, India’s total recoveries from Covid-19 has reached 14,27,005.“The recovery rate, on a steady rise, stands at 68.32 per cent,” the ministry said.According to the health ministry, 6,19,088 active Covid-19 cases, which is the actual caseload of India, account for 29.64 per cent of the total positive cases as on date. The patients are under medical supervision either at hospitals or in home isolation.Expanded diagnostic lab network and facilitation for easy testing across the country has resulted in India testing a total of 2,33,87,171 samples for Covid-19 infection. A total of 5,98,778 tests were conducted on Friday, the ministry said.“Tests Per Million has seen a sharp increase to 16,947 today,” it said.A key factor in this widespread testing is the continuously expanding network of diagnostic labs. With 936 labs in the government sector and 460 private labs, India has 1,396 labs for Covid-19 testing.With a single-day rise of 61,537 cases, India’s coronavirus tally has reached 20,88,611 while the death toll due to the disease rose to 42,518 with 933 fresh fatalities being reported in a day, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-68-32-case-fatality-rate-further-dips-to-2-04-centre/story-6T3O1fX28xFgxcHtMSXcgM.html
09-08-2020||India||7 killed in fire at hotel being used as Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada||At least seven people were killed in a fire at a hotel, which is being used as a Covid-19 facility, in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada early on Sunday, news agency ANI reported.“The incident took place around 5am. Around 22 patients are being treated in the hospital. We are evacuating the entire building,” Mohammad Imtiaz, Krishna’s district collector, was quoted as saying by ANI.“The reason of fire appears to be a short circuit, as per the preliminary report. But we will have to ascertain,” Imtiaz said.Andhra Pradesh’s chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the accident and enquired about it cause, his office said. He has also directed officials to take up the rescue measures and admit the injured in nearby hospitals.Eight people were killed in a fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private Covid-19 designated hospital in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Thursday. Police had said the fire broke out due to a short circuit on the fourth floor of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-being-used-as-covid-19-facility-in-andhra-pradesh-s-vijayawada/story-4YxDHavsxca5DwXF2jbSdM.html
09-08-2020||India||Centre asks states to conduct Covid-19 test of grocery shop workers, vendors||Expressing concern that grocery shops, vegetable and other vendors can be potential spreaders of coronavirus infection to a large number of people, the Union health ministry has advised states and UTs to take up testing of such people to ensure early detection of cases which can lead to reduction in mortality rate.In a letter to states and UTs, secretary in the health ministry, Rajesh Bhushan, also stressed on the need for operationalising ambulance transport system with oxygen facility and quick response mechanism.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here He underlined that the refusal rate of ambulances must be monitored at a daily basis and brought down to zero.With the Covid-19 pandemic now spreading to newer areas in the country, Bhushan said there are likely to be scattered cases, cluster of cases or large outbreaks in districts and that the primary aim is to control outbreaks, especially in new locations. “The focus at the same time should be to save lives at all cost,” he said.“While we have so far done better than many other countries in this respect, our aim should be to further reduce mortality and ensure that it does not cross the 1 per cent mark,” Bhushan said in the letter, addressed to additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries (health).Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He pointed out that early detection of cases through aggressive testing, prompt isolation or admission in a healthcare facility and ensuring proper clinical management are major components of mortality reduction.“Early detection of cases is the most crucial element to ensure that the case fatality is reduced. It helps in terms of not only identifying the case before it may become critical but also supports in terms of checking the spread of infection,” he said in the letter.Bhushan stressed on enhanced surveillance for influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) as their symptoms are mostly the same as Covid-19.Also read: 13 districts account for 1 in seven Covid-19 deaths in IndiaOnce a positive case is identified, a prompt contact-tracing should be undertaken and at least 80 per cent of the contacts must be identified and quarantined within 72 hours, he said.Normally, a person would have an average of 30 contacts for a period of tracking that two days before the symptom onset, Bhushan said.“There can be potential hotspots for spread of infection like industrial clusters with closed work environment, people coming from high prevalence areas, other high density areas such as slums, prisons, old age homes, etc. “In addition, grocery shops, vegetable and other vendors, etc. can be potential spreaders of infection to a large number of people. Testing in such areas and of such people should be taken up proactively as per ICMR guidelines,” Bhushan underscored.He also asked states and UTs to undertake weekly death audits to assess the determinants of death such as age differentials, comorbidities, late reporting to hospital and clinical protocols that were followed.“This will help identify challenges to be addressed and will facilitate effective case reporting and ensure timely and required medical interventions,” Bhushan highlighted. In the letter, Bhushan also said that a regular house-to-house search must be done periodically to identify those who are at high-risk, that is the elderly, people with comorbidities and pregnant women among others.Alongside this exercise, containment and buffer zones should be set up and the perimeter of the containment zone must be properly secured. Buffer zone should also be identified properly so that any diffusion of infection outside the containment zone is monitored, he pointed out.For early detection, all suspected cases need to be tested immediately, the health secretary said, emphasising that at least 140 tests per million per day (although a higher number is encouraged) must be ensured along with a strict monitoring of daily positivity rate.Depending on the test result, those found positive should be sent to a Covid-19 care centre or under home isolation if there is requisite provision at home.“An ambulance transport system with oxygen facility and quick response mechanism needs to be operationalised. The refusal rate of ambulances must be monitored at a daily basis and must be reduced to zero,” Bhushan stressed.Availability of Covid-19 beds in all healthcare facilities (government and private) must be proactively put in the public domain, he said, adding that responsible administrative officers should coordinate transparent allocation of beds and timely admission.A communication mechanism between the patients and their family members must be organised, he stated. He also urged districts to analyse the requirement of health infrastructure in terms of availability of sufficient oxygen supported beds, ICU beds and ventilators and take advance action to upgrade health infrastructure based on expected caseload in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-conduct-covid-19-test-of-grocery-shop-workers-vendors/story-2R2vBX3cpfb7qnVsjIoMUI.html
09-08-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks explanation on listing of Prashant Bhushan’s criminal contempt plea||The Supreme Court has asked its registry officials to explain why a petition filed by journalist N Ram, former Union minister Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan challenging the validity of contempt of court law was listed before a bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud instead of another bench already hearing similar matters, people aware of the matter said. Hours after the explanation was sought, an updated list of cases showed that the case will no longer be heard by the justice Chandrachud-led bench.Bhushan is facing contempt proceedings in two cases for his alleged remarks against the court and the Chief Justice of India. Those cases were heard and reserved for judgment on August 4 and 5 by a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra.“The registry has committed yet another mistake in the listing of a matter challenging the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act. As per the practice and procedure, the matter should have been listed before the bench which is already seized of similar matter but it has been listed ignoring established practice and procedure,” a person said on condition of anonymity.According to a list on the Supreme Court website uploaded on August 6, the plea was listed before a bench of justices Chandrachud and KM Joseph and was slated to be heard on August 10. “In this regard, explanation of concerned officials has been called,” the person added.Bhushan could not be reached for comment.“The master of the roster is the Chief Justice. It is unclear as to whether the explanation was sought by the Chief Justice or by any particular judge. The registry official may well have gone by the roster that assigned questions of Constitutional validity to one bench, while a particular instance of contempt was being heard by some other bench. Surely it is no one’s case that everything related to the court’s contempt jurisdiction is assigned to one bench alone,” said senior counsel Sanjay Hegde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-admin-seeks-explanation-on-listing-of-criminal-contempt-plea/story-abRV9hwlTOn1wQqaBBBYXO.html
09-08-2020||India||2-year-old killed by aunt in Bengal; body kept in cupboard for 6 hours||A woman allegedly killed her two-year-old nephew by locking him inside a cupboard after she had a fight with the child’s mother in a village in West Bengal’s Birbhum district, police said.Police said the relationship between the two women, Tajmira Bibi and Shampa Bibi, had turned sour for quite some time and the two used to fight over family matters. On Thursday they had a heated altercation and on Friday afternoon the child went missing while playing. “The body was later found from Tajmira Bibi’s cupboard almost six hours later when police started their investigation. The accused has been arrested,” a senior police officer said. According to the police, Tajmira had slapped the boy because he fought with her son. When the child fell unconscious she locked him up in the cupboard. The death sparked off tension in the village and a large police contingent had to be deployed to bring the situation under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-year-old-killed-by-aunt-in-bengal-body-kept-in-cupboard-for-6-hours/story-MQS8fL7SAMZWrKsyXEAxSM.html
09-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: Mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar reach Delhi, AI Express employees pay tribute||Air India Express employees paid tributes to co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who lost his life in the Kozhikode plane crash incident, here in Delhi on Sunday.His mortal remains were brought from Kochi to the Delhi Airport at 2:25 am on Sunday, which are now being taken to his native place in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh.About 200 Air India members paid tributes to Kumar and observed two minutes of silence and prayed for the peace of departed officer. “Our last conversation with Akhilesh was on Raksha Bandhan on a video call because the ‘Rakhi’ could not reach him. He was wearing a ‘Kalava’. He was scheduled to come home on August 15, 16 but God has other wishes,” Kumar’s brother-in-law told ANI. The Air India Express flight, which was part of the Vande Bharat Mission, had crash-landed at the Kozhikode airport yesterday leading to the death of 18 persons including the two pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-mortal-remains-of-co-pilot-akhilesh-kumar-reach-delhi-ai-express-employees-pay-tribute/story-Eww6JOFSfqK33FGvhm0fDO.html
09-08-2020||India||Kozhikode crash puts spotlight on tabletop runway risks||The crash involving an Air India Express plane that was attempting to land amid heavy tailwinds and rain on a tabletop runway at the Kozhikode airport has once again shone light on safety concerns over flight operations in such conditions.Concerns were raised following the 2010 Air India Express crash in Mangalore that killed 158 people on board. That year, a court of enquiry report by a former Indian Air Force chief Air Marshal BN Gokhale noted that tabletop runways require extra skill and caution. The hazard of “undershooting” and “overshooting”, in particular, can lead to grave situations, the report said.“While the length of the runway 24/06 (in Mangalore) is adequate for operations by aircraft such as Airbus A320 and Boeing 737-800, the downward slope at end of R/W 24 leading into hill slope is not recommended if one is to consider the hazards of overshooting the paved surface during takeoff or landing...,” the report, submitted in October 2010, said.Also read| Kozhikode plane crash: Flight was shaking, it was a nightmare, recount survivors“There are three tabletop airports in India from where scheduled flights operate. These are Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident (in Mangalore). These table-top runways also have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents,” it added.The narrow and winding roads can delay and hinder rescue operations, the report said.So-called tabletop airports have limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines have stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues.The Air India Express flight with 190 on board overshot and fell 50 metres off the end of the runway at the Kozhikode airport in treacherous conditions on Friday, breaking into two — making it one of the deadliest commercial aviation disasters in the country in nearly 10 years.The crash occurred around 7.40pm, when it was raining. The incident bears eerie similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a table-top runway and crashed nose-first into the ground.According to Robert A Clifford, lead counsel in the case against Boeing for the last major Boeing crash — the 737 Max 8 accident in Ethiopia on March 10, 2019 — and senior partner of Clifford Law Offices, Chicago, the investigation into what caused Friday’s Air India crash will likely focus on the plane itself and pilot error.“The weather being involved probably speaks to pilot flight error, but the aircraft’s safety systems could have played a role. Investigators will need to evaluate the flight data recorder, cockpit voice recorder, and other devices, along with expert evaluation, to determine what happened,” he said.DGCA has classified certain airfields as critical that need special qualification for the flight crew to undertake operations. The criteria for classifying airfields as critical are based on various factors such as terrain, length of runway, predominance of inclement weather etc.Also read| Part of parameter wall demolished, cockpit cut open to pull out pilots: Rescuers“There are 11 such airfields, which include the tabletop runways of Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. In addition, airfields such as Patna, Jammu, Leh, Port Blair etc. also qualify as ‘critical airfields’. The operators can add some more airfields as critical, in case additional caution needs to be exercised during operations. As per SOP of Air India Express, three airfields at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Pune qualify as ‘critical airfields’. These airfields are, therefore, cleared for operations by experienced flight crew and take off and landings have to be carried out by the pilot in command (PIC) only,” said the 2010 report by Gokhale.Following the Mangalore crash, the court of Inquiry recommended setting up of an independent Indian Civil Aviation Safety Board (ICASB) urgently in view of rapid growth of aviation in the country. Such independent safety organisations have been set up in the USA, UK, Canada, France and Indonesia to name a few.The ICASB will focus on all flight safety related issues to suggest proactive measures, to minimise accidents and incidents, it said.Back then, the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council (CASAC), an independent aviation safety board that was set up in 2011 after the Mangalore crash, also warned authorities that the Kozhikode runway was very risky for landing during rains and harsh weather conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-crash-puts-spotlight-on-tabletop-runway-risks/story-IgqwuD2po2V2g9FT2Q4nHK.html
09-08-2020||India||Pilots body condoles death of 2 pilots, passengers in Kerala plane crash, offers assistance to AAIB||The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA) has expressed condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the Kozhikode plane crash and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.In a press release, the ICPA said that it is closely monitoring the developments related to the accident of Air India Express Flight IX-1344 that overran the runway upon landing at Kozhikode Airport.“Our thoughts are with the families of the pilots and passengers who lost their lives in the accident. We send our support and wishes for a speedy recovery to all the survivors, many of them injured and in hospital,” the ICPA said.Also read: Part of parameter wall demolished, cockpit cut open to pull out pilots, say rescuers “We stress the need to avoid speculation and theories as to the circumstances of this accident. We are also willing to offer any assistance to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) in order to help gather facts and any other safety and security information which may be pertinent to this tragic event,” it added.Also read: Flight was shaking, it was a nightmare, recount Kozhikode plane crash survivorsThe Air India Express flight, which was part of the Vande Bharat Mission, had crash-landed at the Kozhikode airport on Friday leading to the death of at least 18 persons including the two pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-body-condoles-death-of-2-pilots-passengers-in-kerala-plane-crash-offers-assistance-to-aaib/story-Y0z5d5hY0iv3FfI68y3gEL.html
09-08-2020||India||Part of perimeter wall demolished, cockpit cut open to pull out pilots: Rescuers||At least 50 CISF personnel, officials from Kerala police, staff of the Airport Authority of India, fire fighters, airline crew and 20-30 civilians joined the rescue operation that lasted close to three hours and successfully pulled out all 190 passengers and crew members from Boeing 737 aircraft that crashed while landing at the Karipur airport in Kozhikode, Kerala on Friday evening.The aircraft was being operated by Air India Express, from Dubai to Kozhikode as a repatriation flight under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded abroad amidst the pandemic Deputy commandant, Kishor Kumar AV, the chief airport security officer (CASO) at Karipur airport, who led the rescue operation, said they were informed by their assistant sub inspector Ajeet Singh about the crash who was present at the site. “Our control room then informed all the agencies concerned including the local police, Airports Authority of India (AAI), firefighters, National disaster Response Force (NDRF) and ambulance,” Kumar said.Also read: Pilots’ move may have saved many, say expertsHe said it was the CISF control room that informed the Air Traffic Control, which was searching for the plane, that the plane has crashed.As first respondents the CISF personnel started pulling out people from the debris to take them to safe distance. “One of the major challenges was visibility. It was dark and the area had been put on red alert due to heavy rain. Aslo, a lot of fuel had spilled out from the plane which could have caught fire or even cause an explosion. Despite the risk our men continued the rescue and did not step back even once,” the CASO said.However, soon the firefighters, airline staff and AAI officials arrived at the spot with emergency lights and other equipment. “The cutters and other equipment were used to cut cables and metallic body of the aircraft and make way for the rescue teams to enter the aircraft and pull out passengers safely,” he said.Kumar said, apart from the agencies, because locals had gathered on the main road, right adjacent to the perimeter wall of the airport where the plane had crashed, 20-30 civilians also voluntarily joined the rescue team.Describing the crash site, Kumar said, when they reached they could hear the passengers and children crying in pain. “Most of them were stuck between the seats and had their legs and lower body critically injured. Many had even fallen unconscious. There was a lot of luggage in the aircraft. All were pulled out with the help of medical professionals and were immediately sent to hospitals,” he said.Kumar said most challenging was to bring out the two pilots. They were both found in unconscious state. Because of the impact of the crash, cockpit cabin got separated from the rest of the aircraft and had rammed the perimeter wall of the airport. The speed of the plane must have been very high because the cockpit cabin got stuck into the wall. Luckily, we found a JCB machine on the main road across the wall. It was used to demolish a portion of the wall. The firefighters and medical staff then used equipment to cut open the body of the aircraft to pull out the two pilots. Their rescue alone took close to an hour. Their bodies were badly damaged. Both of them were rushed to the hospital without any delay,” the officer said. Also read| Conditions were not conducive for landing: Civil aviation expertThe CASO said once all the passengers were safely taken to hospitals, they started preserving the luggage. “Because many people on flight were returning after years, they had a lot of luggage full of valuable like jewelry, electronics and cash. CISF along with the local police preserved the luggage of the passengers which will be returned to them in due time. The process continued till early hours of Saturday, “ he said.On Saturday, CISF director general, Rakesh Ranjan also acknowledged CISF’s respond towards the incident and announced DG’s commendation for their officers’ prompt and outstanding efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/part-of-parameter-wall-demolished-cockpit-cut-open-to-pull-out-pilots-rescuers/story-OdLY1DsqKzQsmPVN3MFeaI.html
09-08-2020||India||13 districts account for 1 in seven Covid-19 deaths in India||The Centre on Saturday advised 13 districts across eight states and a Union territory to focus on ramping up testing and addressing delays in diagnosis results, flagging that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case fatality rate in these regions was higher than the national average and that they contributed 14% of all deaths due to the disease in India.At a meeting chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the states were told to ensure adequate availability of ambulances, according to the Union health ministry.The 13 districts are: Kamrup Metro in Assam, Patna in Bihar, Ranchi in Jharkhand; Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Ganjam in Odisha, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; North 24 Paraganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah in West Bengal, and Delhi.Also read: As Delhi testing hits high, 1,404 Covid-19 infections addedThe districts account for 14% of all deaths due to Covid-19 in India, according to the Centre’s data. So far, the infectious disease has killed 42,518 people across the country, with 933 deaths being reported on Saturday, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. The case fatality rate — the percentage of deaths among the number of cases detected — stood at 2.04% on Saturday, according to the government’s data. In comparison, the CFR in Delhi stood at 2.8%, even as it reduced from a high of 4.1% in mid-June.Two high-level meetings, chaired by Bhushan, were held on Friday and Saturday to advise and support states reporting higher number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19.“These districts account for nearly 9% of India’s active cases and about 14% of Covid-19 deaths. They also report low tests per million and high confirmation percentage... A surge has been observed in daily new cases in four districts — Kamrup Metro in Assam; Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; and Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha in Kerala,” the Union health ministry said.In view of reports from some areas that patients were dying within 48 hours of being admitted to health facilities, the Union health ministry asked the states to ensure timely referral and hospitalisation of people who are diagnosed with Covid-19.While the daily numbers of deaths have risen over the recent days, India has reported one of the lowest Covid-19 mortalities compared to the total cases, with about 30 deaths per million population. The global average stands at 91 deaths per million population. The highest mortality rate has been reported by the United Kingdom, with 684 deaths per million population, followed by the US, with 475 deaths per million, according to data shared by the health ministry. Also read: IMA says nearly 200 doctors in India have succumbed to Covid-19; requests PM’s attention“There could be multiple factors at play and a retrospective analysis of data after the pandemic is over will help us understand what these factors are,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. “There are four other coronaviruses that cause common cold; infection with these might have resulted in cross-protection against Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. Or, it could be that most of us have been given BCG vaccine. It is a controversial topic, but perhaps studies will show whether the T-cell immunity from the vaccine is actually protective against Covid-19,” he said. On Friday, the Union health secretary also held a virtual meeting with 16 other districts in four states — Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka — reporting Covid-19 mortality higher than the national and states’ averages.Saturday’s meeting, however, focused on 13 districts in eight states and a UT. The states and the UT were advised to address the issues of low laboratory utilisation, low tests per million population, decrease in absolute tests from last week, delay in test results, and high confirmation percentage among the health care workers, the health ministry said.They were asked to ensure timely assessment and make advance preparedness for infrastructure such as ICU beds, oxygen supply and other areas based on the prevailing caseload and estimated growth rate, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-districts-account-for-1-in-seven-covid-19-deaths/story-Wjc89GfrkMHnVwsLiYsFMO.html
09-08-2020||India||Now, Rajasthan BJP moves its MLAs on fears of poaching||The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has shifted at least 17 of its Rajasthan lawmakers to Gujarat’s Porbandar since Friday ahead of the start of the state assembly session from August 14 amid the crisis chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s government faces with his former deputy Sachin Pilot’s revolt.The shifting of the lawmakers began on Friday, when 12 of them were sent to Porbandar. Five more legislators were flown on a chartered flight from Jaipur. BJP leaders said the Congress was trying to approach their legislators, especially those from Mewar’s tribal belt, to win their support.Also read: Six days before Rajasthan showdown, Vasundhara Raje meets Rajnath Singh“We had an input that the Congress was approaching our legislators in the Udaipur division through administrative officers and other influential people of the area. So we decided that they should all be at one place where they can be protected,” said state BJP president Satish Poonia. Another party leader said there was an effort to approach “weak legislators”.“We alerted our MLAs [members of legislative assembly] before August 6 and told them to be together,” said BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria, who is from south Rajasthan. “The Congress government is set to fall and the party is approaching our legislators for support. So we have to protect our people.”Also read: Rajasthan police file final report in 3 cases related to toppling of Gehlot govtThe Gehlot camp has claimed the support of 101 legislators in the 200-member assembly. Eighty-six Congress, 14 Independents, and legislators from smaller parties supporting the ruling party are at two hotels in Jaisalmer. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra denied the BJP’s allegation. “There is no danger to our government and we do not indulge in horse-trading, which is an exclusive domain of the BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-rajasthan-bjp-moves-its-mlas-on-fears-of-poaching/story-AyfxkTs1J4cwbtB3uyGnEP.html
09-08-2020||India||Investigators find black box of crashed Air India Express jet, probe begins||The black box of an Air India Express jet that overshot the tabletop runway of the Calicut International Airport while arriving from Dubai, nosedived and split into two was recovered on Saturday, even as authorities launched an investigation into the worst air disaster in India in a decade that has claimed 18 lives.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri visited the site of the accident on Saturday to assess the situation on the ground. “It (the plane) overshot the runway while trying to land amid what were clearly inclement weather conditions prevailing at that time,” he said at a news briefing, but added that it was still too early to speculate on the cause of the crash.The Union minister said two separate teams reached Kozhikode from New Delhi to carry out investigations into the crash. Responders managed to rescue most of the passengers because the plane did not catch fire while descending the slope at the end of the runway, he added. Also read: Hardeep Puri cautions against speculative observations on Kozhikode air crashPuri said there was no question over the pilots’ competence. An official from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder were recovered from the crash site on Saturday. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit and along with the flight data recorder, which logs data such as airspeed, altitude and fuel flow, it can help in determining the cause of the crash.Air India Express AIX1344 was a repatriation flight under the Vande Bharat programme for Indians who were stranded outside the country amid travel restrictions brought on by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.On Saturday, the sample of one of the passengers who died in the accident tested positive for the infectious disease, with state health minister KK Shailaja asking all those engaged in rescue operations to go into self-quarantine as a precautionary measure and get themselves tested.Puri earlier said the passengers included 174 adult passengers, 10 children, four cabin crew and two pilots. “We were happy when we were about to touch down and I told my wife sitting beside me that rain was a welcome sign. But the happiness was short-lived. Suddenly, there were big jerks and loud cries. I tumbled out of my seat and lost consciousness. When I opened my eyes at the hospital, I was happy to see my injured wife. A pregnant woman, who was sitting next to us, was not so lucky,” said a survivor, who did not wish to be identified.Also read: As Kerala plane crash theories rise, pilots’ body makes an appeal, govt presents defenceMany people eager to see their injured relatives engaged hospital workers, who could be seen repeatedly asking them to maintain social distancing under Covid-19 prevention rules.The commander of the aircraft, Deepak Vasant Sathe, a former fighter pilot with the Indian Air Force, had 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft, Puri said. Out of those, he flew 6,662 hours as commander. Sathe had landed at the challenging airport 27 times, including more than 10 times this year. His co-pilot, 32-year-old Akhilesh Kumar, also had experience of 1,728 hours of flying with the aircraft.“He (Sathe) was a very accomplished, experienced, decorated person in command of the aircraft. There is absolutely no doubt over their competence,” Puri said.The minister left from Delhi to Kozhikode on Saturday morning along with two probe teams. One flight took off around 2am from Delhi, carrying investigating officers from DGCA, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the CEO of Air India Express and other officials of the national transporter, people aware of the developments said. Another flight from Mumbai to Kozhikode took off around 6am, carrying a rescue team of Air India to provide support and assist families of those affected by the accident, they added.Air India Express is a subsidiary of state-run airline Air India.“Reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status & implementation of relief measures after the air accident last evening. Will hold consultations with senior civil aviation officials & professionals. Digital Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder of the ill-fated aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB is conducting investigations. It is very unfortunate that 18 people including the two pilots have lost their lives in this air accident. I once again offer my condolences to the families of the bereaved & wish speedy recovery to those injured,” Puri tweeted.The civil aviation ministry’s accident investigation division, AAIB, will conduct a detailed investigation into the crash. The bureau’s role is to conduct independent aircraft accident investigation and to obtain a preliminary report on the accident and assist in setting up of a committee of inquiry and formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules.The so-called tabletop airport has limited space at the end of the runway, and several international airlines have stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode in the past due to safety issues over the length of the runway.Puri said that there was no need to speculate on what happened during the crash till the probe was been completed and DGCA filed an investigation report.“We will look into all the issues. Let me tell you that there are tabletop airports not just in our country, but all over the world. These airports pose a problem but then landing clearances are given based on the experience of the pilots. Let us not speculate as a full and comprehensive probe will take place,” he added.According to a route playback on flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the plane circled the airport twice before attempting to land. In its second instance, it aborted the attempt with 2,000 feet to go.The crash has claimed at least 18 lives, including the two pilots. Air India Express on Saturday said it will provide an interim compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the deceased passengers over 12 years of age and above Rs 5 lakh to those of passengers below the age of 12. Rs 2 lakh each will be given to critically injured passengers and Rs 50,000 to other injured passengers.The Kerala government said the condition of 23 of the 149 injured undergoing treatment at various hospitals was critical while one more person succumbed on Saturday, taking the death toll to 18.According to an official document issued by the government, four of the deceased were children -- three girls and a one-year old boy -- and seven were men and other women. Two girls were aged two and the other was five.“It was raining heavily and we suddenly heard a deafening sound and the aircraft came out of the boundary wall and fell on the road. We couldn’t believe it. Soon, we heard cries for help. Smoke was billowing and there was smell of aircraft fuel also,” said Mohamad Sahal, one of the first people to reach the spot.Air India Express said the families of the deceased pilots were escorted to Kozhikode. The airline also said three relief flights had been arranged to assist passengers and their family members affected in the accident that also brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010, at the Mangaluru International Airport.The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.An aviation official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that it emerged DGCA had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found “various critical safety lapses”. DCGA had pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice, the official added.Safety concerns over flight operations at tabletop runways in airports were raised following the 2010 Air India Express crash in Mangaluru. A court of enquiry report by Air Marshal BN Gokhale had then noted tabletop airports required extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. It said that the hazard of “undershooting” and “overshooting”, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in the Mangaluru accident.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/investigators-find-black-box-of-crashed-air-india-express-jet-probe-begins/story-j57LlASTEAF9HRcAKtclCN.html
09-08-2020||India||Multi-month prescription, home delivery for uninterrupted AIDS drugs in times of Covid-19||Within days of China locking down Wuhan and other cities in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) -hit Hubei province on January 23, and India confirming its first case in Kerala on January 30, officials from UNAIDS and National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) went into a huddle in New Delhi to ensure an uninterrupted supply of HIV services, which are offered free to everyone who needs them under the national Aids control programme. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) given to people living with HIV (PLHIV) works in two critical ways -- it slows disease progression and helps PLHIVs lead productive lives, and reduces the viral load to lower disease transmission and prevent new infection. “When Covid-19 was first reported in India, we put our heads together with NACO, civil society and PLHIVs to plan for contingencies such as the Wuhan lockdown , to mitigate the impact on critical HIV services, including ART delivery and harm reduction,” said Dr Bilali Camara, Unaids Country Director for India, who is a medical epidemiologist by training. Unaids is the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS. By March, monthly dispensation of ART drugs was replaced with a three to six months supply across states. “Instead of monthly, we began giving six months provisions to people so they didn’t have to come back to a facility and risk exposure to Covid-19, or spent money on transportation etc. This was introduced by state Aids control societies across India very quickly. With treatment saturation, we can achieve a lot in terms of keeping PLHIVs health and preventing new infection,” said Dr Camara. What also helped was the introduction of a new antiretroviral drug with fewer side-effects called dolutegravir. “At the beginning of the pandemic, there was a very good policy change, when NACO introduced a much safer, less toxic drug on Unaids advice. That medication really helped people stay on treatment course, which will improve outcomes and lower their risk of developing drug resistance,” he said. There are 2.1 million people living with HIV in India, with new infections rising in Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Uttarakhand, and declining in Nagaland, Manipur, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Just eight states accounted for two-thirds of the estimated 87,580 annual new HIV infections in India in 2018. In absolute numbers, India has the third highest number of people living with HIV (PLHIV) in the world after South Africa and Mozambique, but cases have hovered around 2.1 million for the past decade despite people living longer with improved access to testing and ART. Since 2010, India has reduced new infection by 37%. Delhi resident Saurabh, 41, who does not want to share his second name, is among those who benefited from the multi-month dispensation of ART drugs just before the lockdown. “I was surprised when I was given medicines for several months in March but within a week, the lockdown was announced, which meant I couldn’t step out. It was a big relief as I could continue treatment without a break,” said Saurabh, who was diagnosed with HIV in 2012. “India has accomplished reductions in new HIV infections, important reduction in AIDS-related deaths, and an increase in the number of pregnant women living with HIV on treatment, with a 66% ART coverage in 2018. This has resulted in 79% people knowing their status, and 82% of them being on treatment,” said Camara. Testing and treatment is provided free in the public sector, and costs the government US$ 70-80 per patient per year. The lockdown also invigorated the community-based dispensation drugs. “We have volunteers collect the ART drugs from the government and distribute them on motorbikes, bikes, carts, and on foot to ensure people get medicines at their doorsteps. I really have to thank all the networks of HIV and Aids in India, all of them have participated,” said Dr Camara. Opportunities to fast track the AIDS response include focusing on high burden districts for the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV based on the last ANC survey data which has shown a prevalence of 0.2%., and intensifying prevention programmes, including targeted interventions for key populations such as female sex workers, (1.56% HIV prevalence), the prison populations with 2.04%, transgender (3.14%), and people who inject drugs (6.26%), according to NACO data. “Covid-19 has been a huge challenge but it has forced us to think differently. UNAIDS has worked with NACO and ministry of health to take oral substitution therapy to injecting drug users in prescribed doses for two to three months,” said Camara. Since this again was community- led, the oral substitution therapy using buprenorphine (opioid) reached injecting drug users at home as well as the homeless. “The unexpected outcome was that more and more people moved from injecting drug use to oral drug use, which is preferred because HIV infections occur from injecting drug use. So we have an opportunity to reduce risk as injecting drug use is a serious problem is in the north eastern states, and some pockets in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Camara. At least 82 countries criminalise some form of HIV transmission, exposure or non-disclosure, sex work is criminalised in at least 103 countries and at least 108 countries criminalize the consumption or possession of drugs for personal use, according to UNAIDS. “There are instances drug users being put in jail, NACO data collected for the first time from jails for 2019 shows 2.04% prevalence rate which is 10 times more than the general population. Jailing drug users like criminals is not addressing the problem of drug use and Covid-19 has helped establish that overcrowded jails are not practical. Jails should be an instrument to educate and rehabilitate people,” he said. Working closely with the community for HIV service delivery and engaging them in the national AIDS response is key. “Community empowerment is essential to reduce stigma, deliver medicines and and tools for prevention, which has gone down. The increasing emphasis in treatment is needed, but not at the cost of prevention in vulnerable populations, who still account 62% of new infections in India,” said JVR Prasada Rao, former health secretary, and founder director of NACO, and special envoy at Unaids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multi-month-prescription-home-delivery-for-uninterrupted-aids-drugs-in-times-of-covid-19/story-2ReN6plxYzKUxVFi6aspIP.html
09-08-2020||India||350 police officers in quarantine to make up August 15 guard of honour||The newly built police colony at the Delhi Cantonment is largely vacant, the families are yet to move in. But 350 police personnel, from the rank of a constable to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), are already here. Housed in different quarters, they are not allowed physical contact with the outside world. Their body temperature is measured daily, and they are checked for other symptoms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as well. Essentially, they are in quarantine.The officials are part of the guard of honour that will be inspected by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Red Fort on August 15, the Independence Day, at a ceremony that will be attended by other dignitaries as well. “We are adopting this for the safety of every person that day. We are taking all the necessary precautions. It has been more than eight days in quarantine. Inside the complex, our officers are following all the necessary social distancing norms. No one has shown any symptoms,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said. Also read: To ensure safe I Day celebrations, Covid 19 test for staff, awardees to be conductedSpecial Commissioner of Police Robin Hibu, who is overseeing the arrangements, confirmed that the officers are in quarantine but did not wish to share more details citing security reasons. Considering the high-profile nature of the event, the police establishment is leaving nothing to chance.“The 350 include all those who are connected to the ceremony for the guard of honour. We have a back up for every person. For example, we need only two parade commanders of the rank of DCP but four such officers are in quarantine. We do not want to take chances and are even keeping the reserve officers in quarantine. If somebody falls unwell (even due to a non-Covid issue), we want to ensure that even the reserve ones do not have any symptoms,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said. Dr Amit Tyagi, chief medical officer of the city police’s Police Training College (PTC), said this was a necessary step. “Police personnel come from different places. Some even live outside the state and travel to work daily using public transport. Some live in barracks at the police stations. One could catch the infection anywhere. Getting them in an isolated safe place is the best for all those present that day,” he said.Also read: Rashtrapati Bhavan I-Day guest list cut to 90 peopleOne of the quarantined officers, who did not wish to be identified, said the experience of the past eight days reminded him of his life as a trainee police officer. “We are back to hostel life as bachelors and it is fun. This reminds us of our training days. We even have Zumba classes at the quarantine centre.”The quarantine period will, naturally, end on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/350-police-officers-in-quarantine-to-make-up-august-15-guard-of-honour/story-ocfZS9Y9XABja1wv6NPYvM.html
09-08-2020||India||Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister of State Arjun Ram Meghwal on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 and is admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here.“After getting the initial symptoms of Corona, I got myself tested for Covid-19 and after the first test was negative, the second test came positive today,” he tweeted.The minister added that he is fine but has admitted himself to AIIMS on medical advice.“I am fine but have admitted myself to AIIMS on medical advice. I request that those who have come in contact with me in the last few days please take care of your health,” tweeted Meghwal.Minister of State for the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Kailash Choudhary on Saturday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and asked those who came in contact with him in the recent past to get tested and isolate themselves.“As part of a health checkup after exhibiting some symptoms, I have tested positive for Covid-19. Those who came in contact with me in the past few days are kindly requested to go into self-isolation and get themselves tested. Thank you to all my well-wishers,” Choudhary tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-arjun-ram-meghwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-zHmNSVXB5zf4Y4FJY0v7jL.html
09-08-2020||India||30 CISF personnel quarantined after crash victim found Covid-19 positive||As many as 30 CISF personnel who rescued passengers from the Air India Express flight that crashed in Kozhikode on Friday evening have been quarantined after at least two passengers onboard tested positive for Covid-19. The officials were quarantined on Saturday for the next 14 days. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) was the first responder to the crash site at Karipur airport where the Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the table-top runway, fell into a 35-feet deep valley and broke into two killing eighteen passengers, including the two pilots of the Boeing 737 aircraft.Senior officers from the CISF said on Saturday it was discovered that one of the passengers who had died in the crashes turned out to be infected with coronavirus. “There were reports of another survivor being Covid-19 positive, however, it is yet to be ascertained. As a precautionary measure we have quarantined out personnel who were involved in rescuing these passengers,” the officer said requesting anonymity. Also read| Saw the aircraft plunge towards us: CISF officerConfirming the development, CISF Special Director General (Airports) M A Ganapathy said through contact tracing so far they have identified 30 CISF personnel who needed to be quarantined. “13 of them who live with their families will remain under home quarantine while the other 17 have been quarantined in a college close to the airport in accordance with the state administration,” Ganapathy said.Apart from these 30, the force will also conduct Covid-19 tests for those who were exposed, another officer said. He said some officials from the airport have also been asked to go into self-quarantine.The state government has now urged the residents who helped in the rescue work to go into quarantine. “The state will always remember their work but we have to take precautions,” state health minister K K Shailaja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-cisf-personnel-quarantined-after-crash-victim-found-covid-19-positive/story-YC5vbEndazk531ODJfaRVO.html
09-08-2020||India||Captain Deepak Sathe killed in Kerala plane crash had big plans for mother’s birthday||Former Indian Air Force pilot Captain Deepak Sathe had planned to pay a surprise visit to Nagpur on his octogenarian mother’s birthday on Saturday. However, a day before his mother could mark her 84th birthday, Sathe, 58, died in the air crash that claimed the lives of 17 others at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport. “Today is the birthday of Capt Sathe’s mother. He had last met his parents in March and was constantly in touch with them over phone since then. They had last spoken a day before yesterday,” his nephew Dr Yashodhan Sathe told PTI on Saturday. “Captain had told some of the relatives that if flights are available, he would pay a surprise visit to his mother on her birthday,” he said. Captain Sathe, who was manning the ill-fated Air India Express flight coming in from Dubai, lived with his wife in Mumbai. According to Captain Sathe’s cousin, Nilesh, he had survived an air crash in the early 1990s when he was in the Air Force. “He was hospitalised for 6 months for multiple skull injuries and nobody thought that he would fly again. But his strong will power and love for flying made him clear the test again. It was a miracle,” Nilesh wrote in a Facebook post.Captain Sathe’s mother, Neela, who lives with her husband Vasant Sathe, a retired colonel, in Bharat Nagar locality of Nagpur, said that after the coronavirus outbreak, he had told her not to step out of the house. “He used to tell me not to go out due to the pandemic. He would tell me that if something happens to me, he would feel bad. And suddenly this tragedy struck...what can we do before the will of the God,” she told PTI. She remembered him as being “top” in everything — be it studies or sports. “He was brilliant in table tennis, squash. He was also very good at horse riding. Our son had also received the rare ’Sword of Honour’. However, he would not boast about his achievements,” she said. Captain Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the IAF and had served at the force’s flight-testing establishment. Dr Yashodhan said that the body of Captain Sathe is yet to be handed over to the family. “His wife and brother-in-law are in Kozhikode, but the decision about where the last rites will be held is yet to be taken. Due to the coronavirus restrictions, we will not be able to go there,” he said. “Pilot in-command of the crashed Air India Express flight Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, among those killed in the accident here, was one of the most experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Karipur airport in the past,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said while interacting with media on Saturday. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-pilot-had-big-plans-for-mother-s-birthday/story-QCUPYA5DLooT0jNYUl3IFK.html
09-08-2020||India||Kozhikode crash: Co-pilot Akhilesh Sharma’s wife is expecting a child||The family of 32-year-old Akhilesh Sharma, co-pilot of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday evening, is in shock. The tragedy has struck the family at a time when Sharma’s wife Megha, 29, is expecting a child within a fortnight.The family lives in Govind Nagar locality of Mathura. “Initially, we got the news that bhaiyya (Akhilesh) was critical and hospitalizsd after the plane crash but we were later informed about his death on Friday night. My brother, Bhuvnesh, and (brother-in-law) Sanjeev Sharma have left for Kozhikode via Delhi,” said Lokesh Sharma (24), who lives in Mathura and aims to become a commercial pilot. Akhilesh was elder to Bhuvnesh, 28, works in an IT firm in Gurugram, and Lokesh, 24. Their elder sister is married. His father, Tulsi Ram Sharma, owns a business in Mathura and had come to Govind Nagar in Mathura city from his ancestral village in Mathura district. “Akhilesh studied in Amarnath College in Mathura and joined CAE Oxford Aviation Academy in Gondia (Maharashtra) to be trained as a pilot. He joined Air India in 2017. He was married to Megha in 2018, and the couple was about to have a child. But destiny snatched him from us,” said Lokesh. Now, the family is awaiting Akhilesh’s remains to return to Mathura where the funeral will be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/co-pilot-s-wife-is-expecting-a-child/story-waHLXi04KE3TvnZlGYbxoN.html
09-08-2020||India||Pilots’ move may have saved many, say experts||While the civil aviation ministry on Saturday did not comment on the prima facie cause of the accident involving an Air India Express flight, experts believe that casualties in the accident at Kozhikode airport was restricted to 18 because of the pilots shut down the engines after touching down on the runway — a move that could have made sure that the aircraft did not catch fire.The accident involving the B737 aircraft with 190 people on board arrived from Dubai and was operating as part of India’s Vande Bharat Mission (VMB). According to officials from Airports Authority of India (AAI), the aircraft touched down near a taxiway that is around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway, before breaking up into two pieces. Kozhikode airport has a tabletop runway. A former Air India Engineering Services Ltd. (AIESL) official, who did not want to be named, said: “It was a very wise decision by the pilots (both of them died in the crash) to shut down the two engines, which, as per me, is the only reason the aircraft did not catch fire. Usually, the engines are shut down only after an aircraft comes to halt and never after touching down.”Also read| Saw the aircraft plunge towards us: CISF officerAn AAI official agreed. “Fuel is filled in the wings of an aircraft and not the fuselage. The aircraft seems to have landed normally, due to which there was minimum damage to the wings and engines that remained intact. By the time the engines slightly touched the runway surface, the pilots had already switched off the engines, significantly reducing the possibility of the aircraft catching fire,” he said, requesting anonymity.However, Arun Kumar, aviation regulator DGCA, however, said: “All this (theories) is conjectural, let the report come; we will know.”A senior Air India Express official, who too spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “It is a known fact that the pilots were highly experienced and hence their presence of mind led to minimum possible damage to the lives of the passengers. Also, by looking at the pictures, fuselage of the aircraft was far away from the front portion of the aircraft. So, may be the cockpit of the aircraft banged the wall due to which they lost their lives.”Rubbishing the theory of belly landing (when an aircraft lands on its belly), a former DGCA official said: “No senior pilots will ever commit the mistake of trying to land on the belly on a table to the airport. He would rather prefer diverting to nearby airports as he knows that there is a possibility of the aircraft running into the valley.”According to AAI, Runway 28, where the Air India Express flight first attempted to land, was in use. In the second attempt the pilots landed on runway 10. The pilot then requested for Runway 10. AAI officials said that the pilots sight the runway only about a minute before landing when the atmospherics are not in favour of the aircraft. When the weather is bad- poor visibility with heavy rainfall- runway is visible only from a certain distance (ft) away.AAI said the aircraft touched down near taxiway ‘C’, which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of Runway 10. The total length of the runway is 2,700 metres. The reported visibility at the time of landing was 2,000 metres as it was raining. DGCA also clarified that the AAI, which operates the Kozhikode airport, was issued a notice by them in July last year. This notice had pointed out safety lapses which were later worked upon by the AAI. However, a former Air India official said: “To me the theory of aquaplaning (a condition which occurs when a layer of water builds between the wheels of the aircraft and the runway surface) and contamination appears to be one of the contributory factors to the accident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-move-may-have-saved-many-experts/story-u9m52AuUz6rByuTTH0TCyH.html
09-08-2020||India||Saw the aircraft plunge towards us: CISF officer||Ajeet Singh, 31, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) assistant sub-inspector, was on patrolling duty at the Calicut International Airport on Friday when he heard an ear-splitting sound. As Singh turned about, he saw an aircraft at the edge of the airport’s runway as it plunged into the valley and crashed hardly 20 metres from the CISF’s security post where he was standing.The Air India Express plane, carrying 190 passengers and crew from Dubai, skidded off the tabletop runway amid heavy rain before it plunged, killing 18 people on board in India’s worst passenger aircraft accident since 2010.“I was from 1pm-9pm shift [duty] and was checking the register at our CISF security post where ASI [assistant sub-inspector] Mangal Singh was on duty. Soon, as we saw the plane plunge towards us, as an instinctive reaction, both of us ran away from the site as it appeared that the aircraft will fall on us. Seconds later, as we realised the plane was full of passengers, we ran towards it. It had [by then] broken into three pieces — tail, body, and cockpit,” Singh said.Singh, who was the first respondent at the crash site and the first rescuer to enter the damaged aircraft, said the he alerted the quick reaction teams and the CISF control room immediately. He added that they, in turn, alerted the agencies concerned — local police, Airports Authority of India (AAI), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and firefighters.“After alerting others, I entered the aircraft. The first person I pulled out safely was a senior citizen who had his legs stuck between his seat and an iron angle...I also picked up a six-month-old child and brought him out safely.” Singh added many passengers were unconscious and some crying in pain or for help. “Most of them had their bodies entangled... There were many children, even infants.”Singh said his priority was to pull out those who were still alive and could move around without assistance. He added that the aircraft fuel was flowing out heavily, and they feared it might catch fire. “But probably because it was raining heavily, the debris did not catch fire despite a lot of fuel spilled around.”“Because of the force with which the cockpit must have crashed into the wall, it was completely damaged. Probably this was the reason the two pilots could not be saved. A portion of the wall has also collapsed.”A First Information Report over the accident was filed on the basis of his statement.Also read: Kozhikode plane crash: Flight was shaking, it was a nightmare, recount survivorsAt least 50 CISF personnel, officials from Kerala police, AAI staff, firefighters, airline crew and 20-30 civilians joined the rescue operation that lasted close to three hours.Deputy commandant Kishor Kumar AV, the chief airport security officer (CASO) at the airport who led the rescue operation, acknowledged Singh’s role. “Our control room then informed all the agencies...,” Kumar said.“One of the major challenges was visibility. It was dark and the area had been put on red alert due to heavy rain. Also, a lot of fuel had spilled out from the plane, which could have caught fire; there could have even been an explosion. Despite the risk, our men continued the rescue and did not step back even once,” he said.Soon, rescue officials arrived at the spot with emergency lights and other equipment. “The cutters and other equipment were used to cut cables and metallic body of the aircraft and make way for the rescue teams to enter the aircraft and pull out passengers safely,” the deputy commander said.Kumar said most challenging was to bring out the two pilots, who were found unconscious and later declared dead.“Because of the impact of the crash, cockpit cabin got separated from the rest of the aircraft and had rammed the perimeter wall of the airport. The speed of the plane must have been very high because the cockpit cabin got stuck into the wall. We found a JCB machine on the main road across the wall. It was used to demolish a portion of the wall. The firefighters and medical staff then used equipment to cut open the body of the aircraft to pull out the two pilots. Their rescue alone took close to an hour. Their bodies were badly damaged. Both of them were rushed to the hospital without any delay,” the officer said.Special director general, CISF, MA Ganapathy said after moving all the passengers safely to hospitals, officials started taking their luggage out.“It was a mammoth task because many people on the flight were returning after year; they had a lot of luggage full of valuable like jewellery, electronics and cash. CISF, along with the local police, carefully preserved the luggage of the passengers, which will be returned to them in due time,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saw-the-aircraft-plunge-towards-us-cisf-officer/story-UmX2R9xWzTRM1LUwFB2swL.html
09-08-2020||India||Kerala crash brings back memories of ’10 tragedy||Thiruvananthapuram/ New Delhi The accident involving an Air India Express plane in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport, according to experts.Back in 2010, the aircraft overshot the runway at Mangalore airport, fell into a gorge, caught fire and 158 people lost their lives. Eight persons survived the crash. In both instances, Air India Express pilots had overshot tabletop runways. Also, the flights were coming from Dubai.In its report on the Mangalore accident that happened on May 22, 2010, the Court of Inquiry said the direct cause was the captain’s failure to discontinue the unstabilised approach of the plane.Also read: Kozhikode crash puts spotlight on tabletop runway risks“Despite the constraints of terrain surrounding the tabletop runway, the rescue and fire fighthing operations had been carried out with due diligence,” the report dated October 31, 2010 said.Aviation expert Jacob Philip said:“There are many similarities between two mishaps. Both airports have similar structure and in both cases it happened during the landing. But in the latest case whether pilots were trying to save lives of passengers can be ascertained only after an inquiry.” In both cases pilot and co-pilots were among victims. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri, meanwhile, reiterated that an inquiry has been ordered under Aircraft Act in the Kozhikode incident. Officials said the findings will be made public as Puri encouraged all to exercise patience and refrain from making speculative observations.At the time of Mangalore crash, there was no Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), which was set up only in 2012. The AAIB is probing the Kozhikode accident.The pilot in-command of the crashed Air India Express flight, Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, among those killed in the accident in Kozhikode, was one of the most experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Karipur airport in the past, Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crash-brings-back-memories-of-10-tragedy/story-GFAxXssu8gJ05eMCqJWcKI.html
09-08-2020||India||India, China commanders meet at Daulat Beg Oldie sector||Senior military commanders from India and China on Saturday met in the Daulat Beg Oldie sector and held talks on reducing tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, with focus on thinning the buildup of troops and weaponry in Depsang plains where the forward deployment of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has disrupted the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns, people familiar with the developments said on the condition of anonymity.Heightened concerns about Depsang come from an earlier intrusion in this sector in 2013 when the PLA set up positions 19km into the Indian side of the LAC and triggered a face-off that took three weeks to resolve.The PLA’s forward deployments in Depsang have hindered the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13, said one of the officials cited above. The military buildup in this sector includes deployment of tanks and artillery by the two armies, said a second official.The Depsang plains lie south of DBO in a strategic area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN). DBO is the country’s northernmost outpost where India operates an advanced landing ground to support its forward military deployments.“Depsang is more of a pressure point as the PLA’s reported deployment in forward areas has disrupted the Indian Army’s patrolling pattern. It has become more time consuming for the army to dominate the LAC. But as long as talks are on there is hope for a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.The latest round of military talks between division commander-ranked officers came days after their bosses (the corps commanders) met on August 2 to discuss the next stage of disengagement at a time when negotiations have hit a roadblock due to differences between the two sides in the Finger Area and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory.The outcome of Saturday’s talks wasn’t immediately known as there was no official word from the army.The division commander-ranked officers have met a few times after the border row erupted in early May, but this was their first meeting after the corps commanders from the two sides began discussions on disengagement and de-escalation on June 6. The latter have met five times so far.The Finger Area — a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake — has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution.The August 2 military negotiations came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim.The ambassador’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger area, the officials said.The meeting began at 11 am on the Chinese side of LAC and went on till 7.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-commanders-meet-at-daulat-beg-oldie-sector/story-gq2qH3FY0PWrVfLxzIC2oN.html
09-08-2020||India||India, China need to reach an equilibrium: S Jaishankar||India and China can overcome their differences in the long term if they reach “some kind of equilibrium” but achieving this is one of the big challenges faced by the country, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday.Jaishankar made the remarks while participating in an interactive session organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) as part of its “India@75 Summit - Mission 2022” initiative. The event looks ahead at India in its 75th year of independence in 2022 and seeks to bring together stakeholders such as industry and government to work on a vision.Replying to a question on whether India and China, which are currently engaged in a tense border stand-off, could be friends in the coming decades, Jaishankar said the two countries are neighbours and demographically unique as they are the only ones with populations of more than one billion.China is the world’s second largest economy and India is set to become the third largest, and the period of their difficulties and the period of their “re-emergence in a very strong way in international politics” were not far apart, he said. “We are seeing the parallel but differential rise of the two countries... To my mind, what it does is it puts a huge premium on reaching some kind of equilibrium or understanding between the two [in the interests of both countries]. How to do that is one of the big challenges that we face,” Jaishankar said. The border stand-off, which emerged in May, has taken India-China relations to a new low. Both countries have mobilised tens of thousands of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), especially in the Ladakh sector, after a brutal clash on June 15 caused the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. Efforts to disengage and de-escalate the tensions have run into problems as the Chinese side hasn’t pulled back its troops at several key friction points along the LAC, such as Pangong Lake and Depsang.Jaishankar said he believes the world “has a lot riding on” India and China reaching equilibrium, given the size and impact of both countries. “It is not an easy question to answer, there are problems [that are] well laid out. Certainly, it’s something which I feel is very central to our foreign policy calculations,” he said.He said a good foreign policy is one that addresses national and economic security and advances the country’s goals and aspirations in a competitive environment. Such a policy depends on skill and agility to build “capabilities strongly, deeply [and] much faster”, he added.In this regard, Jaishankar held up China as a “remarkable example of our lifetime” and pointed out that India, too, is doing its bit by weighing in on big issues such as climate change and shaping big debates on matters such as terrorism.Jaishankar also said India’s approach was based more on issues as the country is now dealing with a “much more loose architecture” with more poles and less rules, where overlapping interests are a key factor in working with other nations.“The country which is able to navigate best by finding overlapping interests and working with most countries is going to be very successful in diplomacy,” he said, adding that this would mean a country has to be less dogmatic and less dependent on global chains and global sources while striving for strategic autonomy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-need-to-reach-an-equilibrium-jaishankar/story-0UsvyyWI9xbNrelcTzgQtM.html
09-08-2020||India||Conditions were not conducive for landing: Civil aviation expert||Civil aviation expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan believes that the pilot of the Air India Boeing 737, a Covid-19 evacuation flight from Dubai that crashed on Friday, should have diverted to Coimbatore as the conditions in Kozhikode were not conducive for landing. “The visibility was fine,” said Ranganathan. “But due to the torrential downpour, it was not prudent to land in Kozhikode. The pilot should have diverted to Coimbatore.” Ranganathan, an aviation safety consultant and a former instructor pilot of the Boeing 737 specialising in wet runway operations, added that he was surprised that aviation regulator DGCA gave permission to the flight to land there. Also read: Pilots explain what poses the challenge in wake of the Kozhikode crash“The runway is not safe,” said Ranganathan. “From what I have heard, not much has changed since I was there last. It is fortunate that a 737 was landing and not a wide body flight.” According to Ranganathan, he warned authorities a year after the 2010 Mangalore crash that the Calicut runway was unsafe for landing and needed to be re-evaluated, but his message was ignored. “It is a dangerous situation, especially in wet conditions. Runway 10 approaches should not be permitted in view of the lack of RESA (runway end safety area) and the terrain beyond the end of the runway,” Ranganathan said in his report submitted 17 June 2011. He was then a member of the operations group of the Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Committee (CASAC). “... in spite of the danger if the crew accept a landing in wet and tailwind conditions, their concept of ALAR (Approach and Landing Accident Reduction) is very poor,” he said in the communication. On Saturday, Ranganathan added that a 240m RESA should immediately be introduced and the runway length should be reduced to make operations “safe”. “There should 150m on either side to avoid mishaps,” Ranganathan told HT. “But there is not sufficient area there. It has always been dangerous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-were-not-conducive-for-landing-civil-aviation-expert/story-CZ7Vp2uwbrhfySgmxtGlmL.html
09-08-2020||India||IMD warns of heavy rains across northwest region||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued an orange category warning, which means disaster management authorities should be prepared to avert any possible disasters, for parts of northwestern India for Sunday and Monday as the monsoon trough is likely to shift northwards and cause heavy to very heavy rain in Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh, eastern Rajasthan.Rainfall activity over northwestern India is likely to increase from Sunday and heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places in the Western Himalayan region over the next two days.Extremely heavy rains continued on Friday and Saturday in Kerala, where a red category warning has been issued for the weekend. A red warning implies disaster management authorities need to act immediately to control or prevent any rain or flooding disaster. Heavy rains triggered a landslide in Kerala’s Idukki district on Friday and left at least 15 people dead.Also read: Red alert sounded for five districts as Kerala battles flood-like situation, more rains till SundayTorrential rains triggered floods and landslides in the Western Ghats in Kerala in 2018 and 2019 and left hundreds dead. The entire Western Ghats mountain range, which stretches from Kerala to Gujarat, is extremely vulnerable to disasters because of its topography and increasing incidence of extreme rains linked to global warming.National Weather Forecasting Centre senior scientist RK Jenamani said strong westerly and south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea hit the Western Ghats perpendicularly. “The low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal strengthened the monsoon winds. Monsoon is a large-scale system of winds and moisture surge. The west coast is definitely vulnerable but the incidence of extreme rain is increasing across the country in recent years.”Devala in Tamil Nadu and Kerala’s Vadakara recorded 34 cm and 33 cm from Friday to Saturday.IMD director general M Mohapatra said extremely heavy rains were likely to continue in many places in Kerala till Monday. “When the warm westerly winds hit the hills, the ghat areas there are uplifting that air. It is called orographic uplifting. The warm air condenses and forms clouds. The formation of convective clouds leads to extremely heavy rain,” he said. He added Kerala has been recording deficient monsoon rains over the long term but there has also been an increase in the incidence of extreme rainfall events.A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over north and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Under its influence, more rain is likely over east and adjoining parts of central India and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Odisha from Sunday to Tuesday and in Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh from Monday to Wednesday.Also read: Swollen rivers, flood-like situation in several parts of Karnataka due to heavy rainfallAccording to a Union earth sciences ministry report, there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extremely heavy rain events over central India from 1950 and a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events. Compared to the 1901–1975 period, rainfall has reduced by 1–5 mm/day during 1976–2015 over central parts of India (the core monsoon zone), Kerala, and extreme northeastern parts, it added.An Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology study published in Nature journal in 2017 said there has been a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India from 1950 to 2015.“I cannot comment on each station, but overall studies have shown that incidence of extremely heavy rain along the west coast is increasing due to the impact of global warming,” said Mohapatra.“Monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is likely to shift northward and will continue to pass close to Delhi NCR during evening of August 9 to 12. During this period south westerly winds from Arabian sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal will reach to Haryana, Delhi NCR and west UP in lower levels.A cyclonic circulation will also form and persist over Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Uttar Pradesh during the same period. Delhi is likely to get moderate category rain during the period,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-heavy-rain-across-northwest-region/story-sMORCmgFcTBEXwfcxf1SIO.html
09-08-2020||India||Kerala crash: Friends mourn social worker; man who missed flight thanks his stars||Sharafu Pilassery (35), working in Dubai in a private firm, had arranged flight tickets for many and fed people stranded without job in the United Arab Emirates. He told his relatives and friends back home that he and his family will be coming back to the country. They never imagined that will be his last journey.A social worker among the expatriate community in Dubai, he insisted that he will go back once the rush subsided, his friends recalled.Four hours before the accident, he posted a photo with his family in protective shields and masks. “Back to Home,” he wrote on his Facebook. Several passengers part of the flight from Dubai to Kozhikode had cited loss of jobs as the reason to travel back home, according to their repatriation flight list reviewed by HT. A large number of workers based in the Gulf have lost their jobs due to the pandemic. Parammal Afsal, 27, who works at a hotel in Dubai, has a different story. When he arrived at the airport to board the Kozhikode-bound flight on Friday, he realised that his visa period had expired — by a few hours.Airport authorities asked him to produce his employment details and other formalities. He immediately rushed to procure them from his room, but by the time he was returned, the boarding process was over. But that proved a blessing for Afsal. He was planning to return for his wedding, which was fixed last year. Now, he is planning to take next flight to Kannur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/friends-mourn-social-worker-man-who-missed-flight-thanks-his-stars/story-GX4J6R5DlYr3mdhBzzSGIO.html
09-08-2020||India||Pilots explain what poses the challenge in wake of the Kozhikode crash||Pilots on Saturday underscored the challenges posed by tabletop runways in the wake of the deadly Kozhikode crash, explaining why they can be tricky.The most obvious challenge of a tabletop runway, a commercial pilot said, is the fact that on a normal runway if you run out of runway, you would still be on the ground. “On a tabletop runway, you may find yourself on the ground several hundred feet below,” he said.A second pilot, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said tabletop runways, located on plateaus or hills, can also create optical illusions for pilots when they move from the instruments to the visual segment of the flight especially during bad weather. “It can be tricky as the pilot may get the illusion of not being on the correct flight profile. Add-ons like heavy rain, wet runway, and pilot fatigue can complicate things further.”Also read| Kozhikode plane crash: Chaos, screams at accident site as locals rush to rescueSeveral international airlines stopped flying bigger aircraft to Kozhikode due to safety issues given the length of its runway as tabletop airports have limited space at their ends. But pilots flying smaller aircraft are not immune to the hazards either. “The runway is at a height, which is higher than the surrounding areas and the weather conditions also differ. Sudden changes in wind pattern on approach is a common phenomenon which a pilot has to tackle. On an approach till such time you hit the table-top, you may be under the influence of some winds which vary suddenly when you reach the table making the approach management that much more difficult,” said a third pilot, who did not wish to be named.Possible variation in instrument reading when the transition on the table-top happens is another key challenge. “For example, the radio altimeter, which calls out the height of the aircraft, may call out 500 feet and a second later may call out 100 feet because you have entered the table zone. This transition to the table-top is also when the winds may change which at times becomes a little tricky to manage,” the third pilot said. The degree of difficulty increases multifold during the monsoons, the pilot added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-explain-what-poses-the-challenge/story-o0Lfn0fGsq1PWdGCpakznJ.html
09-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: CBI acted in ‘haste’, Mumbai Police tells SC||The First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the Bihar police in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on a complaint filed by his father is politically motivated at the instance of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, the Mumbai police said in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday.The affidavit added the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has shown “indecent haste” in lodging a fresh FIR on the recommendation from the Bihar government and in constituting a team to probe abetment of suicide charge against Rajput’s girlfriend, Chakraborty Rhea, her family members, and two friends. It insisted the CBI FIR is without “legal sanctity” as it was filed without the consent of Maharashtra, which alone is entitled to give consent and not Bihar.“The indecent haste with which the CBI has proceeded in this regard, speaks for itself, regarding the bonafides of all involved in this exercise,” said the affidavit filed through advocate Sachin Patil.Bihar government and police officials were not immediately available for comments.The affidavit was filed days before the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear Chakraborty’s plea on Tuesday seeking the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to Mumbai.Rajput’s father, KK Singh, separately filed his reply in the apex court terming Chakraborty’s petition “infructuous” as CBI has taken over the case. Singh accused the Mumbai police of inaction and questioned why even after 54 days of inquiry, no FIR was registered. “If the respondent No.3 [Maharashtra] has found no evidence qua the petitioner [Chakraborty ] in 54 days of inquiry, it only reflects one conclusion that the Respondent No.3 is trying to shield the Petitioner for the reason best known to them,” Singh said in his affidavit through senior advocate Vikas Singh.The Mumbai police wondered why Singh did not approach them for registering FIR against Chakraborty and her family members. It added at best, the Bihar police ought to have registered a Zero FIR and transferred the same to Mumbai police seized of an inquiry into Rajput’s death.“The registration of the FIR.... [in] Bihar was politically motivated and due to extraneous reasons,” the Mumbai police said. It cited a newspaper report saying while the Bihar police were hesitant to file FIR, it was Kumar and another minister who persuaded them to register it.Commenting on Bihar’s decision to recommend the CBI probe, the Mumbai Police said it “bristles with malafides and same is void ab initio.” Such a thing could lead to a “chaotic situation” as the accused or complainant would then choose their own state police to initiate an investigation into a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-death-probe-cbi-acted-in-haste-mum-police-to-sc/story-aZZBAnSnoniy3e0Hocl3nN.html
09-08-2020||India||Kozhikode plane crash: Flight was shaking, it was a nightmare, recount survivors||Survivors of the Air India Express plane crash recounted on Saturday the horror and ordeal that unfolded as the aircraft with 190 people on board skidded off the runaway at the Kozhikode airport and broke into two, killing at least 18 people. It all happened in a flash. Just when they thought they had reached home, their plane fell into a 35-feet gorge in pelting rain, survivors of the crash said on Saturday.Also read: Hardeep Puri cautions against speculative observations on Kozhikode air crash“We were happy when were about to touchdown and I told my wife that the rain was a welcome sign. But our joy was short-lived. Suddenly there were big jerks and the plane was filled with loud cries. I tumbled out of my seat and lost conscious. When I opened my eyes at the hospital, I was happy to see my wife. A pregnant woman, who was sitting beside us, was not so lucky,” said a person who did not want to be named.Those who survived the accident said chaos prevailed at the accident site as initially passengers could not gauge what happened. “We did not realise what really happened other than the flight was shaking,” said Ramshad, who was undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Malappuram district. His wife and daughter escaped with minor injuries. “As soon the flight crashed, the emergency door was opened and people jumped out to safety, another survivor said. Vijaymohan, who escaped with minor injuries and is recovering in a private hospital, said he thought it was a nightmare. “I could see heaps of twisted metal spread around when I opened my eyes after the initial shock of the impact,” said Vijayamohan, a resident of nearby Malaparamba. His wife Jameema is admitted in the ICU. The couple had gone to Dubai in December to join their son but got held up due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown.Also read| Kozhikode plane crash: Chaos, screams at accident site as locals rush to rescue“It was a miracle we limited the damage. The local people were the first to reach the spot and they turned real heroes. They entered the aircraft risking their lives to save others. We have one aim, save maximum lives, and they played stellar role,” said Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan.Meanwhile, Air India Express said it would send three relief flights were to Kozhikode to assist passengers and their family members affected by the plane crash.Air India chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, and Air India Express chief executive officer K Shyam Sundar have already reached Kozhikode, according to a statement.“The Emergency Response Director is coordinating with all the agencies in Calicut (Kozhikode), Mumbai as well as Delhi, Dubai for effective emergency response. The AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau), DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) & Flight Safety Departments have reached for investigating the accident,” AIE, a subsidiary of national carrier Air India said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-was-shaking-it-was-a-nightmare-recount-survivors/story-oUZaTfJTbqy3EkoHiJqnyI.html
09-08-2020||India||Kozhikode plane crash: Chaos, screams at accident site as locals rush to rescue||Screams of pain, blood-soaked clothes, and the blare of ambulance sirens captured the distressing scene at the Kozhikode airport after an Air India Express flight overshot the runway and split into two pieces in an accident that killed 18 people in Kerala’s Kozhikode on Friday, eyewitnesses and rescue personnel said. After the accident, local residents pitched in to assist in the rescue work and helped shift injured passengers to various hospitals, eyewitnesses said. Also read: Investigators find black box of crashed Air India Express jet, probe begins“It was raining heavily and we suddenly heard a deafening sound, and the aircraft came out of the boundary wall and fell on the road. We couldn’t believe it. Soon we heard cries for help. Smoke was billowing and there was smell of fuel also,” said Mohamad Sahal, a local resident who was among the first to reach the accident spot. According to P Afzal, another resident of the area, many of them helped rescue officials. “Initially we did not wait for ambulances and evacuated the passengers in private vehicles and taxis. We also helped police in controlling traffic to make way for ambulances,” he said. Those at the site said they saw children cling on to rescue personnel even as people personal belongings from shoes to baggage were strewn around. “Small kids were trapped under the seats and it was such a distressing sight. When we reached there some were deplaned. Many of them were seriously injured. Legs were broken....My hands and shirt were soaked in the blood of the injured persons,” a man who said he rushed to the airport after hearing a “terrible thud” said. The chief minister, too, appreciated the instant response of the general public and the local authorities to the tragedy, which he said ensured minimum loss of lives in a disaster of such large magnitude.Also read: Day after Kozhikode air crash, stories of heartbreak and heroism“Even though 18 precious lives have been lost due to the impact of the crash, the rescue operations were a miraculous work. The general public and the officials played a big role in spearheading the rescue operations,” CM Pinarayi Vijayan said.Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan said: “It was a miracle we limited the damage. The local people were the first to reach the spot and they turned real heroes. They entered the aircraft risking their lives to save others. We have one aim, save maximum lives, and they played stellar role.”Chaos and confusion also prevailed outside hospitals in Malappuram district as relatives of those on-board the flight thronged to the medical facilities to enquire about their family members. P Noufal said his sister and five-year-old niece were on the flight that met with the accident. While he found his injured sister at Kozhikode’s Baby Memorial Hospital, he said he could not locate his niece despite making rounds of several hospitals in the district. He finally managed to find her at a private hospital with both her legs bandaged, Noufal said. Healthcare workers said they were trying their best to treat the injured. “Initially there was some confusion but we eventually managed it well. Out of 44 patients admitted here, seven are critical,” said Dr Azad Moopan, MD of Aster Health Care, a leading health chain in the state.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-screams-at-accident-site-as-locals-rush-to-rescue/story-6pXQi2t0tHHHrBTte52mAL.html
09-08-2020||India||6 BSP MLAs move Supreme Court for plea transfer||Six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers, who in 2019 merged with the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking the transfer of a disqualification petition pending before the Rajasthan high court against them over the defection to the apex court.Rajasthan assembly speaker C P Joshi approved the merger a day after the six joined the Congress and prompted opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to seek their disqualification in February. Joshi on July 30 rejected the BJP’s disqualification petition.The high court sought replies of Joshi and the six lawmakers by August 11 after BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar moved the court against the speaker’s order.“The entire basis for the petition [by Dilawar] pending before the high court is that there has been no merger between the BSP and the Congress. It is submitted that the speaker of the legislature, while acting under Paragraph 4 [Constitution’s 10th Schedule], is not concerned with the happenings outside the legislature, so long as two-thirds of the legislature party (ie members of a party within the assembly) has accepted the merger,” the six said in their plea.The 10th Schedule contains provisions relating to the disqualification of lawmakers for defection. One of the grounds for disqualification as per paragraph 2 of the schedule is voluntarily giving up membership of a political party on whose ticket a lawmaker is elected. According to paragraph 4, when two-third members of a political party merge with another political party, they are immune to disqualification.The six pleaded BSP’s entire legislative party merged with the Congress and therefore, the condition laid down in paragraph 4 is met and does not attract disqualification.The petitioners sought the transfer of the petition as the issues raised in it are under the Supreme Court’s consideration in another--Mithou Krose--case from Assam. The Mithou Krose case relates to an appeal against a 2015 Gauhati high court judgment, which said the only requirement under paragraph 4 is the merger of the legislature party and there is no requirement of the merger of parent political party.“There is an urgent need to clarify the law in respect to the scope of paragraph 4 of the 10th schedule to ensure that there are no conflicting judgments,” the petitioners said, seeking the transfer.“Therefore, the present transfer petition is being moved so that there may be a uniform interpretation of the law,” the six said in their plea filed through advocate Amit Pai.The six lawmakers are crucial to chief minister Ashok Gehlot as he faces a revolt by his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, and 18 Congress lawmakers supporting him. The Gehlot camp has claimed support of 101 legislators in the 200-member assembly. The BJP has 72 members in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-bjp-shifts-17-of-its-mlas-to-gujarat/story-W3FjcwecnZyZ42Q70269fO.html
09-08-2020||India||Swachh Bharat has played key role in Covid fight: PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that Centre’s flagship Swachh Bharat mission, a nationwide campaign to eliminate open defecation and improve solid waste management, has played a key role in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Launching a week-long garbage-free India campaign in the run up to Independence Day, called Gandagi Mukt Bharat, the Prime Minister said: “Imagine the situation if a Covid-19-like pandemic had hit us before 2014. Due to lack of toilets, could we have checked the spread of the infection? Would lockdown been possible when 60% of the population was forced to defecate in open?” the PM said. He also launched the Rashtriya Swachhata Kendra, an interactive experience centre on the Swachh Bharat Mission at the Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti at Rajghat. In his speech, Modi urged children, who attended the event, to follow social distancing norms and wear masks to guard against coronavirus.The PM also urged officials at the district level to construct toilets in all the villages and to repair the existing facilities during the week.He said areas where migrant workers are residing should get priority. “Together, we have to move forward ... preparing compost out of dirt, water recycling, getting rid of single-use plastic,” he said.Highlighting that August 8 is the anniversary of Quit India Movement, a drive launched by Mahatma Gandhi demanding an end to the British rule in India, Modi said that all should work towards ensuring that things that weaken the country quit India. “Poverty, compulsion to defecate in open, single-use plastic, discrimination, terror and violence, corruption, finding water with great difficulty have to quit India,” he said. Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi evoked the clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Pangong Tso to take a dig at the PM. “…We have to take an extra step and also clean the dirt of falsehood. Will the PM tell the truth of the Chinese attack to the nation and kick-start this satyagraha?” he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-bharat-has-played-key-role-in-covid-fight-pm/story-yDKgXlJhUt8OUQmIwK2JlI.html
09-08-2020||India||Audits more focused now: Outgoing CAG Rajiv Mehrishi||Retired IAS officer Rajiv Mehrishi, who demitted the office of Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on Friday, said that there has been a radical shift in the way the government’s auditor now works with its reports being more substantive and focused, and there being no “roving or fishing enquiries”. “We are a large ship and it takes time to turn. But some steps have been taken. If you look at CAG reports now, they are extremely meaningful,” Mehrishi, who headed the constitutional body for almost three years (from September 2017 till Friday), said. G C Murmu, who was Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, will take over as the new CAG on Saturday. Detailing how CAG now focuses on specific audits rather than going into policy issues or coming up with headline-making figures, Mehrishi said : “Take the example of performance audits (examining performance of government departments in accordance with principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness), which makes for the most interesting reading. What we were doing was in a dissipated and non-focused manner. The idea (now) is to get them to focus on issues and try to answer those issues”. His reference is to outcome-based audits . Mehrishi cited the example of CAG’s audit of Uttar Pradesh’s hospitals in December, in which it focused on specific issues such as the infant mortality data and the nurse to bed ratio. The audit body has also initiated the practice of engaging domain experts from various institutions,such as the Indian Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institutes of Management, so that there is “quality control” in writing the reports. Mehrishi said that CAG took help of a doctor while finalizing the audit report on UP hospitals. Similarly, IIT Delhi’s help was taken by CAG for a report on Delhi Metro.  CAG is also working on making its audit reports “shorter” and more accessible so that the general public can read and understand them. “The long reports are difficult to read.” Mehrishi also confirmed that CAG plans to conduct an audit of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme of the government with a focus on coverage (establishing correspondence between beneficiaries and benefits), efficiency, and design of payment process. The audit will also look at the outcomes. DBT is a scheme of government to transfer the benefits and subsidies of various social welfare schemes directly to the bank account of the beneficiary. Other officials in CAG, who didn’t wish to be named, said that a team of CAG visited Geneva last month to audit the World Health Organization (WHO). Mehrishi was elected as the external auditor of WHO in June 2019 for four years. Murmu will now take over the proceedings.CAG also plans to conduct an audit on the availability of drugs, medicines and equipment in all government medical institutions throughout the country, in which it will include procurement of Covid-19 equipments/medicines as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audits-more-focused-now-outgoing-cag/story-Mo5aquTClQopwcVELg6b0O.html
