10-08-2020||India||No timeline yet for reopening schools as states hesitate||No timeline has been fixed yet by the ministry of education to reopen schools, as a majority of states are not in favour of such a move due to the continuing spike in Covid-19 cases, according to persons familiar with the matter.While the government is looking at the possibility of starting classes for senior students from September-end or October, no final decision has been taken in this regard, they said.“No timeline has been fixed yet as the decision will completely depend on the pandemic situation. Barring one Union territory, no other state or UT is in favour of reopening schools in near future,” a person familiar with the matter said.“The ministry officials also emphasized before the panel that there would be no zero year. They also apprised the panel of the efforts made to gauge the effectiveness of the online teaching mode. Surveys, etc, are being conducted, including in municipal schools, to find out ways to make teaching more effective,” the person said.Earlier in the day, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank also said at an event that the decision to open campuses will be taken after discussions with states and other stakeholders. “Possibility of higher secondary classes in late September is being explored but there has been no final decision. Whenever it is decided, the Centre will only issue an advisory in this regard and states will have to take a call depending on the Covid-19 situation in their districts,” the person added.In July, the parliamentary panel for HRD had seen a rejig, with Vinay Sahasrabuddhe becoming the head addition of new members, including BJP MP Jyotiraditiya Scindia.Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day and threw economic activities out of gear. While the government has largely eased restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.Last month, the education ministry had sent out a letter to states and Union territories to furnish a feedback from parents of school-going children, as to when they would be comfortable with reopening of schools — August, September or October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-timeline-yet-for-reopening-schools-as-states-hesitate/story-qKaB34wbw2Ws2jQHdYPwdI.html
10-08-2020||India||No degrees without exams, UGC tells SC||India’s higher education regulator, the University Grants Commission (UGC), told the Supreme Court on Monday that degrees cannot be conferred on students without final year examinations being held and that it alone is empowered to take a call on whether or not the exams can take place or should be cancelled.State governments cannot cancel examinations, that power lies with the UGC, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing on behalf of the UGC, told the top court in response to the stance of the Delhi and Maharashtra governments that they have cancelled final year/ terminal semester examinations because of Covid -19.“How can states cancel exams when UGC is empowered to confer degrees? Students cannot get degrees without exams. Such degrees will not be recognized by UGC. That is the law,” Mehta told a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan.The bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, was hearing a batch of petitions by students and organizations challenging the July 6 guidelines issue by UGC on holding final year examinations by September 30.The petitioners have demanded that the apex court consider scrapping online/offline tests and instead direct the UGC to declare results by July 31 based on the past performance of students or internal assessment. “It’s not just about a couple of students. Any decision regarding exams impacts a large number of students,” said Mahesh Verma, vice chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University-- a state government-run institution in Delhi that has promoted students based on their performance in the last semester and internal tests. “Many of them are living in far-flung areas amid the pandemic and have no access to devices and the internet. They did not get opportunities to attend online classes. How can we take exams of students who could not be taught? ... We just hope the UGC realises the present challenges and ensure that students are not impacted by their decision.”  Delhi and Maharashtra governments invoked powers under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 to scrap the exams. The Disaster Management Act is a law intended to ensure effective management of disasters and it empowers central and state governments to take measures to mitigate disaster situations. Both are among the worst affected by the pandemic.“The powers under it {Disaster Management Act} are sweeping as we saw when the central government and states imposed lockdowns bringing life to a standstill and effectively curtailing various fundamental rights of citizens like right to move freely. If fundamental rights can be curtailed in exercise of that law, then postponing examinations is also reasonable. Hence, in my opinion the power of states under the Disaster Management Act will trump the powers of UGC,” Supreme Court advocate Haris Beeran said.Maharashtra announced its decision on June 19 and Delhi on July 11. The Maharashtra government told the apex court that it took the decision to scrap the final-year exams after the State Disaster Management Authority, constituted under the Disaster Management Act, recommended this against the background of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was submitted by Maharashtra that a majority of university vice chancellors from the state were against holding final-year examinations because of an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the state.Maharashtra has been hit the hardest among Indian states by the viral disease, reporting over 500,000 cases and 17,757 deaths till Sunday night. The Delhi government also adopted a similar stance, pointing out that not all students were able to attend online classes, citing a digital divide that made online teaching inaccessible to less privileged students.“During this extremely tough period, regular physical classes got completely interrupted. The students had no access to study material and the college libraries were closed, although getting access through online mode in such peculiar circumstances, the students did not get the kind of preparation needed to attempt a full-fledged examination,” the affidavit by the Delhi government said. Delhi reported over 145,000 cases and 4,111 deaths till Sunday night. All colleges have been shut since later March on account of Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed to fight it. In all, India imposed a 68-day lockdown between March 24 and May 31. Since then, some activities have been allowed, although educational institutions have not been allowed to reopen. Apart from Maharashtra and Delhi, states including Odisha, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have cancelled university exams including final-year exams. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had cancelled university exams except for final year/ terminal semester students.“The affidavits by Maharashtra and Delhi are against UGC guidelines. It is the UGC which confers degrees,” Mehta said.“But will the Disaster Management Act override the UGC directive?” the bench queried him, asking Mehta to respond in an affidavit.The matter was adjourned to enable the UGC to file its response and will be heard again on August 14.A government official said the matter was “sub-judice” and added that the regulator’s move was keeping in mind the UGC Act and regulations related to exams and degrees. At an event earlier in the day, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the decision on exams was taken to ensure that the shadow of Covid did not fall on the degrees of students and their careers were not affected. The minister was asked a question about the opening of schools, to which he replied that a decision would be taken keeping in mind the safety of students and staff.The UGC filed an affidavit before the top court on July 30 defending its July 6 directive that examinations be held by September-end. stating that the academic future of students will be irreparably damaged if the examinations are not held.The final-year/ terminal semester examinations were initially scheduled to be held in July. This was based on April 29 guidelines issued by UGC based on the recommendations of an expert committee headed by Chairperson of Central University of Haryana, RC Kuhad.Keeping in view the evolving Covid-19 situation, UGC, in June, requested the expert committee to revisit the guidelines. Based on the expert committee’s recommendations, fresh guidelines were then issued on July 6, directing that examinations be held by the end of September.The guidelines say that universities could conduct the examinations in the online or offline mode and by ensuring adherence to social distancing norms.A Covid-19 positive student was one of the petitioners raising the demand for the exams to be cancelled. Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, was also a petitioner before the Court.“Final-year/ terminal semester examinations are important because the learning process of a dynamic interaction where the only way to figure out what the students know is to seek evidence of their knowledge. Academic evaluation of final-year students is, therefore, a very important milestone in any education system,” UGC said.Manoj Khanna, principal of Delhi University’s Ramjas College, agreed. “It would be very difficult to assess students on the basis of internal marks. It cannot be a proper form of assessment and it can be an injustice to students who prepare well for the final exams. Not taking exams won’t be justifiable.” Khanna said.Many students, however, are against the UGC’s insistence on conducting final-year exams. “Many state universities are promoting their final year students on the basis of last semester and internal assessment and still the UGC is adamant about conducting exams,” Amal K Simon, a final year BSc (Physics) student at Ramjas College in New Delhi, said. “The students are going through a lot of issues amid the pandemic. Families of many students are going through major financial crisis.”“It is an incontrovertible fact that as per the Parliamentary Act, UGC is the only agency to lay down rules for the grants of degrees for all kinds of universities: Cental, State, Deemed, Private. It has also the power to derecognise the degree awarded in violation of the UGC guidelines. However, in these unprecedented Covid pandemic times it is desirable that a legal or political fight should not mar the future of millions of final year students or inordinately delay their results. MHRD and UGC should immediately engage in a dialogue with the contending states to reach an amicable and academically sound solution,” said former UGC member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-degrees-without-exams-ugc-tells-sc/story-S8YztuPVaEm89eajZ3kE4H.html
10-08-2020||India||BJP wants more security for party workers in Kashmir Valley||After the killing of five party workers in the last two months by terror groups that has stoked panic among the cadre in the Kashmir Valley, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Jammu and Kashmir unit has sought more secured living spaces for senior functionaries and representatives at the panchayat and district levels. According to a party functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity, the demand for “safe spaces” in Srinagar and other district headquarters was made to BJP president JP Nadda last week. “There is a clear targeted killing of BJP workers; the party is working on measures that will be taken to address the concerns of the workers in the Valley. As for now they have been urged to remain cautious and avoid travelling unless it is urgent,” said a senior BJP leader in Delhi. There is intelligence input that attacks could intensify in the run up to the Independence Day, the functionary said. After the killing of Ajay Bharti, a Congress man and the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in south Kashmir’s Larkipora area in June, five BJP workers were gunned down, these include the killing of Wasim Bari, his brother Umar Bashir and father Bashir Ahmed who were all shot outside their shop in Bandipora in July, Sarpanch, Sajad Ahmad Khanday in Kulgam on Friday and party worker Abdul Hamid Najar in Budgam who succumbed to injuries on Monday. “Six others have been injured in attacks,” said a BJP functionary based in Kashmir. The functionary said while a number of Sarpanches and block development officials have been provided accommodation away from their native districts and villages, there is a need to consider construction of safe houses at district headquarters where their families can be accommodated as well. “When the panchayat member of the BDC visit their homes they become sitting ducks for terrorists. There is no doubt that the number of panchayat representatives runs into thousands, and providing security will be difficult; but some steps have to be taken to assure the workers who have opted to work for the development of the people,” said the functionary quoted above. Killing of political workers in the Valley started soon after the eruption of terrorism in the former state in the last 1990s. Regional satraps, the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party claim to have lost hundreds of party workers to terror attacks over the past three decades. Hina Bhatt, who contested the 2014 general elections on a BJP ticket and is currently the vice chairperson of the Khadi Village Industries Board said political party workers on the ground are a “soft target” and their killing is used as a message to discourage others from joining the political mainstream. “When the NC and the PDP were in power, their workers and functionaries were targeted; now it is the BJP workers who are being attacked. A lot of people in the Valley are joining the BJP, which is a setback for the terror groups,” she said. The increase in attacks against political workers Bhatt said is also retaliation against the crackdown on terrorists in the Valley. “In the last one year so many terrorists have been killed, so this is the easiest way to demoralise those who support the government and party workers,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wants-more-security-for-party-workers-in-kashmir-valley/story-VmtmFhTozYKSG70Aq2HlwK.html
10-08-2020||India||Groupism or nepotism, public always had the control button, says Shreedhar Dubey||Lucknowite Shreedhar Dubey feels groupism is deadlier than nepotism. “Favouritism towards family members is something that has always been happening but groupism is far dangerous: harming someone because the individual is close to someone is very bad.“When a celebrity kid is launched, actors like us – who are looking to establish themselves – get good roles and money. It gives us an opportunity to showcase our talent to the industry people, which in turn fetches us better work,” said the actor, who was seen as a cop with Nawazuddin Siddiqui in ‘Raat Akeli Hai’, shot in the state capital. Wading into the nepotism and groupism debate the ‘Pataal Lok’ and ‘Rangbaaz’ actor said, “The problem starts at the senior level when one is looking for lead roles. But, the great thing in our industry is that actual control is in the hands of the public. If you are perceived to be aligned to a certain group, people may reduce your screen time before release, or cut your role but the public can still make you king if you have performed well. Now, with OTT, it has become more democratic as the audience decides what to watch.“I am at a stage where people now recognise me by face but do not know me by name. But when people see your work, they search for you. This is proven by the love I get on my social media handles.”Born in Varanasi, he has grown up in Lucknow. “I studied in Ramadhin Singh Inter College, KKC, KKV and Lucknow University. I obtained a NCC C-certificate as I wanted to join the army but could not. During a R-Day camp, I was impressed by a talented cadet, Neeraj, and he suggested that I join theatre. So, I reached Bhartendu Natya Academy (2001) for a workshop and that changed my life.” There he realised the importance of good literature. “I had read Munshi Premchand, Jai Shankar Prasad and other writers to get numbers in exams but here I came to know about their legendary work and art. I was raw but got selected for the comprehensive National School of Drama workshop. On my selection, I was told, ‘Kabhi kabhi hum kore kagaz lete hain jispe kuch likha jaa sake (You have been selected because you can be moulded. A blank sheet of paper is best to write on)’. Thereafter, I joined a three-month Sangeet Natak Academy workshop. I also learnt kathak and we did some dance-dramas. What I learnt in those years are lessons for life…”After doing some TV shows in Lucknow, his first film was ‘Shudra’ but first to release was ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ where he played a goon Riyaz. “That was a small but noticeable role. Then I played Vicky Kaushal’s friend in ‘Masaan’, followed by ‘Mukkabaaz’, ‘Half Girlfriend’, ‘Sonchiraiya’ and ‘Photograph’. I played Guruji’s (Pankaj Tripathi) father in ‘Sacred Games’ and a journalist in ‘Pataal Lok’.” He also did a short film ‘Suno’ which was shot by Diwakar Bhattacharya, another Lucknowite.Acting helped him realise one of his dreams. “I played cop in ‘RAH’ and now wish to wear the uniform of the Indian Army. I could not do it in real life but wish to do that on screen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/groupism-or-nepotism-public-always-had-the-control-button-says-shreedhar-dubey/story-lcEUQtUoTAKP7fOpSHFEGN.html
10-08-2020||India||Small Bengal village has remained under lockdown since March 22. It is Covid-19 free||Located barely seven kilometres away from Siliguri town in north Bengal, Toribari village, which stands next to the Mahananda Wild Life Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district, continues to be under complete lockdown since March 22 because that’s the way the villagers want to live. The residents, who live in 94 houses that comprise the small village, do not allow outsiders although the place used to be one of the most popular tourist spots in the region till the Covid-19 pandemic started. The villagers draw satisfaction from the fact that Toribari did not have a single Covid-19 patient yet although the number of cases is rising in north Bengal. No government official could, however, confirm if Toribari is the only Covid-19 free village in Jalpaiguri district. The villagers allow entry of outsiders only during an emergency but not unless thorough sanitization is carried out. Yuden Lepcha, secretary of Toribari village development committee said, “The village is vulnerable as it has a temple, a church and a monastery. It is the most popular picnic spot for people living in and around Siliguri. We have to be careful.” “The villagers decided to continue the lockdown although the government started the Unlock process some time ago. The committee has hired people to keep vigil on the movement of people,” said Sudip Pradhan, vice president of the local joint forest management committee. “There are times when visitors behave rudely after they are stopped by the hired guards. Senior committee members have to rush and restore order. Once normalcy is restored we will welcome all visitors,” Pradhan said. Till August 9, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts recorded 39 and 14 Covid-19 related deaths respectively. Most of these occurred in the Siliguri sub-division and Siliguri Municipal Corporation area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/small-bengal-village-has-remained-under-lockdown-since-march-22-it-is-covid-19-free/story-Ppc07Uf8WCJSkkosm6rORI.html
10-08-2020||India||N Ram’s petition deleted as it sought stay on Prashant Bhushan’s contempt pleas, says SC||Days after the Supreme Court ordered an inquiry as to how a petition filed by senior journalist N Ram, former Union Minister Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan challenging the contempt of court law got listed before a bench other than the one which was hearing contempt petitions against Bhushan, it has now emerged that the petition contained an application for staying all contempt proceedings against the advocate.The application mentioned the two contempt petitions pending against Bhushan before a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. One was a 2009 contempt case initiated against Bhushan for his interview given to Tehelka magazine where he alleged half of past 16 Chief Justices of India (CJI) to be corrupt. The other contempt case was initiated on two tweets by Bhushan. One criticized CJI SA Bobde of riding a bike while keeping Courts closed and another was directed against the judiciary for destroying democracy without a formal Emergency. The tweets were of June 27 and June 29. A statement released by the Supreme Court on Monday said, “In the Writ Petition titled as N. Ram and Others v Union of India, an application for stay has been moved making a request to stay all the proceedings in criminal contempt cases pending against Petitioner no. 3 (Prashant Bhushan).” On receiving this petition, the SC Registry listed the matter before a bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud on Monday, August 10. But the petition was withdrawn after this application surfaced. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain how the petition got listed before a bench other than Justice Mishra. Pending such inquiry, the statement makes it amply clear why the matter was deleted from the list of Justice Chandrachud. The note released by SC said, “It is a cardinal principle of law that a coordinate bench cannot stay the proceedings of ongoing cases which are pending before other similar bench. This would have created a problem as one Court cannot stay the proceedings of other court having the same jurisdiction.” The petition by Ram, Bhushan and Shourie is yet to be listed. The petition has challenged the validity of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Acty 1971 which criminalizes publication of any matter that could scandalize or lower the authority of courts. The petition alleged that this provision violates freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution and gags discourse on matters of public importance. The stay application annexed with the petition had prayed to “stay all ongoing proceedings in criminal contempt cases pending against the Petitioner no 3 herein, that are either based on the definition of criminal contempt as defined under Section 2(c)(i) of Contempt of Courts Act or are intrinsically linked to the same during the pendency of the instant writ petition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/n-ram-s-petition-deleted-as-it-sought-stay-on-prashant-bhushan-s-contempt-pleas-says-sc/story-w5TzweXUZAqJLsPVUUGLKM.html
10-08-2020||India||Covid-19 patient attempts to end life twice in hospital in Gwalior||A 40-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly made attempts to end life twice in less than 30 minutes on Monday - first by slitting his wrist and then jumping off the third floor at Jaya Arogya Government multi-specialty hospital in Gwalior where he is being treated, the hospital administration said. His condition is stated to be serious due to injuries he sustained and loss of blood.The man told hospital administration that he took this extreme step as he was depressed. “He had renal failure. His mother recently donated a kidney to him and then he tested positive for coronavirus. He was in a state of depression as he thought that he was becoming a burden for his family,” said RKS Dhakad, superintendent of Jaya Arogya government multi-specialty hospital. He said the man was admitted at the hospital on Saturday after he was found Covid-19 positive. “The man first slit his wrist at around 3 pm in the bathroom of the hospital and after a few minutes, he jumped off the third floor of the hospital. He fell on a tin shed and sustained serious injuries in his legs and hands. His condition is serious due to loss of blood,” Dhakad said.Gwalior superintendent of police Amit Sanghi said, “We have informed the patient’s family. We are investigating the matter and will record his statement once his condition stabilizes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-attempts-to-end-life-twice-in-hospital-in-gwalior/story-op1jKcDgJzyzv301k2g97H.html
10-08-2020||India||Submarine optical fibre cable will transform lives in Andaman and Nicobar: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated the people of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and all those who had worked on the submarine optical fibre cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair and said the improved connectivity in the archipelago would transform lives in the near future.“When I visited Andaman and Nicobar Islands in 2018, people complained about poor internet. A 2,300 km long submarine cable inaugurated today changes that! In quick time and challenging geographies, the cable is all set to transform lives. Kudos to those who worked on this,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.PM Modi earlier on Monday morning inaugurated the submarine optical fibre cable connecting Chennai and Port Blair, via video conferencing. He had laid the foundation stone for this project in December 2018 at Port Blair. Emphasising that the optical fibre cable would ensure high-speed broadband connectivity, fast mobile and landline telecom services and would also give an impetus to the local economy, the Prime Minister said, “Today August 10 is a special day for my sisters and brothers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Inauguration of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable in the islands will ensure high-speed broadband connectivity, reliable mobile and landline telecom services, delivery of e-governance, telemedicine and tele-education.”According to a release by Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat.ALSO READ | OFC an early gift for people of Andaman-Nicobar on I-Day: PM ModiThe Prime Minister further said that the efforts of the government will establish the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago as a prominent place on the global tourist map within the next decade. The new infrastructure in Andaman and Nicobar Islands will also create employment opportunities.Home minister Amit Shah also lauded the first undersea optical fibre project to provide high-speed internet connectivity to Andaman and Nicobar Islands.In a series of tweets, he described it as a “momentous day” for the people of Andaman and Nicobar Islands after the Prime Minister inaugurated the 2,312-kilometer-long submarine optical fibre cable (OFC) connecting Port Blair, Little Andaman and Swaraj Island. Shah said the mammoth project had enormous challenges, but was completed well before its timeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/submarine-optical-fibre-cable-will-transform-lives-in-andaman-and-nicobar-pm-modi/story-JM7YYp3JGBVITJedi0aXTI.html
10-08-2020||India||After bruising battle with Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot calls for restraint and humility||Hours after the Congress decided to form a high-level committee to look into the grievances of all its rebel leaders in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot who had rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, called for restraint and humility.“Several things were said, I heard a lot of things. I was surprised by a few things that were said. I think we should always maintain restraint and humility. There is no place for personal malice in politics. We had formed the government in Rajasthan after 5 years of hard work,” ANI quoted Pilot as saying late Monday night after a meeting with Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal in Delhi.Pilot, who had pitched camp Manesar with 18 MLAs had earlier been accused of hobnobbing with the BJP to bring down his own party’s government. On Monday, he insisted that there were issues that needed to be raised for the party’s interest.“Since past some time some MLAs were in Delhi, there were some issues which we wanted to highlight. I did that. I’d been saying since beginning that all these things were based on principle. I always thought these things are essential to be raised in the party’s interest,” he said.Earlier in the day, Pilot met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to end the revolt in the state unit that threatened the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government, people familiar with the development said.The patch up in the party came ahead of an assembly session in Rajasthan on August 14.Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and removed as Congress chief in Rajasthan last month after his differences with Gehlot came to a head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bruising-battle-with-ashok-gehlot-sachin-pilot-calls-for-restraint-and-humility/story-wNHKJuj07qDDeZqd5BpoXK.html
10-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu case count breaches 3 lakh mark, toll surges past 5,000||Tamil Nadu on Monday crossed three lakh Covid-19 cases while the death toll crossed the 5,000 mark with the addition of 114 fatalities.With 5,914 new cases, the infection tally touched 3,02,815 and the 100 plus deaths for the eighth consecutive day took the toll to 5,041, a government Covid bulletin said.The state took just 16 days to reach the three lakh mark compared to the 22 days it had taken for the two lakh milestone on July 25. The one lakh tally was recorded on July 3.The 6,037 recoveries on Monday eclipsed the fresh infections and cumulatively 2,44,675 people have got cured so far and only 53,099 were the active cases.A four month-old girl child, a 14 year-old boy, four women, aged 21, 25, 27 and 32, and two men in their 30s were among those who succumbed to the virus on Monday.In total, 105 of the dead had comorbidities.In the state’s tally of total cases, Chennai accounted for 1,10,121 while adjoining districts of Chengelpet 18,332, Kancheepuram 12,131 and Tiruvallur 17,340 cases.Other northern districts, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Tirupattur together tallied 33,558 cases.The northern districts, including Chennai, account for 63.23 per cent of the total positive cases in the state.Madurai’s share was 12,104, Virudhunagar 10,155, Tuticorin 9,357 and Coimbatore 6,961.Of the new cases on Monday, Chennai recorded 976 while the combined total of Chengelpet (483), Kancheepuram (310) and Tiruvallur (399) stood at 1,192.Southern district ofTheni which has been witnessing a rise in cases added 357 more while Madurai reported 100, marking a dip when compared with the trend of high numbers witnessed by the temple city recently.Barring August 2 and 8, the recoveries have outnumbered the fresh cases this month till date. As many as 67,153 samples were tested and in total, 32,92,958 specimens have been examined and all tests were RT- PCR based as Tamil Nadu does not use the Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Test (RADT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-case-count-breaches-3-lakh-mark-toll-surges-past-5-000/story-Mnrt9z0x8CPsFQMbZOUznL.html
10-08-2020||India||BJP-led coalition govt sails through trust vote in 53-member Manipur assembly||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government headed by chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh sailed through the trust vote (in a voice vote) in the Manipur assembly on Monday evening.“Manipur BJP government has won the trust vote. The ayes have it. Devious plans of Congress to destabilize the government have failed. Congrats CM N Biren Singhji,” Rajat Sethi, advisor to the CM tweeted.In the 53-member assembly, including the Speaker, 28 ruling party MLAs (including deputy speaker) were present in the house while 16 opposition Congress MLAs (out of 24) headed by opposition leader and former chief minister O Ibobi Singh were present in the opposition bench while discussing the day’s confidence motion.The 60-member Manipur assembly had earlier been reduced to a strength of 53 after four members were disqualified under the anti-defection law and 3 BJP MLAs resigned.Speaker Yumnam Khemchand presided over the session in the presence of the deputy speaker.Earlier moving the confidence motion in the house, chief minister N Biren Singh highlighted various development projects which are being taken up in the state.Informing that the state will begin double cropping once the check dam and groundwater projects are completed, he also admitted that there are no reports of community transmission of Covid 19 in the state.On July 28, the Opposition Congress party issued a notice for a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led coalition government’s alleged failure to hand over a 2018 drugs haul case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Earlier, the day long 11th session of the assembly began with an obituary reference to former Governor Ved Prakash Marwah and two former members Dr Leishangthem Chandramani Singh and Danny Shaiza of the Manipur assembly. The two former members of the assembly include former deputy chief minister and assembly speaker Dr Leishangthem Chandramani Singh and first Naga BJP MLA Danny Shaiza from Ukhrul district.Participating in the obituary reference, the chief minister lauded the role played by former Governor Ved Marwah, Dr Chandramani and Danny Shaiza in developing the state in diverse fields. Marwah passed away on June 5, while Dr Chandramani and Danny Shaiza on April 4 and February 28 respectively.Deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh, Forest Minister Awangbow Newmai, opposition leader O Ibobi Singh, Congress MLAs K Govindas Konthoujam, K Ranjit, AK Mirabai, Alfred K Arthur besides ruling MLA Khasim Vashum also participated in the obituary reference. The house also observed a 2-minutes’ silence in honour of the leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-led-coalition-govt-sails-through-trust-vote-in-53-member-manipur-assembly/story-RyylTKGtiSEEiQK3lTzJdP.html
10-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh outlines initiatives for self-reliance in defence||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday outlined a raft of initiatives to boost the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India movement) and reduce dependence on imported military hardware.Among the initiatives listed for the ‘Atma-Nirbharta Week’ celebrations are upgrading facilities of defence public sector undertakings, modernisation of shipyards, launching locally-made defence items and signing of new memoranda of understanding with the private sector to enhance indigenisation. During a virtual launch of some of the initiatives as part of the Atma-Nirbharta Week celebrations, Singh said the government had made “timely and thoughtful interventions” during the Covid-19 pandemic including issuing a negative list for imports, raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the defence sector and creating a separate budget for domestic capital procurement to promote self-reliance. From artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles, India on Sunday announced that it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. “This list of negative items contains not only small items but weapon systems of high and critical technology. More such items will be added to this list shortly which will save crore of rupees in imports,” the minister said. It is an established fact that military balance between adversaries cannot be measured or evaluated on imported systems that reflect the degree to which a country’s security has been outsourced, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General (retd) AS Lamba.“With focus on research and development, new defence technologies and defence manufacturing, the negative import list released on Sunday reflects an aggressive and compelling strategy towards indigenisation,” General Lamba said. The former army vice chief added that India’s leap towards military industrialisation would alter the dynamics of not only the country’s capability and military posturing, but its export programme can bring greater confidence and stability in a new South Asia The Pinaka rocket complex at Ordnance Factory Chanda in Maharashtra is upgrading its facilities to meet the army’s enhanced requirement of rockets, and Bharat Electronics Limited has indigenised the Maareech integration facility for manufacturing, integration and testing of the anti-torpedo defence system designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the defence ministry said in a statement. It added that the Kolkata-based Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Ltd has enhanced its capacities to meet the production requirement for the ongoing P-17A project to build warships. Also, a steel preparation shop was inaugurated at the Goa Shipyard on Monday for indigenous construction of glass reinforced plastic (GRP) hulls for minesweeping vessels. Imports account for 60-65% of India’s military requirements and the country has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers. India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April. The ongoing border row with China in eastern Ladakh has lent fresh urgency to develop a robust defence industrial base to boost the military’s capabilities with locally-made weapons and systems. The focus on self-reliance in the defence sector comes at a time when India is making emergency military purchases from several countries including the United States, Russia, Israel and France. The border conflict has forced India to speed up the purchase of military hardware including fighter jets, smart air-to-ground weapons, missiles, rockets, multi-mission drones, air defence systems, GPS-guided artillery ammunition, tank ammunition and even assault rifle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-outlines-initiatives-for-self-reliance-in-defence/story-ewfDRcYIJs8CnlKg2x3MJJ.html
10-08-2020||India||‘Only needs to withdraw resignation’: Shashi Tharoor on Rahul Gandhi as Cong chief||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday said if Rahul Gandhi was ready to helm the Congress party he only had to withdraw his resignation and party workers, CWC members and everyone else would be willing to accept him as their leader since he had been the incumbent chief of the party earlier. “If Rahul Gandhi is ready to resume the leadership, he only has to withdraw his resignation. I think party workers, Congress Working Committee and everyone will accept that because he was the incumbent president elected in December 2017,” Tharoor said.“If he says, no I don’t want to come back, then the question that many of the party members are asking – ‘How long can we carry on like this?’ - that is the question. We would ideally like a clear-cut decision as soon as possible,” the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.ALSO READ | ‘Congress needs to find new chief to arrest perception of being rudderless’: Shashi TharoorA day earlier, on Sunday, Tharoor had said that the Congress needed to hasten the process of finding a full-term president to arrest the growing public perception that the party was “adrift and rudderless”. He also said that he certainly thought that Rahul Gandhi had the “mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party”, but if he did not wish to do so then the party must “take action” and elect a new chief soon.The Congress party on the other hand announced on the same day within a few hours that Sonia Gandhi will continue as the interim president till such time that a “proper procedure” is implemented in the “not too distant future” to elect a party chief.ALSO READ | Sonia Gandhi to stay Congress president till election of new party chiefFormer party chief and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had quit as the president after the party’s massive drubbing in the Lok Sabha polls held in 2019 and despite repeated appeals from party colleagues and Congress workers, he had not taken back his resignation. Sonia Gandhi had then stepped in as interim president later that year.Sonia Gandhi’s tenure as interim chief comes to an end on August 10, one year after she assumed the post, but that does not indicate that the seat automatically falls vacant that day, senior Congress leaders have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-needs-to-withdraw-his-resignation-shashi-tharoor-on-rahul-gandhi-as-congress-chief/story-7H04qJjNzHqtuoIEqK8u8M.html
10-08-2020||India||3 arrested after 10 killed in fire at Andhra hotel used as Covid centre||The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city on Monday arrested three top executives of Ramesh Hospital in connection with the fire accident at Swarna Palace hotel in the city which claimed the death of 10 Covid-19 patients and caused injuries to 18 others on Sunday morning.The arrested were: Dr Kodali Rajagopal Rao, chief operating officer of Ramesh Hospital; Dr Kurapathi Sudershan, general manager; and Pallabothu Venkatesh, coordinating manager of the hospital at Swarna Palace Hotel which was engaged as the Covid care centre.Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu said in a statement that the Governorpet police had registered a criminal case, following a complaint from Vijayawada Central tehsildar (block revenue official) Jayasri against the managements of Ramesh Hospital and Swarna Palace Hotel under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 308 read with 34 (acts amounting to culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.“A special team of the police led by Vikrant Patil, deputy commissioner of police (law and order) has been constituted to investigate the case. The arrests were made as part of the investigation,” the police commissioner said.Three district level committees involving police, revenue, fire and health officials conducted searches at hotel, hospital and residences of the heads of the two institutions. They seized documents pertaining to the lease agreement. The health department also launched verification of the Covid care centres across the state. Meanwhile, hospital managing director Dr P Ramesh Babu said in a video message that the safety aspects at the Covid care centre were the responsibility of the hotel management as per the MOU between Ramesh Hospital and Swarna Palace.“We provide treatment to the patients and the centre maintenance should be taken care of by the hotel management”, he said. He also revealed that Ramesh Hospital had taken two hotels on lease and had about 200 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-after-10-killed-in-fire-at-andhra-hotel-used-as-covid-centre/story-LHm1JQEtfyzqa5XuS7wGAK.html
10-08-2020||India||McDonald’s sues former CEO Steve Easterbrook for lying about sexual relationships||McDonald’s Corp. sued ousted leader Steve Easterbrook, seeking to recover tens of millions of dollars in severance pay after discovering evidence he had sexual relationships with multiple employees, tried to cover it up and arranged for one worker to get a lucrative stock award.His termination last fall over an improper relationship shouldn’t have included severance pay because he “concealed evidence and lied about his wrongdoing,” the company said in a filing.Easterbrook had originally admitted to having a consensual relationship with just one co-worker, but information the company received from an anonymous tip in July led the company to further investigate. It concluded he had been involved in sexual relationships with three additional company employees before his exit, according to a company filing Monday.The evidence also shows Easterbrook approved a special discretionary grant of restricted stock units worth hundreds of thousands of dollars to one of the employees after their first sexual encounter -- and just days before their second, the company said.As a result, the fast-food chain filed a complaint in the Delaware Chancery Court to recover any compensation and severance benefits that he received when he left his post. The company has also taken steps to prevent Easterbrook from exercising any stock options or selling any shares.Company MemoChris Kempczinski, who took over as CEO when Easterbrook was pushed out, alerted company employees about the action Monday.“We recently became aware, through an employee report, of new information regarding the conduct of our former CEO, Steve Easterbrook,” he wrote in the internal memo, reviewed by Bloomberg News. “While the board made the right decision to swiftly remove him from the company last November, this new information makes it clear that he lied and destroyed evidence regarding inappropriate personal behavior and should not have retained the contractual compensation he did upon his exit.”Easterbrook got $675,000 in severance and health insurance benefits and stock awards that Bloomberg valued at more than $37 million last November.McDonald’s shares were little changed in premarket trading Monday in New York. McDonald’s rose 3.5% this year through Friday, roughly in line with the S&P 500 Index.Naked photosAccording to the complaint, the evidence against Easterbrook includes dozens of naked or explicit photographs and videos of various women, including some employees, that Easterbrook had sent as attachments to his personal email account from his work account. The time stamps on the photos of employees show they were all taken in late 2018 or early 2019, when he was CEO.“The photographs are undisputable evidence that Easterbrook repeatedly violated the company’s prohibition of any kind of intimate relationship between employees in a direct or indirect reporting relationship,” McDonald’s said in the filing. “They are undisputable evidence that Easterbrook lied during the investigation into his behavior in October 2019.”The company said wasn’t aware of the photographs before July 2020, despite doing an earlier investigation of his behavior in the fall. That’s because Easterbrook appeared to have deleted the emails and photos from his company phone before it was searched by independent counsel in late October 2019, according to the complaint.However, the deletion of the emails from his phone didn’t also delete them from his email account stored on the company’s servers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mcdonald-s-sues-former-ceo-steve-easterbrook-for-lying-about-allegedly-inappropriate-sexual-relationships/story-83ek2FFUmayxJX94kLrALO.html
10-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: What made Shah Faesal change his mind so abruptly, asks Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.What made Shah Faesal change his mind so abruptly, asks Mehbooba Mufti’s daughterFormer Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday questioned the resignation of former IAS officer Shah Faesal as president of the J&K People’s Movement party last year. Read more.In UK, only 53% people likely to go in for a coronavirus vaccine finds recent studyA large number of young people in the United Kingdom, one of the worst hit countries by the Covid-19 pandemic, are likely to steer clear of the coronavirus vaccine, according to a new study. The research has found that 22% of people under the age of 34 have said they may or may not go in for the vaccine as opposed to 11% of those aged between 55 and 75—who have wanted to avoid the jab. Read more.‘Before you pull, you should know who you’re facing’: When Shoaib Akhtar sledged Ashish Nehra in PunjabiThe rivalry shared between India and Pakistan is filled with legendary tales and adding to the list is former left-arm fast bowler Ashish Nehra, who has revealed one such incident where Shoaib Akhtar had some words to say to him. Read more.Randeep Hooda broke his pledge for Extraction, apologised at a gurudwara after cutting his hair: ‘I was very heartbroken throughout the filming’Actor Randeep Hooda was waiting to play a Sikh soldier in his Hindi film Battle of Saragarhi when he landed one of the lead roles in the Hollywood film, Extraction. The actor had grown his beard and hair for the long-delayed film and had pledged not to cut them until the completion of the Battle if Saragarhi. The Sarabjit actor has now opened up about how heartbroken he was when he had to break his promise in order to get into the look of his character in Extraction. Read more.‘Sushant Singh Rajput was not on good terms with his father’: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut stood by his remark on actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his father’s relationship. The Shiv Sena leader said that Sushant was not on good terms with father KK Singh. Raut added that he has sympathies for Singh, but there are ‘many things that will come to surface’. Watch video.Galaxy M51 could be the next powerful Samsung mid-range phone in IndiaThe Samsung Galaxy M51 has been in the news for quite some time now. Over the past couple of months, reports have detailed the features that Samsung’s upcoming M-series smartphone is expected to feature. Now, a new report says that the phone is getting closer to launch. Read more.Sweatsuit is the new pantsuitWith nowhere to go and actors spending a great deal of time indoors, active wear separates and twinsets have replaced dresses and pantsuits. From Kareena Kapoor Khan to Anushka Sharma, from Deepika Padukone to Esha Gupta - actors have been spotted chilling in their sporty leggings, yoga pants and crop tops. Internationally, the likes of Hailey Bieber, Kim Kardashian West and Kylie Jenner have been spotted sporting active wear separates. Read more.Netflix India boards the trend train with these ‘Binod’ inspired memes. Check them outIf you’ve been on the Internet recently, then you may have heard of the Binod trend. As peculiar as it sounds, under this trend everything and everyone is, you guessed it, Binod. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-what-made-shah-faesal-change-his-mind-so-abruptly-asks-mehbooba-mufti-s-daughter-and-all-the-latest-news/story-66Y02SxjUD228icC6qJKCJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Maharashtra reports 9,181 fresh cases of Covid-19, death toll crosses 18k||A total of 9,181 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday took Maharashtra’s tally to 5,24,513, the state health department said.Out of the 9,181 fresh cases, 925 cases were from Mumbai which now has a tally of 1,24,307.Maharashtra’s death toll in the pandemic crossed the 18,000-mark with 293 new fatalities, 46 of which were in Mumbai. The death toll now stands at 18,050.On Monday, 6,711 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,58,421, the health department said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Maharashtra currently has 1,47,735 active cases of Covid-19, including 19,172 in Mumbai.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 5 lakh mark on Saturday with the highest single-day spike of 12,822 new Covid-19. The state added one lakh cases of Covid-19 in 10 days between July 29 and August 9.The state continues to be the one with the highest tally of Covid-19 9 in the country and accounts for almost one-fourth of the country’s tally of 22,15,074 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-9-181-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-18k/story-SaTDw7wTcYZDKaJDaUxt0O.html
10-08-2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Delhi model’ features in Central team’s suggestion to Telangana||A three-member Central team, which is on a two-day visit to Hyderabad to review the Covid-19 management in Telangana, asked the state government to step up testing for coronavirus and also made a presentation on the ‘Delhi model’ as an example in containing the virus spread.Telangana has been reporting a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last few days. Till Monday, the total number of positive cases in the state has crossed 80,000 with the 1,256 cases in the last 24 hours. The state has also reported 637 deaths so far.The central team, led by NITI Aayog member Dr Vinod Kumar Paul, held several rounds of discussions with the state government officials, including chief secretary Somesh Kumar.On Monday, the team, which also consists of senior officials from the Union ministry of health, had a detailed discussion with state health minister Eatala Rajender. The team felt that an increase in testing is crucial to control the pandemic.“The state and central governments would work together on an action plan discussed in the meeting to flatten the curve,” Dr Paul said after the meeting.The Central team made a presentation on the ‘Delhi model’ to highlight the steps taken towards effective containment.The chief secretary explained to the Central team that testing had been ramped up in the state in the recent days. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, during the recent cabinet meeting, directed the officials to increase the testing to 40,000 daily and allotted special funds to handle the Covid pandemic in the state,” he said.The team was all praise for the state government for introducing an innovative mobile application – Home Isolation Telemedicine and Management (HITAM), through which the health of the Covid-19 patients under home isolation is being monitored. “The doctors have been extending telemedicine facility to the patients in home quarantine through HITAM application. The health department is being assisted by a team of senior officers for support on key thematic areas of pandemic management,” the chief secretary said.Paul said that details of the HITAM app would be shared with other states along with all good work done by the state in other areas related to Covid management. He said that Hospital preparedness levels, infection control measures, providing treatment for patients etc were very satisfactory. The health minister said that the state government was working in close coordination with the central government to control the spread of the virus. The team expressed satisfaction on testing and treatment protocol in the state. The members gave suggestions on prevention of virus in rural areas, an official release by the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-model-features-in-central-team-s-suggestion-to-telangana/story-vBCDYHfq9ZEEHG2pU7egqJ.html
10-08-2020||India||In UK, only 53% people likely to go in for a coronavirus vaccine finds recent study||A large number of young people in the United Kingdom, one of the worst hit countries by the Covid-19 pandemic, are likely to steer clear of the coronavirus vaccine, according to a new study. The research has found that 22% of people under the age of 34 have said they may or may not go in for the vaccine as opposed to 11% of those aged between 55 and 75—who have wanted to avoid the jab.The author of the study, carried out by the King’s College London (KCL), has cautioned that “conspiracy theories and mistrust of government, authority and science” could potentially pose a hindrance to conquering the Covid-19 infection.Explaining that the results of the research are “deeply concerning”, the authors have indicated that only about 50% of British people are committed to taking a coronavirus vaccine, as and when it is launched.The new research has found that people who avoid wearing masks, those who distrust scientists, and those who are of the opinion that “too much fuss is being made about the Covid-19 pandemic” are the ones most likely to refuse to take the vaccine.“Vaccines are one of our greatest achievements, and there is a great deal of faith that we’ll eventually develop an effective one for Covid-19 – but more people still need to be convinced of how important it could be for ending this crisis,” Professor Bobby Duffy, director of KCL’s Policy Institute said on the results of the new study.“Misconceptions about vaccines are among our most directly damaging beliefs, and they’re clearly influencing people’s intentions during the coronavirus crisis,” Professor Duffy said.Globally with nearly 200 countries being hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, scientists believe that at least 70 per cent of the population per country will need to be vaccinated to provide “herd immunity” that is believed will get nations back to normal.Researchers and scientists working at frantic speed to find a vaccine for the infectious disease have expressed hope that an effective vaccine will be available next year, after clinical trials at Oxford University produced an immune response in volunteers, although it is still unclear how long that will last within the body.Gideon Skinner, research director at pollsters Ipsos Mori, said slightly more number of Britons appeared prepared to accept a Covid-19 vaccine than one for seasonal flu, but said the results were “still disturbing”.A total of 26 vaccine candidates are being developed, according to the World Health Organisation, as a process normally taking up to 15 years has been squeezed into a matter of months.The KCL study found, however, that only 53 per cent of the UK’s population is “certain or very likely” to get a vaccine against the virus. About one in six people (16 per cent) said they would reject it, or are likely to, 11 per cent said they did not know, while the remaining 20 per cent are only fairly likely to go in for a coronavirus vaccine.The findings were published soon after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson hit out at anti-vaccination conspiracy theorists, describing them as “nuts”.Among the groups doubtful about getting a vaccine are those who think the government wants people to wear masks to control the public (34%), those doubting scientific experts (33%) and those who do not “follow the rules at all times” (24%).Among the pessimists, only 4% of people said a vaccine will never arrive – but just 44% think it will be available in a year or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uk-only-53-people-likely-to-go-in-for-a-coronavirus-vaccine-finds-recent-study/story-n1AEyOcZDt38dewnu1SA8J.html
10-08-2020||India||What made Shah Faesal change his mind so abruptly, asks Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday questioned the resignation of former IAS officer Shah Faesal as president of the J&K People’s Movement party last year.“Kashmir is abuzz about Shah Faesal resigning as President JKPM, a party he founded in Feb, 2019. What made a man deeply passionate about bringing effective change to people of J&K through politics change his mind so abruptly?” she said a tweet. Her Twitter handle is now operated by her daughter Iltija.Another tweet said, “A UPSC topper & Harvard scholar who excelled as a civil officer & had no dearth of career options. Shah Faesal post 5th Aug said in a BBC interview that a Kashmiri leader could only be a stooge or a separatist now. He was detained right after & slapped with PSA subsequently.”Mehbooba has also been booked under the Public safety Act (PSA) and has been in detention since August, 5 2019. Last week, the Jammu and Kashmir administration extended her detention by another three months under the PSA.Mehbooba backed Faesal saying JKPM’s vision document was well within the realm of constitutional rights.“Unlike other mainstream parties, he had no political baggage & therefore enjoyed considerable popularity & credibility amongst masses. JKPMs vision document was well within realm of constitutional rights given to J&K.”She went on to accuse the Centre of arm twisting of political parties and leaders who refuse to accept scrapping of Article 370.Earlier Monday, the JKPM released a statement saying Faesal had asked the party to “spare him from the organisational responsibilities”. “Dr Shah Faesal had informed state executive members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation,” the JKPM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-made-shah-faesal-change-his-mind-so-abruptly-asks-mehbooba-mufti/story-2yME5kzToog4CCf0k5pc0O.html
10-08-2020||India||Talk about ‘false corona positive reports’ gets 2 arrested in Odisha||The Odisha police have arrested two persons, including a Covid-recovered man, after an audio clip of the two persons allegedly discussing “false corona positive reports” in state hospitals went viral. A TV channel, TV channel belonging to the wife of senior BJP leader Baijayant Panda, has also been sent a notice for airing the clip. Bhubaneswar commissionerate police arrested one Biswajit Mohanty, a businessman, 47, and his friend Laxmikanta Behera, 46, after their conversation about the latter’s experience in a Covid hospital went viral. A showcause notice was issued to OTV, Odisha’s biggest news channel run by Jagi Mangat Panda.Bhubaneswar police commissionerate, in a statement, said the two were charged with criminal conspiracy as well as Sections 269, 270 and 505(b) of Indian Penal Code as well as Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and section 52 of Disaster Management Act. Behera had recently recovered from Covid-19.“The audio clip was propagated by OTV news channel. The recording has been prepared, circulated, edited, uploaded and propagated with malafide and mischievous intention as the clip contains misleading and false information about Covid pandemic. The conversation is trying to make others believe that there are false corona positive reports and people are being shifted to hospitals showing them positive as there is a certain target of number of patients to be fetched by hospitals,” the police statement said.However, a careful perusal of the 9.36-minute long audio clip of Mohanty and Behera’s conversation on August 6 shows nothing serious that could trigger panic or anxiety about Covid. The freewheeling conversation between the two friends apart from talking of some “scams” has Behera praising the quality of food being served in the hospital.The wife of Mohanty said it was grossly undemocratic the way police picked up his husband on Sunday evening and released him on Monday morning before arresting him a few hours later. “Did they say anything against the government in the audio clip? My husband was talking to his friend and wanted to know about his experiences in Covid hospital. Is it a crime to discuss the Covid situation? My husband is diabetic and needs to take his medicines on time. However, he was picked up on the pretext of some discussion and kept away from home for more than 12 hours,” she alleged. The police also booked OTV and issued a show-cause notice to the channel for airing the audio clip. Though people have been booked by the Odisha police during the pandemic, many believe the arrest of the two persons in the audio clip was the result of its airing in OTV, run by Panda’s wife. Once a close confidant of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the former MP is now his principal bete noire after they fell out some five years ago.The BJP leader was persecuted in October 2018 and his choppers seized by the Odisha police for his alleged bid to land over the Chilika Lake, an ‘eco-sensitive, no-flying zone’ in the coastal belt of Orissa. Responding to the arrests, Panda tweeted: “Odisha police have arrested two men who posted their phone chat online. Their “crime”? One of them allegedly tested Covid +ve & spoke of fake “treatment” at massive govt cost. This is just the latest of massive Corona related corruption scams in Odisha. Will FoE activists speak up,” asked Panda.The arrests and the showcause notice to the TV channel has triggered outrage in the state with several prominent voices slamming the government’s move. “Should not TV channels air complaints about the goings-on in Covid hospitals? What kind of democracy are we living in,” said renowned political commentator Rabi Das. Mayurbhanj MP Bishweswar Tudu too criticised the arrests and the showcause notice to the TV channel calling it a vengeful act. Union minister for MSME, Pratap Sarangi, said it was an attempt to suppress the freedom of speech of the media.The arrests come at a time when there have been litany of serious complaints about the government’s management of Covid-19 situation while cases are surging due to high positivity rate. Last month, the Covid-19 test results of a forest official in Ganjam district, was told to his family 24 hours after he died. Similarly, a 42-year-old man in Berhampur town in Covid hotspot district of Ganjam died in his home after an ambulance refused to take him to hospital over suspicions that he was Covid positive. The state on Monday posted 13 deaths, its highest single-day surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talk-about-false-corona-positive-reports-gets-2-arrested-in-odisha/story-PdC2xa0VENCrNtrvIOBAMP.html
10-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot falls in line after Rahul meet, settles for 3-member panel to hear his side||The Congress on Monday decided to form a high-level committee to look into the grievances of all its rebel leaders in Rajasthan after Sachin Pilot met former party president Rahul Gandhi to end the revolt in the state unit that threatened the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government, people familiar with the development said.“They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan,” Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said in a statement hours after Sachin Pilot’s hush-hush meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Monday.Venugopal said Congress president Sonia Gandhi had decided to set up a three-member committee to address the issues raised by “Sachin Pilot and the aggrieved MLA and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof”.Congress leaders said the panel will have senior leaders as members and will “hear all the sides and also go into the details of the political turmoil” in the state unit before submitting its report to the high command.The pact ends the uncertainty for the Rajasthan government run by Ashok Gehlot that had been teetering on the edge for a month ever since Pilot and his group of 18 lawmakers parked themselves in Delhi and Gurugram in early July. Gehlot, who has claimed the support of 102 MLAs in a 200-member assembly, is due to face a trust vote when the state assembly meets on 14 August.Also Read: Will welcome rebels back if Cong high command forgives them: Ashok GehlotThe support from Sachin Pilot’s camp gives him the cushion that he had lost when Pilot left with his lawmakers loyal to him, reportedly irked over summons received from the police probing a sedition case against people who wanted to bring down the Gehlot government. The rebellion cost Pilot and two of his loyalist members their cabinet berths.Pilot, who was the state’s deputy chief minister and state Congress chief, was also evicted from the two posts. As his camp refused to respond to appeals to head back home from the Congress, Gehlot let it be known that the two of them hadn’t been on talking terms for 18 months and accused Pilot of plotting with the BJP for six months to pull down his government.It is not clear if Pilot’s next role in the party would have anything to do with Rajasthan or Gehlot. Asked if Rajasthan will be out of bounds for Pilot, the functionary said, “We are not aware of any promise given to him by Rahul Gandhi. What transpired between them at the personal level is not known to us.” The functionary quoted above also said that many rebel leaders, including seven-time legislator Bhanwarlal Sharma, had established contact with Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal on Sunday and subsequently met Gehlot on Monday to assure him of his support. He claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) did not play ball as its house is divided in Rajasthan and there were also apprehensions that some of its legislators were not keen to go with Pilot and other rebel Congress leaders. “With BJP a divided house and the Congress taking a strong stand, the rebel legislators were feeling the heat and that is why they started approaching our central leadership,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-falls-in-line-after-rahul-meet-settles-for-panel-to-hear-his-side/story-wjPCTXXmwjZnwDtSxvxXVO.html
10-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s MLA cousin tears into Sanjay Raut for comment on actor’s father||BJP MLA in Bihar and deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin Neeraj Kumar Babloo on Monday demanded an apology from Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for his comments on the actor’s father and threatened to file a defamation suit.Talking to media persons in Patna, Babloo said it was a highly condemnable comment from an MP of Maharashtra. “How can you make such a comment in such a sensitive case without knowing the facts. If need be, I will file a defamation case”, he said.Raut is the executive editor of the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ newspaper, where he has a weekly column.In his column, Raut has claimed that the actor didn’t share good relations with his father K K Singh. “I have received such information. How many times did Rajput visit his father in Patna in the last few years?” he asked.Raut also went on to say Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey was working for a political party and alleged he tried to contest an election on a BJP ticket. “What can you expect from such a police force?” he asked.Rajput’s maternal uncle R C Singh said an attempt is being made to divert the direction of CBI inquiry. He said Rajput had a very good relationship with his father and his father had not remarried, as alleged by Raut.BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand also alleged that the Maharashtra government tried to destroy evidence of Rajput’s death and demanded that the CBI conduct a narco-test on Raut and Aditya Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-mla-cousin-tears-into-sanjay-raut-for-comment-on-actor-s-father/story-QjZN89tYZmUNbKyan93ZjP.html
10-08-2020||India||PNB fraud: ED opposes Robin Modi’s petition challenging confiscation of property||Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday opposed the petition filed by Rohin Modi (19), the son of diamantaire Nirav Modi, a prime accused in the Rs.13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case and arrested in London by the Scotland Yard authorities in March 2019, challenging confiscation of properties purportedly belonging to a trust started in his own name. Additional solicitor-general (ASG) Anil Singh, who represented ED, supported the special court order issued on June 8, passed under Section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act, 2018, ordering the confiscation of movable and immovable properties worth Rs. 1,396 crore, belonging to Nirav and his firms. Singh said no notice or opportunity of being heard was required to be given to Rohin, as his parents, Nirav and Ami, both the trustees, were represented before the special court and were heard before passing of the order under challenge. Singh added that no relief could be granted to Rohin, as Nirav has defrauded PNB to the tune of Rs. 6,498 crore, laundered most of the money outside the country, and himself fled to the United Kingdom (UK). Rohin moved HC, through advocate Lakshyaved Odhekar, challenging the special court order primarily on the ground that no notice was issued either to Rohin Trust or him individually, before ordering the confiscation of the trust properties, which include a penthouse in Samudra Mahal building at Worli and about 40 costly artworks that belonged to the trust. These properties have been ordered to be confiscated along with other movable and immovable properties purportedly belonging to Nirav and his firms. Rohin’s counsel, advocate Abhimanyu Bhandari, pointed out that section 4 of the FEO Act, 2018, mandates that the ED shall submit a list of all the persons, other than the FEO, interested in or who may have an interest in the properties sought to be confiscated. He said ED knew that Rohin Trust owned the paintings and the penthouse, but neither the trust nor the name of Rohin was mentioned in the list of interested persons submitted by ED, and no notice was given to them, despite the mandatory legal norm. Bhandari also pointed out that section 10 of the FEO Act, 2018, provides for an opportunity of hearing to such interested persons, but no such opportunity was given to Rohin before passing the order. He urged HC to grant Rohin an opportunity of hearing to point out to the special court that the penthouse cannot be ordered to be confiscated to the central government, terming it “proceeds of crime”, as the premises were purchased in 2006 --- about five years before PNB even started giving loans to Nirav and his firms. Bhandari pleaded with the court to direct ED to maintain the status quo with respect to the penthouse. Singh responded to the contention about the penthouse by pointing out that the trust was started with a paid-capital of only Rs. 1,000 and it could not have purchased the apartment for Rs. 24 crore. He argued that the property was purchased by Nirav, as Ami and Rohin have a beneficial interest in the Rohin Trust of 90℅ and 10℅, respectively, Bhandari contended that Ami, too, was required to be given notice and an opportunity of being heard. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Sadhana Jadhav and NJ Jamadar, however, adjourned the matter for the next hearing on Thursday (August 13) after finding that the file before it did not contain reasoned order of the special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-fraud-ed-opposes-robin-modi-s-petition-challenging-confiscation-of-property/story-eug6W7za3drD5nX0hjSU2L.html
10-08-2020||India||Three more cops succumb to Covid-19 in Maharashtra, death toll in force rises to 118||Three policemen from Mumbai, Thane and Solapur succumbed to the Covid-19 disease on Sunday, taking the Maharashtra Police’s death toll to 118.Nearly 240 fresh Covid-19 cases have also been reported in the Maharashtra police force in the last 24-hours.50-year-old police naik Aamin Mulani was attached to the Pandharpur city police in Solapur Rural district police. “He was admitted to hospital immediately after he showed some symptoms of Covid-19. On Sunday he succumbed to the disease at the Civil Hospital, Solapur. There is no clarity about any medical history in his case, but he was a little overweight and was given indoor duties,” Inspector Arun Pawar of Pandharpur police station said. Mulani is survived by his wife and two sons.In the second case, 49-year-old head constable Vijaykumar Bansode, who was attached to the Ulhasnagar Central police station, died of Covid-19. “A resident of Ambernath, Bansode was undergoing treatment at the Meera Hospital in Kalyan after he was detected Covid-19 positive recently. He had no medical history,” Senior inspector Ganpat Pingle, attached to the Thane Police Headquarters said.In the third case of death due to coronavirus, 50-year-old police naik Shirish Mutyar of Sagari police station succumbed to the virus on Sunday at the Hinduja Hospital. Sion resident Mutyar was attached to the Wadala police station and was on deputation to the Sagari police station. He had kidney related ailments and was undergoing treatment for the same. On August 6, he tested positive for the disease as he had taken a test following symptoms such as fever and breathlessness. He is survived by his wife and two teenaged sons. After his death, the Mumbai Police’s Covid-19 toll has risen to 57.On Sunday, a total of 240 new cases of Covid-19 were registered across various police commissionerates and district police in the state. After this the total number of cases in the police department has now touched 10,993. Of which, only 1981 cases are active, the police said.Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order) confirmed that a total of 8,894 infected policemen have recovered from the viral disease and most of them have joined duty.Another senior police officer said that the infected young policemen are recovering faster in comparison to the older ones. After being discharged from hospital, they are reporting back to duty quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-cops-succumb-to-covid-19-in-maharashtra-death-toll-in-force-rises-to-118/story-X3zXY8vnO1zo0op5ShvFkN.html
10-08-2020||India||Police suspect mass murder and suicide in death of 11 Pakistani refugees in Jodhpur||A woman who was a nurse, possibly gave sedatives and then injected insecticide into 10 members of her family taking her own life, said a senior police official on Monday as a probe continued into the death of 11 people in Jodhpur district’s Lodata town on Sunday.Police had earlier suspected a suicide pact. The 11 people belonged to a Hindu family which had migrated from Pakistan in 2015. Their bodies were found in a small house at a farm in Jodhpur district’s Lodata town on Sunday morning. The victims were identified as Budharam (75), Antara Devi (70), their son, Ravi, 35, daughters Laxmi and Priya and their six grandchildren.Only one member of the family survived. Kewalram who claimed to have gone out in the night to guard his farm, later returned and slept on the verandah of the house. He also claimed that he was not aware of what happened inside the house on Saturday night and that he saw he bodies only on Sunday morning“Preliminary probe suggests that the deceased were first given sedatives in food by one of the victims identified as Priya, who was a nurse. After victims felt unconscious, they were given insecticide injections and the poison mixed directly with blood and they died in sleep,” said Rahul Barhat, Jodhpur superintendent of police (SP). “Priya injected the poison in her body through a cannula (a thin tube inserted in the vein or body to administer medicine) on her leg,” the SP said. He said the injections were given in a very “professional manner” and only Priya, a trained nurse, could have done it.On the basis of the investigation, the police said that there were two possibilities. First, it was a case of mass suicide. Second, Priya committed the murders and then killed herself. The possibilities fit with the evidence that there were no injury or marks on the bodies of any of the victims.Police are still baffled by the motive for the crime. In its investigation, the police have found that there was a dispute between Kewalram and Ravi, two brothers, and their in-laws for a last couple of years, which was also mentioned in the alleged suicide note found from the house. The note also spoke of financial hardship the family was facing.Kewalram and Ravi had married sisters from a Bheel tribal family, whose parents now live in Jodhpur city. Their wives went to their parental house with their children, a few months ago, as the martial dispute became murkier, police said.“Between 2018 and 2020, Kewalram and his in-laws had filed complaints and counter complaints accusing each other of harassment. In the latest complaint lodged at Mandor police station in Jodhpur city in March this year, the in-laws accused the entire family of domestic violence,” said another police officer, who was not willing to be identified as he was not authorised to speak to the media.Kewalram told police that his family suspected all of them could be arrested in the domestic violence case. They were also unsure about getting Indian citizenship, if they were arrested and spoke about the possibility of their repatriation to Pakistan, the officer said.The victim’s family had come to India from Sangad district of Sindh province of Pakistan in 2015, a year after the in-laws family came and settled in Jodhpur city. As per the citizenship law, a Pakistani has to be resident of India for seven years before applying for citizenship.On why Priya could kill her family, Barhat said they did not have evidence to suggest that she killed her family. “Priya was a professional nurse and therefore, there was a high probability that she did it. But, again survival of Kewalram is a big question mark in the entire story,” he said.The SP said the medical reports would answer several questions. On Monday, the post-mortem of the 11 bodies was conducted after Covid-19 tests came negative. Later, with help of district administration the funeral was performed. A team of medical experts would examine the post-mortem results, a police officer said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said thorough investigation will be conducted into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-suspect-mass-murder-and-suicide-in-death-of-11-pakistani-refugees-in-jodhpur/story-MlFKugNgJ1GIYfLd3u0CxI.html
10-08-2020||India||Another attempt to cap Assam gas well blowout fails||Another attempt to cap the blowout of an Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well, which has been on fire since June 9 in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, failed on Monday due to technical glitches. “The blowout preventer (BOP) stack was successfully placed over the wellhead. While BOP stack alignment job was underway to insert the studs, one of the two bull lines connected to the Athey Wagon, which was lifting the BOP stack, came out from the socket due to the impact of excessive heat,” said an OIL statement. “From the safety point of view and stability required for alignment of the BOP stack on the wellhead, experts decided to safely remove the BOP stack from the wellhead. Operations will resume after carrying out necessary rectification jobs,” it added. The BOP is a specialised valve --- a device used to seal control and monitor oil and natural gas wells to prevent blowouts, or the uncontrolled release of gas or oil from a well. They are usually installed in stacks of other valves. An Athey Wagon is a device used to place the BOP stack, which weighs around three tonnes. It consists of a track-mounted boom lift with a hook on one end that is used to place the BOP stack on the wellhead. On July 31, experts were attempting to place the BOP stack on the wellhead when the Athey Wagon “toppled over” leading to the suspension of work on capping the blowout. The gas well had a blowout on May 27, when workover operation, or maintenance work, to locate a new gas reservoir was underway. While efforts to cap the blow out were underway, the well suddenly caught fire on June 9 and two firefighters were killed in the blaze that is yet to be doused. Installation of the BOP is the penultimate task needed to complete the operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of “killing the well” starts immediately. According to OIL officials, that is done by injecting a “kill fluid”, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from the well back to the reservoir. The process takes around two-three days, as the fluid needs to fill the entire length of the 3.5-kilometre deep well. Initially, OIL had said that the well would be plugged in a month. Later, the deadline was extended to July 7. But floods, technical glitches, and burn injury of three foreign experts while attempting to douse the fire have led to several delays. Since the Baghjan well is located close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, there were fears of environmental damage to the area due to the blowout and fire. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of the damage. In June, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife, and the environment because of the industrial disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-attempt-to-cap-assam-gas-well-blowout-fails/story-AXUeM0A5YbV6GK13S5xqNP.html
10-08-2020||India||At meeting with Rahul Gandhi, Sachin Pilot gets an ‘assurance’ on key grievance||Sachin Pilot, the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, whose revolt spelt uncertainty for the ruling Congress in the state, reached out to the party leadership in Delhi and held a meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Monday, according to people aware of the developments.A leader from the Pilot camp confirmed to HT that a meeting took place for over two hours at Gandhi’s residence at 12, Tughlaq Road. He said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been in contact with Pilot, too, was present.“The Gandhis did save the day for the (Ashok) Gehlot government,” said the leader quoted above. “They (the Congress leadership) assured Pilot that all issues that he had would be looked into.’’Another leader privy to the details told HT that a committee may be announced to look into the unresolved issues between Gehlot and Pilot, who have had a series of differences since the Congress coming to power in the state in December 2018. Through the day, representatives of both sides held follow-up meetings to hammer out the details of a truce agreement. An announcement is expected soon.The big question is now whether Pilot will go back to Rajasthan or if he will be accommodated in the central Congress leadership. When asked, his side, however, did not rule out Pilot attending the upcoming session of the Rajasthan assembly beginning August 14. “It is on the 14th; so there is time left. We will be making an announcement soon,” leaders in the Pilot camp said.The second leader told HT that Pilot had agreed to give up his aspirations of being Rajasthan chief minister for now. However, there was no confirmation of this from Pilot’s side.Another senior Congress leader aware of the developments sounded hopeful about the possible deal. “...since they met, a positive outcome is expected,” the third leader said.The developments take place exactly a month after Pilot and 18 dissident Rajasthan legislators left Jaipur and rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.It was Pilot who sought an appointment with former party chief Gandhi, according to leaders privy to the details, who also said the now-dismissed Rajasthan deputy chief minister has been speaking to senior leaders Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal in what is being seen as an apparent softening of his stance.This was the first time that Gandhi met Pilot since the latter left Jaipur after the state police issued him a show-cause notice in a case involving a plot to bring down the government.Pilot has till now insisted on the removal of Gehlot as chief minister as a pre-condition for any sort of rapprochement, while the Congress asked him and his legislators supporting him to give up the “hospitality” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before starting a conversation on resolving the current impasse.Pilot’s team, which has been camping in various places from Faridabad to Manesar after spending several days at the ITC Grand Bharat hotel, meanwhile, pointed out that the Congress Legislature Party meeting had completely ruled out a return of the rebels. Pilot’s rebellion stems from his complaints against the operational style of Gehlot, according to the Pilot camp.While the Gehlot camp has been claiming the support of 102 legislators (including allies) in the 200-member House, Pilot’s side has not been able to increase its numbers beyond 19, although this number was previously claimed to be at least 30 by the rebel leader and his aides. The Pilot camp is believed to have the support of three independents as well. Monday’s developments come against the backdrop of the Congress suggesting, at least at the state level, that ties with Pilot are set to be severed. On Sunday, the general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, ruled out a return of Pilot and his supporters. “In politics, sometimes to save democracy, dil par pathar rakhna padta hai (difficult calls need to be taken),” he told the media.In the run-up to the assembly session on August 14 that is likely to feature a floor test, the opposition BJP has also shifted 20 of its 72 legislators to Gujarat to prevent any poaching attempts by the Congress.While Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia denied any internal rifts, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje met party president JP Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh last week to discuss the political developments in her state.The BJP will hold a meeting of its legislators and those belonging to its alliance partner, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) of Hanuman Beniwal on Tuesday, the day Rajasthan high court will hear a petition challenging the merger of six MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) with the Congress.These BSP legislators have since moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of their case from the Rajasthan high court to the country’s top court.(With inputs from Aurangzeb Naqshbandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-meets-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-rajasthan-truce-soon/story-lePZkjGnlRDTq1NE1TrEVO.html
10-08-2020||India||Andhra’s new industrial policy to focus on manufacturing sector, generate jobs for locals||More than a year after coming to power in Andhra Pradesh, the YSR Congress party government on Monday finally announced its new industrial policy focussing on the manufacturing sector with a regional balance and generation of employment for locals through skill development. Unveiling the new policy at the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, state industries and infrastructure minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the core theme of the policy was to provide support to industries across the business value chain – from approvals to setting up industries, supporting their operations and scaling up their business. The new industrial policy proposes to reimburse state GST to Medium, Large and Mega industrial units generating huge employment for a period of five years, provide special incentives for women entrepreneurs hailing from SC/ST/OBC communities and reserve 16.2 per cent and 6 per cent of industrial plots for SC and ST entrepreneurs respectively. The minister said the state government was contemplating establishment of a new initiative called “YSR AP One” by integrating different agencies like industrial development corporation, infrastructure corporation, economic development board and micro, small and medium enterprises corporation etc to extend as many as 10 services for entrepreneurs and industrialists under one roof. “This new organisation would help entrepreneurs by providing handholding during pre-establishment and setting up of the industrial unit, extending post setup support, ensuring forward and backward linkages and accessing market and new technologies,” the minister said. The “YSR AP One” will have 10 different wings such as entrepreneurship facilitation cell, market research cell, marketing and branding cell, sales support cell, scheme support cell, business enablement cell, investor reach-out cell, incentive management cell etc., that would help entrepreneurs in various ways, he said. The minister further said the state government had identified industrial zoning as a key focus area to ensure planned industrial development and provide a risk-free, investment-friendly environment for setting up and operating industries in the state with minimal impact on the environment. “Mega industries will be allowed in industrial parks and independent locations as per the environment management plan. Similarly, the government would develop industrial parks for MSMEs with all the facilities including ready-built factory shells. The government has also proposed to make changes in the land allotment for industries. In place of the existing lease and buy model, the government has introduced a composite lease and buy model, in which land is allotted to the industries on lease for a period of 33 years with an option of buying the land after 10 years of successful business operations. Stating that the manufacturing sector as an employment provider continues to be top priority for the state government, Gautam Reddy said the government would undertake structural reforms to accelerate industrialisation in the state. “We believe that providing the right facilities at the right cost and offering transparent approvals is critical to the success of the industrial sector,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-s-new-industrial-policy-to-focus-on-manufacturing-sector-generate-jobs-for-locals/story-rBtwUbbfIdO7hze1RbNAyK.html
10-08-2020||India||Villagers oppose setting up of IIT Goa campus on forested stretch, warn those supporting the project||Panaji: Villagers opposing the setting up of permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) on a forested stretch of land at Melaulim village in Goa have warned that those supporting the project would enter the hamlet at their own peril. On Sunday, around 500 villagers from Melaulim and surrounding hamlets put up the warning signboard underlining it would not be an empty threat against the setting up of the IIT campus. “This is a direct stern warning to all those entering our village with the intention to hurt our sentiments, livelihood, faith, and rich biodiversity,” alleged Shashikant Sanvordekar, the convenor of the Melaulim Gram Panchakroshi Samiti. The signage unequivocally warns “no entry” for the IIT campus in Melaulim village and that “any person visiting this area will be responsible for h/his own security”. “We’d like to draw the government’s attention to the fact that our existence is dependent on the land, which is our precious possession,” said Shubham Shivolkar, another villager. Located in the state’s eastern corner in the foothills of the Western Ghats and over 50 kilometres (km) from the state capital Panaji, the proposed permanent campus site for the IIT is a thickly-forested area and interspersed with cashew trees. Villagers claimed that the cashew trees have sustained them for generations. They are demanding that the proposed IIT campus is shifted to a different location, where the ecological impact will be less severe. Though Goa was allocated an IIT in 2014, it has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College. Earlier, though the state government had identified two sites --- in Canacona and Sanguem sub-districts – to set up a permanent IIT campus, both were scrapped due to public protests and after the opposition had alleged a land scam. Rumblings of protest and murmurs of discontent were started by residents of Melaulim village and from adjoining hamlets in early February, when the state government made it known that it would hand over the land for the IIT’s permanent campus in May. Trouble started when the police bundled off in a vehicle a section of villagers, who had called a press conference to protest against the move. The video of the alleged police high-handedness went viral on social media and sparked public outrage. Though Melaulim village falls in an eco-sensitive zone, it hasn’t been formally declared as one because the state government notification to that effect is still pending. The plot on which the IIT permanent campus is slated to come up is a revenue land and belongs to the state government. However, Melaulim villagers have contended that the crisis has deepened because they don’t have the required documentation to prove that they have rights over the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-oppose-setting-up-of-iit-goa-campus-on-forested-stretch-warn-those-supporting-the-project/story-AhDN5eVcQc1gf9GliiGJ0M.html
10-08-2020||India||Kashmir politician Shah Faesal is still IAS officer, erases Twitter timeline||Shah Faesal, the 2010 IAS topper from Kashmir who resigned from the civil services to launch his political party last year, stepped down from the J&K People’s Movement’s leadership role. Faesal, who has been under detention since August last year, changed his Twitter bio that identified him as the JKPM chief on Sunday evening, triggering speculation that he could exit politics.Faesal had announced his resignation from the civil services in January 2019 and launched his party, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement, two months later. When parliament scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in early August last year, he was one of the sharpest critics of the move . He was detained under the Public Safety Act soon after when he was on his way to Harvard to pursue a course, released in June this year and placed under house arrest a day later.But his resignation from government service was never accepted, reportedly because the Centre had initiated disciplinary proceedings against him over his tweets on rape in July 2018.The central government’s website on IAS officers continues to show him as a serving IAS officer. It does not, however, indicate if he was placed under suspension under a rule that automatically deems All India Service officers held in detention for more than 48 hours to have been suspended.The JKPM, the party that the 37-year-old founded, on Monday confirmed that the change in Twitter bio reflected his changed status in the party.In a statement released on Monday, the JKPM said Faesal, who trained as a doctor before joining the civil services, had asked the party to “spare him from the organisational responsibilities”. “Dr Shah Faesal had informed state executive members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation,” the JKPM said.The party has accepted his request “so that he can better continue with his life and contribute whichever way he chooses”.Shah’s success in the civil services examination had inspired many young Kashmiris to sit for the fiercely-competitive examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. This year, a record 16 candidates cleared the examination from Jammu and Kashmir, many of them from remote parts of the Kashmir valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ias-topper-shah-faesal-won-t-lead-kashmir-party-he-founded-sparks-buzz-about-exit-from-politics/story-KeuQgnFqo4pU9QIqewHAjN.html
10-08-2020||India||Rain and topography triggering flash floods, landslides in Uttarakhand hills, say experts||Spells of heavy rain for short periods, bigger catchment areas of streams and topographical conditions are leading to cloudbursts, flash floods and landslides in the hilly regions of Uttarakhand, say experts.Over 40 people have died in rain-related disasters in Uttarakhand in the current monsoon. Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre in Uttarakhand said, “In the hills, the catchment area of even small streams is very large, these streams can be seasonal also, but during monsoons with heavy rainfall the water spills. This heavy rainfall leads to flash floods or rain-induced disasters.” He also said that due to the topographical conditions, likelihood of cloudbursts or flash floods happening in the hills is more compared to plains. “The physiography or geomorphic conditions of the mountains is such that the wind gets a sudden upward thrust which leads to cloud formation. But due to the topography of mountains or valleys, in particular, the winds rise to form clouds and then rainfall occurs in a small area or the clouds get trapped in a valley amid mountains as the monsoonal winds are not able to cross the topographic barriers (mountains). Due to this the rainfall recorded in those areas is high leading to disasters,” said Rautela. According to the state disaster control room, three cloudburst incidents have been reported so far this year since June 15 in Pithoragarh district. Officials from the control room said that 33 people have died due to cloudbursts and flash floods due to heavy rain and 11 have died due to landslides across the state. Around 18 people have been injured due to landslides, flash floods and cloudbursts, while four are missing. Officials from the Meteorological Centre in Dehradun said that an incident of rainfall is termed as a cloudburst only when a particular area receives 100 mm of rainfall within an hour. Bikram Singh, director of Regional Meteorological Centre said, “Landslides take place with continuous rainfall, it could be due to heavy or moderate rainfall, but cloudbursts leading to flash floods happen when a particular area receives minimum 100 mm of rainfall within an hour. This year, as per rainfall records, 100 mm rainfall has not been witnessed at any particular location. In 2017, around 9 4mm rainfall was recorded in Dehradun, which was considered as a cloudburst.” He added that in the hills, even 50 mm to 60 mm hourly rainfall can cause harm as water levels in streams rise leading to flash floods. According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand has received 558.6mm of rainfall from June to August 5 compared to 655.1 mm for these months. Bageshwar district has received the maximum rainfall with a 148% departure from normal rainfall limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-topography-triggering-flash-floods-landslides-in-uttarakhand-hills-say-experts/story-iuWn6XrQOkTWusynjkLYDP.html
10-08-2020||India||Railways to take action against agency issuing false recruitment advertisement||The Railways has initiated action against a private agency for issuing a fake advertisement for over 5000 posts in the national transporter.The advertisement printed in a prominent newspaper said the Railways was seeking applications for 5,285 posts in eight categories.“It has come to notice of Ministry of Railways that one organization by name of “Avestran Infotech” having website address “http://www.avestran.in”www.avestran.in has given an advertisement in a prominent newspaper on 8th August 2020 calling for applications against a total number of 5,285 number of post in eight categories on outsourcing basis on Indian Railways on 11 year contract. The applicants have been asked to deposit Rs.750/-as online fee and last date for receipt of applications has been mentioned as September 10, 2020.“It may be informed to all that advertisement for any Railway recruitment is always done by Indian Railways ONLY. No private agency has been authorized to do the same. The said issuance of said advertisement in question is illegal,” the ministry said in a statement.The ministry said railways will initiate strict against the agency. It also clarified that the recruitment of various categories of Group ‘C’ and erstwhile Group ‘D’ posts on Indian Railways is presently catered to by 21 Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and 16 Railway Recruitment Cell (RRC) only and not by any other agency.Vacancies in Indian Railways are filled up by giving wide publicity through Centralized Employment Notifications (CENs). Online applications are called from eligible candidates all over the country. CEN is published through Employment News/Rozgar Samachar and an indicative notice is given in national daily and local newspapers. The CEN is also displayed on the official websites of RRBs/RRCs. he website address of all RRBs/RRCs is mentioned in the CEN. “It is further clarified that the Railways have not authorized any private agency as yet to do the recruitment of staff on its behalf as alleged by the above named agency. “Railways has initiated its investigation and is going on to take strictest action as per law against the above agency/persons involved in above matter,” it said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-extends-suspension-of-all-regular-trains-till-september-30/story-OoiQSImN0krBTsR7QWVYPK.html
10-08-2020||India||With 51 more Covid deaths in UP, toll reaches 2,120||Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported 51 more deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the fatalities due to the disease to 2,120. The total number of infected persons has now gone up to 1,26,722 with 4,113 fresh cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.The number of those cured and discharged from hospitals after treatment was 76,724, he added. Among the 47,878 active cases, he said, 19,635 are in home isolation,1,500 in private hospitals and 196 in semi-paid facilities, he said. Prasad said a proper protocol for those in home isolation has been issued and rapid response teams have been deployed to visit homes of the affected persons and ensure the implementation of the treatment protocol.Besides, the family members are also being apprised of the precautions and medication for them, he said, advising all those in home isolation to inform medical authorities if they face any problem or notice symptoms so that they can be admitted to hospitals for prompt treatment. On Sunday, over 91,000 tests were done taking the total number of tests done in the state so far to over 32 lakhs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-51-more-covid-deaths-in-up-toll-reaches-2-120/story-eK3GZRj3kmTWUzSyv176YO.html
10-08-2020||India||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa recovers from Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa was discharged from hospital on Monday afternoon after recovering from Covid-19 . “After recovering from COVID-19 completely, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has been discharged from the Manipal Hospital,” news agency PTI quoted an official statement from the state government.Thanking everyone for their wishes and prayers soon after being discharged, the chief minister said he will continue to be in self-quarantine. “Thank you everyone for your wishes and prayers. I have been discharged from the hospital and will be in self-quarantine. Deeply grateful for your affection and support. I look forward to getting back to the routine very soon,” he said in a tweet.  Thank you everyone for your wishes and prayers. I have been discharged from the hospital and will be in self-quarantine. Deeply grateful for your affection and support. I look forward to getting back to the routine very soon.Yediyurappa had tested positive for the coronavirus disease on August 2 and had been hospitalised in Bengaluru’s Manipal Hospitals since then for treatment. Tweeting about testing positive, he had asked all those who had come in contact with him to go in self- quarantine. A day later, the CM’s elder daughter, BY Padmavati too had tested positive for the infectious disease.Many other leaders in the state have been infected with the virus in the state including former CM Siddaramaiah who tested positive on August 4.Most recently, Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, August 9. Taking to Twitter, Sriramulu said that he was tested after he went down with flu-like symptoms. He added that he was hospitalised because he had been visiting the state’s 30 districts amid the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The health minister has been admitted to the state-run Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru.The southern state reported 5,985 new Covid-19 cases and 107 deaths on Sunday, taking its tally to 1.78 lakh and the toll to 3,198.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital/story-sneQlmHAC3ZlF0cTLNUnXN.html
10-08-2020||India||Ganga activist on fast unto death in Haridwar gets support from Magsaysay awardee||Rajendra Singh, an acclaimed environmentalist and Ramon Magsaysay awardee, has supported the fast-unto-death agitation of Matri Sadan ashram seer Swami Shivanand Saraswati for saving the Ganges, Yamuna and its sub-tributaries from pollution and related man-made ecological disasters. Observing a day-long fast at his residence in Alwar, Rajasthan; Singh, the waterman of India, urged the public to observe a similar non-violent protest to extend their support to the seer’s agitation. “Support is pouring in from across the country. On Monday, people from all walks of life observed the fast. I urge the government to address this important issue on a priority basis and meet the demands raised by the revered Matri Sadan saint,” said Singh. Earlier in January, Singh had organised a two-day Ganga Environment Conservation convention at Matri Sadan under the aegis of Tarun Bharat Sangh. “We regard the Ganges as a deity and mother. We need to preserve the river’s sanctity, purity, unhindered flow, and ecology. The rise in pollutants, haphazard construction of hydropower projects, operation of stone crushers, largescale quarrying and indifferent attitude of the government doesn’t augur well for the Ganges,” Singh had said. Swami Shivanand Saraswati, the founder of Matri Sadan ashram in Haridwar, is on an indefinite fast since August 3. The seer has demanded the scrapping of all hydropower projects on the Ganges, Yamuna and its sub-tributaries, prohibition on quarrying on the rivers’ bed, enactment of the Ganga Act, and the inclusion of environmental activists in its drafting panel, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-activist-on-fast-unto-death-in-haridwar-gets-support-from-magsaysay-awardee/story-Yvm84y1ksXWegITPjDjpgP.html
10-08-2020||India||NIA team in Dubai to question accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||Investigating the United Arab Emirates (UAE) leg of Kerala gold smuggling scandal, a team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached Dubai on Sunday night to interrogate key accused - Faisal Fareed - and collect evidence gathered by the authorities there, people familiar with the development said. Apart from Fareed, who used to send gold in the diplomatic baggage from Dubai, the two-member NIA team will question a couple of other suspects as well who have been taken into custody by the Dubai police, the officials said. A senior official cited above, who didn’t wish to be named, said that Fareed’s firm was contracted in the UAE to clear and send the diplomatic baggage to India. It is also suspected that Fareed is the one who had set up a network of hawala dealers and couriers who helped in disposing of/selling the gold. He originally hails from Kerala but resides in the UAE. The anti-terror probe agency had last month also approached the Interpol seeking a “blue notice” against Fareed. It was found that Fareed had forged the documents - seal and emblem - of the UAE embassy to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage and the gold coming here was to be used for terror activities. During its stay in Dubai, the NIA team will also seek details of shell companies, which were used for transferring the money, as well as hawala operators linked to gold smuggling. The UAE authorities are learnt to have conducted substantial investigation already on India’s request and are likely to hand over its findings to the NIA team. The federal anti-terror probe agency is probing “terror angle” in the large scale smuggling of gold in Kerala.Apart from Faisal Fareed and Swapna Suresh, NIA has identified K T Ramees as the mastermind of the whole racket. Ramees is currently in judicial custody. Last week, it had arrested Muhammad Ali, a Popular Front of India (PFI) member. The outfit, however, denied Ali being associated with it. In all, NIA has arrested 10 accused in the case so far, including Swapna Suresh, who helped in air consignment of UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram in which 30 kg gold was recovered last month. The agency had informed a court last week that prime accused Swapna Suresh had a strong connection with Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. A larger terror conspiracy is being probed by multiple agencies – NIA, ED and Customs. The NIA had said earlier that “the accused persons had conspired to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used these proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means”. It has further claimed that “using diplomatic baggage of UAE as a cover to transact illegal business may have serious repercussions in the diplomatic relations with the government of UAE and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-team-in-dubai-to-interrogate-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-jbyzOQeJjk01r27U8XGPQO.html
10-08-2020||India||Not a brick laid at new capital Gairsain, Uttarakhand ex-CM Harish Rawat slams BJP||Former Uttarakhand chief minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat has accused the BJP government in the state of ‘doing nothing’ for the development of the summer capital Gairsain, 260 east of Dehradun. Rawat who visited Gairsain in Chamoli district on Sunday along with his supporters taunted chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat for going slow on the new capital.They raised slogans in Garhwali dialect saying ‘Trivendra Singh Bhaiji Kakh Cha Tumhri Grishmakalin Sarkar’ (Brother Trivendra Singh where is your summertime government here). Harish Rawat who visited the Assembly building in Gairsain and other residential establishments, attacked the BJP government saying, “After about three and a half years of this government, not a single new brick has been laid for any construction here. All existing construction was done during my government.” Gairsain was declared the state summer capital by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat during the budget session on March 4 amid intense politicking between BJP and the opposition Congress.Rawat said, “No new project has been approved by this government. Work is being done in all those projects which were approved during our government. Their announcement of the state summer capital just seems to be on the paper with nothing to see on the ground for any development pertaining to it ….One can see all sorts of signboards here but not a single one stating that this is the state summer capital.” The former chief minister accused the government of dragging its feet over actually shifting to the new summer capital.“Three months have passed since the summer started but not a single minister or secretary from the secretariat has moved here which can signify that the government is unwilling to shift here as per its promise. This is an insult of Gairsain as well as Uttarakhand,” said Rawat. “We have already said we will make it the permanent capital of Uttarakhand if our party comes to power in next Assembly elections.” The BJP termed Rawat’s visit as a mere ‘political gimmick to grab media attention.’ BJP state vice president Devendra Bhasin said, “Rawat has been a master of misleading people and doing irrelevant politics. This Gairsain visit is a part of that only. He just wants to be in the media with such acts.” Bhasin also said that “Rawat should answer that if he is so worried about Gairsain then why didn’t he declare it the summer capital or capital during his tenure? He is just pretending to show affection for Gairsain now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-brick-laid-at-new-capital-gairsain-uttarakhand-ex-cm-harish-rawat-slams-bjp/story-aqEeWPQiLxXXkZOaWn82NI.html
10-08-2020||India||PM Modi reviews flood situation in 6 states, preparedness to tackle south-west monsoon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting via video conferencing with the chief ministers and ministers of six states – Kerala, Karnataka, Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - to review the flood situation there. The meeting, which was attended by the chief ministers of Kerala, Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and the Karnataka home minister, also reviewed the preparedness to deal with the south-west monsoon. The chief ministers complimented the efforts of central agencies including NDRF teams for their timely deployment and rescue efforts, said news agency ANI quoting the Prime Minister’s Office. The Prime Minister emphasised on better coordination between all central and state agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting of floods and extensive use of innovative technologies for improving forecast and warning system, according to the PMO.Continuing heavy rainfall over the last few days have affected lakhs of people, resulting in loss of life and disruption of normal life. In Kerala, a landslide occurred in Idukki district following heavy rainfall last week in which 49 people have died so far. The National Disaster Response Force is battling rain, slush, mush and rocky terrain in rescue operations at the site.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued orange alert in for Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Idukki, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasargod districts today.. In neighbouring Karnataka, several parts of Malnad, coastal and interior Karnataka and Kodagu district have been affected by torrential rains causing flood-like situation and landslides. The state has so far incurred a loss to the tune of Rs 3,500-4,00 crore as a result of rains and floods, revenue minister R Ashoka said on Monday. During the meeting with the prime minister, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai sought Rs 4,000 crore financial help from the Centre to tackle the situation. He also sought immediate release of the next instalment of SDRF fund of Rs 395 crore. In Bihar, around 74 lakh people in 16 districts have been affected by the flood situation while the deaths caused due to rain-related incidents stand at 23, according to PTI.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar raised the issue of Nepal’s non-cooperation in flood management at Monday’s meeting with PM Modi and sought Centre’s intervention in the matter, the agency added. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-preparedness-to-tackle-flood-situation-in-6-states/story-0VZvjiLulSKq7hMFkiLyTI.html
10-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh’s bail plea rejected by NIA court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Monday rejected the bail application of the main accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, and ordered that provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act will remain in place.Her counsel had opposed the UAPA saying no terror angle was involved and the case only dealt with economic offences but Assistant Solicitor General P Vijaykumar appearing for the NIA contended that major proceeds from smuggling were diverted to fund anti-national activities. After a week-long hearing, quite unusual in bail petitions, the court had posted it for a decision on Monday. This is the first time UAPA has been imposed in the country in a smuggling case. “Earlier smuggling came under the Customs Act but after the amendment in UAPA, money laundering and serious economic offences that affect the country’s stability also come under it. True, this is first time UAPA has been applied in a smuggling case,” Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash said. After hearing the versions of both sides in detail, the court ruled that considering the case diary and other details submitted by the probe agency her bail application will not stand. The NIA had produced the letter of Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan which he wrote to the PM two days after the case surfaced on July 5 seeking a high-level central agency probe into the case. During the hearing, NIA also said the accused was influential and she had a good rapport with the CM’s office, bureaucracy and the state police. The NIA said a portion of the proceeds from the gold smuggling was diverted to fund anti-national activities. It also said that after a preliminary investigation it found that one of the suspects, KT Ramees, who is in NIA custody, was in touch with some fundamentalist organizations. He also undertook many foreign trips including Tanzania in Africa and he was suspected to be a part of the international smuggling and drug racket, it said. But her lawyer insisted that the terror angle was brought in without any reason. At one point, the court also agreed she had no direct links with terror activities. Her counsel also said she was a victim of intense political rivalry between the CPI (M)-led state government and the BJP-led Union government but the NIA citied the CM’s letter saying both governments wanted a thorough inquiry into the case and politics was dragged into the case intentionally. After her bail plea was dismissed, her counsel said he will move a higher court. Meanwhile, people familiar with the probe said an NIA team had reached the United Arab Emirates and it will question Faisal Fareed, the third accused in the case, reportedly under the custody of the Dubai police. Earlier, Interpol had issued a red corner notice against him after the NIA’s request. It will also interrogate three others whose names cropped up during the questioning of KT Ramees. There are also reports that the MEA sought permission of the UAE government to “interview and take a statement,” of the consular attaché who left the country after the seizure of 30 kg gold which had arrived as part of a diplomatic consignment. UAE is a friendly country where at least 25 lakh Indians are working, so the MEA is very cautious in its approach, a senior official said. After the case came to light, the UAE embassy had issued a statement “that some former employees had misused Swapna Suresh had earlier worked with the consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. During investigation the NIA also found that both of them had allegedly forged the consular seal, stamp and other documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-s-bail-plea-rejected-by-nia-court/story-fVi6b9ZBCmQSS5j3ANPdfO.html
10-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rhea Chakraborty approaches SC with plea alleging unfair media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rhea Chakraborty approaches SC with plea alleging unfair media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput’s deathBollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty moved the Supreme Court on Monday with a fresh plea, alleging media trial and attempts to pronounce her guilty for the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea Chakraborty faced investigation agency Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday in money laundering case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Read more.People jumping just on draft EIA not fair, says Prakash JavadekarA day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) as a “disaster” and urged people to protest against it, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday that those raising objections to the draft (EIA notification are the same people who took “big decisions without consultations” when they were in power. Read more.Sanjay Dutt discharged from hospital after two days, returns homeSanjay Dutt, who was admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai on Saturday after complaining of breathlessness, has now been discharged. He returned home on Monday afternoon and was seen waving at the paparazzi stationed outside his house. Read more.IPL 2020: Patanjali considering bidding for title sponsorshipBaba Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved is considering to bid for the title sponsorship of the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL), according to a company official. The slot of the title sponsorship of IPL was vacated after the Chinese handset maker Vivo decided to exit from it. Read more.Honda Jazz 2020 to feature stylish looks; pre-launch bookings now openHonda Jazz update promises to galvanize the premium hatchback segment with the company announcing several design changes on the outside and a more feature-packed cabin. Pre-launch bookings for the car were opened on Monday. Read more.Fenty Skin: Rihanna shares her skincare routine, how she maintains the glow and moreRihanna is an icon, on or off-screen. She has this way of leaving you absolutely tongue-tied, whether it is through her music, her fashion sense, wit, or her self-proclaimed ‘bad girl’ image. It is safe to say that we are yet to come across a field where she has not dominated. Read more.‘Was asked if I am Indian,’ says Kanimozhi; Chidambaram backs DMK MPDMK MP Kanimozhi has said that a CISF officer at the Chennai airport asked her if she was Indian, when she could not speak Hindi. The DMK MP said that they were going through security checking when she requested a CISF official to speak in Tamil or English since she did not understand Hindi. Watch video.Google to mark India’s Independence Day with the voices of its people, and AIRemember how it felt like to sing the national anthem with everyone else at school during morning assemblies and on Independence Day? Google is hoping to recreate that exact feeling with people from all across the country. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rhea-chakraborty-approaches-sc-with-plea-alleging-unfair-media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KKKvaF9NjhiId4ZER0IyWI.html
10-08-2020||India||Weather dismissed as factor in deadly Air India crash||Weather conditions were within safe ranges and pilots were briefed about them by controllers just before the Air India Express jet they were flying crashed at a southern Indian airport Friday, killing at least 18 people and injuring more than 100, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.The Boeing Co. 737 appeared to touch down near the middle of the 9,000-foot-long (2,743-meter-long) runway at Kozhikode, the person said, before skidding off the end and careening down a slope, breaking into three parts. The captain was experienced, with 11,000 flying hours, while the co-pilot had 2,000 hours. Neither one made a distress call, and both died in the crash. Visibility, precipitation and tailwinds were within acceptable guidelines for landing, the person said, asking not to be identified because the investigation is ongoing.A playback on the FlightRadar24 website shows a first attempt to land the plane was aborted before another effort was made from the opposite direction. The flight-tracking site shows visibility at the airport was 1,500-to-2,000 meters, and winds were blowing at 12-13 knots, which is a moderate breeze on the Beaufort scale. Indian officials say 800 meters is sufficient visibility for landing.Kozhikode’s table-top runway, so named because it sits on higher ground, was shortened by 150 meters to create a bigger safety area before the downward slopes, but it still is long enough under international regulations, the person said. He didn’t say when it was shortened. Most table-top runways in the U.S. and elsewhere have areas called arresting beds that stop planes from going off the edge.Flight 1344, operated by the low-cost unit of state-run Air India Ltd., was carrying 190 passengers and crew from Dubai to Kozhikode, the Keralan city formerly known as Calicut, in southwest India. Many were on the repatriation flight after losing their jobs because of the coronavirus pandemic. There was no distress call from the cockpit to the air traffic control tower prior to the 7:41 p.m. crash.The flight-data recorder and cockpit-voice recorder, known as the black boxes, were recovered from the crash site for examination. Teams from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and Boeing will join India’s Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau in the investigation, and an initial report could come in a few months, the person said.A representative of India’s civil aviation ministry didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.A representative for Boeing in India didn’t have an immediate comment.Investigators are looking at both human error and mechanical failure as potential causes of the crash, the person said.The last major commercial aviation disaster in India was in 2010, when a plane -- also a Boeing operated by Air India Express and flying from Dubai -- overshot another table-top runway in Mangalore and burst into flames, killing 158 people. Investigators are looking into why there was no fire in Friday’s crash and are checking whether the aircraft’s engines were shut down, the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-dismissed-as-factor-in-deadly-air-india-crash/story-0X6PLuv05EZI17kWYRbwyJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand sets up Herbal Museum to conserve indigenous rare, endangered medicinal species||Uttarakhand government has set up a Herbal Museum in Chamoli district in a bid to promote the conservation of rare and endangered indigenous medicinal plant species. The museum has been set up by the Herbal Research Development Institute (HRDI), an autonomous body, said officials. Chandrashekhar Sanwal, director, HRDI, said that there was a need for such a museum, following an uptick in the demand for herbal products across the world. “Herbal renaissance is occurring is a global concept, as herbal products are considered safer than synthetic modern drugs. Looking at the importance of medicinal and aromatic plant-based natural products, HRDI has developed a national-level Herbal Museum at Mandal in Gopeshwar area of Chamoli district,” said Sanwal. The museum has 36 medicinal plants such as Kutki, Kuth, Chippi, Gandrayan, Tejpatta, large cardamom, among others. The museum aims to promote medicinal and aromatic plants, which are important for developing pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, cosmeceuticals, herbal disinfectants, repellents and culinary herbs-based natural products. Sanwal said that research and development activities have also been undertaken to develop various categories of traditional, medicinal and aromatic plant-based natural products at the museum. HRDI is a nodal agency of Uttarakhand State Medicinal Plant Board, which was established at Gopeshwar in 1989 for conservation, development and sustainable utilisation of the valuable medicinal and aromatic plant resources of the region. Uttarakhand, which is spread over 53,000 square kilometres (sq km), including over 46,000 sq km is hilly terrain, has over 7,000 species of plants of which more than 1,100 are of medicinal value. The institute’s primary objective is to co-ordinate medicinal and aromatic plants activities carried out by various government agencies, farmers, research institutes, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and other stakeholders. The institute focuses on the cultivation of medicinal and aromatic plants, survey and conservation of medicinal and aromatic plants, research on agro-technique, bio-diversity, biotechnology and genetic improvement of medicinal plants and many such activities. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday tweeted, praising the institute’s efforts to conserve medicinal species in the hill state and called it a useful tool for the youths and farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sets-up-herbal-museum-to-conserve-indigenous-rare-endangered-medicinal-species/story-8nPnK9k0ilBl04kndbH3qN.html
10-08-2020||India||Fine for not wearing mask raised to Rs 1,000 in Gujarat||In a bid to stem the spread of Covid-19, the Gujarat government on Monday increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places to Rs 1,000 from the present Rs 500. The decision came after the Gujarat High Court in its order last month asked the government to collect a minimum fine of Rs 1,000 from those found without mask in public places.In the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state, the high court had observed that “masks are logically the best defense individuals have against Covid-19”.“Following the high court directive, the penalty for not wearing mask in public will be Rs 1,000 from August 11 onwards,” Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said here.To stop human-to-human transmission of the virus, Rupani urged people not to come out of their homes to celebrate festivals, including Janmashtami which falls on Tuesday.The Gujarat government had recently increased the fine for not wearing mask to Rs 500 from Rs 200.During a hearing in HC last month on a sou motu (taken by court on its own) PIL about various aspects related to coronavirus, the state government informed the court that the hike of Rs 300 led to a significant decrease in the number of people who violated the rule.However, the high court said some people still do not adhere to the rule, and asked the government to increase the fine for not wearing mask in public places to a minimum of Rs 1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fine-for-not-wearing-mask-raised-to-rs-1-000-in-gujarat/story-clBKyaJKivTG49xLf9koXL.html
10-08-2020||India||Kerala landslide death toll climbs to 49, NDRF teams resume rescue work||The death toll in the landslide at a tea estate in Rajamalai in Idukki district of Kerala rose to 49 on Monday after six more bodies were recovered, according to Idukki district collector H Dineshan. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also resumed rescue operations in Rajamala battling challenges of rain, slush, mud and rocky terrain.“KeralaRains2020 @NDRFHQ work on site w/State/local agencies. Battling odds of rain/slush/terrain etc. Ops resumed since morning today,” Director-General of NDRF, SN Pradhan, tweeted on Monday.Two NDRF teams, a full unit of Idukki fire and rescue team, a team each from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, and a team which received special training are leading the rescue operations in Idukki’s Rajamala, the Kerala government had said on Sunday. Nearly 105 members of the Kerala Armed Police, 21 members of the local police, and 10 members of the Rapid Action Force are also involved int he rescue operations.ALSO READ | Body of 6-month-old baby recovered, Kerala landslide death toll rises to 43“Rescue work is on. The latest equipment has reached the site and rescue personnel are cutting big boulders to clear the site. They are also using sniffer dogs,” District collector H Dineshan had said a day earlier.On Friday, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of those who had been killed in the landslide triggered by torrential rain in large parts of the state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his condolences over the deaths due to the landslide and had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the families of the deceased.Continuous heavy rainfall for more than three days in several parts of Kerala has triggered floods and a landslide in the early hours of Friday that razed a tea plantation workers’ settlement in Idukki.On Sunday too, rains lashed many parts of Kerala amid weather forecasts of extremely heavy rainfall in six districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall in Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Alappuzha districts.Rainfall in the southern state is likely to decline from Tuesday, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-landslide-death-toll-climbs-to-49-ndrf-teams-resume-rescue-work/story-bJLLiQghCun4MOYu0fWsuO.html
10-08-2020||India||People jumping just on draft EIA not fair, says Prakash Javadekar||A day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) as a “disaster” and urged people to protest against it, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday that those raising objections to the draft (EIA notification are the same people who took “big decisions without consultations” when they were in power.“Saw reaction of some leaders demanding protest against the EIA draft. How can they protest against the draft? It is not a final notification. It was kept for public consultation for 150 days because of Covid-19. Otherwise it is only 60 days as per rules,” PTI quoted him as saying after an event to celebrate World Elephant Day.Javadekar said the environment ministry has received thousands of suggestions which it will consider before coming out with the final draft.“We have received thousands of suggestions which we welcome. We will consider those suggestions. Then take a call and come out with the final draft. So people jumping just on the draft is not fair practice. Those who want to now protest, took many of the big decisions without consultations during their regime. It is unnecessary and premature. I have mentioned it in my letter to (Congress leader and former Union minister) Jairam Ramesh,” he said.“It (Gandhi’s comment on EIA and demanding protests) is unnecessary and premature,” Javadekar said.On Sunday, Gandhi had tweeted, “This EIA 2020 draft is a disaster. It seeks to silence the voice of communities who will be directly impacted by the environmental degradation it unleashes. I urge every Indian to rise up and protest against it.” The Congress leader has also called for its withdrawal, saying it will lead to further environmental destruction and looting.“EIA 2020 draft must be withdrawn to stop the loot of the nation and environmental destruction,” Gandhi said.Congress MP Jairam Ramesh who heads the Parliamentary standing committee on science and technology, environment, forests and climate change, technology has been one of the strongest critics of the draft EIA.On Monday, ahead of Javadekar’s comments, he said the draft EIA loosens pollution standards for thermal power plants, dilutes coastal regulation zone and opens up the western ghats in a substantial manner in an eco-sensitive area among other thingsHe accused the government of adopting double standards on environmental issues.“Globally, you want to assume the role of being an environmental leader but domestically, what you are doing is diluting all the laws that we have,” Ramesh said.“In our desire for faster economic recovery from this current crisis, land laws and environmental laws will become the biggest casualties,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-jumping-just-on-draft-eia-not-fair-says-prakash-javadekar/story-WSdMmcuAtqtLem9WWE3dHK.html
10-08-2020||India||‘They’ve got nothing to do with Sushant Singh Rajput case’: Sanjay Raut slams Bihar govt||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday slammed Bihar government for its involvement in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, saying “they’ve got nothing to do with the matter”. “Mere angne me tumhara kya kaam hai? (What business you’ve got in my courtyard). The investigation is taking place here in Maharashtra,” Raut said. “If the CBI registered an FIR, then it’s their compulsion. It comes under the centre and the government has its own compulsions. Bihar government made a recommendation when they’ve nothing to do with the matter,” he said. The Shiv Sena leader said the FIR has been registered in Mumbai and Mumbai Police is investigating the case.  Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea moves SC, alleges unfair media trialFIR is registered in Mumbai & is being investigated by Mumbai Police. Suddenly FIR is registered in Bihar. What's the need for it? Have some trust in the Police. Every Police holds a reputation in its state, if you interfere in that then matter gets worse: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena https://t.co/PQdmXeC4nb“Suddenly an FIR is registered in Bihar. What’s the need for it? Have some trust in the Police. Every Police holds a reputation in its state, if you interfere in that then matter gets worse,” the MP stated. Earlier, in party’s editorial mouthpiece Saamna, Raut had said that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was not on good terms with his father KK Singh. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family demands public apology from Sanjay Raut“It is true, how many times did Sushant go to Patna to meet his father? I have sympathy for his father but there are many things that will come to surface,” Raut said in his article in Saamana.According to reports, the late actor’s family has now demanded an apology from Raut for his comments on the actor and is considering legal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-ve-got-nothing-to-do-with-sushant-singh-rajput-case-sanjay-raut-slams-bihar-govt/story-GYfUAMiA3blQpUzyMuZWpK.html
10-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty approaches SC with plea alleging unfair media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty moved the Supreme Court on Monday with a fresh plea, alleging media trial and attempts to pronounce her guilty for the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Chakraborty has filed a fresh affidavit in the top court, maintaining that Bihar government does not have the jurisdiction to probe and try the matter. The actor has also submitted that the transfer of the case to the CBI by Bihar police is without jurisdiction.Rhea is seeking a transfer of the case from Bihar to Maharashtra. In her plea, she alleged that the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is being sensationalised by the media since it occurred at a time when Bihar elections are due. “This has led to the suicide being blown out of proportion. Actors Ashutosh Bhakre and Sameer Sharma were also reported to have died by suicide in last 30 days and yet no whisper about the same in power corridors. In case of death of Sushant Singh Rajput, Chief Minister of Bihar is reported to be responsible for the registration of FIR in Patna,” the affidavit said.The plea further alleged that media channels are examining and cross-examining all the witnesses in the case and that Chakraborty has been convicted by media even before a foul-play in the case is established.“Extreme trauma and infringement of privacy of the rights of the petitioner is caused due to constant sensationalisation of this case. Media had convicted accused in 2G and Talwar case in a similar fashion where each and every accused was later on found innocent by the Courts,” the affidavit stated. The Supreme Court is slated to take up the matter tomorrow.Rhea Chakraborty faced investigation agency Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday in money laundering case linked to Rajput’s death. In a fresh round of questioning, the ED probed Chakraborty and her family members on Monday. Also read: ‘They’ve got nothing to do with Sushant Singh Rajput case’ - Sanjay Raut slams Bihar govt#SushantSinghRajput death case: Rhea Chakraborty approaches Supreme Court with a fresh plea alleging media trial and attempts to pronounce her guilty for the death of the actor. pic.twitter.com/nMkw7cRs2aRhea, her brother Showik and father Indrajit Chakraborty reported at the office of the central probe agency in the Ballard Estate area around 11 am in response to their scheduled summons for Monday, officials said.Later, Shruti Modi, the business manager of Rhea and Rajput, also reported at the ED office. All four were previously questioned by the agency on August 7. Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani also arrived at the ED office later in the day.The ED had questioned Rhea once on Saturday following which she was called back on Monday. The agency had questioned her brother for nearly 18 hours on Saturday. As per reports, Showik’s questioning went on till around 6:30 am on Sunday.Rajput’s father KK Singh had filed a complaint with the Patna police against Rhea last month. The complaint also included Rhea’s parents, brother, Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda, Shruti Modi and unknown persons. KK Singh had accused them of cheating and abetting his son’s suicide.The CBI had re-registered this FIR as a fresh case on Thursday and named as accused the same people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-approaches-supreme-court-with-fresh-plea-alleging-unfair-media-trial-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-6kJiknAh1ylfNjUA84B5YN.html
10-08-2020||India||SC to hear on Tuesday pleas on merger of six Rajasthan BSP MLAs with Congress||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear tomorrow the petitions filed on the issue relating to merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress in Rajasthan last year.The apex court was hearing a plea filed by a BJP MLA who has challenged the Rajasthan High Court order which had refused to stay the functioning as Congress legislators of six BSP MLAs who after election to the assembly merged with the ruling party in the state. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that appeal filed by BJP MP Madan Dilawar would be heard along with a separate plea filed by the six MLAs. In their plea, these six MLAs have requested the apex court to transfer to itself Dilawar’s plea pending in the high court seeking their disqualification for allegedly violating the party whip.Dilawar has challenged in the apex court the August 6 order of a division bench of high court which had disposed of his plea against the order of a single judge, who had refused to stay the functioning of these six MLAs as Congress legislators.During the hearing conducted on Monday through video-conferencing, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, told the apex court that in September last year the Assembly Speaker had passed an order accepting the merger.He said that BSP has said that they have not merged. While saying that the issue is pending before a single judge of the high court, he also referred to the plea filed by the six MLAs in the apex court. The bench said it would hear both the matters tomorrow. The single judge of high court had earlier not granted any interim relief and refused to put a stay on the participation of six MLAs in the proceedings of the House as Congress legislators.Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha contested and won the 2018 assembly election on a BSP ticket but they defected to Congress in September 2019.They had submitted an application for the merger on September 16 last year and the Speaker allowed their induction into the Congress two days later. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of the Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200.In their plea filed in the apex court, these six MLAs have contended that similar petitions, raising questions on disqualification under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution, are pending before the Supreme Court and, therefore, the plea filed against them in the high court should be transferred to the top court.They said the high court cannot exercise the power of judicial review in “purely political questions” but can examine questions if they emanate from a constitutional duty or obligation.They have said in their plea that it would be in the interest of justice that the matter is transferred to the top court and heard together with similar petitions filed there.Two petitions have been filed in the high court, one by Dilawar and the other by BSP National Secretary Satish Mishra.Dilawar has challenged the merger of the BSP MLAs into Congress, questioning Assembly Speaker CP Joshi’s order dismissing his complaint without allowing him to have his say.Mishra has challenged the defection of the MLAs, but these legislators have not sought transfer of his plea to the Supreme Court.On July 30, the high court had sought the response of the Assembly Speaker and its secretary on the pleas challenging the induction of the six MLAs into the Congress.Amid a political crisis triggered by a rebellion by Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs, the Speaker had moved the top court for a stay on the high court’s order which had asked him to defer disqualification proceedings against the sacked deputy chief minister and the 18 others.On July 31, the Rajasthan Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi also moved the top court challenging the high court order asking the Speaker to defer disqualification proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-on-tuesday-pleas-on-merger-of-six-rajasthan-bsp-mlas-with-congress/story-OKnWmvGvPyUo6vzwnV67pN.html
10-08-2020||India||Pets’ unending wait for their masters moves many at Kerala landslide site||Two dogs have been quietly moving around at the site of a landslide in Kerala’s Idukki district for last three days looking for their missing masters amid loud wails of relatives and noise of earth removers and rock cutters.Tragedy struck on Friday in Rajamalai near the misty getaway of Munnar when a portion of Pettimalai hills caved in razing at least 30 houses of poor tea plantation workers.At least 49 people have died and 24 are still missing.Some of the rescue officials tried to feed the dogs but they refused but later some local residents prodded them to take a few bites, said Muniyandi, a plantation worker who has been at the site since Saturday.“The pets’ plight moved all. Whenever a body was extricated they used to rush to the spot and smell the area and return to the rocky shade waiting for the next. Tears rolled from many eyes seeing their desperate moves. No doubt a dog is man’s best friend,” MJ Babu, a senior journalist from Munnar, said.Some people tried to take these dogs, a black and a grey-haired, to their homes but they stood their ground. Babu said residents have no idea how they survived nature’s fury and some of them even said that many domestic animals were restless the night before the tragedy. Meanwhile, Maya, a police sniffer dog on her first major assignment, has won many hearts in Rajamalai by helping spot at least six bodies from under the slush. Police said Maya and Dona were pressed into service on Sunday. Maya is trained in locating dead bodies and Dona, a labrador, is an expert in sniffing living people from under the earth, they said. While Dona’s role was limited as the scope of survivors was thin, Maya was on a roll.“She is yet to complete one year in service. Belonging to Belgian Malinois breed, she had completed nine months’ training and six more months training remains. A good performer, she has surprised us all,” P Prabhat, her handler, said. He said the two sniffers belong to the fresh batch of 35 canines inducted into the dog squad of the Kerala police headquartered in Thrissur.Loknath Behera, Kerala’s director general of police who had a brief stint with the National Investigation Agency (NIA), said there are 150 trained dogs in the canine squad and they can sniff out drugs, explosives, cadavers, alcohol and have helped solve murders, robberies, gold smuggling and other illegal activities.“We have a retirement home for police dogs. And we decorate them with proper rank based on their service and performance. Maya has done wonders on her first assignment itself and she will be rewarded properly,” the state police chief said, adding she helped spotting many bodies and she will remain there for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pets-unending-wait-for-their-masters-moves-many-at-kerala-landslide-site/story-eO7PtrIx8bNYvdQ2cwmgWJ.html
10-08-2020||India||More than 500 people, 100 elephants die every year due to conflict with each other: Officials||More than 500 people and 100 elephants die every year due to conflict with each other, officials of the environment ministry said on Monday.Releasing the figures at an event ahead of World Elephant Day on August 12, the officials said interactions between humans and elephants have led to the death of both. As per the last census conducted in 2017, India is home to 30,000 elephants. Addressing the event, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said elephant conservation is vital as it balances the ecosystem. Elephants have to be kept in forests for which fodder and water augmentation programme has been initiated, the minister said, adding that by next year results will start showing. Speaking about the significance of elephants, Union Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo condemned the May 27 incident in Kerala wherein a pregnant elephant died after consuming a firecracker-filled pineapple. “We must protect our elephants. The Kerala incident was inhuman and such criminal acts will be dealt with. The ministry and states have zero tolerance approach to such activities and I am sure exemplary punishment will be given to the culprit,” Supriyo said. Giving out the figures of deaths due to human-elephant conflict, Additional Director General of Forests (Wildlife) Soumitra Dasgupta said hundreds of elephants migrate and come in contact with human beings. “More than 500 human and 100 elephant deaths take place each year due to the conflict. In last five years, the ministry has unleashed a series of activities for the conservation of elephants. More elephant corridors have been identified, budget has been increased by 30 per cent and several committees have also been formed,” said Dasgupta. During the event, Javadekar also released a booklet on best practices of human-elephant conflict management and launched the national portal of project elephant which will have all the data and details of elephant movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-500-people-100-elephants-die-every-year-due-to-conflict-with-each-other-officials/story-83lyktQprBi0DgMYcyT7xH.html
10-08-2020||India||Child killed for ransom in Bengal; police probing dispute over lottery prize money||A year after Suraj Mahaldar, a resident of Shamsergunj in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district, had won Rs 26 lakh in a lottery as prize money, his son (7) was killed for a Rs 2-lakh ransom on Sunday. The body of Raihan Mahaldar was found inside a mango orchard on Sunday evening, not far from his home. Raihan was last seen at around 11 am, when he was playing with some other children outside his home, according to his family members. The police have detained two men for questioning on Monday morning amid tension in the area over the infant’s murder. Suraj said, “I had left home for some work on Sunday morning. When I returned at around 12:30 pm I could not find Raihan even though we searched from him everywhere.” Around 2:10 pm, Suraj received a phone call from an unknown person, who used abusive language and demanded Rs 2 lakh for releasing Raihan. Initially, the caller told Suraj that he would find his son alive near an agriculture field. Within a few minutes, he called again and said the child would be released near the local Moregram bridge. The family members informed the Shamsergunj police station but the child’s body was found before the culprits could be traced. It is suspected that Raihan was killed before the ransom call was made. Suraj had won Rs 26 lakh in a lottery as prize money a year ago, but two more men allegedly took the lion’s share. Later, some village elders brokered a deal and Suraj got more money from the other two claimants. The police are probing the dispute over the lottery prize money and are trying to connect to dots with Raihan’s murder. Amit Bhakat, officer-in-charge of Shamserganj police station, said, “We have received a written complaint and a murder case has been registered. A probe has started.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-killed-for-ransom-in-bengal-police-probing-dispute-over-lottery-prize-money/story-KM8U51UtowlLjZpVitOIsK.html
10-08-2020||India||India gets ready for UNSC role, boosts diplomatic strength at New York||India has decided to upgrade its diplomatic presence at the United Nations in preparation for taking over as a non-permanent member of the Security Council in January 2021 with an additional deputy permanent representative (DPR) and a counsellor appointed to handle the UNSC matters. External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar will personally review India’s stint at the UNSC every month.According to South Block, R Ravindran, a 1999 batch Indian Foreign Service officer posted as Joint Secretary (Central and West Africa), will join at a rank equivalent of DPR at the Indian Permanent Mission to UN at New York. Pratik Mathur, a 2007 IFS officer and Deputy Secretary (PMO), will join as Counsellor (UNSC).While the mission already is headed by TS Tirumurti and has Nagaraj Naidu as DPR, the two officers will join the group before the 75th UN General Assembly opens on September 15,2020. Preparatory work for the new non-permanent members begins months before the formal joining of UNSC.Ravindran had served in the UNPR under Hardeep Singh Puri, now Minister of Civil Aviation, Urban Development and Commerce, who headed the mission when India was a non permanent member in 2011-2012.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already spelled out Indian approach at the UNSC, describing it as the ‘5S’ or Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation) , Shanti (global peace) and Samriddhi (global prosperity) with an overall objective of “New Orientation of a Reformed Multilateral System.”While India got 184 out of 192 valid votes cast for the UNSC seat, the vote numbers surprised New Delhi as India’s adversaries particularly Pakistan, Turkey, Malaysia and backed by Islamabad’s all weather friend China had run a shrill campaign targeting India over the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir.“Our understanding is that India got these many votes as its forces stood up to China at Galwan in East Ladakh in June. Although only 129 votes are required, India got additional votes for having the capacity to fight for its territory,” said a senior government official.It was a reference to the violent brawl that took place in Galwan on June 15 in which heavily outnumbered Indian soldiers fought back against Chinese troops. India lost 20 men in the skirmish and China suffered an unspecified number of casualties. But diplomats underline that as New Delhi prepares to play a constructive role at UNSC, it hasn’t forgotten that it is still waiting to become a permanent member 75 years after the world body was founded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-ready-for-unsc-role-boosts-diplomatic-strength-at-new-york/story-SSms8I2Ka8931jvUmYL9BP.html
10-08-2020||India||743 Tirupati temple staff tested Covid-19 positive since June 11||As many as 743 staff of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) including including some priests of the Lord Venkateswara shrine at Tirumala have tested positive for Covid-19 and three have succumbed to the virus since June 11, a top TTD official said on Sunday.Of the 743 infected, three employees succumbed to the dreaded contagion and about 402 personnel have recovered so far from infection while 338 people were undergoing treatment at different Covid care facilities here, TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal told reporters here.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The famous Lord Venkateswara temple in nearby Tirumala governed by the TTD had re-opened on June 11 for public after being close for two and a half months owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said.Singhal denied reports in sections of the media and on social media that TTD had reopened the hill shrine after the coronavirus lockdown for the public with an intention to fill its coffers.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He said the ancient temple was reopened on requests from devotees and entry was allowed by following strict Covid-19 measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/743-tirupati-temple-staff-tested-covid-19-positive-since-june-11/story-SYypzRzdlqPh0xdH1ULgyM.html
10-08-2020||India||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee’s J-PAL proposes pilot project on universal basic income in Odisha districts||A pilot project based on the concept of inclusive growth dividend (IGD) or universal basic income (UBI), guaranteeing income to poor people is likely to kick off soon in two of the mineral-rich but poor districts of Odisha. Under the project, a monthly transfer of Rs 100 will be made to the bank accounts of each and every person in the targeted areas.Odisha government officials said the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) South Asia, co-founded by Nobel Laureates Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo, has proposed a pilot project in Keonjhar, Sundargarh and Mayurbhanj districts of Odisha. Last year, J-PAL South Asia had signed an agreement with the state government to maximise the impact of state’s poverty alleviation programmes across a wide range of sectors.Under the pilot project, J-PAL has proposed UBI for poor people in around 400 gram panchayats in these districts by ensuring functional bank accounts of each of the adults and crediting Rs 100 to their accounts every month for two years with a budget of Rs 300 crore. For minor children in each of these panchayats who can’t have bank accounts, the money will be transferred to their mother’s account. As per J-PAL’s assessment, the monthly unconditional income supplement of Rs 100 was assessed after pegging it at 1% of GDP/capita (Odisha’s GSDP/capita estimated to be Rs. 1,16,614 as of 2019-20). However, government sources said the pilot project can be implemented in only Keonjhar and Sundargarh districts as it can be financed from the District Mineral Fund available there.Development Commissioner Suresh Mohapatra, who had a preliminary discussion with J-PAL officials last week, said, “Once we get the project report, the DMF trust boards of the two districts would consider it and if found viable then it would be approved. We have suggested to them to include villages within 10 km area of the mining blocks in these districts.” A Below Poverty Line census conducted by Odisha’s Panchayati Raj department found about 65 per cent of the population in Sundargarh district to be BPL while in Keonjhar 69 per cent of its population is BPL.J-PAL’s proposal to Odisha government said that IGD may be especially appropriate in the current situation when the aftermath of the economic shutdown to slow the spread of COVID-19 is creating enormous stress on every part of the economy. “A small regular and predictable income transfer cannot only provide universal social protection, but also be a foundational investment in the broader economic recovery by boosting demand. The Rs 100 a month may be a trivial amount, it would give a large a boost to consumptions to poor households in rural Odisha. The IGD would boost monthly consumption by nearly 20% for the poorest 10% of rural households and would increase monthly consumption for the bottom half of the rural population by l4%,” it said.While most income transfer schemes are targeted at households, the J-PAL said individual transfers -- where children’s allowances are deposited into the mother’s account -- could be a game changer for female empowerment and intra-household targeting. It can also help in boosting female labour-force participation in Odisha, which at 2l.6 %, is lower than the national average.The J-PAL in its proposal said the inclusive growth dividend has the potential of delivering on several development goals including progressive poverty reduction without exclusion errors or targeting costs, it can also improve livelihoods through several channels including making it easier for poor households to save and access credit for productive investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-s-j-pal-proposes-pilot-project-on-universal-basic-income-in-odisha-districts/story-cvaCh65AKGXwZe0du67IhJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to provide urban forest land under FRA to tribals for household purposes||Chhattisgarh government has decided to provide urban forestland under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, to the tribals and other traditional forest-dwellers for household purposes. The Bhupesh Baghel-led government on Monday claimed that Chhattisgarh is the first state in the country to provide such an entitlement. “It’s a matter of pride and satisfaction that Jagdalpur Municipal Corporation (JMC) is the first in the country, which has provided land entitlement under Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, to urban tribal residents,” CM Baghel stated via a social media post. The government cited that 11 families, who are living under the jurisdiction of JMC, were given the rights on Sunday. “For providing rights of urban forestlands, the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 and the guidelines of the Central government issued in 2015 were followed by the state government. On a pilot basis, 11 tribal families were given pattas for urban forestland for household purposes. There are about 4,500 tribals and other traditional forest-dwellers, who have applied for the rights over urban forestlands ... The process of recognising their forest rights have been initiated. Soon, other eligible families will be handed over similar land rights,” stated a press release issued by the state government. On Sunday, the pattas were handed over to the beneficiaries by the Bastar’s Member of Parliament (MP) Deepak Baij. “The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, recognises rights on forest land of tribals and other traditional forest-dwellers in both rural and urban areas. The process of recognising individual forest rights on the forestlands of the urban area in Chhattisgarh is a welcome step. However, there is a need to implement the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, more effectively and in a coordinated manner throughout the state,” said Alok Shukla, a tribal rights activist and the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan (CBO), a pressure group. An official from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) told HT that the entitlement would be given to tribals across the state. “The state government is working on the implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. Our aim is to benefit each and every tribal family amid the hard times triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic,” said the official. Chhattisgarh public relations (PR) department’s record showed that 4,84,975 individual and community forest rights certificates have been distributed to tribals to date spread over 50.16 lakh acres of forestland. The state govermment also claimed that Chhattisgarh tops the list in handing out forest rights certificates, followed by Madhya Pradesh (2,56,99), Maharashtra (1,72,116), Odisha (4,43,000), and Gujarat (93,704). “So far, in individual claims, recognition was given to over 9.18 lakh acres of land and 4,41,429 forest rights certificates were distributed. Another 40.97 lakh acres of land in community claims were settled and 43,546 forest rights certificates were distributed,” said a PR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-provide-urban-forest-land-under-fra-to-tribals-for-household-purposes/story-acQ0BjkxLz4hHspXWzpatK.html
10-08-2020||India||Multiple complaints filed against Assam BJP MLA for controversial remark on noted writer||Guwahati: Various organisations and individuals from all walks of life have filed multiple complaints against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Assam Shiladitya Deb for allegedly describing reputed Assamese literateur, the late Syed Abdul Malik, an “intellectual jihadi”. Recently while commenting on a communal clash in Sonipur district, the BJP legislator from Hojai, who is known for his provocative comments on various issues, had accused the late Malik, a former president of Asom Sahitya Sabha, the state’s highest literary body, of instigating “intellectual jihad”. “I condemn Deb’s remarks on Malik and urge him to publicly apologise for his statement,” said Muminul Aowal, a BJP leader and chairman of the Assam Minority Development Board (AMDB). Opposition Congress has also targeted Deb for his remarks and accused him of trying to spread communal hatred in Assam by making such irresponsible and provocative comments. The party’s minority wing filed a complaint against Deb at Guwahati on Sunday. “The comments by Deb are politically motivated and expose his low mentality and lack of knowledge. I urge Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who holds the home portfolio, to take stringent action against Deb,” said Debabrata Saikia, Congress legislator and leader of opposition in the Assam Assembly. Three complaints have been filed against Deb by the Sadou Asom Goriya Moriya Deshi Jatiya Parishad at Morigaon, Barpeta and Dhubri districts. Two other organisations, Sodou Asom Goriya Yuba Chatra Parishad and Asom Sangrami Yuba Manch, have also filed two complaints against Deb in Guwahati. Kuladhar Saikia, former director-general of police (DGP), Assam, and president of Asom Sahitya Sabha (ASS), also condemned Deb’s remarks. “If my comment on Malik has hurt anyone I express my regret for that. It was never my intention to hurt anyone and request all to end this matter. I want to make it clear that the comment was my personal view and has nothing to do with my party or the government,” Deb had explained on Saturday via a social media post. In July, the BJP member of the Assam legislative assembly (MLA) had hit the headlines after he had threatened to resign from the party for being overlooked. Later, he was mollified by party leaders and revised his stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multiple-complaints-filed-against-assam-bjp-mla-for-controversial-remark-on-noted-writer/story-oRrefwnkAAe9fguJnP5VCN.html
10-08-2020||India||Over 15 lakh people beat Covid-19 in India, recovery rate nears 70%||India’s Covid-19 recoveries have crossed 1.5 million, or 15 lakh, with a recovery rate of almost 70 percent, the government stated on Monday. The country reported the highest ever single-day cases of Covid-19 recoveries in the last 24 hours as 54,859 people beat the deadly contagion or were discharged from hospitals. The country registered 62,064 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. Total Covid-19 recoveries across the country now exceed the number of active cases by more than 9 lakh, the health ministry said on Monday.  Also read: Former President Pranab Mukherjee tweets he is coronavirus positive#IndiaFightsCoronaIndia records highest ever single day recoveries of 54,859 today.Recoveries exceed active cases by more than 9 lakh.Case Fatality Rate touches a new low of 2%.https://t.co/2hEonhvRaA@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @COVIDNewsByMIB“India’s #COVID19 recoveries cross the historic peak of 1.5 million. Recovery of more than 15 lakh has been made possible because of the policy of TESTING aggressively, TRACKING comprehensively & TREATING efficiently. Better ambulance services, focus on Standard of Care & use of non-invasive oxygen have given desired results,” the Ministry of Health posted in a tweet on Monday.“#COVID19 infection still remains concentrated in 10 States that contribute more than 80% of the new cases,” the ministry added. As per the government data, the number of active cases of coronavirus has gone down in the country and currently accounts for 28.66 percent of the total positive cases.  #COVID19 हार रहा है, देश जीत रहा है!देश में 15 लाख से अधिक मरीज़ ठीक हो चुके हैं!यह सब डॉक्टरों, नर्सों और अग्रिम पंक्ति के स्वास्थ्य कार्यकर्ताओं के नि:स्वार्थ सेवा भाव और समर्पण भाव के कारण संभव हो पाया है।@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/t8FGWbNdyOIndia’s active cases of coronavirus stand at 6,34,945 while the case fatality rate is 2 percent and steadily declining. As many as 1,007 new deaths were reported in the country in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative death toll to 44,386.With 22,15,075 total Covid-19 cases, India stands as the third-worst affected country globally after the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15-lakh-people-beat-covid-19-in-india-recovery-rate-nears-70/story-dWnqqzXI4SiEsb0KrQ67mL.html
10-08-2020||India||Leaders, supporters send prayers after ex-president Pranab Mukherjee tests Covid-19 positive||Several political leaders and followers of Pranab Mukherjee wished him well on social media on Monday after the former president tweeted that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Minister of railways Piyush Goyal and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were among those who posted their messages on Twitter for the 84-year-old Mukherjee.“I pray for the well being and speedy recovery of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I am confident he will be successful in recovering from the virus quickly. Wishing him strength and good health,” Goyal posted.“Please take care sir. We are praying for your speedy recovery and good health @CitiznMukherjee,” Kejriwal tweeted.Former chief minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, was also among the leaders who wished Mukherjee well.“Wishing you a speedy recovery! Get well soon @CitiznMukherjee sir!” Fadnavis tweeted. Sir, wishing you a speedy recovery and a long & healthy life.Mukherjee said he found out about his positive status when he went for a routine check up.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-supporters-send-prayers-after-ex-president-pranab-mukherjee-tests-covid-19-positive/story-v5iDRwXjjF7apTg0U3SzBN.html
10-08-2020||India||At least 500 persons are killed in human-elephant conflict every year: Environment min data||The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on Monday said at least 500 people and 100 elephants are killed in the country due to human-elephant conflict every year. While releasing a document on best practices of conflict management and a portal on addressing the human-elephant conflict cases, the MoEFCC officials said there are 30,000 pachyderms in the wild and another 2,700 are in captivity. Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general of forests (wildlife), on Monday, said that financial contribution to states for payment of compensation and other conflict mitigation strategies had been increased by 30% this financial year, as compared to the previous year. “New elephant reserves have been declared and elephant corridors have also been identified in the past five years to address the problem. Elephants have also been included in appendix 1 of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals to ensure better conservation.” Sanjay Kumar, the director-general of forests, said the population and distribution of elephants in the country have been on the rise. They have been migrating from Jharkhand to Chhattisgarh to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “New interactions are leading to more conflict. They are migrating to newer areas. We are trying to identify research methodologies to understand how the population can remain stable in new areas,” he said. The portal and the document was released by Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar. “We do not kill animals. Animals are revered in India. We have to devise good conflict management practices. We have also started a fodder and water augmentation programme in elephants’ habitat and corridor,” Javadekar said. On Sunday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, is “not only disgraceful, but it is also dangerous”.“Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect our environment, but it could also potentially unleash widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India,” Gandhi wrote in a lengthy post on a social media platform calling youth to protest against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-500-persons-are-killed-in-human-elephant-conflict-every-year-environment-min-data/story-MbLQNN5Snm22W6gC32Of0I.html
10-08-2020||India||Former President Pranab Mukherjee tweets he is coronavirus positive||Former President Pranab Mukherjee tweeted this afternoon that he has tested positive for coronavirus, requesting people who have come in contact to self-isolate. Mukherjee said he found out about his positive status when he went for a routine check up.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19,” tweeted Mukherjee. As news spread, leaders, cutting across party lines, wished Mukherjee a quick recovery. We wish former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid. @CitiznMukherjee Please take care sir. We are praying for your speedy recovery and good health @CitiznMukherjee https://t.co/GrptWPAM2p I pray for the well being and speedy recovery of Shri Pranab Mukherjee.I am confident he will be successful in recovering from the virus quickly. Wishing him strength and good health https://t.co/56TESwSUJs Wishing you a speedy recovery!Get well soon @CitiznMukherjee sir ! https://t.co/lXW6DVPkXFThe former President, 84, had cancelled all his engagements and stopped going out for public functions the last few months. In the wake of raging coronavirus epidemic, the government had asked all senior citizens (above the age of 65) to stay at home.Mukherjee, President between 2012 and 2017, was invited for the at home programme at Rashtrapati Bhavan, which he will not be attending in the wake of this development.Last year, the Mukherjee, who is also a veteran Congress leader with stints in the Indira Gandhi cabinet as well, was awarded the Bharat Ratna - the country’s highest civilian award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-tweets-he-is-coronavirus-positive/story-33TjSXxv8a6OixdoX4iELP.html
10-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Swapna Suresh’s bail rejected in Kerala gold smuggling case, anti-terror law to apply and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh’s bail rejected, anti-terror law to applySwapna Suresh, the second accused in the Kerala diplomatic gold smuggling case, was denied bail on Monday by the NIA special court in Kochi. The court further added that provisions of the anti-terrror law, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), will apply in her case. Read more Indian Rafales practise mountain night flying for Ladakh in Himachal PradeshIndia’s newly-acquired five Rafale fighters are practising night flying in the mountainous terrain of Himachal Pradesh so that the Golden Arrows squadron with its Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and SCALP air-to-ground stand-off weapon will be ready if the situation deteriorates on the 1,597 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter said. Read more‘I’d call him a B-grade actor’: Matthew Hayden recalls sledging episode with Shoaib Akhtar in 2002 Sharjah TestMatthew Hayden is no stranger to sledging his opponents. The Australian cricket team in the 2000s were known to be master sledgers and used to play mind games on the opposition players to get under their skin. Read moreGoogle is readying this long-awaited feature for millions of Android usersIn last year’s Google IO developer’s conference, the search giant showcased speech transcription feature in Pixel smartphones. This feature found in the Gboard app is now getting an upgrade. Read moreIndian, Vietnamese & Tibetan community hold anti-China protest in WashingtonMembers of the Indian, Vietnamese and the Tibetan communities held a protest outside the Capitol Hill in Washington against China. Read moreWine windows from Bubonic plague era make a comeback amid coronavirus pandemicFrom the 14th Century to the 18th, the world was undergoing a pandemic not unlike ours, the Bubonic Plague, also known as Black Death, managed to wipe out 1/3 of Europe’s population once the spread began. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares jugaad clip of man powering Tesla car with gas generator. WatchWhen one thinks of the word jugaad tons of innovative creations captured in various videos come to mind. Adding to that vast array of videos, one clip shared by business tycoon Anand Mahindra has piqued the interest of netizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-swapna-suresh-s-bail-rejected-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-anti-terror-law-to-apply-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QXHjWZUQXJebyLmljl4HTP.html
10-08-2020||India||Kozhikode AI Express crash: 56 passengers sent home, says airline||More than 50 passengers injured in Friday’s crash of the Air India Express plane in Kerala’s Kozhikode, in which 18 people were killed, have been discharged from hospitals, the airline said on Monday.Air India Express’ flight IX-1344 with 190 people onboard overshot the runway at Karipur airport while landing and fell into a 35 feet deep valley. Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, the pilot in command of the Boeing 737 aircraft, and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar also lost their lives as more than 100 were injured in the country’s worst commercial aircraft accident in a decade.“56 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining complete fitness,” Air India Express said in a statement.“The Emergency Response Team of Air India and Air India Express and the Angels of Air India are continuously positioned at various hospitals to render all the required support to the injured passengers as well as to their family members,” it added.The airline also said it’s chief executive officer and the regional head of the southern region continue to remain in Kozhikode to “render continuous support to the family members”.The crashed aircraft was coming from Dubai to Kozhikode under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded abroad amidst the coronavirus pandemic. It was carrying 174 adult passengers, 10 children, four cabin crew and two pilots.Air India Express has said it will provide an interim compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the deceased passengers over 12 years of age and above Rs 5 lakh to those of passengers below the age of 12. It will also give Rs 2 lakh each to critically injured passengers and Rs 50,000 to other injured passengers.Directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) chief Arun Kumar has said the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport was long enough for the aircraft but a late touchdown may have caused the plane to overshoot the runway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-ai-express-crash-56-passengers-sent-home-says-airline/story-P1Un8yPbp4kOI3zE329m7O.html
10-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh’s bail rejected, anti-terror law to apply||Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the Kerala diplomatic gold smuggling case, was denied bail on Monday by the NIA special court in Kochi. The court further added that provisions of the anti-terrror law, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), will apply in her case. Suresh’s counsel opposed the application of UAPA against her client arguing that the case pertains to an “economic offence and is not terror related”. The National Investigation agency, probing the case, opposed it, saying major proceeds from smuggling were used to fund anti-national activities in south India.Earlier the premier agency told the court that it suspected the proceeds from the gold smuggling case might be used for terror funding.The agency invoked Section 16 and 17 of the UAPA, which prescribes punishment for raising funds for terrorist activities.After preliminary investigation, the NIA said, it found one of the accused K T Ramees, who is in custody now, was in touch with some fundamentalist organizations. He also undertook many foreign trips, including to Africa and he was suspected to be a part of an international smuggling and drug racket, the NIA added.When Suresh’s two bank lockers were opened by the probe team last month it reportedly found Rs one crore in cash and two kg of gold. These lockers were in the joint name of Suresh and a chartered accountant. The latter reportedly told the team that he was allegedly asked by Sivasankar to help Suresh to open lockers three years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-s-bail-rejected-anti-terror-law-to-apply/story-rtvglt7lNEBNi5MFoLk9tK.html
10-08-2020||India||6-yr-old kidnapped and raped in UP’s Hapur, critical; search on for culprit||A six-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped and raped from a village of Garh area in UP’s Hapur district on Thursday night, is in a critical condition, police said. A search has been launched to trace and nab the culprit.The girl was kidnapped from outside her home by a masked motorcycle-borne man. After being informed about the incident by the children who were playing with her, the girl’s family looked for her and failing to find her, they lodged a case of kidnapping against unknown persons with Garh police station.While a search by police teams failed to locate her, some villagers later spotted an unconscious girl on Mela road and informed the cops. The girl was rushed to the community health centre and later referred to the medical college hospital in Meerut, given her serious condition.Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Hapur, Sarvesh Kumar Mishra said initial investigation indicated that the girl was raped. He added that the sketch of the suspected criminal has been released and various police teams assigned the task of tracing and nabbing the culprit.The Garh case is the third incident of rape of minors in the last 10 days in the region.Earlier on July 30, a nine-year-old girl was raped and murdered in a village of Mansoorpur area of Muzaffarnagar district and her neighbour was arrested for committing the heinous crime.In another incident, an eight-year-old girl was raped and murdered by a villager in a village of Khurja area in Bulandshahr district on July 4.Attacking the state government, Congress party’s west UP incharge and former MLA Pankaj Malik said the law and order had gone from bad to worse in west UP. He demanded that the state government provide security to people instead of diverting people’s attention towards irrelevant issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-yr-old-kidnapped-and-raped-in-up-s-hapur-critical-search-on-for-culprit/story-a89CU3A6TpiSDR4yjC6eYJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, sows hope of ‘positive outcome’||Sachin Pilot, the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister who triggered a breakaway from the ruling Congress in the state, reached out to the party leadership in Delhi and held a meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Monday, according to two senior leaders aware of the developments.It was not immediately clear what was discussed at the meeting that was held in Delhi, one of these people said, adding: “However, since they met, a positive outcome is expected.” The developments take place exactly a month after Pilot and 18 dissident Rajasthan legislators left Jaipur to rebel against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The second leader earlier said that Pilot had sought an appointment with former party chief Rahul Gandhi and that Pilot has been speaking to senior leaders Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal, in what is being seen as an apparent softening of his stance.Neither Pilot, nor Rahul Gandhi’s office commented on the meeting. This is the first time that Gandhi met Pilot since the latter left Jaipur after the Special Operations Group under Gehlot’s ministry, issued him a show-cause notice in a case involving a plot to bring down the government. Also read: ‘Betrayers shouldn’t be allowed to come back’, say Rajasthan Cong MLAs at CLP meetPilot has till now insisted on the removal of Gehlot as chief minister as a pre-condition for any sort of rapprochement, while the Congress had asked him and his legislators supporting him to give up the “hospitality” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before starting a conversation on resolving the current impasse. A member of Pilot’s team, which has been camping in various places from Faridabad to Manesar after spending several days at the ITC Grand Bharat hotel, pointed out that the Congress Legislature Party meeting had completely ruled out a return of the rebels. Pilot’s rebellion stems from his complaints against the operational style of Gehlot, this person added.The second Congress leader cited above said that while that may be the case, with the state government looking reasonably secure, some of the legislators supporting Pilot are becoming restless and want him to reach some sort of understanding with the party’s central leadership. Also read: Six days before Rajasthan showdown, Vasundhara Raje meets Rajnath SinghWhile the Gehlot camp has been claiming the support of 102 legislators in the 200-member House, Pilot’s has not been able to increase its numbers from 19, although this number was previously claimed to be at least 30 by the former deputy chief minister and his aides. Monday’s developments come against the backdrop of the Congress suggesting, at least at the state level, that ties with Pilot are set to be severed. The general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, on Sunday ruled out a return of Pilot and his supporters. “In politics, sometimes to save democracy, dil par pathar rakhna padta hai (difficult calls need to be taken),” he told the media.In the run up to the assembly session on August 14 that is likely to feature a floor test, the opposition BJP also shifted 20 of its 72 legislators to Gujarat to prevent any poaching attempts by the Congress. While Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia denied any internal rifts, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje met party president JP Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh last week to discuss the political developments in her state. The BJP will hold a meeting of its legislators and those belonging to its alliance partner, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) of Hanuman Beniwal on Tuesday, the day Rajasthan high court will hear a petition challenging the merger of six MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) with the Congress. These BSP legislators have since moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of their case from Rajasthan high court to the country’s top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-reaches-out-to-congress-leadership-puts-in-an-appointment-request/story-W26kyhRBHltnv2u2a1YGwM.html
10-08-2020||India||Leopard, trapped from an abandoned factory in Mumbai’s Andheri, released back into the wild||Less than 24 hours after a leopard was spotted in an abandoned factory warehouse and along the boundary of a residential complex in Andheri (East), a Mumbai suburb, the animal was captured in one of the strategically-placed trap cages and released back into the wild. Forest officials said it was a male adult leopard, aged around five years. The animal had strayed close to Kanakia Atrium-2 near JB Nagar in Andheri-MIDC (Andheri-East) on Sunday early morning and was spotted by security staff of the apartment complex, who immediately informed the police and forest department. Forest officials said the animal was hiding in a 20-acre area, adjacent to the residential society, which housed Vazir Glass Warehouse, an abandoned factory warehouse, and placed three trap cages there on Sunday. “On early Monday morning, the leopard was trapped in one of the cages,” said Santosh Kank, range forest officer (Mumbai). “The animal was transported to the van parked near the society and released back into the wild.” A forest official said the animal was released back into Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). “However, as per protocol, we cannot name the exact location, where the animal was released,” said the forest officer. The factory warehouse has been lying abandoned for over two decades and there are several areas that are covered with dense vegetation, where the leopard could have hidden. “The animal avoided any movement during the day. But, it might have moved towards the trap cages late at night on Sunday or Monday early morning, where a chicken was kept as bait and got trapped,” he said. Teams from SGNP, Mumbai, and Thane forest range, and animal rescue groups had gathered at the spot after the incident was reported on Sunday. Two cages were set up during the day, and another by the afternoon. Besides, camera traps (about 10-12) were placed across the abandoned warehouse to track the animal’s movement. Two forest guards and a few police personnel were deployed at the residential complex in a bid to restrict the movement of the public. In April 2019, a leopard was rescued after a three-hour operation following its entry into a residential area in Marol, Andheri (East). At least six leopards have been rescued from residential areas in the densely-populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) since 2017. SGNP and its surrounding areas, including Aarey Colony, are home to an estimated 47 leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-trapped-from-an-abandoned-factory-in-andheri-released-back-into-the-wild/story-KgEJURQgpmnM5UkrwCM74N.html
10-08-2020||India||Andaman and Nicobar’s development crucial for India’s ‘Act East’ policy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the importance of the strategic Andaman and Nicobar Islands has increased in the light of India’s ‘Act East’ policy as he launched the submarine optical fibre cable (OFC), which will give a major boost to the local economy and tourism among other sectors.The Prime Minister made the comments after virtually inaugurating the 2,300-km undersea cable project connecting Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Port Blair.“The Indian Ocean has been the centre of India’s trade and strategic prowess for thousands of years. Now that India is following the new policy and practiceof trade and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, the importance of our islands including Andaman and Nicobar has increased,” PM Modi said.“Under the Act East policy, Andaman and Nicobar’s role in India’s strong relations with east Asian countries and other countries associated with the sea is very important and it is going to increase,” he said.The Act East policy, a key foreign policy approach, is India’s effort aimed at bolstering extensive strategic and economic ties with southeast Asian countries that would possibly act a counterweight to the influence of China in the region.The Andaman and Nicobar Islands are also home to India’s only tri-services command, the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), which has become strategically important amid the Chinese aggression in the region.“This optical fibre cable project, connecting Andaman and Nicobar with rest of the country, is a symbol of our commitment towards the ease of living. Be it online classes, tourism, banking, shopping or telemedicine, thousands of families in Andaman and Nicobar will now get its access,” he said.“The completion of the work of laying 2,300 km long cable undersea before the scheduled time is praiseworthy. Deep-sea surveys, maintaining cable quality and laying cable using special ships is not easy,” PM Modi said.PM Modi had said earlier in the day that the inauguration of the submarine optical fibre cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands will ensure high-speedbroadband connectivity, fast and reliable mobile and landline telecom services and delivery of e-governance platforms to the islands, crucial for India’s security.“Today, 10th August is a special day for my sisters & brothers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. At 10:30 this morning, the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair will be inaugurated,” PM Modi had tweeted.The cable will enhance broadband and telecom facilities on the islands, according to a release by the Prime Minister’s Office. The foundation stone for the project was laid by PM Modi on December 30, 2018, at Port Blair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andaman-and-nicobar-s-development-crucial-for-india-s-act-east-policy-pm-modi/story-KQpRQt0xRil7bqiuuU16hL.html
10-08-2020||India||Vice President lays foundation stone of Rajya Sabha housing complex in Delhi’s RK Puram||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu laid the foundation stone for Rajya Sabha Housing complex at RK Puram in Delhi on Monday.While addressing the occasion, the vice president said that the land acquired for the purpose of building a residential complex for Rajya Sabha employees is located in the heart of the city, measuring 8,700 square metres. He said he is not happy with the efforts made in the past to put it to the intended use in time. “I am amazed by the socio, economic, legal administrative issues and hurdles that come in the way,” the vice president said, adding that he was aware of the acute shortage of housing for the secretariat employees. “The housing demand of secretariat employees is being met by only 38 percent, indicating a shortage of around 68 percent,” he said. This comes a day after Naidu marked the 78th anniversary of the Quit India movement on Sunday and called for an intensified campaign for Knit India to enable a strong and emotionally integrated nation. The vice president urged people to pledge to drive out poverty, illiteracy, inequality, gender discrimination, corruption and all kinds of social evil.“Lack of sense of belonging to each other and unity of purpose and action had led to long subjugation and exploitation of India. Learning from this, all Indians need to be bound by the shared sense of Indianness while pursuing their respective cultural value and ethos. This is all about nourishing the spirit of nationalism. A perception of divided India would make us an easy target for others for fishing in troubled waters. A strong, unified and emotionally integrated India is the best defence against those casting an evil eye on us with questionable intentions,” the vice president posted on social media on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-lays-foundation-stone-of-rajya-sabha-housing-complex-in-delhi-s-rk-puram/story-hq4uEWwbaMU81S5VmicDdM.html
10-08-2020||India||SC rejects lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s regret, to proceed with contempt case||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will go ahead with the contempt of court proceedings against senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan in the 2009 case over his interview to Tehelka magazine alleging that half of past 16 chief justices of India were corrupt.Refusing to accept the ‘regret’ offered by Bhushan in a written statement to the top court, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra posted the matter for hearing on August 17.“Whether calling judges corrupt per se amounts to contempt needs to be heard,” the bench said.On August 4, the Supreme Court had held an in-camera proceeding in the case and reserved it’s order. A statement was given by Bhushan as well as Tarun Tejpal, the former editor of Tehelka magazine.The bench said that there is a thin line between free speech and contempt. The judges said they seek to balance the right to free speech on one hand and the need to protect the dignity of the judiciary as an institution.Bhushan said that his allegation on corruption did not refer to financial corruption but lack of propriety and if his statement hurt judges or their families he regrets his statement.Tejpal had offered an apology.The top court had issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal in November 2009 for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to Tehelka.On July 22, the same bench had issued suo motu notice to Bhushan for his remarks and two alleged derogatory tweets against the judiciary, observing his statements prima facie “brought the administration of justice in disrepute”.In his reply to the court’s notice, Bhushan said the expression of opinion, “however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some”, cannot constitute contempt of court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-prashant-bhushan-s-regret-over-corruption-remark-proceeds-with-contempt-case/story-4LX3OkCnMhAfrKcO5WrJmO.html
10-08-2020||India||Registrar can’t direct housing society to issue NOCs to its member: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court last week stayed an order passed by a deputy registrar of co-operative societies in the city, directing a co-operative housing society at Dindoshi to issue no-objection certificates to one of its members for improvement and change of user of his premises.“In my prima-facie opinion the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies ex-facie did not have any jurisdiction and authority to issue such a direction to the petitioner society to issue a NOC as contained in the order,” said justice Girish Kulkarni while staying order issued by the deputy registrar, P ward.Acting on a complaint lodged by the member, the deputy registrar had on July 9, 2019 directed Shree Raghunandan co-operative housing society to issue necessary NOCs to the member for joining four tenements and converting user of the premises from residential to commercial.The housing society then moved HC, through advocate Mohit Jadhav, challenging the order on various grounds.The order was purportedly passed under Section 79(2)(a) of the Maharashtra C o-operative Societies (MCS) Act, 1960, but justice Kulkarni opined that the deputy registrar had no power to issue such a direction.In my prima facie opinion, it is clearly a dispute between a member and the society, which would require adjudication before some other forum, said the judge.The judge said section 79(2)(a) deals with compliances to be made by co-operative societies and confers power on the deputy registrar to issue necessary orders to ensure the statutory compliances like filing of returns etc.“It is difficult to conceive that the nature of the complaint as made by respondent no. 3 (member) before the Deputy Registrar invoking Section 79(2)(a) for issuance of inter-alia fire NOC and a NOC for improvements can at all fall within the purview of this provision,” said justice Kulkarni.The judge added that to read such wide powers to issue such directions as contained in the impugned order under Section 79(2)(a) would amount to reading something into the provision which the legislature has not provided for and in fact if so construed would amount to something contrary to the statutory scheme of the MCS Act 1960.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/registrar-can-t-direct-housing-society-to-issue-nocs-to-its-member-hc/story-wHuFGrnv2OgjHLuQBY4HpJ.html
10-08-2020||India||India faces lost generation as Covid-19 pushes children to work||The coronavirus pandemic is forcing India’s children out of school and into farms and factories to work, worsening a child-labour problem that was already one of the most dire in the world.Sixteen-year-old Maheshwari Munkalapally and her 15-year-old sister stopped attending lessons when virtually the entire economy was brought to a halt during the world’s biggest lockdown. Munkalapally’s mother and older sister lost their jobs as housemaids in Hyderabad, the capital of the southern Indian state of Telangana. The younger girls, who had been living with their grandmother in a nearby village, were forced to become farmhands along with their mother, in order to survive.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Working under the sun was difficult as we were never used to it,” Munkalapally said. “But we have to work at least to buy rice and other groceries.”It’s difficult to quantify the number of children affected since the pandemic erupted, but civil society groups are rescuing more of them from forced labour and warn that many others are being compelled to work in cities because of the migrant labour shortage there.Even before the outbreak, India was struggling to keep children in school. A 2018 study by DHL International GmBH estimated that more than 56 million children were out of school in India -- more than double the combined number across Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. The cost to India’s economy, in terms of lost productivity, was projected at $6.79 billion, or 0.3% of gross domestic product.Also read: Telangana Police rescue 5-year-old girl made to work as domestic help, abusedOf those children not in school, 10.1 million are working, either as a ‘main worker’ or as a ‘marginal worker,’ according to the International Labour Organization.Global TrendGlobal child labour had been gradually declining in the past two decades, but the Covid-19 pandemic threatens to reverse that trend, according to the ILO. As many as 60 million people are expected to fall into poverty this year alone, and that inevitably drives families to send children out to work. A joint report by the ILO and United Nations Children’s Fund estimates that a 1 percentage point rise in poverty leads to at least a 0.7 percentage point increase in child labour.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Indonesia, the world’s fourth most-populous nation, is another country that will see large numbers of children from vulnerable families drop out of school and into the workforce. The ILO estimates about 11 million are at risk of being exploited as child labourers under current conditions, especially in the less-developed eastern parts of the country, like Sulawesi islands, Nusa Tenggara and Papua.Economic LossIn India, home to more young people than any other country in the world, this lost generation of children will have substantial effects on Asia’s third-largest economy: lower productivity and earning potential, unrealized tax revenue, increased poverty levels and pressure for more government handouts.“Even prior to the pandemic, numbers of children out of school in India and in child labour were high,” said Ramya Subrahmanian, the chief of research on child rights and protection at Unicef-Innocenti in Florence, Italy. “An even bigger issue will be for those children who are due to enter school during this time. If these children face delays in entering school, there may be an increase in the numbers of never-enrolled children, which could in turn push up child labour numbers.”The Indian constitution provides free and compulsory education for all children in the age group of six to 14 years as a fundamental right. While Munkalapally and her sister are no longer covered by it because of their age, they are protected by the local law on child labour, which prohibits employment of adolescents between the age of 14 and 18 from working in any hazardous or dangerous occupations. The same law bars children under the age of 14 in any form of occupation except as a child artist, or in a family business.Forced labour“At a household level, it’s hard to differentiate whether children are involved or not,” says Dheeraj, a program manager at Praxis: Institute for Participatory Practices, who uses only one name. The jobs may still be hazardous and against the law -- small-scale businesses such as matchbox-making can be run from home -- but the difficulty in identifying such labour leaves children open to exploitation.Bonded labour, where people are forced to work for creditors to pay off their loans, is another avenue where families send their children to work.A total of 591 children were rescued from forced work and bonded labour from different parts of India during the lockdown by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a civil society group on children’s rights, founded by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi.“Once the lockdown is lifted and normal manufacturing activity resumes, factory owners will look to cover their financial losses by employing cheap labour,” the group said in a statement.NGOs point to the fact that the real spike in child labour is yet to come. When economic activity begins accelerating, there is a risk of returning migrants taking children along with them to the cities.“When hotels reopen, construction work starts, the railways get back on track, when everything opens up, this community that has returned will be the main source that take our children to the cities,” said Abhishek Kumar, program coordinator at SOS Children’s Villages.Children may be seen as a stop-gap measure to fill jobs left vacant by migrant labourers who fled cities for their rural homes during the lockdown.“The burden has shifted to the poor households within urban areas,” said Rahul Sapkal, an assistant professor at the Centre for Labour Studies in the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai.While children aren’t exactly engaging in heavy labour usually carried out by adults, if parents take their children along for support in their jobs, even if it’s to avoid leaving them at home, a precedent is set, and such activity is normalized, he said.Mukalapally mother, Venkatamma, is unhappy that her children are now forced to work, but cannot think of any alternative. The money they make is still not enough.“Vegetables, rice, spices, soap, we still cannot afford these despite the four of us working,” she says. “It would be better if we could go back. In Hyderabad, even if the work is difficult, the pay is better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-faces-lost-generation-as-covid-19-pushes-children-to-work/story-hIbEkV1pEhQAmkWwR9S8rO.html
10-08-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates submarine optical fibre cable connecting Chennai, Port Blair||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the submarine optical fibre cable (OFC) connecting Andaman and Nicobar to the rest of the country and the world is a symbol of the government’s commitment to ease of living pf the island’s people. The Prime Minister inaugurated the optical fibre cable project, which will connect Tamil Nadu’s Chennai and Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, through a video conference. “Today is not only important for millions of friends living in dozens of islands of Andaman and Nicobar, it is also important for the whole country,” PM Modi said. “The bigger the project was, the greater the challenges were. This was also a reason that despite the need of this facility for years, it could not be work upon. But I am happy that this work was completed, bypassing all the obstacles,” he added. The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island and Rangat. Ahead of the launch, PM Modi had tweeted to say it’s a very special day for the residents of the islands. He also said that the OFC will provide “high-speed broadband connectivity and a big boost for the local economy”. “Inauguration of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands ensures: High-speed broadband connectivity, fast and reliable mobile and landline telecom services, big boost to the local economy, delivery of e-governance, telemedicine and tele-education,” the Prime Minister added. PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the project on December 30, 2018, at Port Blair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-submarine-optical-fibre-cable-connecting-chennai-port-blair/story-vFSSKoOnHzS76xJ2Nt1R7L.html
10-08-2020||India||Rajasthan: Police seize drugs worth Rs 3 crore||Police have seized 2.74 kilograms (kg) of banned heroin, which is worth around Rs 3 crore, on Sunday following the seizure of fake Indian currency notes (FICNs) allegedly smuggled from Pakistan. Anand Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Barmer, told media persons on Sunday evening that five people had been arrested for running an FICN racket. “We got a tip-off about the contraband and raids were conducted at Khandu Khan’s house in Bhanwar village. We recovered 1.74 kg heroin from his house,” the SP said. “During interrogation, Khan named Mula Ram of Bamarala Der village as his accomplice. Another kg of heroin was recovered from Ram’s house. The market value of the seized contraband is around Rs 3 crore,” he added. The seized narcotics could be a part of a bigger consignment and the police suspect that Pakistan is involved in the cross-border smuggling of heroin. Some police officers said five kg of heroin was dumped in an agricultural field near the Indo-Pak border and half of the consignment was sent to Sanchore in Jalore and Jodhpur. Earlier, police had seized Rs 500 FICNs on August 4 after a bank tipped them off.Later, Akbar Khan of Paradiya village was arrested and Rs 6.55 lakh FICNs were found in his possession. Sawan Khan, Bacchu Khan, Badal Khan, and Ajij Khan are the other persons arrested for running the FICN racket. In the past seven months, the police have busted two Pakistan-sponsored FICN rackets, worth Rs 12 lakh, in Barmer.Akbar’s uncle Roshan Khan is based in Pakistan and is the supplier of FICNs. He is suspected to be behind the smuggling of drugs as well, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-seize-drugs-worth-rs-3-crore/story-aWVikeQbW37zzur0myVfqJ.html
10-08-2020||India||NDRF resumes rescue ops in Idukki as death toll rises to 43 in landslide incident||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) resumed rescue operations in Idukki’s Rajamala on Monday morning as the death toll in the landslide incident rose to 43.In a tweet, SN Pradhan, the Director-General of NDRF said that teams are battling odds of rain, slush and terrain.“#KeralaRains2020 UPDATE 10/08/2020 #Landslide,Munnar @NDRFHQ work on site w/State/local agencies. Battling odds of rain/slush/terrain etc. OPS RESUMED SINCE MORNING TODAY,” Pradhan tweeted.Two NDRF teams, a full unit of Idukki fire and rescue team, a team each from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, and a team which received special training are leading the rescue operations in Idukki’s Rajamala, the District Information Office had said on Sunday.It added that 105 members of Kerala Armed Police, 21 members of local police, and 10 members of Rapid Action Force were also present on the spot of the landslide. On Friday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakhs to kin of the deceased.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also expressed his condolences over deaths due to landslide and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakhs each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the kin of deceased.Heavy rains in several parts of Kerala triggered floods and landslides which have wreaked havoc in the region over the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-resumes-rescue-ops-in-idukki-as-death-toll-rises-to-43-in-landslide-incident/story-GiV6SiJqf1rfLbG7OjZJ0M.html
10-08-2020||India||With over 62,000 Covid-19 cases, 1,007 deaths in a day, India’s tally crosses 2.21 million||India registered 62,064 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,007 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 2,215,075, according to the Union health ministry. There are 634,945 active cases and 44,386 people have died of the viral disease so far, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. There have been more than 60,000 cases daily since last Friday. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The country’s recovery rate touched 69.33% as record 54,859 Covid-19 patients were cured in a single day, data showed. More than 1.5 million people have been discharged across the country till date. The gap between the number of recovered and active cases is more than 900,000 now. According to the government, the country’s fatality rate has further slumped, touching an improved rate of 2.01% on Sunday. The government has also said that coronavirus infections still remain concentrated in 10 states, which contribute more than 80% of the new Covid-19 cases. Also read: India’s trajectory a worry as world nears 20 million Covid-19 casesThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 2,45,83,558 samples have been tested so far, including 4,77,023 samples on Sunday, nearing its target of one million per day by the end of August. India, the third worst-hit nation in the country, has crossed the United States in terms of the number of daily infections. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageGlobally, the number of coronavirus infection is nearly the 20 million-mark and 730,089 people have succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-62-000-covid-19-cases-1-007-deaths-in-a-day-india-s-tally-crosses-2-21-million/story-JCoBqcgBzIx5t4M2tyN7cL.html
10-08-2020||India||Submarine OFC an early gift for people of Andaman-Nicobar on I-Day: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the submarine Optical Fibre Cable between Chennai and Port Blair via video conferencing on Monday morning.The submarine optical fibre cable link will deliver bandwidth of 2 x 200 Gigabits per second (Gbps) between Chennai and Port Blair, and 2 x 100 Gbps between Port Blair and the other islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands chain. The foundation stone for this project was laid by the PM on December 30, 2018 at Port Blair. Here are the highlights of the PM’s address on the occasion:- I am hopeful that through our efforts today, not only will the islands and its residents get new facilities in the coming decade but it will also establish Andaman and Nicobar on the world tourist map in a major way.- The modern infrastructure that is being developed in Andaman Nicobar is a key aspect for blue economy. A major part of blue economy is fisheries, aqua culture and sea-weed farming. Several countries are exploring the possibilities of sea-weed farming today- There is a proposal to build a transshipment port in Great Nicobar at an estimated cost of Rs 10,000 crore. Efforts are on to have the first phase of this project operational in the next 4-5 years. Once it is ready, big ships will be able to dock here- The four ships being built at Kochi shipyard to improve water connectivity between the islands and the rest of the country will be delivered in a few months- In 12 islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, high-impact projects are being expanded. A major issue of mobile and internet connectivity has been solved today, and we’re working towards solving road, air and water connectivity - Better internet connectivity is one of the first needs of any tourism hub. This problem has now been solved. ourists will now be in no rush to return and thus, they will enjoy the sea-food and the islands. This will help tourism and employment in the region- This submarine OFC project that connects Andaman Nicobar Islands to the rest of the world is a symbol of our commitment towards ease of living. Thousands of families in Andaman-Nicobar will now get its access, the residents will reap the benefits of internet connectivity - My congratulations to every one connected with this project. -This is an early gift for the people of Andaman and Nicobar on Independence Day. Laying 2,300 km cable under sea and that too, before schedule, while also maintaining the quality of cable is a commendable job. This is not an easy project- The cable connectivity between Chennai and Port Blair has begun from today. My greetings to the residents of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for this, says the PM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-submarine-cable-connectivity-between-chennai-and-andaman-nicobar-islands-highlights/story-SQNQ0QaLyy1ay7pCVsg9hJ.html
10-08-2020||India||‘Sushant Singh Rajput was not on good terms with his father’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has said that he has sympathies for Sushant Singh Rajput’s father but there are “many things that will come to surface”. Raut, who is the associate editor of party’s editorial mouthpiece Saamana, said in an article that the Bollywood actor was not on good terms with his father KK Singh. “It is true, how many times did Sushant go to Patna to meet his father? I have sympathy for his father but there are many things that will come to surface,” Raut said in his article in Saamana.  It is true, how many times Sushant went to Patna to meet his father? I have sympathy for his father but there are many things that will come to surface: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena on his article in Saamana stating #SushantSinghRajput was not on good terms with his father (09.08.20) pic.twitter.com/rT4WXeSSIUThis comes as the actor’s death case intensifies with the investigative agency Enforcement Directorate (ED) set to question actor Rhea Chakraborty again on Monday. The ED held a marathon session with her brother Showik on Saturday evening which went on for nearly 18 hours and ended around 6 in the morning on Sunday. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case - Rhea Chakraborty to face ED again todayPreviously, in another editorial on the case, Raut had slammed the Centre for handing over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He said that the decision has been taken for political gains and as part of pressure tactics.In his weekly column Rokhthok last week, Raut said that the decision of handing over the investigation is an attack on the state’s autonomy. “Many state governments have banned the CBI. People in West Bengal took to streets against the agency when it tried to intervene in the Saradha Chit Fund case,” the Shiv Sena leader had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-was-not-in-good-terms-with-his-father-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-HxeyTO6CsXFEsVlhrhaNrK.html
10-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports worst week so far with highest Covid-19 cases, deaths||Uttarakhand reported its worst week in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with maximum fresh cases and deaths since the first infection was reported in the state on March 15. Uttarakhand reported 2,185 cases and deaths of 42 Covid-19 positive patients between August 2 and August 8, as per official records. Before this, the state had reported 1,685 cases in the third week of July and 20 deaths in the last week of July. The state also reported testing of more than 31,000 samples and over 1,600 recoveries, which are also the highest so far for any week. On Sunday, 230 fresh Covid-19 cases took Uttarakhand’s tally to 9,632. Seven Indian Army personnel from Rudraprayag district also tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Eight Covid-19 patients died in the state on Sunday of which one was due to coronavirus and others died due to co-morbidities. A total of 125 Covid-19 patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 20 deaths attributed to the viral, according to the health officials. The remaining casualties were attributed to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials. A total of 6,134 infected people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 63.68%. Haridwar district reported 127 of the 230 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, followed by Dehradun (34), US Nagar (19), Nainital (16), Tehri (11), Rudraprayag (8), Champawat (7), Uttarkashi (4), Pauri (3) and one case from Chamoli district. Of the cases reported on Sunday, travel history was not available at the time of the release of the bulletin for 104 cases while, 114 cases were contacts of earlier detected positive patients. Haridwar district has so far reported a total of 2,111 cases - the most cases in the state, followed by Dehradun (2,031), US Nagar (1,723) and Nainital (1,507). Also, 171 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with maximum of 56 in Haridwar district. The doubling rate of cases, based on the last seven days’ data, now, stands at 23.46 days, while the infection rate is at 4.91%. The state has so far tested over 2.09 lakh samples while 9,700 results are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 459 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 371 in Haridwar district. An official from Uttarakhand governor’s secretariat tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, informed officials. Nitin Upadhyay, deputy director for information with the Raj Bhawan, said Governor Baby Rani Maurya was on leave the past week and did not come in contact with the patient. “She did not attend office and did not come in contact with the official who tested positive, so she will not be going in quarantine, but we are still taking all the precautions. The Raj Bhawan is closed for two days (Sunday and Monday) and complete sanitisation is being done by the concerned authorities,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-worst-week-so-far-with-highest-covid-19-cases-deaths/story-BWaSzV6nv9PbP851EXUHJJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Covid-19 patients under home isolation in Guwahati to get free pulse oximeter||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday announced that the state government will provide Covid-19 patients preferring to stay in home isolation a pulse oximeter and first-line supportive medicine completely free in Guwahati.The state government has also activated Tele Medicine service for Covid-19 patients through 104, which will be expanded to other places soon.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “From tomorrow, we will provide patients preferring to stay in home isolation a pulse oximeter and first-line supportive medicine completely free in Guwahati. We have also activated Tele Medicine service for them through 104, will expand it to other places soon,” Sarma said.He further informed that 1,123 Covid-19 cases were detected for coronavirus out of 24,492 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. With this, the total count of positive cases has surged to 58,837 including 40,591 discharged cases, 18,098 active cases and 145 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Covid-19 positivity rate is at 4.58 per cent, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-under-home-isolation-in-guwahati-to-get-free-pulse-oximeter/story-hozaBF0pzBaANwiDBhtVpN.html
10-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty reaches ED office for questioning||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty reached the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office on Monday morning for another around of questioning in the money laundering case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The actor was accompanied by her brother Showik Chakraborty. Rhea Chakraborty’s previous questioning with the ED went on for nearly eight hours. Rhea’s father Indrajit Chakraborty is also likely to be questioned by the ED officials on Monday. The ED had questioned Rhea once on Saturday following which she was called back on Monday. The ED had questioned her brother for nearly 18 hours on Saturday. As per reports, Showik’s questioning went on till around 6:30 am on Sunday morning. Chakraborty has filed a petition in the Supreme Court demanding the CBI probe to be stopped. A hearing has been set for August 11 in the Supreme Court in the case. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta responds to Rhea Chakraborty’s chat revelationAccording to sources in the investigation agency, the officials have got hold of electronic evidence in connection with the case and are also investigating phone records of conversations between Rhea, her father and brother, news agency ANI reported. The CBI has also collected documents related to the actor’s death from Bihar Police. The ED has also asked the late actor’s friend, Siddharth Pithani, to appear before the agency on August 8.After the actor’s father, KK Singh, filed an FIR against Rhea in Bihar on July 28, the agency registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in the case on July 31. The agency has registered a case against six accused, including Rhea, in connection with Rajput’s death who was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-to-face-ed-today/story-NIqHxQPDzRKwETtN8Pf1HL.html
10-08-2020||India||Centre urges Bengal to allow entry of over 2,600 Indians stranded in Bangladesh||The Centre has again urged the West Bengal government to allow entry of 2,680 inhabitants of the state stranded in neighbouring Bangladesh since the announcement of the lockdown across India in March, a senior official said on Sunday.The central government had made a similar request a few weeks back to let the people enter through two of the six land borders with Bangladesh, he said.“Our Mission in Dhaka has once again reported that 2,399 people are seeking to return to West Bengal from Bangladesh through the Petrapole-Benapole integrated checkpost and further 281 citizens are seeking to do so through the Phulbari-Banglabandha land border,” Additional Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, Vikram Doraiswami said in a letter to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha.The people stranded in Bangladesh “are living in extreme distress, including sheltering in school verandah or public parks”, it said.Most of them are either unskilled or semi-skilled labourers who had gone to the neighbouring country to see their relatives, the official said.The state government is considering the request of the Centre and working out the modalities, he said.“The central government must ensure that health screening of the stranded people is carried out before they board the trains,” the official added.The ministry, meanwhile, has also written to the Railways to consider the option of running special trains to bring the people back from Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-urges-bengal-to-allow-entry-of-over-2-600-indians-stranded-in-bangladesh/story-O0G5ZnZS3fxKHHwHBJNTxI.html
10-08-2020||India||Spectacles believed to be worn by Mahatma Gandhi emerge at UK auction||A pair of gold-plated spectacles believed to have been worn by Mahatma Gandhi and presented as a gift in the 1900s have emerged on the UK auction circuit, estimated to fetch between 10,000 pounds and 15,000 pounds.East Bristol Auctions in Hanham, south-west England, said on Sunday that they were pleasantly surprised to find that the spectacles, dropped through their letterbox in an envelope, may have such a rich history behind it.“It’s a huge find of great historical importance. The vendor had presumed them to be interesting, but of no value and did tell me to dispose of them ‘if they’re not worth anything’,” said auctioneer Andy Stowe of East Bristol Auctions.“I think he nearly fell off his chair when we presented our valuation. It’s a really great auction story – and one that we all dream of,” he said.The glasses, which have already attracted an online bid for 6,000 pounds, are said to have been in the family of the unnamed elderly gentleman vendor in England, who was told by his father that they were a gift to his uncle when he was working for British Petroleum in South Africa between 1910 and 1930.“The vendor’s uncle definitely worked for British Petroleum in South Africa, and I believe Gandhi didn’t wear glasses until the late 1910s early 1920s,” says Stowe in reference to the provenance of the glasses, which are likely to be one of Gandhi’s earliest pairs during his time in South Africa.“The story that appears with the lot is exactly what the vendor told us, and exactly what was told to him by his father some 50 years ago,” explains Stowe.The lot, titled “Pair of Mahatma Gandhi’s Personal Spectacles”, forms part of the auctioneers’ Military, History and Classic Cars online sale and will go under the hammer on August 21. It has already attracted much interest, including from India.“A pair of early 20th century c1920 gold plated circular rimmed spectacles by repute owned and worn by Mahatma Gandhi,” notes the auction lot details.“The spectacles of usual form, with sprung gold plated arms and prescription lenses. Jointed by a gold plated nose bar, the spectacles formed an important and somewhat iconic part of Gandhi’s overall appearance. It was known that he would often give away his old or unwanted pairs to those in need or those who had helped him. A rare and important pair of spectacles,” it notes.“The uncle working for British Petroleum at the time and was stationed in South Africa, and it can be presumed that these were gifted by way of thanks from Gandhi for some good deed. A note from the vendor is included,” the auction lot adds.Gandhi became synonymous with the iconic round-rimmed Windsor-style glasses, common during the period when he was studying law in England in the late 1800s and 1900s. While initially used infrequently, the glasses became a regular feature during the national movement and Gandhi’s civil disobedience protests in India.He is known to have handed over his personal items as gifts to admirers and a number of similar items have emerged on the auction circuit over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spectacles-believed-to-be-worn-by-mahatma-gandhi-emerge-at-uk-auction/story-n5cLXWIiJjfeTGh6DKigZI.html
10-08-2020||India||‘Special day for Andaman and Nicobar Islands’, says PM Modi ahead of submarine OFC launch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Monday a “very special day for the residents of Andaman and Nicobar Islands”, hours ahead of the launch of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar Islands.He is scheduled to launch the submarine cable connectivity via video conferencing. “Today, 10th August is a special day for my sisters and brothers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. At 10:30 this morning, the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair will be inaugurated,” the PM said in a tweet. Today, 10th August is a special day for my sisters and brothers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. At 10:30 this morning, the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Chennai and Port Blair will be inaugurated.https://t.co/lJGVG3VAmJHe also said that the OFC will provide “high-speed broadband connectivity and a big boost for the local economy”.“Inauguration of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands ensures: High-speed broadband connectivity, fast and reliable mobile and landline telecom services, big boost to the local economy, delivery of e-governance, telemedicine and tele-education,” read another tweet by the prime minister. Inauguration of the submarine Optical Fibre Cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands ensures:High-speed broadband connectivity. Fast and reliable mobile and landline telecom services. Big boost to the local economy. Delivery of e-governance, telemedicine and tele-education.The submarine cable will also connect Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Little Andaman, Car Nicobar, Kamorta, Great Nicobar, Long Island, and Rangat.Interacting with BJP workers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Sunday, the PM said that internet connectivity in the islands will go through a sea change after the launch of the facility. It is expected to deliver faster and more reliable mobile and landline telecom services at par with other parts of the country.The inauguration will take place via video conferencing at 10:30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-day-for-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-says-pm-modi-ahead-of-submarine-ofc-launch/story-A3JCedLvrqpDoZc66sB5ZJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Goa registers 506 new Covid-19 patients in a day, the highest so far||Goa registered 506 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, the highest in a 24-hour period so far with the surge nearly double the daily average cases registered in the state. Before this, the highest detections in a single day was 348 recorded on August 5.The state administration has now announced the setting up of a new dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the state and has promised better treatment protocols as the numbers have taken a turn for the worse. “We will be setting up a new Covid-19 hospital at Sub-District Hospital, Ponda to cater to rising cases in the state,” Vishwajit Rane, Goa’s health minister, said. Prior to this the state had only one dedicated hospital for Covid-19 with a capacity of 220 beds. The hospital soon filled up prompting the state government to set up care centres for asymptomatic patients. After they too filled up, the government allowed asymptomatic patients to home quarantine. The new Covid-19 hospital, which will function out of the sub-district hospital in Ponda town in south Goa, has the capacity to cater to nearly 440 patients. Goa has witnessed 8,712 Covid-19 cases of which 5,995 have recovered and 75 have succumbed while 2,642 are undergoing treatment either at care centres or at the state’s dedicated hospital. “Our government is committed to provide the best healthcare facilities to the people in this challenging period. I urge everyone to come together and support the authorities to fight against this pandemic and avoid politicising issues related to healthcare,” chief minster Pramod Sawant said. The government has rolled out rapid antigen test to help cope with the demand for tests despite their knack for false negatives but with a rider that they will only be used on asymptomatic patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-registers-506-new-covid-19-patients-in-a-day-the-highest-so-far/story-iA6nsDUJ50BYDKcn4Tr0AO.html
10-08-2020||India||Indian-Americans protest China’s aggression against India, human rights violations of Uyghurs||A group of Indian-Americans from in and around the national capital held a protest here against China’s aggression towards India and the human rights violations of Uyghur minority groups in the country’s restive Muslim-majority Xinjiang region.Maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, the peaceful protestors on Sunday gathered at the historic national mall facing the US Capitol and displayed anti-China posters, banners and raised slogans against the Communist Party of China (CPC) and its leaders.“This summer while the world was fighting coronavirus, China was trying to encroach upon other’s land. It’s not only in Ladakh in India but also against its other neighbours as well. It’s time that the world unites against this Chinese aggression,” said Adapa Prasad from Overseas Friends of BJP USA. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since May 5. The situation deteriorated after the June 15 Galwan Valley clashes in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers died.“China’s Communist party has infringed on the religious rights of the Uyghur community and violated human rights of people of Hong Kong,” Puneet Ahluwalia, who is an Indian-American Republican and founder of the Proud American Political Action Committee, said. Ahluwalia, who is exploring to run for the post of Lieutenant Governor of Virginia, said US President Donald Trump’s hard measures against China was in the right direction. “China has to play international rules,” he said.“We have seen what they have done in Africa. We have seen that they are doing in Iran...Most importantly, they recently backstabbed India,” Ahluwalia said, alleging that China is spying on Americans through various social media applications and by stealing data and information.Sunil Singh, an eminent Indian-American from the Greater Washington DC area, praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for banning Chinese applications in India. Noting that people of India have stopped buying China made goods, he said there was also a need for the Americans to make a similar move.This was the second major anti-China protest by Indian-Americans here in Washington DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-americans-protest-china-s-aggression-against-india-human-rights-violations-of-uyghurs/story-lcGhWvJgl0MFaa6AlvPgTI.html
10-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s daily Covid-19 tests up to 700k, 1 million target in sight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 in India: Daily tests up to 700k, 1 million target in sightIndia performed 719,364 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests on Saturday, taking the total number of daily testing closer to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) target of one million per day by the end of August. Read MoreIndia’s trajectory a worry as world nears 20 million Covid-19 casesIndia’s trajectory of daily cases of Covid-19 is now ahead of that of the United States’, making it the country with the highest number of daily infections, as total cases globally appear set to breach the 20 million-mark on Sunday night with the US, India and Brazil leading the surge in infections. Read More‘All we know is touchdown was late’: DGCA chief on Kerala plane crashDirectorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) chief Arun Kumar said the tabletop runway at Calicut Airport, where an Air India Express plane crashed killing 18 people including both pilots on Friday, was long enough for the aircraft, but a late touchdown may have caused the plane to overshoot the runway. Read the full interviewDhoni would clap for the bowler when a good ball was hit for a six: Muttiah MuralitharanLegendary Sri Lanka spinner Muttiah Muralitharan lauded India-wicket batsman MS Dhoni for his captaincy skills. Murali said the best part about Dhoni’s captaincy was that he trusted the bowler and gave him the freedom to set his own field. Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta responds to Rhea Chakraborty’s chat revelationActor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, has responded to Rhea Chakraborty’s recent revelation of a chat in which he’d spoken about his troubled relationship with sister Priyanka. Shweta has shared videos of the actor speaking highly about Priyanka in an interview. Read MoreImmune-boosting foods: Make these additions to your meals for a healthy lifestyleOur immunity can be solidified and enhanced by adding ayurvedic ingredients that help cleanse the body along with aiding digestion, metabolism, absorption of nutrients and more. Read MoreWhatsApp is working on syncing your chat history across platformsWhatsApp is working on the feature that allows you to use the same account across different devices at the same time. The messaging platform has worked on a single device all this time and reports have it that this new feature is being worked on in parts. Read MoreAfter Beirut blast, Chennai shifts ammonium nitrate kept at freight stationAfter the Beirut explosion, authorities in Chennai finally swung into action. Almost 700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate is reportedly transported to Hyderabad. The 690 tonnes of ammonium nitrate had been seized in 2015. Around 10 containers were transported and security personnel accompanied the trucks. Watch the video for detailed story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-daily-covid-19-tests-up-to-700k-1-million-target-in-sight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gjlNcZe2HZ9rhjaRSihJ3O.html
10-08-2020||India||Speech impaired girl gang raped in Rajasthan’s Dausa, three detained||A 17-year-old disabled girl was gang raped in Dausa district of Rajasthan on Thursday, the police said on Sunday. Three of the five named accused have been detained, they added.Jaipur range inspector general of police (IGP) S Sengathir said that the girl’s mother filed a complaint on Sunday afternoon about the sexual assault. The woman said she and her daughter live in Mandawari police station area of the district while her husband lives in Dubai.“In her complaint, the mother said that three days ago in the evening when the girl was alone (because the woman had to go to her parents), five men identified as Anil, Kirori, Dharmendra, Rajkesh and Dhara Meena abducted her and took her to an isolated place where they raped her,” said Sengathir.The IGP added that the girl was so traumatized that she didn’t tell her mother anything for two days.Another police official from Dausa, who requested anonymity, said on Saturday evening the survivor, who cannot speak, explained to her mother through sign language about the incident when she started suffering from pain. Later, the mother shared this with her family.Also read: Man rapes 16-yr-old girl in Delhi’s Netaji Subhash Place, arrested after three days on run“By Saturday night, the police received a tip and started searching for the accused even without any complaint of the girl or from her family members. On Sunday afternoon, the mother filed a complaint and by 4 pm and an FIR was registered under section 376D of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the POCSO Act,” the police official added.He further said that three accused have been detained. The statements of the victim was registered through an interpreter. Her medical tests have been done. The minor’s condition is stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disabled-girl-gang-raped-in-rajasthan-s-dausa-three-detained/story-Dz2rUB7m4vyH6XJBvRwM9M.html
10-08-2020||India||On World Tribal Day, Gehlot lays foundation stone of projects worth Rs 127 crore||On World Tribal Day on Sunday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid the foundation stone of 41 projects worth Rs 127.85 crore through videoconferencing from Jaisalmer. A government note said the CM laid the foundation stone of 28 works worth Rs 98.76 crore and inaugurated 13 projects worth Rs 29.09 crore to promote development in tribal areas. “We declared a holiday on World Tribal Day to honour the sentiments of the tribal population. Our aim is to discuss the problems of tribal society on this day, discuss their achievements and also decide the future plans. I am happy that in every gram panchayat, people of regional tribal society discussed the problems of the society,” Gehlot said. He assured that the state will ensure that there is no dearth of development works in tribal areas and related to electricity, water, education, health and roads. Also read: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot questions shifting of BJP MLAs to GujaratThe CM announced the opening of a 50-bed capacity hostel for tribal students in Jaisalmer. He said that hostels will also be opened in Barmer and Jodhpur for tribal students. A coaching centre will be opened for tribal students in Jodhpur to help them prepare for competitive examinations. Gehlot said the government is always ready for the development of tribal areas. “During our previous government, the state government gave Rs 200 crore to the railways for Ratlam-Dungarpur-Banswara broad gauge rail line. Land was acquired and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi laid the foundation stone but with the change of government at Centre, it got stuck,” the CM said.Minister of State (MoS) for tribal area development Arjun Singh Bamnia said that the government was tying up with coaching institutes for students of tribal areas. “The government will send 10 meritorious students to Delhi for preparation of civil services examination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-tribal-day-gehlot-lays-foundation-stone-of-projects-worth-rs-127-crore/story-XLRhIWG3KmDXMvUh0wTu1K.html
10-08-2020||India||BJP worker attacked in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam dies of injuries: Report||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker from Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam died on Monday morning after he was attacked by unidentified gunmen on Sunday, news agency ANI reported. Abdul Hamid Najar, the district president of Budgam BJP’s Other Backward Class (OBC) Morcha, was on his morning walk when the gunmen fired at him near Ompora. The 38-year-old was shifted to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar after the attack. This was the third attack on a BJP leader or worker in the last five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-attacked-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-budgam-dies-of-injuries-report/story-TvwppCERPhLHgcNVqp73pK.html
10-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh needs more HDU, ICU beds as Covid-19 cases increase||Madhya Pradesh needs more High-dependency unit (HDU) and Intensive care unit (ICU) beds and ones with oxygen as Covid-19 cases have increased in the state alarmingly during the unlock period in the past seven weeks. Active cases of coronavirus too have shot up in this period, as per a health department’s report. As per the health department’s bulletin released on Saturday night, the state Covid-19 tally rose to 38,157 with an addition of 859 patients identified in the past 24 hours while the number of active cases stood at 8,827. When the lockdown was lifted in the state on June 16, albeit restrictions continuing on Sundays and several districts going on with extended lockdown besides night curfew continuing across the state, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state was 10,935 while the fatalities stood at 465 had died. The active cases in the state stood at 2,567.Statistically, while the period from March 20, when the first Covid-19 patient was reported in the state to June 15, saw a Covid-19 patient almost every 12 minutes, during the unlock period since June 16 has seen a new Covid-19 patient almost every 5 minutes on an average in the state. In the past fortnight, the situation further worsened with coronavirus affecting more people as a result of which every 1.70 minutes a new Covid-19 patient was reported.Also read: India’s trajectory a worry as world nears 20 million Covid-19 casesSimilarly, while the lockdown period reported the death of a Covid-19 patient every 4.54 hours, the duration of a Covid-19 patient being reported dead during the unlock period so far has been reduced to every 2.53 hours. During the past fortnight, every 1.83 hours there was death of a Covid-19 patient in some part or the other of the state. As per a report of the health department, as many as 13 districts of the state, including major Covid-19 spots like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior, need as many as 5,474 HDU beds by the end of August, whereas the availability of such beds is 907 as of now. There are 2,307 beds planned to be added by August 31. Thus, there will still be a gap of 2,260 HDU beds as on August 31.Similarly, Gwalior, Bhopal and Indore need 2,626 additional isolation beds with oxygen and 864 ICU beds. In all, the state’s requirement as on August 31 would be 21,904 isolation beds without oxygen, 7,301 isolation beds with oxygen, 5,474 HDU beds and 1825 ICU beds. The calculation is based on the presumption that 60 percent of the active cases don’t need beds with oxygen, 20 percent of the patients need isolation beds with oxygen, 15 percent need HDU beds and remaining 5 percent need ICU beds, as per the report.However, the state has 20,340 isolation beds without oxygen and it may have a gap of 1,564 such beds as on August 31. They may also be a gap of 2,260 HDU beds and 254 ICU beds as on August 31 even after the planned activities of the department to create more such beds. However, there may be 1,917 isolation beds with oxygen in excess to the demand by the end of the month.Public health experts Amulya Nidhi said, “Almost five months after the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the health infrastructure is not well equipped to tackle the situation. At the same time, there are reports about patients being made to overstay in certain private hospitals despite their recovery from the disease. The government must make public a comprehensive report on when a patient was hospitalised, when was he cured and when was he discharged and from what facility- government or private. Also, there should be a transparency in data as to who all died and in which hospital.”Rachna Dhingra, founder member of a Bhopal group for information and action, an organisation working for Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims, said, “Shortage of beds is being felt even now. Some patients were turned away from some hospitals but the state government itself is compounding the situation by sending to hospitals even those people who test positive in rapid antigen test (RAT) whereas they should be sent to the hospitals only after they test positive in real-time RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests.”Additional chief secretary (ACS), health department, Mohd Suleman said, “We started working in a right direction long back in ramping up our fever clinics, testing and hospital facilities besides a door to door survey campaign. Still we are ramping up our capacity to treat patients who get infected and continue to treat everyone free if they want it. The result of our efforts can be gauged from the fact that in terms of active cases Madhya Pradesh stands at the 15th spot from the top in the country. Also, the fatality rate which stood at 10.3 percent as on April 3 has come down to 2.9 percent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-needs-more-hdu-icu-beds-as-covid-19-cases-increase/story-PLZgwlluYAjqJGh3czr6hL.html
10-08-2020||India||Bengal’s Covid-19 toll surges past 2,000, total cases over 95,500||West Bengal reported 54 more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, raising the death toll to 2,059, the state’s health department said in a bulletin.A total of 2,939 fresh infections increased the caseload to 95,554, it said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The metropolis accounted for the highest number of 21 deaths, followed by neighbouring North 24 Parganas district (15). Of the 54 fatalities, 53 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, the department said.Kolkata also topped the list of fresh cases (615), while North 24 Parganas reported 588 infections.Since Saturday, 1,996 patients have recovered from the disease, taking the number of those cured to 67,120, the bulletin said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage West Bengal now has 26,375 active coronavirus cases.At least 26,242 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-covid-19-toll-surges-past-2-000-total-cases-over-95-500/story-pqqo0cFKwnHSWKg0wjDIkK.html
10-08-2020||India||Man beheads son-in-law, surrenders with head in Andhra Pradesh||A man beheaded his son-in-law, took his head to Annavaram Police Station in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh and surrendered on Sunday.According to Rambabu, the Circle Inspector (CI) of Annavaram police station, the incident took place in Dhara Jagannadhapuram village in Rowthulapudi Mandal of East Godavari in the state, where a Palla Satyanarayana, 56, killed his son-in-law Pampanapoyina Lakshman, 25, in a fit of rage after an argument.“On August 9, while Lakshman was on a visit to his father-in-law Satyanarayana’s house, the two had a verbal duel. In a fit of rage, Satyanarayana beheaded Lakshman. At around 11.30 am, he came to the Annavaram police station with Lakshman’s head, and surrendered,” said the CI.He added that a case section 302 of the Indian Penal Court had been registered and further investigation is underway. Rambabu said that Lakshman’s wife Pavani died 10 months ago, and since then his two daughters had been living with their maternal grandfather Satyanarayana. Satyanarayana on August 8 invited Lakshman to his house in Dhara Jagannadhapuram village for a ritual on the eve of Pavani’s 10 month death anniversary.“On the next day, on August 9, Satyanarayana asked Lakshman to take his daughters along with him. Lakshman refused that and demanded that his father-in-law arrange a second marriage for him so that his other wife can look after the girls. Satyanarayana vehemently opposed the proposal, which led to a verbal duel between the two, following which Satyanarayana killed Lakshman,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beheads-son-in-law-surrenders-with-head-in-andhra-pradesh/story-hGSUOzEqO9ChbpI2mFTnbI.html
10-08-2020||India||Congress launches ‘Rozgar Do’ drive||The Congress on Sunday launched a ‘Rozgar Do (give employment)’ campaign with its former chief Rahul Gandhi alleging that 140 million people have lost jobs due to the Centre’s policies in the past six years. He alleged that the Modi government’s decision of demonetisation, its “faulty” implementation of Goods and Service Tax (GST) and the Covid lockdown have “destroyed” the economy. “When Modi became the prime minister, he promised the youth of the country that he will give jobs to 2 crore youth every year. He sold a dream, but the reality is that 14 crore people have become unemployed due to his policies,” Gandhi said in a video message while launching campaign on the Youth Congress foundation day. “Why did this happen, because of the Modi government’s wrong policies. Demonetisation, faulty implementation of GST and then lockdown, these three steps have destroyed the economic structure of the country and the truth now is that India cannot give employment to its youth.” BJP’s Gopal Agarwal said, “If he has some data, let him share..., we will answer them. Otherwise these are his opinions and have been answered several times. One source of his figure of 14 crore increase in unemployment is not sure. Second, linking of unemployment to Modiji policy is absurd. Thirdly, jobs include self employment figures, figures of mudra loans etc vouch for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-rozgar-do-drive/story-ohZfIVZ4JRqze1iTrRgeuO.html
10-08-2020||India||Daughter steals Rs 19 lakh from father with help of boyfriend, both arrested||Police in Mumbai’s Oshiwara arrested a woman and her boyfriend on Saturday for planning and stealing cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 19 lakh from her home. The arrested woman and the man have been identified as Uzma Qureshi, 21, and Charandeepsingh Arora, 35. Police said Arora is a PT teacher in a school in Versova.“On July 30, Uzma went missing and hence I lodged a missing complaint at Oshiwara police station. However I had a hunch that she may have eloped with Arora,” Umradaraz Qureshi, Uzma’s father, said in his statement to the police. Umradaraz, a hotelier, also found find 65 tola of gold and Rs 10 lakh missing from his home. He then recollected that Uzma asked him to give his locker key on July 23, saying as the family of a friend was infected with Covid-19 and were admitted to hospital, they had requested her to keep their gold in a safe place and return it to them after they returned from hospital.Umradaraz then lodged a case of theft against his daughter. “Following his complaint, we registered the FIR against his daughter,” Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, said.Police booked them under sections 379 (punishment for theft), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“With the help of technical assistance we got there hideout in Punjab and a team was dispatched there. The accused were hiding at Sita Niwas, near the Golden Temple in Amritsar,” an officer from Oshiwara police said.Mumbai Police with the help of Amritsar Police raided the hotel and found her and the PT teacher. During questioning they admitted to the crime and said they had stashed the stolen gold and cash in a bank locker.“On Saturday we produced them before the metropolitan magistrate court where the court remanded them in police custody till Tuesday,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughter-steals-rs-19-lakh-from-father-with-help-of-boyfriend-both-arrested/story-0fb0pjWrzFLs7zYEt8ryXL.html
10-08-2020||India||Water level at Mullaperiyar reservoir in Kerala’s Idukki reaches 136 feet: Official||The water level at Mullaperiyar reservoir in Idukki district of Kerala reached 136 feet late Sunday night, officials said. The Idukki district collector held discussions with the collector of Theni in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with regard to the release of water through the tunnel to Vaigai dam. The Kerala government had on Saturday asked the Tamil Nadu government to release water from Mullaperiyar through the tunnel to Vaigai Dam in a phased manner when the water level reaches 136 feet in view of heavy rains in Idukki.“The water level has reached 136 feet. I have talked to the Theni collector. No decision has been made as of now with regard to opening of the shutters. They have assured us that we will be informed prior to opening,” Idukki district collector H Dineshan told PTI.He said the district administration has made all arrangements to shift the people in case of any emergency. In a letter, Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had asked his Tamil Nadu counterpart to inform the state government, 24 hours prior to opening of the shutters.“The state is receiving heavy rains especially in the Idukki district. The water level in the catchment area of Mullaperiyar has been steadily rising. The water level, which was at 116.20 feet on August 3, reached 131.25 feet by 2 pm on August 7,” Mehta said in his letter.He also pointed out that the MeT office has issued a red alert for Saturday and Sunday in the district, indicating extreme heavy rainfall. He said currently the inflow to the dam is 13,257 cusecs of water and the outflow through the tunnel is 1,650 cusecs.In the letter sent to Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam, Mehta had said that as per information provided by the Executive Engineer of MI Division at Kattappana, the surplus shutters of Tamil Nadu-controlled Periyar dam were capable of releasing 1,22,000 cusecs of water.“We know the extent of damage when 23,000 cusecs of water were released in 2018. Hence, necessary steps should be taken to release water in a phased manner,” he had added.According to information provided by the Idukki district administration, the water level at Mullaperiyar at 10 pm on August 9 was 136 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-level-at-mullaperiyar-reservoir-in-kerala-s-idukki-reaches-136-feet-official/story-ZEH6yITP2dEqOebAGriQ8N.html
10-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh probe to Rajasthan crisis: SC to take up key cases||From actor Rhea Chakraborty plea in Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case to a petition against the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs with Congress in Rajasthan, the Supreme Court is slated to take up a number of high-profile cases in the coming days.The Patna police has filed an FIR against Chakraborty based on a complained by Rajput’s father. The apex court will take up the actor’s plea seeking transfer of case to Maharashtra from Bihar. On Monday, a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra will pronounce its order in a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan. The case was initiated against Bhushan for a remark he made in 2009 on past chief justices of India (CJIs). Bhushan had refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court regarding his controversial remark. Another important case listed for hearing is a plea by Rajasthan BJP MLA Madan Dilawar seeking disqualification of six MLAs who were elected to the state assembly on the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket in 2018 and but merged with the Congress in 2019. Dilawar’s plea was rejected by assembly speaker CP Joshi on July 22. He had then challenged the speaker’s decision before the Rajasthan high court. The HC issued notice to the speaker but declined to stay his decision. Dilawar then approached the SC challenging the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-probe-to-rajasthan-crisis-sc-to-take-up-key-cases/story-KseN3A8NH2jWy9UePMV20J.html
10-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It was a weekend that saw a succession of grim milestones as the coronavirus disease continues to ravage countries around the world — with the US, Brazil and India being the most affected.The global case number will most likely cross the 20-million mark on Monday. On Saturday, the US crossed the 5-million case mark, Brazil crossed the 3-million case mark, and also 100,000 deaths, and, closer home, Maharashtra, the Indian state worst affected by the pandemic, crossed 500,000 cases. All are worrying numbers. The US, with a little over 5 million cases as of Sunday morning has added 47% of its caseload since July 1. July and August have been bad months for all three countries. India, with around 2.15 million cases as of Sunday morning, added 73% of its caseload in the same time. And Brazil, with a little over 3 million cases, added 53% of its caseload in the 39-day period. The numbers have been compared using data from worldometers.info.Also read| No parties, no trips: US colleges set Covid-19 rules for fallIt is a mathematical certainty that deaths will rise, if only with a lag, as cases increase (they have continued to in India and Brazil; the US saw a dip in mid-June, with 7-day average of daily new cases falling to the low 20,000s, but has since witnessed a sharp rise; the current 7-day average according to the New York Times databases is around 54,000; all 7-day averages are from the database). The US has seen this, with 7-day average of daily deaths climbing to around 1,000 now, after falling to the 500s in June. India’s 7-day average of daily deaths has risen to around 860. Brazil’s has been around the 1,000 mark since late May. The overall case fatality rate (number of deaths as a proportion of number of cases) for the US was 3.2%, India, 2%, and Brazil, 3.33%. Even as the number of cases has increased, this proportion has declined for all three countries — the corresponding numbers on June 30 for the US was 4.8%, Brazil, 4.2%, and India, 3%. Clearly, as this columnist has previously mentioned, we appear to be getting better at saving lives — which is understandable. Doctors around the world are discovering which intervention and medicine works best at each stage of the disease, information that is being shared almost in real-time. Some of the therapies (including plasma therapy) are experimental and there is a bit of a hit-and-miss involved, but, in general, health systems around the world are seeing fewer deaths.This is starkly evident when only the cases and deaths registered since July 1 are considered. The US saw a case fatality rate of 1.43% in this period, India, 1.66%, and Brazil, 2.55%. To be sure, while this is how case fatality rates are calculated, there is some internal inconsistency in this calculation, one that has been previously pointed out by some experts — deaths lag corresponding cases by two to three weeks. Still, these numbers do highlight the trend that’s clearly visible in the US and India especially (Brazil’s numbers are a little too volatile for it to be included in this): more cases through July and August, but fewer deaths.Also read: Bill Gates says US coronavirus testing has ‘mind-blowing’ problemsOver the last two weeks, interestingly, the US has been on a decreasing curve of daily new cases, evident in its declining 7-day average, which has fallen by around 13,000 cases in this period. India, over these two weeks, has been on an increasing curve of new cases, with new hot spots showing clusters of cases emerging in the hinterland and the peninsula. According to the NYT database, India’s 7-day average on August 8 was around 3,500 higher than the corresponding number for the US. That is a worrying trend, even if allowances were to be made for India’s much higher population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ytyEpv8CAK5C7hVHT1IFHJ.html
10-08-2020||India||Kerala govt shouldn’t differentiate between plane crash, landslide victims: V Muraleedharan||The Kerala government should not differentiate between the victims of the Karipur plane crash and the Rajmala landslide, said Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan during his visit to the landslide site on Sunday.“It is not right for the government to take a separate stand in each place. It is not right for the Chief Minister to be selective,” Muraleedharan told reporters.He added that the pathetic condition in which plantation workers live in Rajmala should become eye-opener to the state government.“Very tragic incident. I convey my condolences to loved ones of those who lost their lives. Kerala is considered a developed state but the pathetic condition in which plantation workers live should be an eye-opener to the government. I’m sure urgent efforts will be made by the state government,” he said.Earlier on Friday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased in the Rajamala landslide tragedy. However, the Kerala government, on Saturday, announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of each passenger who died in the Air India Express flight that veered off the runway while attempting to land at the Karipur International Airport on August 7.But Chief Minister said the prime importance is rescue operations and arranging treatment for people who survived the landslide. Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan and Power Minister M M Mani are also camping at the site and leading the rescue operations in Idukki.Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also criticised the Vijayan government for being ‘divisive’ while dealing with the two tragedies. Taking to his Twitter and Facebook handles, Chennithala wrote, “The families of those who died in the tragedy should also be given financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each. The amount declared in Karipur should be paid here as well. The government should not have been criticised for being so divisive. The locals are dissatisfied that the Chief Minister did not visit the site of the tragedy.”He added on this Facebook post that he doesn’t want to cause controversy at this point and is just sharing the sentiments of the local residents.The Chief Minister had been unable to visit the Rajamala landslide site, while he paid a visit to Kozhikode Medical College where the passengers of Air India flight AXB1344 are being treated and took stock of the situation on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-shouldn-t-differentiate-between-plane-crash-landslide-victims-v-muraleedharan/story-KjVPpcYgdTkWAfPHj8c8bL.html
10-08-2020||India||India’s trajectory a worry as world nears 20 million Covid-19 cases||India’s trajectory of daily cases of Covid-19 is now ahead of that of the United States’, making it the country with the highest number of daily infections, as total cases globally appear set to breach the 20 million-mark on Sunday night with the US, India and Brazil leading the surge in infections.As the pandemic accelerates in some of the world’s most populous regions, 19,922,762 total cases of the coronavirus disease had been recorded across the world till late Sunday night with 731,747 fatalities — reflecting a global case fatality rate of 3.7%. Of these, 2,212,737 cases and 44,462 deaths have been reported in India (CFR of 2.01%), which is the third worst-hit nation in the world after the US and Brazil.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn the seven-day period between August 1 and August 8, India reported 399,263 new Covid-19 cases against 384,089 cases in the US — the highest and second highest most daily cases globally. This is the first time the average weekly trajectory in India eclipsed United States’s, which has been hit the hardest by the pandemic by a significant margin. The average daily new cases over the past week indicates India may be beginning to close the gap.To be sure, the US on Sunday reached the extraordinary milestone of five million cases, more than twice those in India. Even Brazil, which breached the three million-mark on Sunday, has nearly 800,000 more cases than India, so the latter may not be overtaking the two worst-hit countries any time soon.Also read: US tops 5 million confirmed coronavirus cases, to Europe’s alarmBrazil had the third highest number of daily cases on average in the above mentioned time period – 304,493. In the seven days before that, India reported 366,196 new infections while the US reported 447,026 and Brazil 312,442, according to HT’s dashboard and Worldometer.This is the first time in a month-and-a-half that any country’s cases have grown faster than the US’s. The last time this happed was on June 25, when Brazil was reporting a steady spike in cases and the second surge of cases in the US was only kicking off.Among the three worst-hit nations, only India’s trajectory is currently rising — the other two have been reporting a near-steady decline in new infections over the past few weeks. Together, US, Brazil and India were responsible for more than 1.1 million (61%) of the 1.8 million new cases reported across the world.In all, infections have been reported in at least 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. After a rapid initial outbreak, China managed to control the outbreak by the end of February (the nation has since dropped to the 30th place globally, with 84,619 cases). However, by then, the virus spread to several other countries, particularly in Europe. Italy became one of the earliest hot spots of the outbreak in Europe along with Spain, the United Kingdom and Germany.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a public health emergency on January 30, 2020, and a pandemic on March 11, 2020.The US, meanwhile, has been the worst-hit nation in the world since it overtook China on March 26. As of Sunday night, it has more than 5,166,319 cases and 165,269 deaths.In terms of continents, nearly a third (31%) of cases have come from North America, followed by Asia’s 25% of cases and South America’s 24% of cases. Europe accounts for over 15% of all confirmed cases in the world.As countries across the world started lifting months of lockdowns induced by Covid-19, many that had largely controlled a first wave, started seeing a second wave of cases. Key among them was the United States, but cases have also been rising in Europe the past few weeks with nations such as Spain, Italy reporting new batches of cases since the last week of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-trajectory-a-worry-as-the-world-nears-20mn-cases/story-b3YZpk3c6n2YzESWOGyG5J.html
10-08-2020||India||India to stop import of 101 key military items||India announced on Sunday that it will ban the import of 101 types of weapons and ammunition over the next five years — from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles — in a significant step on the long road towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. The detailed list of equipment published by the defence ministry has spelled out that the import embargo will kick in between December 2020 and December 2025 for different categories of military hardware. The government has also created a separate budget for the purchase of locally produced military hardware. “Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the armed forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenisation,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh, who made the announcement on Twitter. Later in the day, the defence minister said at an online event that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15. Also read| Centre’s move to ban import of 101 items will give major boost to defence sector: Amit ShahHe also referred to his announcement on defence import ban and said the Modi government was taking “big and tough” decisions for a self-reliant India. The coronavirus pandemic has shown that a country may not be able to effectively protect its sovereignty if it is not self-reliant, he said, adding: “Our government will not allow any harm to India’s self respect and sovereignty at any cost.”The move to ban the import of the 101 items is expected to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-reliant India Movement). In May, the government announced that it would notify a list of weapons and equipment that cannot be imported. The military hardware on the negative import list includes assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, light combat helicopter, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition. The ministry will take necessary steps to ensure that the timelines for the production of the equipment on the negative import list are met, Singh said. The list includes wheeled armoured fighting vehicles (AFVs), with an embargo date of December 2021. The army is expected to order 200 AFVs at a cost of more than ~5,000 crore, he said.  The list of weapons banned for import will be reviewed every year. “More such equipment for import embargo would be identified progressively by the Department of Military Affairs in (DMA) in consultation with all stakeholders. A due note of this will also be made in the Defence Acquisition Procedure to ensure that no item in the negative list is processed for import in the future,” the minister said. This implies India will have to compulsorily develop technology for defence systems and platforms figuring on the negative import list, experts said. One of the key responsibilities assigned by the government to the DMA, headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, is to promote the use of indigenous military equipment in the armed forces. The list has been put together by the ministry after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the military and the industry, and factoring in the future capabilities of the defence sector to locally manufacture equipment and ammunition. “Almost 260 schemes of such items were contracted by the tri-services at an approximate cost of ~3.5 lakh crore between April 2015 and August 2020. It is estimated that contracts worth almost ~4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next six to seven years,” Singh said. He said the ministry has split the capital budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes. “A separate budget head has been created with an outlay of ~52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement in the current financial year,” he said. From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government had announced a raft of measures to boost self reliance in the defence sector in May 2020. It’s a good start to a very long journey ahead, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “While the Indian private industry, especially the micro, small and medium enterprises, would be expected to perform as per a time schedule and a quality yardstick, the government will still have to handhold the small players through financial and policy support,” Bahadur added. Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers. Defence Research and Development Organisation chief G Satheesh Reddy told Hindustan Times that the country had the capability to develop and manufacture the military equipment on the negative import list within the prescribed embargo timelines. PLR Systems chairman Ashok Wadhawan said, “The items on the list can and will have to be produced domestically. If there are any capability gaps, they will have to be filled as there is no other option.” PLR Systems is an Indian joint venture with Israel Weapon Industries (IWI) and it is competing for contracts to supply assault rifles, light machine guns, carbines and sniper rifles to the military. India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April. Confederation of India Industry director general Chandrajit Banerjee said the announcement of the negative import list marked the launch of a “new glide path” for Atmanirbhar Bharat. “The announcement of ~52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement coupled with the list of 101 items for import embargo gives a tremendous boost to Atmanirbhar Bharat and indigenous defence manufacturing,” he added.Former Union minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram said the defence minister promised a “bang” on a Sunday morning and ended with a “whimper”. He was referring to a Twitter alert by Singh on an “important announcement” an hour before the defence minister gave out details of the move to achieve self-reliance. Also read| Rajnath Singh’s ‘import embargo high sounding jargon’: Cong’s Chidambaram takes a jibeChidambaram tweeted: “Import Embargo is high sounding jargon. What it means is we will try to make the same equipment (that we import today) in 2 to 4 years and stop imports thereafter!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-stop-import-of-101-key-military-items/story-j7CEYgqtI6v8UtaoYosAcL.html
10-08-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, another minister in Chouhan cabinet tests positive for Covid-19||Another minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, as per Medical Education minister Vishvas Sarang’s message through his social media post. With another minister testing positive Chouhan’s cabinet has seen five ministers being infected with the disease since July 22. Vishvas Sarang’s message reads, “My second Covid-19 test report has come back positive. I am under home isolation since the first test report came negative. My request to you all is whoever came in contact with me should go for a Covid-19 test.” Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who is home quarantined after recovery from the disease, his ministerial colleagues, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and several BJP and Congress leaders wished the minister speedy recovery in their messages. The first of the ministers who tested positive for Covid-19 made it public on July 22 night, the day when he had attended the state cabinet meeting. The minister along with chief minister, state BJP president VD Sharma and state BJP general secretary (organisation) had gone to Lucknow on July 21 to attend the funeral of then governor of MP Lalji Tandon. As happened later, all the four including the CM and the state president were infected by the disease one after another. The number of deaths of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh so far since the outbreak of the pandemic has come close to 1000. The death toll rose to 996 with the death of as many as 19 Covid-19 patients reported in the past 24 hours from across the state, as per the health department’s bulletin released on Sunday night. As per the bulletin, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state rose to 39,025 with 868 new Covid-19 patients reported in the past 24 hours across the state. So far, 29,020 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals while the number of active cases as on Sunday night stood at 9009. As far as Covid-19 tests are concerned 17,020 tests were conducted on Sunday and the positivity rate was 5.1%. CM TO DONATE PLASMA The CM has announced that he would donate his plasma for plasma therapy of Covid-19 patients, as per a communique. He also underlined the need for treatment audit along with the death audit with respect to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-another-minister-in-chouhan-cabinet-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-EC3V3w49pcfy5Fqkhg4pMM.html
10-08-2020||India||11 of immigrant family from Pakistan found dead, cops suspect suicide pact||Eleven members of a Hindu family who moved from Pakistan to India in 2015 were found dead on Sunday in a small house located on a farm in Lodata Alavata village of Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district in what the police suspected to be a suicide pact .A family member who slept outside the hut and was alive informed the police. The dead include a five-year-old girl and two boys, aged 11 and 10. Police found traces of rat poison and a suicide note in the house, causing them to suspect that the 11 had killed themselves. But murder cannot be ruled out, the police said.“All angles are being investigated,” said Jodhpur (rural) superintendent of police Rahul Barhat. Barhat said that the lone survivor who slept on the veranda outside the hut, informed the police about the deaths around 10 am on Sunday. “The survivor told us that when he went into the house on Sunday morning, other members of the family didn’t wake up. He said he called some people and it was found that the 11 people were dead. Kewalram went to the police station to inform about the incident,” the SP said. The Jodhpur SP and district collector Indrajeet Singh visited the scene. Senior police officials, a dog squad and a forensic science laboratory (FSL) team also reached the house.The dead belonged to the Bheel community. All of them lived in the single-room house. “All the deceased are Pakistani immigrants and were living in Jodhpur since 2015 on long-term visa. Migrants of any other country can only apply for citizenship after completing seven years in India. The family had taken a farm on lease from a local and used to do farming on that for their survival. They had many relatives in Jodhpur also,” said Barhat. The Jodhpur rural SP said that during examination of the spot, traces of rat poison were found. No injury marks or bruises were found on the bodies, the SP said. “Prima facie it appears that the deceased consumed poisons as traces of rat poison were found from the floor of the house. There is a possibility that someone may had mixed the poison in the dinner of the deceased last night. A suicide note has been also recovered from the spot which indicates abetment. However, the note could have been placed on the spot to distract the police investigation. No injury marks or bruises have been found on the bodies of the deceased,” the police officer said.The suicide note mentioned financial hardships the family was facing and problems two of the family members were facing from their in-laws. The SP said the suicide note could have been planted at the crime scene to divert police investigation.The postmortem examination on the victims would be done by a team of doctors at a Jodhpur medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-of-immigrant-family-from-pakistan-found-dead-cops-suspect-suicide-pact/story-PrH0us2GSHOn3SL7v0gWQM.html
10-08-2020||India||Draft EIA disgraceful and dangerous, says Rahul Gandhi||The union environment ministry has received well over 100,000 comments and suggestions from people on the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2020 that some green activists say could severely undermine environmental regulation in India.“The number of comments is way over a lakh. We are still compiling the submissions. We have been overwhelmed with the number of comments,” said a senior environment ministry official who declined to be identified. The feedback was based on the count as of Friday. The deadline for submission of feedback is Tuesday.Environmental activists have been critical of the draft EIA notification, which was published by the environment ministry in March, because of a number of contentious clauses that they say could weaken environmental regulation.“The government itself will turn its policy interventions into horror stories on the ground if projects are not put through rigourous, EIA procedures in an impartial manner,” said Manju Menon, legal researcher at Centre for Policy ResearchThe notification became a potential issue for a political debate on Sunday when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the notification was “not only disgraceful, it is dangerous.” #IndiaNotForSale was also trending on Twitter which had people drawing attention to concerns over the draft notification and demanding it be withdrawn. Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought-for gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect India’s environment, it could potentially unleash “widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India,” Gandhi wrote in a lengthy post on a social media platform.He highlighted contentious clauses and said if a project is labelled strategic, highly polluting industries could be exempted from the environment impact assessment process and that an EIA can be conducted post facto, after a project has already violated the EIA notification by starting construction without getting an environmental clearance.“This EIA 2020 draft is a disaster. It seeks to silence the voice of communities who will be directly impacted by the environmental degradation it unleashes. I urge every Indian to rise up and protest against it. Our youth, who have always been at the forefront of every battle to protect our environment, must take up this cause and make it their own. A fight to protect our environment cuts across political and ideological beliefs,” Gandhi wrote, adding: “If nothing else, the recent Covid19 pandemic has shown us how fragile human life is. For millions of Indians already living on the edge, the environment isn’t an abstract term, but a life and livelihood issue. If EIA 2020 is notified by the government, the long-term consequences of the widespread environmental degradation will be catastrophic for us and future generations of Indians.”Congress leader and former environment minister and chairman of the parliamentary committee on science, technology, environment and forests, Jairam Ramesh, wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar more than once last month, raising these concerns. Javadekar also responded in writing, suggesting that the concerns were “unfounded” and based on “misrepresentation.” There was much controversy around the draft also because Delhi Police issued a notice to a youth climate group, Fridays For Future, under Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, invoking section 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on July 8 and said that their website depicts contents “which are dangerous for the peace, tranquillity and sovereignty of India.”The notice was issued following a complaint by Javadekar against multiple emails sent to him on the subject of EIA 2020.Delhi Police later clarified that the July 8 notice issued under UAPA was a “clerical error” which was withdrawn and that a fresh notice had been sent to the group.Environment ministry officials in the EIA division said it will take a long time for the ministry to look into every comment before taking a call on notifying the draft. “The time for comments expires on August 11. But it will take us quite some time to go through the comments and discuss,” said Geeta Menon, joint secretary, environment ministry. HT sought a response from Javadekar through the Press Information Bureau, but didn’t receive a reply until late Sunday. Environment secretary RP Gupta also did not respond to HT’s calls for a response on SundayOn a petition to extend the deadline for public comments on the draft notification, the Delhi high court had extended the time for submission of feedback until August 11 from the June 30 date originally set by the ministry. The court also asked the Centre to publish the notification in all vernacular languages on websites.“We have been informed that the environment ministry has moved the Supreme Court against Delhi high court’s order of translating the draft in all languages. We are a respondent in SC too,” said Vikrant Tongad, the advocate who had filed the petition to extend the deadline in the Delhi high court.Major concerns with draft EIA 2020:• Post-facto clearances: Detailed protocol for appraisal of projects that have started operating without approval. Projects that have violated norms can be regularised based on appraisal and asked to furnish a bank guarantee.• The draft exempts many projects seeking an expansion or modernisation with a capacity increase of up to 50% and even establishment of new projects from requiring a public consultation• Extended time for reporting of compliance with environment clearance conditions• Reduces public consultation period from 30 days to 20 days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-eia-disgraceful-and-dangerous-says-rahul/story-zBtUTlzYxOPIiG3n6QofjN.html
10-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to stay Congress president till election of new party chief||The Congress on Sunday sought to set at rest speculation over an extension of the tenure of Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief beyond Monday, August 10, saying she will continue to occupy the post until the process of electing a new president is completed. A Congress functionary said an extension was a technical requirement under the party’s constitution given that a regular president is yet to be elected. The party also has to inform the Election Commission of its decision. The party has maintained that the process of electing a new president could not be initiated because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the nationwide lockdown enforced on March 25 to contain its spread. “Soon after her appointment, there were assembly elections in Maharashtra and Haryana in October-November last year followed by polls in Jharkhand and Delhi. Then the Covid-19 struck,” added the party functionary quoted above. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) named Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back the resignation he tendered in May after the party’s rout in the Lok Sabha elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was re-elected for a second straight term . The CWC has powers to appoint a provisional president pending the election of a regular president by the All India Congress Committee (AICC), the party’s central unit comprising around 2,000 members from across the country. “Neither nature nor politics nor political parties permit or tolerate a vacuum. Just like nature abhors a vacuum, political parties cannot function in a vacuum. It is true that the tenure is expiring tomorrow (Monday). There is a laid down procedure in the constitution for elections,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, addressing a virtual news conference. “In the meanwhile, if anybody is suggesting that the Congress will become headless on the stroke of midnight of August 10, is it possible? Is that a fair interpretation of any constitution that August 10 midnight happens and the seat suddenly becomes vacant? Nobody can suggest that. No point giving simple views as they have to be in accord with common sense,” he added. Singhvi said the process of electing a new party chief will be completed soon and till then Sonia Gandhi will remain at the helm. “Sonia Gandhi ji is the president and she will continue till such time a proper procedure is implemented and it will be implemented in the not too distant future. It is as simple as that,” he said. A veteran Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity that general secretary in-charge of the organisation KC Venugopal will have to inform the election commission that the organisational polls could not be held due to certain reasons and till the time the process is completed Sonia Gandhi will continue to discharge her responsibilities as the party’s interim president.The CWC can ratify this decision anytime, he added. “There is a process that goes to the CWC and the AICC and this will start anytime and you will get the results soon. We are bound by our party constitution,” added Singhvi. In the run-up to the August 10 deadline, some sections of the Congress had started demanding that Rahul Gandhi return to the post. He was elected the Congress president in December 2017 for five years till 2022. Congress leaders say that while Rahul Gandhi is not keen to accept that responsibility in the immediate future, Sonia Gandhi is also unwilling to continue in the post for long. In the CWC meeting on August 10 last year, Sonia Gandhi agreed to lead the party once again after repeated pleas by her colleagues and only on the condition that she would stay on interim chief only till an election to choose a full-time president is held. “It’s unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely,” Congress leader Shashi Tharoor told PTI. He said the Congress must expedite the process of finding a full-term president, through a participatory and democratic procedure, to arrest the growing public perception that the party is “adrift and rudderless” if Rahul Gandhi does not wish to become president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-stay-congress-president-till-election-of-new-party-chief/story-3rhczxwrVge2obP9diRjgL.html
10-08-2020||India||India rejects Nepal’s stand on Buddha row||India on Sunday dismissed a controversy over the birthplace of Gautam Buddha and said a comment by external affairs minister S Jaishankar on the shared Buddhist heritage of the two neighbours was misunderstood in the Himalayan country. The clarification came a day after Jaishankar referred to the teachings of Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi at an event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industries. The remark triggered controversy in Nepal with political parties saying that Buddha, the philosopher and religious teacher who founded Buddhism, was born in Nepal and not India.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Jaishankar’s remark referred to common Buddhist heritage of India and Nepal. “There is no doubt that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, which is in Nepal,” he said.The Indian side said at the time of the Buddha, who lived in the 5th and 4th century BC, there was no separate nation state called Nepal, and that the Siddhartha Gautama became Buddha after attaining enlightenment in Bodh Gaya, which is in modern day Bihar. Earlier in the day, Nepal’s foreign ministry said that historical and archaeological evidence showed Buddha was born in Nepalese territory. “It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidences that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal. Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha and the fountain of Buddhism, is one of the UNESCO world heritage sites,” a statement by the ministry’s spokesperson read.  There were also protests by political parties such as the main opposition Nepali Congress and individuals such as former foreign secretary Madhu Raman Acharya and former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, a top leader of the ruling Nepal Communist Party. The controversy came against the backdrop of a border row that erupted earlier this year when India opened a new road leading to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet. Nepal responded by publishing a new political map that included Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory. Last month, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sparked a controversy with his remarks that the “real” Ayodhya is in Nepal and that Lord Ram was Nepalese.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-nepal-s-stand-on-buddha-row/story-bPsLu3HG6wgkXx6ftvIkYO.html
10-08-2020||India||10 killed in fire at Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 facility||A fire broke out at a hotel being used as a Covid-19 treatment facility in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada city early on Sunday, killing 10 patients, officials said.About 31 patients of the coronavirus disease were in the facility, most of them deep in sleep, along with six medical personnel and six hospital staff in the facility at the time the fire broke out. The 10 victims suffocated to death. The hotel – Swarna Palace – was being used as a care centre for Covid-19 patients by the privately run Ramesh Hospitals. According state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Prasad, the fire broke out at around 4.45 am on the ground floor of the hotel and spread to the first and second floors. Preliminary investigations by the police revealed that the fire was the result of a short-circuit in the electric wiring. Also read| Andhra Pradesh: FIR registered in Vijayawada fire incidentFlames engulfed the building and thick plumes of smoke billowed from the entire building. Some the medical personnel and hotel staff managed to escape by running out and four of them jumped off the first and second floors to save their lives. A security guard, Krishna Reddy, suffered injuries by falling to the ground. Many of the patients were fast asleep when the fire broke out. Some young patients tried to run out of the rooms but did not know how to escape because of the fire and smoke that engulfed the building. . “I did not know in which direction I was moving. I managed to open the window panes and come out shouting for help. I picked up courage and informed the police,” a young patient, Pavan Sai, said in a video message. Vijayawada city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the police control room had received a call at around 5.15 am about the fire breaking out in the hotel. The minister, however, said the fire station, which is situated less than a kilometre away from the hotel, received the first call at 5.09 and within five minutes, the fire tenders arrived at the scene. “The fire was brought under control within a couple of hours,” the minister said. After putting out the fire, the firemen and personnel of the National Disaster Response Force brought out the bodies of 10 patients. The bodies were shifted to the Vijayawada government hospital for post-mortem. The dead were identified as: Kosaraju Suvarnalath (42) of Nidabrolu village of Ponnur block in Guntur district; Dokku Siva Brahmaiah (59) of Machilipatnam in Krishna district; Potluri Purnachandra Rao of Kodali in Krishna district; Sunkara Babu Rao (80), Indira Nagar, Vijayawada; Majji Gopi (54) of Machilipatnam; G Venkata Jaya Lakshmi (52) of Kandukuru in Prakasam district; Venkata Narasimha Pavan Kumar (40) of Kandukuru in Prakasam; Sabbili Ratna Abraham (48), Rajakumari (40), both from Jaggayyapet; and Maddali Raghu (40) of Moghulraja Puram, Vijayawada. In all, the firemen rescued 18 Covid-19 patients, mostly by bringing them out through the windows, using ladders. All the rescued Covid-19 patients were taken to Ramesh Hospitals, where they were declared out of danger. Three others were moved to a different hotel. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas, district collector Imtiaz Ali and director general of police Gautam Sawang supervised the rescue operation. Following a formal complaint from Vijayawada Central tehsildar (block revenue official), the police registered criminal cases against the managements of Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace Hotel under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 308 read with 34 (acts amounting to culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The tehsildar said Ramesh Hospital had a memorandum of understanding with Swarna Palace Hotel to operate a Covid-19 facility on a paid basis. “It appears that the management of the hotel and Ramesh Hospitals had known that there are electrical defects in the lodge (hotel), and as rectification of defects involved a huge amount, they avoided repairing it. Knowing the fact that if the defects were not rectified, there is a possibility of an accident, they opened the Covid-19 care centre,” the official said. The health minister said a committee had been formed to prepare a detailed report on the fire within 48 hours. “Preliminary report says the hospital and the hotel managements are at fault. We asked for a detailed report so that stringent action can be initiated against those responsible”, the minister said. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday announced ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the kin of the deceased. He ordered an in-depth probe into the incident Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences and spoke to the chief minister over the phone about the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-in-fire-at-ap-covid-facility/story-xiAnaQQEYwpoaQaSR8CbGK.html
10-08-2020||India||A year after Article 370, Kashmir valley voter turnout a big number to watch||On August 5, 2019, the Narendra Modi government effectively annulled Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and divided the state into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh. A year on, there is little convergence of views on the move. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continues to assert that the decision was in the interest of Kashmir and the nation at large. Mainstream political actors in Kashmir continue to oppose it. In an opinion piece published in the Indian Express, National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah wrote that unless the central government restores statehood to J&K, he will not participate in elections.In making this threat, Abdullah is raising a metric which has often been seen as the most important measure of democratic legitimacy-- voter turnout in elections. This collapsed in the immediate aftermath of the militancy, took time to recover once elections were restored , but then resumed its downward trajectory after the BJP’s alliance with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ended in a fiasco. Because the erstwhile state of J&K also had parts of Jammu and Ladakh, which unlike the Kashmir valley do not have a Muslim-majority population, a geographical segregation is more useful to understand the valley’s political sentiment rather than headline voter turnout numbers for the entire erstwhile state. The legislative assembly of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir had 87 members, 46 from the Kashmir valley, 37 from the Jammu region and four from Ladakh. The assembly’s total strength was 76 before a delimitation exercise in 1995 (42 from Kashmir, 32 from Jammu and two from Ladakh).In the 1987 assembly elections, held just before the militancy began, 73% of registered voters participated, the highest ever in any assembly or Lok Sabha election in Jammu and Kashmir. The voter turnout in 42 assembly constituencies of the Muslim-majority Kashmir valley was 77% compared to 69% in 32 constituencies of the Hindu-majority Jammu region. This was the last assembly or Lok Sabha election in which the valley saw a higher voter turnout than Jammu.Alleged rigging of the 1987 assembly election is known to have ignited large-scale militancy in the Kashmir valley. Its impact on electoral politics was clear two years later when, in the Lok Sabha elections of 1989, only 25% of the electorate turned out to vote in the whole state. About 48% voted in the Jammu region, a 20 percentage point drop from the 1987 elections. In the Kashmir valley, just 3.4% voted, a 73 percentage point drop. In the Ladakh region, on the contrary, there was a 12 percentage point increase in voter turnout between these two rounds of elections.Also read: From Kashmir to Ayodhya, the BJP’s total domination of politicsWhen Lok Sabha and assembly elections were held in the state after a gap of seven years in 1996, there was a significant improvement in the number of people turning out to vote, especially in the Kashmir valley. Nearly 43% people voted in the valley in both these elections, compared to just 3% in the 1989 polls. However, it took more than a decade before a majority of voters participated in polls in the Kashmir valley. It was only in the 2008 assembly election in which the Kashmir valley recorded a 52% voter turnout, while 72% voted in Jammu and 69% in Ladakh. To be sure, people’s participation in the polls did not significantly drop in Ladakh during the militancy, except in the 2002 assembly polls.The highest voter turnout in Kashmir valley after militancy erupted was in the 2014 assembly elections. This was the same election which ended with a hung assembly and paved the way for a coalition government of the BJP and PDP, the last elected government in the state before it was turned into a Union territory. It was during the BJP-PDP government’s time that the valley erupted into prolonged turmoil after the killing of militant Burhan Wani in 2016.The turnout in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in the Kashmir valley dropped to 19%, the lowest in two decades and 12 percentage points less than in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. To be sure, signs of growing disenchantment with the democratic process were visible earlier. Three years before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, then chief minister Mehbooba Mufti won the by-election to the Anantnag assembly constituency. At 34%, the constituency recorded its lowest voter turnout in three elections. Also, only 7% voters participated in the by-election to the Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency in April 2017, its lowest ever voter turnout.Also read: Astute political skills may be key for new J&K L-G Manoj SinhaAmong the numbers worth watching out for in the Kashmir valley, as far as the success or failure of nullification of Article 370 is concerned, will be the voter turnout whenever there is an election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-after-art-370-valley-voter-turnout-a-big-number-to-watch/story-wYGfegaFjEWyqWlER8VL4O.html
10-08-2020||India||No new coronavirus test done on Amit Shah, says MHA after Manoj Tiwari’s post creates confusion||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday denied a claim by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease last week, had tested negative this morning. Hours after Tiwari tweeted that the home minister’s latest report had stated he had tested negative, an MHA official issued a clarification saying that no fresh test has been done on Shah and so, “unconfirmed” reports should be avoided. “Nothing other than the official health bulletin released either by the treating hospital, MHA or his own Twitter feed should be referred to,” a government official said, requesting anonymity. Manoj Tiwari, who is a former BJP president in Delhi, also deleted his tweet later. The Union minister had tested positive for Covid-19 last Sunday and was admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Shah had himself announced the news on Twitter. “After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had posted last Sunday. Officials familiar with Shah’s schedule said that he is working from hospital and is clearing the files. Shah has also been regularly tweeting the government’s achievements. On Sunday, he praised the government’s decision to put 101 items on embargo to boost Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement) in defence production. “Modi govt’s decision of import embargo on 101 items and a separate budget for domestic capital procurement of nearly Rs 52,000 crore for the current financial year will surely provide a major boost to the indigenous defence sector. I thank PM @NarendraModi & RM @RajnathSingh for this historic decision,” the home minister tweeted. Officials cited above said the minister is recovering at present and another test will be conducted in a couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-annual-funds-for-jobs-ration-spent-in-4-months/story-3DZAkqyCVUl6Bp2EzJctlI.html
10-08-2020||India||Health ministry’s tele-medicine platform provided 100k online consultations: Data||In about nine months since it was inaugurated, the Union health ministry’s tele-medicine service platform has provided at least 100,000 online consultations, shows data released by the ministry on Sunday, leading to patient to doctor consultations within the confines of a patient’s home, as well as doctor to doctor consultations.The service has particularly proved to be beneficial for patients during the past six months as visits to hospitals have been limited because of the high risk of contracting coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection.On average, about 5,000 tele consultations are being provided per day.The health minister Harsh Vardhan held a review meeting with States and Union territories on progress made by the platform that is called eSanjeevani and eSanjeevaniOPD.In a short span of time since November 2019, tele-consultation by eSanjeevani andeSanjeevaniOPD have been implemented by 23 States that cover 75% of the population, and other States are in the process of rolling it out.“Under the guidance of… Prime Minister (Narendra Modi), we have started implementing the vision of Digital India through broadband and mobile phones at the Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres. With the cooperation of States and UTs, and a pool of selfless and talented medical practitioners and specialists, we have been able to provide healthcare services through tele-medicine platform such as eSanjeevani. This has substantially augmented our health infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Harsh Vardhan.The facility will be particularly beneficial for people in villages where access to a healthcare facility is not that widespread.“This eSanjeevani platform has enabled two types of telemedicine services viz. doctor-to-doctor(eSanjeevani) and patient-to-doctor (eSanjeevani OPD) tele-consultations. The former is being implemented under the Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centre (AB-HWCs) programme,” said Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state for health and family welfare.The health ministry plans to implement tele-consultation in all the 1.5 lakh HWCs (as spokes) in a ‘hub and spoke’ model, by December 2022.States have identified and set up dedicated ‘hubs’ in medical colleges and district hospitals to provide tele-consultation services to ‘spokes’ that will be functional at sub-health centres and primary health centres. About 12,000 users comprising community health officers and doctors have been trained to make use of this national e-platform to date.Currently, telemedicine is being provided through more than 3,000 HWCs in 10 States.The telemedicine platform is hosting about 40 online out patient departments (OPDs), and at least half of these are speciality OPDs that include gynaecology, psychiatry, dermatology, ear nose and throat (ENT), ophthalmology, antiretroviral therapy for the AIDS/HIV patients, non-communicable disease etc. Around 3,000 doctors have been trained and on-boarded at eSanjeevaniOPD and every day around 250 doctors and specialists across the country provide eHealth services.“Owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Health Ministry launched the second tele- consultation service enabling patient-to-doctor telemedicine through ‘eSanjeevaniOPD’. Offered at no cost, this e-health service is rapidly gaining popularity as citizens in around 20 States are now consulting doctors without having to go to the hospital physically…This service is available as an Android mobile application as well. This has made it convenient for the people to avail of the health services without having to travel. It also ensures that the patient gets to see the doctor in around five minutes after logging in,” said health ministry in its statement.Experts say demand for telemedicine is growing because of the convenience it provides.“At Medanta also we provide tele-consultation to peripheral hospitals and it works well. In countries like US also e-ICUs is a growing concept. Plus, something is always better than nothing,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telemedicine-online-consultations-at-100k/story-LB5x70ydJEVvUldSVtaf6K.html
10-08-2020||India||PM Modi announces ₹1L crore support for agriculture sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a Rs 1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund to boost investment in the farm sector, especially in cold storages, warehousing and markets for farmers.The scheme was first announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of a Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package in the wake of the coronavirus disease pandemic.Modi also transferred the sixth instalment of the cash payment for farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme, making the announcement via video conferencing. Under the sixth instalment, Rs 17,000 crore has been deposited into the bank accounts of 85 million farmers.According to the guidelines for the agriculture infrastructure fund, all loans up to Rs 2 crore will be disbursed with a 3% interest subsidy. The loans will be disbursed in the next four years with a sanction of Rs 10,000 crore in 2020-21 and Rs 30,000 crore in the next three years.“The agriculture infrastructure fund will provide better warehousing and cold storage facilities for farmers and is a step towards doubling of farm income,” Modi said. The fund will also create new jobs as investments will flow into food processing and post-harvest facilities in rural India.The fund was launched with Rs 1,128 crore of new loans given to over 2,200 cooperative societies.Under the infrastructure fund, banks and financial institutions will provide up to Rs1 lakh crore in loans to cooperative societies, farmer producer companies, self-help groups, entrepreneurs, startups, and infrastructure providers.Through videoconferencing, Modi interacted with farmers from Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat. He urged farmers to stop the indiscriminate use of chemical fertilisers like urea to improve soil health.“The Prime Minister had an engaging discussion with the representatives of these societies to understand their current operations and how they plan to utilise the loan. The societies informed the Prime Minister about their plans to build godowns, set up grading and sorting units which will help member-farmers secure a higher price for their produce,” an official statement said.Releasing the latest instalment of PM-Kusan, Modi said: “No middlemen or commission, it went straight to farmers. I am satisfied because the objective of the scheme is being fulfilled.”The PM-KISAN scheme, launched on December 1, 2018, has already provided a direct cash benefit of over Rs. 75,000 crore to more than 99 million farmer families.Under the scheme, income support of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to farmer families across the country in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 every four months. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is a medium- to long-term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subsidy and credit guarantee.“Indian agriculture has always depended more on subsidies than investments. The new fund will help correct that. It is important that the fund is managed in a way that farmers are able to achieve scale and connect with markets efficiently,” said Ananth Kumar of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-announces-1l-cr-support-for-agriculture-sector/story-5EZUI9o03Z3BZM31mesllN.html
10-08-2020||India||Bihar’s creaky health care system struggles to curb surging Covid infections||Sarvar Ali, 48, a resident of Patna City, takes private tuitions for a living. He is hard pressed to pay Rs 50,000 per day, living as he is on an artificial life support system at a private nursing home , after having contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on July 30. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna refused Ali admission, saying the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test report was not valid, says his nephew Amber Ali. According to Amber Ali, his uncle had to wait in a private ambulance, with oxygen support, for four hours outside AIIMS before the authorities finally refused him admission. “By the time we got him to a private clinic on the 99 feet Bypass Road at Kankerbagh, his condition had deteriorated and he was put on ventilator support,” he added. After doctors prescribed his uncle plasma therapy, Amber said he made around 350 calls to find just two convalescent plasma donors. He went with them from one blood bank to another and from one medical college to another on August 5, but none was willing to oblige. The reason: Most blood banks, including those in government medical colleges, did not have a plasmapheresis machine, required for convalescent plasma donations. The private clinic where Ali is admitted has neither the machine nor the government permission to carry out the procedure. “My uncle is not eating or talking, his condition remains critical,” said Amber, criticising the state government for not capping the cost of treatment in private facilities. Shaukat Ali, 52, another Covid-19 patient, was admitted in the government’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) on July 24. He died a day later. “No doctor attended to my uncle. The nurse came just once and asked me to learn how to administer the drip, saying she would not come again, as she feared contracting the virus,” recollected Aamir Hasmi, 26, a businessman. “Though there are ventilators, there is no functional team to run and manage them. As a result,the ventilators there are underutilised. Doctors do not visit patients, they get medical updates on phone,” he added. Septuagenarian Dr RB Jha, a retired professor and head of the department of surgery at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH), Bhagalpur, died of Covid-19 on August 5. Dr Sanjay Kumar Singh, former vice-president of Indian Medical Association, Bihar, alleged Jha died of medical neglect. Also read| Covid-19 in India: Daily tests up to 700k, 1 million target in sight“Dr Jha was in the ICU, with no one to treat him. Most 60-plus doctors are scared to go near Covid-19 patients. The paramedical staff is equally reluctant. If he were to be left at the mercy of God, a temple would have been better than the ICU,” says Dr Singh. With nearly 80,000 infections and a chronically underfunded health care system, Bihar is struggling to arrest the spread of Covid-19, which has been made worse by the influx of hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers over two months. The state, which has largest share of rural population among states in India, has only 0.11 beds and 0.39 doctors available per thousand people, according to the National Health Profile, 2019. In comparison, the figures were 0.46 and 1.54 respectively for Maharashtra, the worst-hit state.  The state has conducted 7,917 tests per million people, the lowest of any state in the country, according to HT’s internal Covid-19 dashboard, compared to the national average of 18,086.Bihar also has the third-worst doubling rate, a measure of how many days for infections to double from a given point in time, in the country. The state’s doubling rate stands at 14.7 days, behind only Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand — both at 13.2 days. In contrast, India’s doubling rate stands at 23.6 days. To be sure, testing in the state has increased in recent days. Bihar was testing just 2,352 samples a day on June 1. The figure rose to 8,500 by the end of June. For the week ending August 1, the state conducted 19,000 daily tests at an average. Last week, this number stood at 52,000 tests a day at an average.The increased testing has led to a fall in positivity rate, which is the ratio of positive results to the total number of tests conduced. On July 28, this number stood at 17.1% and came down to 6% on August 8. The government, however, said the situation is slowly improving after a change of guard at the helm of the health department, with Pratyaya Amrit having taking over as principal secretary, health, on July 27. This is the second change the state government has effected since May 20, when Sanjay Kumar was shifted and then Uday Singh Kumawat.Amrit did not respond to calls and text messages. On August 1, Bihar launched a mobile application, Sanjivan, to enrol for home isolation, check availability of beds and requisition ambulance, besides dedicated helpline numbers for tele-consultation.  It also set up control rooms, headed by probationary Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service officers at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. It has also set up dedicated personnel to source medicines for patients, instead of asking their attendants to get them. Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said new cases have to be seen in the perspective of testing, indicating that spike in cases was due to higher testing. Less than 10% of the total 71,520 tests Friday were done through the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) test, considered to be the gold standard for Covid-19, and the rest were rapid antigen tests, which search for substances that trigger an immune response in the patient and can give results in less than an hour. “We have taken testing through rapid antigen kits to the primary health centre level in districts. We are also testing non-Covid patients coming to hospitals with other ailments. We are also testing people at flood relief camps, besides testing those in containment zones,” said a state government official, on condition of anonymity. “The governments at the Centre and state are doing a reasonably good job. It is the people who are behaving irresponsibly by not adhering to norms of social distancing, wearing nasal masks and practising hand-washing habit,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, former national president of the Indian Medical Association and ex-council member of the World Medical Association, which has its headquarters at Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-s-creaky-health-care-system-struggles-to-curb-surging-infections/story-EKe5PTLsrGYD12YLWgp6zK.html
10-08-2020||India||45% annual funds for jobs, ration spent in 4 months||Close to 45% of Central funds meant for ensuring rural employment and subsidised rations, the two schemes that have helped deal with the economic distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, have been spent in just the first four months of the 2020-21 financial year, according to government data. While the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) enabled 90 million households find work between April and July, subsidised rations under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) were provided to an average 720 million people every month during April-July, the data showsThe 68-day lockdown enforced on March 25, shutting all manufacturing and services units barring those deemed essential, triggered an exodus of migrant workers, mainly daily wage-earners, from the cities to their homes in the villages of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Demand for work and food under two of the world’s biggest social welfare programmes dropped in July after peaking in June, indicating that many of those who had left for their villages may be migrating back to the cities in search of work as lockdown restrictions are gradually eased. Also read| Covid-19 in India: Daily tests up to 700k, 1 million target in sightUnder MGNREGS, 24.2 million households were provided work in July, compared to 38.9 million in June (the highest ever monthly figure under the scheme month) and 33.1 million in May. At least one member of rural household is guaranteed 100 days of work a year under the programme.“The employment in July was less because migrant workers returned to cities and labourers got engaged in sowing work that started in July after a good spell of rains,” said Nikhil Dey, a former member of MGNREGS’s Central Advisory Council and an activist working in rural areas of Rajasthan. This year, the employment provided under the scheme is almost 50% more than in 2019 and 2018, he said. The number of people provided 100 days of employment during the period is almost three times the number in 2019. Himanshu, an associate professor in the department of labour studies in Jawaharlal Nehru University, who uses only his first name, said MGNREGS has provided a social security net to the rural poor, and this is amply clear from the data.Similarly, the disbursement of subsidised rations peaked in June with 94% of the 800 million identified beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act receiving foodgrains. In July, the disbursement came down to 91%, which was about seven percentage points less than the number in June and July of 2019. In terms of foodgrains disbursed, 2.8 million tonnes of rice and 21 million tonnes of wheat was given to the needy in June, which went down to 2.44 million tonnes of rice and 1.99 million tonnes of wheat in July. Still, the quantity was about 20% more compared to June and July 2019, the data showed. The employment generated under MGNREGS and rations disbursed under NFSA in July was still higher than the pre-lockdown period. Officials expect the offtake to remain high under these two schemes and other rural development programmes until the end of this year. Four months of Covid-19 have weighed heavily on the exchequer. According to central government data, between April and July, around 45% of the Rs 1.01 lakh crore allocated for MNREGS and 44% of Rs. 1.15 lakh crore for NFSA this financial year had already been spent . MGNREGS funds are given to states to pay wages to workers and buying raw material for asset creation. The NFSA money is given to the Food Corporation of India for supplying foodgrains from its stocks to different states for their Public Distribution System. “We are left with very less money under MGNREGS for the current financial year,” said a rural development ministry official while briefing the Parliamentary standing committee on labour on Friday. At this pace, the official said, the NREGA funds would be exhausted by early December. He, however, added that as NREGA is a demand-driven scheme, the Central government has to pay the states and the finance ministry has held out an assurance that there would be no shortage of funds. sThe RD ministry official said the government has been taking steps to transfer 100% wages to the bank accounts of the rural jobs guarantee scheme and emphasised the need for a on social audit of the public works built with the funds. “We have been able to plug leakages by weeding out fake jobs cards and it meant more people getting work for same amount of government expenditure,” he said. He said that the Centre had sought a report on high MGNREGS expenditure from states such as Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, which traditionally spend relatively less under the programme. The two states, along with Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, have generated the most work under the programme this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-annual-funds-for-jobs-ration-spent-in-4-months/story-1Od9ZPkmswGiRner7QuaeM.html
10-08-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Daily tests up to 700k, 1 million target in sight||India performed 719,364 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests on Saturday, taking the total number of daily testing closer to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) target of one million per day by the end of August.ICMR is in the process of ramping up Covid-19 testing in the country. Efforts are underway to make use of some of the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) machines installed in other government labs that are being used for performing other molecular tests. RT-PCR is considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing. “Several measures are being taken to ensure testing capacity meets the target in the coming weeks. The measures include upgrading existing labs by way of increasing testing machines, manpower and also work shifts to be able to run more samples in a day,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.Also read: India’s trajectory a worry as the world nears 20 million Covid-19 casesAbout 200-odd machines are installed in other labs that can also be used to carry out Covid-19 testing, the official said.” Also, labs of medical colleges that have the basic infrastructure to conduct molecular tests can also be mentored and upgraded to equip them to perform Covid-19 tests. All this is being done to ensure we reach the target of one million as planned,” the official added. India has performed about 25 million tests since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with one lab at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune, Maharashtra.ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said last week that the research body had adopted an intelligent and caliberated approach as far as Covid-19 testing was concerned. “When you look at the overall testing numbers, India is comfortably placed. Most states are performing adequate number of tests, however, there are certain states that are lagging behind where we need to increase testing capacity, and the labs there are being established and testing kits deployed accordingly,” he said. Also read: 35% patients in Covid hospitals from outside Delhi, says Satyendar JainAs on Sunday, August 9, India has 1,402 labs -- 940 government and 462 private labs -- approved to perform Covid-19 testing across the country. “Such high level of testing will also lead to high number of daily positive cases, however, States have been advised to firmly focus on comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation and effective treatment, following the Centre-led strategy of test, track and treat,” the health ministry said in a statement on Sunday. Experts agree that to control the outbreak, aggressive testing is crucial.“The more you test, the higher will be the number of infected that you will be able to identify. To curtail an infectious disease from spreading, one must be able to identify, through testing, as many infected individuals as possible in time so that they are isolated and put on treatment. It will also ensure they don’t roam around freely within the community and transmit the infection,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The health ministry has held several meetings in the past week to engage with the worst-affected states.The Covid-19 recovery rate continues to improve steadily, with 53,879 Covid-19 patients having recovered and been discharged in the past 24 hours, according to the health ministry data. With this, the total number of recoveries touched 14,80,884 on Sunday, which is at least twice the number of active cases (6,28,747).The recovery rate of patients under medical supervision either in home isolation or in a hospital has touched 68.78%.“The number of Covid-19 patients who need hospitalization is low, and most of those who are hospitalized are recovering faster. The percentage of severely ill cases is even lower, which is why the rate of recovery is seeing constant improvement,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant at tje department of medicine in New Delhi’s Moolchand Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-tests-up-to-700k-1-million-target-in-sight/story-ZQNld4oWxtxTMX1zy2cueP.html
10-08-2020||India||‘All we know is touchdown was late’: DGCA chief on Kerala plane crash||Directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) chief Arun Kumar said the tabletop runway at Calicut Airport, where an Air India Express plane crashed killing 18 people including both pilots on Friday, was long enough for the aircraft, but a late touchdown may have caused the plane to overshoot the runway. Edited excerpts from an interview:What do we know about what happened with the Air India Express flight that crash-landed?We don’t know much, the actual investigation is on. They {investigators} have got the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder so they have to open them and they have to study the transcripts and also the Air Traffic Controller (ATC) transcripts which they have obtained. All we know at this point of time is that the touchdown was late. That is the ATC information, more than 3,000 feet. Actually, if it was 3,000 feet, 4,000 {feet} or 2,000 {feet) -- that will come out once everything is decoded. It was a 9,000 feet runway, which is a fairly long runway as I have been saying all along. It’s not a small runway, for example like Patna which is just 6,000 feet. It is a Code D runway and this is a Code C aircraft and the grading is like B, C, D where D is bigger to C. So under the circumstances, it is fit enough or more than fit enough for a Code C aircraft.Also read| Kozhikode air tragedy: CISF personnel who rescued survivors told to go into quarantineSo you are saying length of the runway was big enough?This runway was fit enough for bigger aircraft, so a smaller type of aircraft cannot complain of the length of the runway. So if you touch down late on any runway, suppose it’s a 12,000 feet runway, and you touchdown at 8,000 feet, then you can have problems.Can you explain how that happens? We can only say that it was a late touchdown and obviously the aircraft has skidded and gone beyond the runway and the safety area. That is also a big rectangle- -240 by 90 square metres -- in all. The aircraft should have stopped there but it has gone beyond that. Fortunately for us, it has not gone far beyond, just 10 feet ahead. With the impact, it has broken into three parts. It could have gone even further, it could have been worse. All these facts, the real truth will come out once the investigation is done by AAIB (Air Accidents Investigating Branch) as under the international civil aviation organisation structure, it has to be an independent body carrying out the investigation. They can find fault with the DGCA too or with airport operator. Who is heading that?Mr Aurobindo Handa, an air force officer who is currently based out of India. He’s a joint secretary rank officer who is heading that bureau.You say that it isn’t a small runway but some experts have pointed out the problem with Calicut was that as a tabletop, there were problems?You don’t do away with tabletop runways. There are tabletop runways across the world. I reiterate and repeat, it is not an Indian innovation. Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu is also a tabletop, they haven’t closed it down. Similiarly, in the US or Europe, all over the world, there are tabletop runways. So what do you do with them? You design flight procedures to navigate your aircraft on these runways. These are very well prescribed and defined procedures. So this isn’t an issue and again 9,000 feet is a fairly long runway.Also read| ‘Spirit of solidarity’: Hardeep Puri lauds locals who rescued Kozhikode crash victimsSome experts have come forward and said that they have pointed out issues in 2010 and 2011; they pointed out problems with the airport to the DGCA. I know you weren’t in DGCA then but you must have read up on them.Yes, I have. The simple point is that at that time when the investigation and the inquiry committee report came, the runway and safety area was not adequate. One of their recommendations was to make these areas appropriate. For that, the dimensions were 240X90 metres. The airport authority, after due deliberations, carved out this safety area. That was one, and secondly, the pavement classification of the runway for it take a heavy aircraft, the strength of the runway to take the load, was also complied with according to the recommendation. All the recommendations that were there have been complied with and after that the airport has been functioning for the last 14 years. In 2006, it was only a 6,000 feet runway, now it is 9,000 feet after acquisition of land and then it was declared an international airport.So all the recommendations that were given by the experts were incorporated?Most of them. Only some weren’t for various reasons. For example, one recommendation was to have an arrester, which means a soft ground on which the aircraft could stop. That was a solution given when you don’t have a runway safety area but since that was made, there was no need for an arrester and that’s why it was dropped.Do we know anything new from the voice recorder or from the black box?No, I am not the right person. The investigator will be going through them. They will study each aspect and come out with the findings.What could be the possible reason for a late touchdown?No idea. Let’s wait for the evidence to tell us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-we-know-is-that-the-touchdown-was-late-director-general-of-civil-aviation-arun-kumar/story-DVNngwno2PLjWCLWO46k1M.html
10-08-2020||India||Death rate among doctors due to Covid far more in Bihar, says IMA official||Death percentage of doctors succumbing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bihar is nine times more than country’s national average, claims a senior functionary of Indian Medical Association (IMA).“Doctors account for 0.5 per cent of the total deaths in India due to Covid-19. However, in Bihar, the percentage of doctors’ death is 4.75 per cent, which is nine times more than the national average,” said senior vice-president of IMA-Bihar Dr Ajay Kumar.States like Tamil Nadu (0.1%), Maharashtra (0.15%), Gujarat (0.9%), Karnataka (0.6%), Andhra Pradesh (0.7%) and Delhi (0.3%), which reported far more Covid-19 cases, had less percentage of doctors dying to the virus as compared to Bihar, he said. “In Bihar, 19 doctors have died of the 400 fatalities attributed to the virus as on Saturday. In India, against 41,600 Covid-19 deaths, 200 are doctors,” Dr Kumar said. The high percentage of doctors’ death in Bihar has set tongues wagging against the government. At the same time, doctors have also cited exising co-morbidities and reduced precautions among doctors against the virus outbreak in the state. “Most elderly doctors having co-morbidities continued to do private practice. They also took precautions against Covid-19 lightly and had to pay the price with their lives,” said Dr Ranjeet Kumar, general secretary of the Bihar Health Services Association. Among doctors, private medical practitioners account for nearly 64 per cent — seven out of 19 —deaths due to the contagion in Bihar. Dr Kumar questioned the government’s policy of not quarantining doctors who were treating Covid-19 patients. “In other states, doctors doing duty in Covid-19 wards are quarantined for 15 days after 15 days of continuous work. This arrangement is not followed in Bihar, as a result of which our doctors remain exposed to Covid-19 patients far longer than in other states. In fact, in Bihar, doctors are working continuously at a stretch since mid-March, without even an off day,” said Dr Kumar. “I had given our health minister a list of 220 doctors who were infected by SARS CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, around 10 days back, requesting him to allow them to be quarantined, but nothing has happened so far,” he said. Another official also raised concerns over the quality of protection kits available in the state. “Protective gears available here are questionable. Fifty percent doctors in public sector are 60-plus and have co-morbidity, yet they have been drafted for Covid-19 duty despite our requests not to engage them. However, given the shortage of doctors, with 60 per cent posts vacant as compared to their sanctioned strength, the government allowed elderly doctors no relief,” said IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Sunil Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-rate-among-doctors-due-to-covid-far-more-in-bihar-says-ima-official/story-I6hRm0eoJAVXMWSgcyu8zN.html
10-08-2020||India||To make India more self-reliant, Rajnath Singh to launch ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Saptah’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will launch the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Saptah’ (self-reliant India week) at 3.30 pm on Monday, in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for a self-dependent India with increased local manufacturing. Earlier on Sunday, Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles among others on a staggered basis till 2024.The move is meant to give an impetus to domestic defence production. Singh said the defence ministry is now ready for a “big push” to encourage indigenous defence manufacturing in line with Prime Minister Modi’s clarion call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India).ALSO READ | Rajnath Singh announces import ban on 101 defence items. Here’s the full list“Big and tough” decisions are being taken to promote self-reliance in domestic defence production, the minister said while speaking at an online event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also present a new outline for a self-reliant India in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, Independence Day.PM Modi first mentioned about his vision for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) in his address to the nation on May 12 while announcing a Rs 20 lakh-crore economic stimulus package to boost the economy hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Since then, various ministries and departments have announced a slew of measures to encourage domestic manufacturing in key sectors.ALSO READ | PM Modi to present new outline for self-reliant India on August 15: Rajnath Singh“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present before the nation some new outlines for a self-reliant India in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day,” the defence minister said on Sunday. He explained that the country may not be able to protect its sovereignty if it was not adequately self-reliant.“Our government will not allow any harm to India’s self respect and sovereignty at any cost,” Singh said.The defence minister said big weapons systems will now be produced in India and the country will look for their export to make it a hub of defence manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-make-india-more-self-reliant-rajnath-singh-to-launch-atmanirbhar-bharat-saptah-tomorrow/story-kwSH927MS8vMsi6UqZWKCM.html
10-08-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Discharge mechanism in focus after false Covid-19 negatives||Scientists have called for urgently revisiting the discharge protocol for Covid-19 patients after recent international studies showed people can test positive for the virus even after two consecutive negative results. The research comes at a time when South Korean authorities reported 91 patients who were previously cleared of the coronavirus had tested positive again, with experts saying the scare of reinfection was yet unproven, and that a more plausible reason was the unreliability of two RT-PCR (Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction) tests to conclusively prove a patient cured. “RT-PCR testing is most useful when it is positive,” said Dr Priya Sampathkumar, an infectious diseases specialist at Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, US. “It is less useful in ruling out Covid-19. A negative test often does not mean the person does not have the disease, and test results need to be considered in the context of patient characteristics and exposure.” The first study, by Chinese medical experts in the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal, found that 14.5% of 172 patients discharged from the Shenzhen Third People’s Hospital between Jan 23 and Feb 21 tested positive again. Their hospital discharge protocol was four-pronged: Normal body temperature for more than three consecutive days, significant reduction of respiratory symptoms, improvement in chest CT, and two consecutively negative results of RT-PCR testing separated by a 24-hour interval. This is the common global standard, including in India, for patient discharge. But within an average of roughly 5-9 days from their discharge, 25 patients returned positive tests. “According to our study, it is probably that two negative RT-PCR tests 24 hours apart may not be sufficient for viral clearance evaluation. Repeated viral RT-PCR testing separated by prolonged duration like 48 hours is essential…we suggested that some immunological parameters such as D-dimer and absolute lymphocyte count, and even antibody test should be combined with RT-PCR negative test,” the study added. A second study, by doctors at the Tongji hospital in Wuhan, found that 15 out of 70 patients between Jan 21 and Feb 12 with confirmed Sars-CoV-2 infection tested positive after two consecutive negative results. But the doctors cautioned that this was likely not a case of recurrence, but one of false negative test and prolonged viral clearance period, which can throw the RT-PCR test off. “Traces of virus detected by RT-PCR were not necessarily correlated with the ability of transmission. However, longer observation period should be considered for certain group of COVID-19 patients,” the doctors concluded. But why is the RT-PCR test, which relies on identifying the virus’s genetic material, unreliable when it comes to discharge? A third study, by Chinese doctors in the Journal of Medical Virology, offers some clues.In this study, of 610 hospitalised patients from Wuhan between February 2 and 17, the scientists reported a “potentially high false negative rate” of the RT-PCR tests. The doctors conducted six tests on the patients, and found that in a number of cases, tests of a particular patient, turned from negative to positive and again negative – indicating the high fluctuating nature of the tests. Eighteen patients tested positive after two consecutive negative tests. Only after five rounds of tests did all patients consistently test negative.“To reduce the number of new cases, strict adherence to discharge criteria is needed. In addition, it is recommended that patients should be isolated for several days after discharge to reduce the risk of transmission,” the study concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discharge-mechanism-in-focus-after-false-negatives/story-ksFnjYViWOhZ4C0O6gOBOJ.html
