11-08-2020||India||Anyone from Pak who has faith in lord Ram can come to Ayodhya, says Ram Janmabhoomi trust chief||After former Pakistani cricketer Danish Kaneria expressed his desire to visit the Ram mandir in Ayodhya, chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, on Tuesday said that Ram belongs to everyone and that those who wish to visit Ram temple are most welcome. “Pakistan is a part of Akhand Bharat and Hindus living there are our brothers. If he (Kaneria) wants to visit Ram Mandir and offer prayers, then he is most welcome,” said Nritya Gopal Das. “Anyone from Pakistan who has faith in lord Ram can come to Ayodhya. The deity has a global presence and is not limited to Bharat alone,” Das said. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) also welcomed spinner Kaneria’s wish and demanded special visa for him from the government of India to visit the country. “Pakistani Hindus have a blood relation with us and Kaneria’s statement proves this,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. “We welcome every Hindu from Pakistan to Ayodhya. We owe more to them (Pakistani Hindus) as they have suffered a lot,” he said. Priest Raju Das of Hanuman Garhi invited Kaneria to lord Hanuman’s temple also. “Pakistani Hindus are the most persecuted community in the world. If Danish Kaneria wants to visit Ram Mandir, he is most welcome at Hanuman Garhi also,” said Das. Kaneria, who is the second Hindu cricketer to play for Pakistan after Anil Dalpat, tweeted several times in the last one week with the religious slogan ‘Jai Shri Ram’. In his tweet, Kaneria, said: “The beauty of Lord Ram lies in his character, not in his name. He is a symbol of the victory of right over evil. There is a wave of happiness across the world today. It is a moment of great satisfaction. #JaiShriRam.” In a recent interview to a news channel, Kaneria expressed his desire to offer prayers at the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple on August 5 in a grand ceremony at Ram Janmabhoomi. Soon after PM Modi performed the Bhoomi Pujan, the former Pakistani cricketer posted an image on social media platforms featuring Ram Mandir’s digital image on a giant billboard at New York’s Times Square. Sharing the image, Kaneria had also tweeted, “Today is the historical day for Hindus across the world. Lord Ram is our ideal.” A few reports stated that the leg-spinner received backlash over the post as Islamists threatened him leading to the deletion of the tweet by the Pakistani cricketer. “There is a wave of happiness across the world today. It is a moment of great satisfaction,” the 39-year-old former spinner was quoted as saying. Being one of the most successful bowlers in Test cricket history of Pakistan with 261 wickets, Kaneria had reportedly been ‘mistreated’ by his former teammates for being a Hindu. And this was revealed by former Pakistani pacer Shoaib Akhtar, who in a chat show, had claimed how Kaneria used to be humiliated and mistreated by teammates because he was a Hindu. “Other players used to refuse to eat with him because of his Hindu faith,” Akhtar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-from-pak-who-has-faith-in-lord-ram-can-come-to-ayodhya-says-ram-janmabhoomi-trust-chief/story-8JYboUV7ihtpBkEegTveNK.html
11-08-2020||India||Maha Mrityunjaya Yajna in former President Pranab Mukherjee’s ancestral village in Bengal||Villagers at Kirnahar - the ancestral village of former President Pranab Mukherjee – in West Bengal, started a Maha Mrityunjaya yajna on Tuesday while his condition remained critical at the army hospital in Delhi. The yajna, which started around 7:50 am, in a Shiva temple around 2 km from the former president’s ancestral house, would continue for the next two days and is being held for the speedy recovery of Mukherjee. “He used to worship in this temple since his childhood. And every time he came to the village during the Durga puja, he used to worship here. His son Abhijit Mukhrejee requested us to organize the yajna,” said Rabi Chattoraj, secretary of the temple committee, who shares a very close and cordial relation with the Mukherjee family. Every year during the Durga Puja, Mujherjee visits his ancestral house at Kirnahar in Birbhum district, around 170 km north of Kolkata and performs puja at his home. The last time he came to the village was during the 2019 Durga Puja. Also Read: Pranab Mukherjee’s health has ‘worsened’, still on ventilator, says hospital“We started the yajna at 7:50 am on Tuesday and it continued non-stop till 2 pm. It would again start at 8:16 am on Wednesday. Dozens of villagers had come to attend the yajna,” said Chattoraj. The puja was held by three priests and their two assistants. Several villagers also held pujas in their own houses and in temples across the village and prayed for Mukherjee’s speedy recovery. The former President who underwent a brain surgery and is on ventilator support also tested positive for the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-mrityunjaya-yajna-in-former-president-pranab-mukherjee-s-ancestral-village-in-bengal/story-vTLN1ZWD9mYAoYe3d7InxI.html
11-08-2020||India||Patients protest lack of facilities, substandard food at Uttarakhand Covid care centre||Covid-19 positive patients were housed at a COVID care centre in US Nagar’s Pantnagar staged a protest against the lack of the facilities and accused authorities of providing them substandard food. The district magistrate (DM) US Nagar has set up an inquiry into the matter and sent senior officers to the centre, an official said. “I have sent sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and chief medical officer (CMO) to talk to the protesting COVID-19 patients. Action will be taken against the accused if allegations are found genuine,” said Ranjana Rajguru, DM, US Nagar. Visvesarayya Bhawan, a hostel building of Pantnagar University has been converted into a COVID care centre in Pantnagar. Around 160 men, women and children from Khatima, Transit Camp (Rudrapur) and other places have been housed there for treatment. Also Read:Uttarakhand rivers flow near danger mark, Badrinath highway closedThese COVID-19 positive persons came out of the hostel building with utensils on Tuesday morning and staged a protest on the porch, an official said. They alleged a lack of facilities and substandard food being served to them. They also alleged toilets in the centre were in a very unhygienic condition. Some of them claimed that they were asymptomatic and such they should be sent to their respective homes as per the new guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic patients. The protesters also alleged that neither health officials nor any officer had come to listen to their grievances. Police personnel rushed the spot and tried to calm them and assured them of better facilities. Protester ended their protest after an hour on the assurance of police personnel, said official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patients-protest-lack-of-facilities-substandard-food-at-uttarakhand-covid-care-centre/story-3NYmZ9xwrk289yIUq1CUiJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Robber with engineering degree escapes from hospital under custody after testing Covid-19+||A 28-year-old man with an engineering degree who allegedly headed a gang that looted cash from at least seven automated teller machines (ATMs) in several districts of Madhya Pradesh in the past one year, escaped from a district hospital while he was being treated for Covid-19, on late Monday night, police said on Tuesday. Devendra Patel was arrested in Damoh district, 264 kilometres east of Bhopal, along with five of his accomplices on July 25, according to police. He tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday after which he was being treated in Damoh district hospital when he escaped from the custody.Superintendent of police (SP), Damoh, Hemant Chauhan said, “An engineering graduate Devendra was the mastermind of the loots. Three days ago, he was produced before the court after completion of police remand and was sent on judicial custody by the district court. Before he was lodged in the jail, he was tested for coronavirus when the report that came on Sunday suggested that he was Covid-19 patient. He was admitted in the district hospital on the same day. Two jail guards were present at the hospital to keep an eye on him but he succeeded in dodging them and escaped from the hospital.” “Police have registered an FIR and an investigation is going on in the matter. Six teams have been formed to track down the accused,” said Chauhan. Police have also announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for anyone who will provide information about Patel. According to police, Patel formed his gang a year ago and started looting ATMs by blowing them up with explosives. Patel had learnt the technique of looting ATMs on the internet. The gang members used to reach the targeted ATM on two bikes with their faces covered. Two of them used to overpower the ATM guard and sprayed black paint on CCTV cameras installed in the ATM booth while two of them used to connect the detonator with a battery of the bike and the remaining two used to collect the cash. It usually took about 14 minutes for them to commit the robbery. Police had finally tracked down the gang after months of investigation. But now, the hunt for Patel has started all over again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robber-with-engineering-degree-escapes-from-hospital-under-custody-after-testing-covid-19/story-9kaCx52eue5QnMZoWUnkxJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Vaishno Devi: 5000 devotees including 500 from outside J-K to be allowed daily||A maximum of 5000 pilgrims will be allowed per day to visit Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra, Jammu till September 30 after the reopening of religious places in the Union Territory on August 16, according to officials.Devotees from outside the state will also be allowed to visit the shrine, however, in much lesser numbers-- a maximum of 500 pilgrims per day-- within the overall limit of 5,000 pilgrims, in a graded manner to prevent overcrowding, considered conducive to the spread of Covid-19 infection.The administration had earlier said that it may not allow outsiders to visit the popular shrine initially due to the fear that the move may cause further spread of the contagion in the region.However, the SOPs mandate that all visitors have Aarogya Setu App mandatorily installed on their smartphones. The operating procedures mentioned by the authorities also bars touching of statues, idols or holy books during the visits.Also Read: Janmashtami celebrations go virtual amid Covid-19The reopening of Vaishno Devi Shrine comes more than two months after the Centre gave the nod to re-open places of worship/religious places from June 8. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had decided to put the reopening on hold due to the rising number of Covid cases in the territory. The pilgrimage was suspended on March 18. The decision to reopen religious places of worship was taken earlier this month on August 4. The administration, however, made it clear that religious processions and large religious gatherings will remain strictly prohibited.Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which manages the holy shrine and the pilgrimage, however, has done all the spade work for the reopening with sanitisation drives on the twin tracks, sanctum sanctorum and in the Katra town. Also Read:Krishna Janmashtami 2020: History and significance of Dahi HandiCircles have also been marked outside the token counter, at the Bhawan and two helipads at Katra and Sanji Chhat to ensure social distancing, officials had said.Apart from helicopter service, the shrine board also provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims. Vaishno Devi cave shrine at an altitude of 5,200 ft in Trikuta Hills of Reasi district, a pilgrimage tourist destination that generally attracts close to a million devotees every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-5000-devotees-including-500-from-outside-j-k-to-be-allowed-daily/story-3hiOVRlcJPini6qzibvJeO.html
11-08-2020||India||NSCN-IM wants Nagaland Governor removed as interlocutor for peace talks||Accusing Nagaland Governor RN Ravi of creating hurdles in the final settlement of the Naga political issue, the Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) on Tuesday sought his removal as the interlocutor for the ongoing peace talks. In a statement issued by the outfit’s information wing, NSCN-IM said the peace process is in a state of “simmering tension” and reaching “tipping point” because of Ravi’s “vitriolic attack” on Naga issue. “The issue is now in the court of Government of India that should come out with an undertaking that Framework Agreement (signed in August 2015) is still alive in its original form and to be handled by somebody other than RN Ravi,” the statement read. The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with central government since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) in 2015, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long pending Naga issue. Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and other pro-talks rebel outfits (Naga National Political Groups-NNPGs) concluded In October, 2019 a formal deal to end the decades old Naga political problem is still awaited. NSCN-IM’s accusations against Ravi come at a time when another round of meetings to thrash out a final agreement is set to begin in New Delhi from next week in which senior NSCN-IM and NNPGs leaders are expected to take part. “All the hard word of 23 years of Indo-Naga political talks having passed through six successive prime ministers is coming to a nauseating end because of the mischief that keeps boiling in the hands of this interlocutor who has become more a liability than anything,” the statement said. Stating that the actions of Ravi after he was posted as Governor of Nagaland last year as casting a “huge trust deficit”, the outfit added that he (Ravi) has “set the bridge on fire and the meeting point is something unthinkable”. NSCN-IM has been upset with actions initiated against its cadres in recent months. It also took umbrage at Ravi terming Naga rebel outfits as “armed gangs” and “underground groups” in a letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-wants-nagaland-governor-removed-as-interlocutor-for-peace-talks/story-DNT3uPGzv5bIEJkAX1a4TO.html
11-08-2020||India||DGCA chief has no technical knowledge, 2 pilots’ unions tell Hardeep Puri to remove him||Two pilots’ unions of Air India on Tuesday called for the immediate removal of DGCA Arun Kumar because his comments on news channels reveal a “total lack of technical knowledge and amateurish view of the unfortunate accident” at Kozhikode.The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA) and the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) said in a letter to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri that Kumar must be replaced by a suitable candidate with substantial knowledge of the aviation sector and operational experience. The two pilots’ unions took umbrage at Kumar’s language in television interviews following the crash of an Air India Express flight in Kozhikode last week.Kumar said in a television interview that the plane’s “landing was not smooth”. In another interview, he said that “two fellows are dead...and the landing it seems was not appropriate”, the ICPA and the IPG wrote in the letter to Puri. Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe (58) was the commander of the flight with 190 people on board while Captain Akhilesh Kumar (32) was the co-pilot of the aircraft that overshot the runway on landing and crashed at the Kozhikode airport on Friday night. The two pilots were among 18 casualties. “Not only was the reference to the deceased individuals by such a senior officer of the Govt. of India as “ fellows “ highly inappropriate and distasteful but completely in violation of international norms and protocols that are required to be followed by regulatory agencies,” the unions said.“The above remarks only go to reveal his total lack of technical knowledge and amateurish view of the unfortunate accident. It is an established scientific fact that so-called “smooth” touchdowns may be counterproductive in certain adverse weather conditions and may pose a significant risk to safety. Whether a landing technique is appropriate or a contributory factor to a mishap can only be ascertained after a thorough, evidence backed investigation and not by speculative, casual remarks.”The pilots called for Kumar’s removal and pointed out the “futility of routinely appointing career bureaucrats” to head the DGCA.“We, therefore, as a body of professional aviators, have lost complete faith and confidence in Mr. Arun Kumar and thus, demand that he be replaced with immediate effect. At this juncture we would also like to point out the futility of routinely appointing career bureaucrats picked from their parent cadre, as the head of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. It is a highly specialized and technical field beyond the comprehension of non-specialists. Civil Aviation requires a domain expert to understand the complexities and technicalities involved.”The unions said that appointing a non-specialist serves no purpose and only demoralises the aviation professionals in the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-chief-has-no-technical-knowledge-2-pilots-unions-tell-hardeep-puri-to-remove-him/story-j1NMXupGzGBeChFl0iGsfI.html
11-08-2020||India||Chinese entities raided for suspected money laundering and hawala operations||Income tax sleuths conducted raids on few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates on Tuesday based on information of their likely involvement in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities. The raids were conducted at various premises of these Chinese entities, their close confederates and a couple of bank employees, according to an IT department statement.“Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1000 crore over the period,” the statement attributed to Surabhi Ahluwalia, Commissioner of Income Tax (Media & Technical Policy) and the official spokesperson of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said.Also Read: Maintaining peace with India a diplomatic priority, says China amid Ladakh border tensionIt added that a subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns were found to have taken over Rs 100 crore in bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.According to the preliminary information on the raids, evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hongkong and US dollars have also been unearthed and further investigations were under progress.“Further, incriminating documents in respect of hawala transactions and laundering of money with active involvement of bank employees and chartered accountants has been found as a result of search action,” the statement added.Also Read: Mike Pompeo opens anti-China, anti-Russia tour in Czech RepublicIndia has already banned several Chinese mobile apps in the country for national and data security reasons after mounting global concerns over Chinese government allegedly using these digital platforms for espionage and data harvesting.Government has also taken some policy initiatives including blocking participation of Chinese firms from certain projects and government contracts in the aftermath of Galwan valley clashes between the soldiers of the two countries dealing a blow to bilateral relations and creating a popular atmosphere of mistrust of China in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-entities-raided-for-suspected-money-laundering-and-hawala-operations/story-rJ9qYakjZM0gHBkONM2JBK.html
11-08-2020||India||Rajasthan truce sealed, chorus for Rahul Gandhi as Congress chief picks pace||Congress leaders on Tuesday jostled to give credit to Rahul Gandhi in ending the rebellion in its Rajasthan unit that threatened the survival of its government, and urged him to once again assume the reins of the organisation. The renewed bid to persuade Rahul Gandhi to accept the responsibility came a day after Sonia Gandhi completed one year as an interim Congress president on Monday. “The entire country witnessed as to how after 30 days now the political events in Rajasthan have come to a close. This was made possible on account of the vision and the belief of Rahul Gandhi in carrying all Congress leaders together bereft of any differences of opinion,” party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, addressing a virtual news conference. “It was due to his farsightedness and nature of carrying along everybody that we were able to resolve the differences. He was also helped by the cooperation and assistance given by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra,” he said, praising both Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The crisis ended soon after Pilot met Rahul Gandhi on Monday afternoon. As a way out and to assuage the sentiments of all sides, the party then decided to form a three-member committee to address the grievances of the rebel legislators, including Pilot. In the evening, Pilot and 17 other legislators supporting him met Ahmed Patel, Priyanka Gandhi and KC Venugopal to seek an assurance that the issues raised by them would be resolved amicably. Asked if Rahul Gandhi will take up the Congress president’s post now, Surjewala said not 99% but 100% of Congress leaders and workers want him to assume the responsibility once again. “Not because he is Rahul Gandhi but because he is the person who has always shown the courage and the mettle to take on the Modi government by pointing out and criticising its anti-people policies,” he added. Referring to claims that Rahul Gandhi has refused to return as the party chief, Surjewala said, “I don’t think that anyone of us has recently spoken to him on the issue. When he resigned, he resigned on moral grounds and took moral responsibility (for the 2019 Lok Sabha election loss). What will happen in the future is not for me to comment upon. I am certain that good things will happen in future.” He added the decision will be taken by Rahul Gandhi, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and the party at an appropriate time. Senior Congress leader from Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, also appealed to Rahul Gandhi to once again assume the party chief’s role to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “We are passing through an unprecedented crisis and Madam Sonia Gandhi has been struggling despite her health issues to rudder these tempestuous times,” Chennithala said in a letter to Rahul Gandhi. He alleged that the combine of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had “subverted” the basic principles of democracy, resulting in the fall of Congress governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. A similar attempt made in Rajasthan was, however, thwarted by Rahul Gandhi’s swift action, Chennithala said. To match the BJP’s “crooked and robustness”, he said a young and dynamic leadership is needed at the helm of affairs. He added the nation had “appreciated” the highest democratic principles shown by him and it was time that he reconsidered the decision as the crucial assembly polls to Bihar and five other states were due in nine months. “The grassroots level workers are eagerly waiting for Rahulji to take over the reins of the party. This will infuse unmatched enthusiasm among our cadres and will catapult our party towards recapturing the past glory,” Chennithala said. “Be it the pseudo-nationalism or the ‘mismanagement’ of the Covid-19 pandemic, the high handedness of enacting the CAA (citizenship law), or the total failure of diplomacy on handling the India-China border crisis, the country heard only one dissent and that was from you,” he added. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi also lauded Rahul Gandhi and his team for ending the stalemate in Rajasthan. “Today because of the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and the efforts of Priyanka Gandhi we have managed to keep one of our own Sachin Pilot with us. This is the democratic spirit of our party where there is room for dissent and debate,” tweeted former union minister Jitin Prasada. In a related development, the party has informed the Election Commission (EC) that Sonia Gandhi will continue to hold the post till a new president is elected. As per rules, a political party has to inform the poll body about its internal elections. In its letter, the party told the EC the process of electing a new president could not be initiated due to the coronavirus and the nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the pandemic. Soon after Sonia Gandhi’s appointment as the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year, there were assembly elections in Maharashtra and Haryana in October-November followed by polls in Jharkhand and Delhi and then the Covid-19 struck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-truce-sealed-chorus-for-rahul-gandhi-as-congress-chief-picks-pace/story-hQ7aamh71hmmxtIf5wqI8N.html
11-08-2020||India||Spotlight on private hospitals over charging Covid patients in Bihar, cases rise to 86,812||The Patna district administration has constituted a cell to probe allegations of exorbitant charge levied by private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients even as cases continued to spike in Bihar, taking the tally of positive patients to 86,812 on Monday.The testing on Tuesday rose to a record 83,314 samples, while the recovery rate improved by .27%, as compared to Monday’s figure. In the past 24 hours, 15 Sars-Cov-2 virus triggered deaths were reported from various districts taking the toll to 465, according to the bulletin issued by the state health department.Besides this, six deaths were reported from NMCH and AIIMS-Patna, said their respective Covid-19 nodal officers. While reviewing the situation in the capital, Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi accepted that he had received complaints of exorbitant money being charged by private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.He asked the additional deputy collector to identify such hospitals and take strict action against them. Also Read: Bihar labs underperform in RT-PCR tests; Centre asks state to increase capacityPatna continues to be a cause for concern, with the total number of infections rising to 14,446 with the addition of 552 fresh cases on Monday. Bhagalpur is a distant second with 3,719 cases followed by 3,600 cases in Muzaffarpur. Giving details of the 15 deaths, health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said three patients from Vaishali fell prey to the disease, followed by two each from Bhagalpur, Patna and Samastipur and one each from Bhojpur, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Rohtas, Saran and Supaul districts.NMCH’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said the three positive patients with heart disease who hailed from Bhojpur, Begusarai and Patna and were in the age group of 52 to 70 years, passed away on Monday. The three other patients, who died at AIIMS-Patna, were aged between 46 and 62 years and were from Naukaha village, Beur and Anisabad localities of Patna, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer, Covid-19, AIIMS-Patna. The health secretary said in the last 24 hours, 2,900 patients had recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 57,039 which translates into 65.70% recovery rate.The total count of active cases is 32,222, according to a tweet from the health department. The department has conducted 11, 80, 566 tests for Covid 19 so far. Random testing on second day The district administration on the second day carried out rapid antigen tests on 190 people, including greengrocers and auto drivers. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said just two persons tested positive, while all 83 auto drivers tested negative.Agarwal asked the district magistrates of Nalanda, Rohtas, Buxar, Kaimur, Buxar and Patna to conduct rapid antigen tests on greengrocers and auto drivers in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-private-hospitals-over-charging-covid-patients-in-bihar-cases-rise-to-86-812/story-NitmlZxrnALI9jKHa3thdP.html
11-08-2020||India||Russia continues work on Kudankulam nuclear plant, training Indian pilots for manned spaceflight||Russia has continued work on key bilateral projects with India amid disruptions caused by the Covid-19 crisis, delivering important components for the Kudankulam nuclear power plant and training Indian pilots for the Gaganyaan manned space mission. Atommash, part of the mechanical engineering division of the Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation, announced on Tuesday it had begun manufacturing a set of steam generators for the fifth power unit of the Kudankulam plant. So far, Atommash has manufactured and shipped two sets of steam generators for the third and fourth units of the Kudankulam plant. Each reactor requires four generators, which are built to high safety standards and have a heat exchange surface with 11,000 stainless pipes. Russia is building the 6,000-MW project at the site in Tamil Nadu, which will have six VVER-1000 nuclear reactors, and it is in talks with India to construct six more at a new site that is yet to be identified. Two reactors at Kudankulam are currently operational and two more are being built. India signed a framework agreement with Rosatom for constructing the fifth and sixth units in 2017. Rosatom said Indian contractor Larsen & Toubro, with the technical support of Russian experts, had completed installing the dry shielding for the reactor pressure vessel of the third unit according to schedule. This shielding prevents overheating of the reinforced concrete reactor pit structure, it added. Earlier this month, the mechanical engineering division of Rosatom began shipping crucial components for the main coolant pipeline for the fourth unit at Kudankulam. This equipment, weighing almost 350 tonnes, will be transported from Petrozavodsk to St Petersburg port, from where it will be carried by a ship about 10,000 km to Kudankulam. “We have completed the supply of equipment for the four units of the nuclear power plant in India. This year, [shipment] dates were postponed due to restrictions caused by the epidemiological situation. Despite this difficult situation, the [products were] successfully shipped and all contractual obligations to the customer were fulfilled,” said senior Rosatom official Rovshan Abbasov. “In the context of the restrictions imposed in Russia and India, Rosatom State Corporation Engineering Division, the Indian customer, Russian manufacturers, [and] the port of St Petersburg have kept on working, meeting all the measures prescribed, on the construction of the second phase of Kudankulam nuclear power plant,” said Vladimir Angelov, the director of projects in India. Meanwhile, the four Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots being trained at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC) are scheduled to complete their training in the first quarter of 2021, Roscosmos, Russia’s space agency, announced recently. The contract for their training was signed in June 2019 and they began the course on February 10. The training includes a number of courses on medical and physical issues, learning Russian, and studying the configuration and systems of the Soyuz manned spacecraft. The health status of the pilots is monitored daily, and professional GCTC doctors conduct a thorough medical examination once every three months. So far, the Indian pilots have completed training for a possible abnormal descent module landing in wooded and marshy areas during winter, on the water surface, and in the steppes in summer. In June, the pilots passed training in short-term weightlessness aboard an Il-76MDK special laboratory aircraft. They will also be trained in a hyperbaric chamber to prepare for factors such as G-force, hypoxia and pressure drop during a spaceflight. “The GCTC instructors praise the effort and high motivation of the Indian cosmonauts,” Roscosmos said. Earlier this year, the Indian pilots had gone into self-isolation purely as a precautionary measure following the detection of Covid-19 cases within the Russian space agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-continues-work-on-kudankulam-nuclear-plant-training-indian-pilots-for-manned-spaceflight/story-6I457MHHSYKlwsUn6qpwwK.html
11-08-2020||India||India could have been in top 3 world economies in next 7-8 years if Covid-19 had not hit: Rajnath Singh||India’s economy was growing at a good pace, had it not been hit by Covid-19-induced crisis the country could have been among the top three world economies in the next seven-eight years, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Tuesday.While speaking during the book launch -- Connecting, Communicating and Changing: The Vice President of India’s three years in office -- Singh said: “Venkaiah Naidu is blessed that he is vice-president of the country at a time when India is becoming strong and able to present a strong image to the world under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”“The country was growing with a good economic pace, if this Covid-19 pandemic had not hit the country then in 7-8 years we would have been in the top three world economies. But we are hopeful that we will be able to do so as we are fighting against Covid-19 strongly,” he said.Singh released a book chronicling the Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s third year in office. Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar launched the electronic version of the book.Commenting upon the book, Singh said: “Book title -- Connecting, Communicating and Changing -- represents what Naidu follows in his life. Naidu says nation first, the party next and self last. There are many speeches of Naidu in this book. It will give a new perspective of knowledge to readers. We had the most productive session of parliament under his tenure.”“Naidu is very emotional. He is a great orator and expresses his feelings in speeches. People will be interested to read this book. Good books are the best gift one generation can give to another. I have heard his speeches on different occasions and I can say that there is a great enthusiasm among the audience when he speaks,” Rajnath added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-could-have-been-in-top-3-world-economies-in-next-7-8-years-if-covid-19-had-not-hit-rajnath-singh/story-K4CM5XV7RBRiBdr6zanQFJ.html
11-08-2020||India||JD(U) snubs LJP says alliance in Bihar is with BJP, NDA rift widens||Ahead of high stakes Bihar assembly election, NDA camp seems to be in a disarray with junior partner LJP adopting a confrontationist stance against the lead partner JD (U), much to the delight of the five -party Opposition grouping, the Grand Alliance, in the state. The widening rift between the allies was again on display with the JDU snubbing LJP-- following its national president Chirag Paswan’s assertion that his party was ready to contest on all 243 assembly seats and his demand for a common minimum programme—by saying that party’s “alliance in Bihar is only with BJP.”In a way, the JD(U) has left the burden of dealing with a sulking LJP, with the BJP. “We have perfect understanding with the BJP on all issues, be it seat-sharing, campaigning or leadership. In fact, our relationship with the BJP is more than 15 years old. But we have never contested assembly elections along with the LJP except for the Lok Sabha polls. We don’t have any alliance with the LJP in Bihar,” said JD (U)’s principal general secretary K C Tyagi, while talking to Hindustan Times.“Our experience of working with them (LJP) is zero,” he added. Tyagi’s outburst comes after LJP president Chirag Paswan had repeatedly targeted Nitish Kumar government, terming its handling of the migrants’ crisis, Corona pandemic and now floods as inept.Also Read: Bihar flood situation worsens; 75 lakh in 16 districts affectedIn a recent interview, Chirag went on to wonder what has changed in the last 15 years in Bihar. In July, he had also echoed RJD’s views on the need to defer polls in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a principal demand of the Opposition leaders during their meeting with the Election Commission. Chirag Paswan’s father Ram Vilas Paswan has aired a similar view on Tuesday. Chirag’s questioning of law and order under Nitish has irked the chief minister who has been trying to frame his re-election campaign in terms of “vikaswad versus Laluvad”, “15 years of NDA versus 15 years of RJD” and “LED versus lantern”. On the seat-sharing issue, Tyagi said that while it was premature to say anything, as far as BJP was concerned, the two partners did not face any difficulty during the Lok Sabha polls.Also Read: In poll-bound Bihar, it is advantage Nitish Kumar“BJP’s top leaders, Amit Shah and J P Nadda have put the stamp of approval on Nitish Kumar’s leadership. Now, who is LJP to question that? They are not bigger than PM Modi, Shah or Nadda,” he charged. In fact, senior BJP leaders including Nadda and Bihar BJP in-charge Bhupendra Yadav had earlier snubbed the LJP on leadership issue in Bihar. Tyagi also questioned Chirag’s demand for a common minimum programme.“They are part of the union cabinet. Do they have a CMP there,” he asked. NDA sources said that the JD(U) and LJP have been at loggerheads over the 12 nominated MLC seats. Another bone of contention is seat sharing between the three parties since JD (U) has staked claim on no less than 120 seats and the BJP is also eyeing to contest no less than 102 seats based on its 17 Lok Sabha seats as compared to JD(U)’s 16. Each Lok Sabha constituency has at least six assembly segments with some having even seven. Based on the same formula, LJP has also claimed 42 seats, the number of seats it contested in 2015. Even though the BJP leaders including Bhupendra Yadav have been maintaining that the alliance will contest polls unitedly, the saffron brigade faces a tough task of satisfying each partner.“NDA is unquestionably a united force which will sweep the 2020 Bihar polls leaving the opposition without enough seats to claim the position of leader of opposition. The opposition Grand Alliance is creating propaganda just for the news value but they are a fragmented and a confused lot on ground without any vision for the future,” opined BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-snubs-ljp-says-alliance-in-bihar-is-with-bjp-nda-rift-widens/story-fXDqFAkiiWN9CSzPuVxDAI.html
11-08-2020||India||No wide-body planes at Kozhikode airport during monsoon: Aviation regulator||Wide-body planes during monsoon season have been banned at the Kozhikode airport, announced the aviation regulator on Tuesday evening following the tragedy last week when a plane overshot the runway, broke into two at the very airport and killed 18 people, including the two pilots.“As a matter of abundant caution we have decided to divert them to neighbouring airports during the monsoon season,” Arun Kumar, DG of the Directorate of Civil Aviation, said.The aviation regulator is also planning to conduct safety audits across airports in regions that receive high rainfall, he added.Wide body aircraft like B747 and A350 have a bigger fuel tank and can therefore travel longer distances in comparison to narrow body aircraft like the B737 and A320.The Boeing 737 jet, on a Vande Bharat mission as flight AIX 1344 from Dubai was bringing in Indians who were stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic, met with an accident while landing at the Kozhikode airport in treacherous conditions last Friday, breaking into two — making it one of the deadliest commercial aviation disasters in the country in nearly 10 years.The crash occurred as the plane attempted to land amid heavy tailwinds and rain on the table-top runway and bore striking similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a tabletop runway and crashed nose-first into the ground.So-called tabletop airports have limited space at the ends of the runway and several international airlines have stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode due to safety issues. Wide-body aircraft operations were permitted at this airport from 2019.Concerns were raised following the 2010 Air India Express crash in Mangalore that killed 158 people on board. That year, a court of enquiry report by a former Indian Air Force chief Air Marshal BN Gokhale noted that tabletop runways require extra skill and caution. The hazard of “undershooting” and “overshooting”, in particular, can lead to grave situations, the report had said.Kozhikode airport is equipped with Runway End Safety Area (RESA) as per the International Civil Aviation Organization guidelines on safety, aviation minister Hardeep Puri had said on Monday.“Engineered Material Arrestor System (EMAS) provides safety benefit if less than standard RESA length is available or at Airports where RESA cannot be provided due to constraints. Provision of EMAS is not mandatory in a civil aerodrome as per ICAO guidelines,” Puri said.“DGCA issued a directive vide letter dated 13.03.2013 on the recommendation of the Court of Inquiry (COI) Report which stated the following fact; AAI to recalculate declared distances to provide 240m (length) of RESA by reducing Landing Distance Available (LDA) appropriately at Safety Critical Airports which can be reduced if a suitably designed Aircraft Decelerating System is provided beyond minimum 90m (length) of RESA,”Puri had said that the provision of EMAS at Mangalore and Kozhikode were examined by AAI in consultation with the DGCA, following the Air India accident at Mangalore in 2010.“Tabletop runways at both these Airports are accordingly provided with RESA of 240m & 90m in compliance to DGCA directive. Further, considering the complexities of post installation maintenance & issues related with immediate replacement of product (in case of damage to EMAS) in such a critical safety area of RWY-RESA, it was then felt that the installation/provision of EMAS may not be suitable. Presently a statutory enquiry is on. Experts will further study the situation and causes and make suitable recommendations,” Puri said.The black boxes have been recovered and their data is being examined.The civil aviation ministry’s accident investigation division, Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), will conduct a detailed investigation into the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-regulator-bans-use-of-wide-body-aircraft-at-kozhikode-airport-during-monsoon-season/story-egNU4yEcOPidCwbVQgiPHO.html
11-08-2020||India||SC to consider BSP MLAs merger with Congress in Rajasthan on Aug 13||The Supreme Court on Tuesday posted a petition challenging the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators of Rajasthan Assembly with the Congress party for August 13 after it was informed that the issue with regard to the disqualification of the six lawmakers is pending consideration in the Rajasthan High Court. The bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said, “As the High Court is hearing the matter today and the parties have assured us that they are going to argue the matter, let the matter be argued before the High Court.” The six MLAs represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal sought permission of the bench to withdraw a transfer petition seeking transfer of the case before the HC to the apex court. The order was passed on a petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Madan Dilawar who challenged the September 18, 2019 merger of the six MLAs with Congress. Senior advocate Harish Salve appeared for Dilawar and told the apex court that a Division Bench of Rajasthan HC on August 6 fixed the matter for hearing by a single judge bench on August 11. But to scuttle this hearing, the six MLAs filed a transfer petition in the apex court for transferring his petition from the HC to the Supreme Court. The six MLAs - Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), Lakhan Singh Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) stated that the legal issues raised in Dilawar’s petition in the HC under examination of the top court in a 2015 appeal from a Gauhati High Court order in a case titled Mr. Mithou Krose v Imtilemba Sangtam. On Monday, the bench led by Justice Mishra ordered the transfer petition to be listed before the Court. Before the hearing could begin, advocate Amit Pai, the advocate-on-record who filed the petition for the MLAs, said, “I have instructions to withdraw the petition.” The Court permitted this request. Salve said, “This is exactly why we came to Court as the matter is listed today before the HC. This Court can use its extraordinary power to order transfer of the petition from HC and decide whether the Speaker’s order approving the merger on September 18, 2019 and rejecting my petition to disqualify these six MLAs on July 29, 2020 is correct in law. In the meanwhile, the order of merger passed by the Speaker should be stayed as on the date of that order no disqualification plea against the MLAs was pending.” The BSP led by senior advocate Satish Chandra Mishra pointing to the Congress said, “They have wiped out my party in the Rajasthan Assembly.”. He supported Salve and said that for the merger of the six MLAs with Congress to be recognized, past rulings of SC held that there should be a split in the party at the national level. Only then, one-third of party members can merge with any political party, he added. Mishra claimed that the party was not heard by the HC and they could not seek disqualification of their MLAs as Rules of Procedure in the Rajasthan Assembly permits this right only to a member of the Assembly. The bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari Sibal told the lawyers appearing in the case, “You argue out before the High Court. In case an adjournment is sought we will hear the matter. We will list the petition (by Dilawar) on August 13.” Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan who appeared for the Speaker said that there is no malafide in the order of the Speaker as there is a complete merger of the BSP Legislature Party with the Congress. Sibal pointed out that in Goa there was a similar precedent when most Congress MLAs joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-consider-bsp-mlas-merger-with-congress-in-rajasthan-on-aug-13/story-v1ak9JF1obfQojkRUTFCsJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Ordnance factory unions welcome Rajnath Singh’s import embargo, seek production rights||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh’s August 9 announcement that India will no longer import 101 types of weapons and equipment to boost the Make in India programme has been welcomed by ordnance factory workers’ unions although they are all set to strike work from October. More than 80,000 civilian employees of India’s 41 ordnance factories will go on indefinite strike from October 12 in protest against the Centre’s decision to corporatise weapon and defence equipment manufacturing units run by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) of the Union defence ministry. The announcement was made on August 4 by the three national trade unions, including the Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) which is affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The other two unions, the All India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF) and the Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation (INDWF) are affiliated to the Communist Party of India and the Congress respectively. Although they have welcomed the import ban, BPMS and AIDEF have demanded exclusive contract for production of certain weapons at OFB plants. “We welcome the import embargo and creation of a separate budget of about Rs. 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement in the current fiscal. However, out of these 101 items, those already being manufactured by OFB and the ones it is capable of producing should be earmarked for OFB under the provision of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017,” Mukesh Singh, general secretary, BPMS, told HT. “OFB’s manufacturing capacity is mentioned in the fourth report of Parliamentary standing committee on defence. OFB should also be given a 10 years roll on plan. If the government withdraws its decision to corporatise OFB plants we will withdraw the strike,” Singh added. “More than 10 items in the embargo list can be straight away manufactured by OFB. But will the government give us the contract?” said C Srikumar, general secretary, AIDEF. “We feel that the government will encourage private companies to tie up with foreign arms manufacturers to bring in foreign direct investment. Complete knocked down and semi-knocked down kits may be brought from abroad, assembled with screw driver technology and tagged as Made in India. That should not happen,” added Srikumar. “Even the UPA government was keen on encouraging indigenous production. We welcome what is happening. However, we are not going back on our decision to start indefinite strike from October 12,” said R Srinivasan, general secretary, INDWF. The OFB headquarters in Kolkata said that as part of the Atma Nirbhar Week programme, three facilities were dedicated to the nation by Rajnath Singh through video conference on Monday. These are the manufacturing facility for T-90 tank sighting devices at Dehradun, the automated assembly line for production of Pinaka rockets at Chandrapur and assembly and testing facility of the 12.7mm M2 NATO standard machine gun at Tiruchirappalli. As part of the same programme, OFB chairman Hari Mohan on Tuesday presided over the announcement of new products such as the electronic point detonation fuse for 155mm artillery ammunition at the Ambernath factory, 155mm red phosphorus shell made by the Dehu Road plant and extreme cold weather clothing system developed by the Shahjahanpur factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordnance-factory-unions-welcome-rajnath-singh-s-import-embargo-seek-production-rights/story-9Kxa4neQK9c5fWEHNpVANM.html
11-08-2020||India||Israel shares AI based technology with AIIMS to tackle Covid-19||Israel on Tuesday contributed state-of-the-art artificial intelligence (AI) based technologies and equipment to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi with the aim to assist in India’s Covid-19 containment efforts and also enhance country’s overall healthcare facilities, according to a statement attributed to the Israeli embassy.“The technologies include contactless monitoring applications, advanced medical management systems, and AI-based solutions such as AI assistant robots that can help medical teams perform various tasks remotely. This note-worthy action further cements Israel’s commitment towards assisting India in its efforts to tackle the ongoing pandemic,” a statement released on Israeli embassy’s behalf said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has regularly touched base with his Israeli counterpart since the outbreak of the pandemic, exploring areas of cooperation for the containment of the disease. Following the agreement on collaboration between the two leaders, Israel’s ministry of foreign affairs located the most advanced medical equipment that has been developed in Israel using cutting edge technologies to fight Covid-19, the statement says.Also Read: Russia names new Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’ in reference to Cold War space raceThe most “useful products” were then collected in coordination with AIIMS and some other equipment was contributed and some purchased with special funds allocated by the Israeli government.“We are pleased to share the best medical technology solutions from Israel with the most premier medical institute of India. We are confident that these technologies will further bolster their capabilities to tackle Covid-19.” said Dr Ron Malka, Israeli ambassador to India.Indonesia kicks off third phase of Sinovac’s Covid-19 vaccine testingThe statement added that Israel’s technological cooperation with AIIMS is more than a decade old. It says that senior doctors and nurses from AIIMS participated in a training programme on “Trauma and Mass Casualty Management” in 2007 which resulted in the establishment of the Trauma Center at AIIMS, New Delhi.Malka added that combined efforts and cooperation by India and Israel was not only beneficial to the two countries but to the entire world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-shares-ai-based-technology-with-aiims-to-tackle-covid-19/story-1uHJLBImTqwlTykObPDhoL.html
11-08-2020||India||Whatever little I have accomplished has years of hard work behind it, says Ravi Sah||Actor Ravi Sah, best remembered for his extraordinary characters in critically acclaimed films like ‘Paan Singh Tomar,’ ‘Life of an Outcast’ and OTT series ‘Jamtara,’ is basking in the success of his latest thriller release. “It’s an amazing feeling to have finally created a ripple with my performance. I have never compromised on scripts and screenplay. For me if I’m not able to add nuances to the characters I am being offered, I say no to such roles. You can call me selective, choosy but that’s the way I am because if I don’t get to challenge my craft so for me all my learnings are useless. The character should have a scope for me to put in that fine distinction and make it a nothing less than a perfect character,” said Ravi over the phone. The versatile actor from Purnia, Bihar calls acting a journey which he undertook after leaving everything behind. “When I decided to be an actor it was no less than accepting asceticism and devoting myself to this craft completely. Whatever little I have accomplished has years of hard work and sleepless nights behind it.” After completing bachelors in journalism, he took up a media job. “Thereafter, I joined theatre in Bhopal, MP and that’s what has majorly contributed in my career. Then I reached Film and Television Institute of India to fine tune my skills.” Talking about is impressive iniquitous character Keval in his latest release ‘Raat Akeli Hai,’ Ravi said, “For all who have seen Dhulia in ‘Paan Singh Tomar’ or that news editor from ‘Jamatra’ were in for a surprise. When I met the makers of the film I had no clue what was coming my way. When director Honey (Trehan) narrated me the script I felt it was an Indian version of Alfred Hitchcock’s film. When I heard the role of Keval which had almost no dialogues, I knew I have got what I always looked for — a full-on challenging role. As I played a proper butcher, I went to a nearby meat shop in my area to learn his mannerisms. For me, if I am not giving everything to the character it’s of no use taking up that role. Playing a brutal, fearsome yet an intense guy that to mainly through expressions, body language and attitude was an overwhelming experience,” he tells. Ravi is desperate to go back to work, “I’m dying to go back on sets now. I feel I am wasting my golden period sitting home waiting for pandemic to get over. Thankfully my film ‘Spring thunder’, based on uranium mining mafia versus tribal rehabilitation and land acquisition, where I play the lead, is ready and now I wait for its release. Also, in the pipeline is an OTT show. Let’s see when will we be able to start shooting,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/whatever-little-i-have-accomplished-has-years-of-hard-work-behind-it-says-ravi-sah/story-ofXixrzjQ0mhbzHNAMs8tO.html
11-08-2020||India||106 locally made trainer aircraft in India’s Rs 8,700 crore buying blitz||The defence ministry on Tuesday gave its go-ahead for the purchase of military equipment worth Rs 8,722 crore, including 106 locally made basic trainer aircraft, for the Indian Air Force to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement), a defence ministry spokesperson said.Basic trainers figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. The ministry’s defence acquisition council (DAC) accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for buying 106 Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) aircraft from state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh.Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware.“With HAL having successfully developed HTT-40 prototypes and certification process underway, the DAC approved procurement of 106 basic trainers to address the training requirements of the IAF,” the ministry said in a statement. The IAF is expected to order 70 trainers initially, with the remaining 36 to be bought after the operationalisation of the HTT-40 fleet in the IAF.This is the first step in a long journey ahead, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “While it’s a thumbs-up for the design and development of the HTT-40, HAL has to rise to the occasion now and produce them to a time schedule that the IAF wants. Work ethics would require a change to do that,” Bahadur said.The HTT-40 aircraft has undergone a string of elaborate tests at HAL to demonstrate that it is safe for rookie pilots and meets the IAF’s exacting standards for trainer planes. HAL could begin the production of the trainers by early next year. Rookie pilots in IAF go through a three-stage training involving the Pilatus PC-7 MkII planes, Kiran trainers and finally the Hawk advanced jet trainers before they can fly fighter jets. As the Kirans are approaching the end of their service life, some amount of Stage 2 training is being done on the PC-7.The defence ministry in July 2019 suspended business dealings with Swiss plane maker Pilatus Aircraft Limited for one year for violation of a pre-contract integrity pact in a Rs 2,900-crore contract for 75 basic trainers, and also factoring in Indian investigations against the plane maker for alleged corruption and irregularities.The contract with Pilatus included a clause for follow-on purchase of 38 more planes. The DAC - India’s apex procurement body - also cleared the purchase of an upgraded version of the super rapid gun mount (SRGM) which is fitted as the main gun onboard warships, to improve the navy’s firepower, the statement said. This weapon will be supplied by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL). “The upgraded version of SRGM has enhanced capability to perform against fast manoeuvring targets like missiles,” the statement said.Other defence items cleared for purchase include tank ammunition – the 125 mm APFSDS (Armour Piercing Fin Stabilized Discarding Sabot). It will have 70% indigenous content. The statement said some of the other approvals given by the DAC will accelerate the purchase of AK-203 assault rifles and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) upgrades.India on Sunday announced that it will ban the import of 101 defence items over the next five years, a significant step on the long road towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector.These include artillery guns, light military transport aircraft, conventional submarines, long-range land attack cruise missiles, assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, light combat helicopter, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/106-locally-made-trainer-aircraft-in-india-s-rs-8-700-crore-buying-blitz/story-Fep2aHN3esyY0Z1aZHSY9N.html
11-08-2020||India||‘Not detained, yet not free’: Omar underlines paradox, questions government stand||National Conference leader and former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, has questioned the Union Territory administration for denying it had detained several regional political leaders including those from the NC and for submitting that they had freedom to move while following certain restrictions for their own safety. The administration made the claim on Tuesday before J&K High Court while replying to a bunch of habeas corpus petitions filed by NC president Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah seeking release of 16 party leaders.Omar responded to the claims by saying that similar claims made by the administration last month before the Supreme Court in the case of senior Congress leader Saifuddin Soz had “exposed the lies”. ‘“None of them are detained’ yet none of them are free to leave their homes. If it’s about their security, then how come the same “precautions” aren’t taken for BJP and Apni party leaders? Soz Sb exposed the lies of the administration when they took a similar line in the SC,” Omar tweeted.Also Read: My ‘innocuous dissent’ was seen as act of ‘treason’: Shah Faesal on quitting politicsEarlier on July 31, Saifuddin Soz, a five-time member of Parliament and a former Union minister, accused the administration of falsely telling the SC that he was a free man. Soz said he was in detention since August 5 after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. A video showing Soz being restrained and being pulled away by security personnel while talking to journalists on the other side of the boundary wall of his Srinagar house, also went viral.Soz has also termed his detention illegal alleging he had not been served with any official order to the effect despite several requests. He has indicated that he will challenge the administration’s submissions made in the SC through his lawyers. Omar’s and his father’s petitions are seeking release of NC general secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar, provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani, senior leader Aga Syed Mehmood and party’s chief spokesman Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi among the 16 leaders allegedly being detained at their residences illegally.4G ban to be lifted from 2 J&K districts on trial basis after Aug 15: Centre tells SCThe J&K administration today told the high court that no order of detention either under preventive detention law or substantive law was issued against any of the 16 leaders named by Abdullahs and added that they were free to move with certain precautions “as deemed fit” for their security.Omar, however, did not buy the argument and asked why the restrictive security cover was being provided selectively to some leaders and not to others. He also alleged that that the recent attacks on BJP workers in the region showed that the police was failing in its primary duty.“The administration is failing in the task of providing security to political workers, evidenced by the spree of attacks against BJP workers, because the police are too busy being jailers rather than protectors. Security is NO reason to detain people in their homes,” Omar’s second tweet said.Five BJP leaders have been killed and two others critically injured in separate attacks in the valley over the past one month, while another leader escaped a grenade attack on his house in Tral in Pulwama district on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-detained-yet-not-free-omar-underlines-paradox-questions-government-stand/story-33fvJxlVmcpQMPJgywqwML.html
11-08-2020||India||In a first after border row, India and Nepal set to hold high level meeting||An India-Nepal body overseeing the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi is set to meet in Kathmandu next week, the first high-level contact between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row that erupted last year. The joint oversight mechanism, which was launched in 2016 and reviews progress in bilateral projects, is scheduled to hold a meeting on August 17, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The meeting between Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, who jointly chair the mechanism, is being seen by some quarters in Kathmandu as a positive development after the border row took relations to a new low. “The mechanism will only focus on the implementation of India-funded projects in Nepal. However, it could help break the logjam in relations,” said a person. A second person described the scheduled meeting of the mechanism as “part of a regular interaction between India and Nepal”. He added, “This oversight mechanism was set up in 2016 to review ongoing bilateral economic and development projects and meets on a periodic basis.” During its seventh meeting in July last year, the mechanism reviewed the implementation of projects such cross-border rail links, petroleum pipelines, roads, bridges, integrated border check posts, energy, irrigation, and post-earthquake reconstruction. The border row erupted late last year after Nepal objected to the inclusion of Kalapani region, which is claimed by Kathmandu, in a new map of the union territory of Ladakh that was issued by India. The row was exacerbated in May, when India opened a new road to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet, as this area too is claimed by Nepal. Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory. Kathmandu also said New Delhi has not responded to several requests for talks on the border issue, though India said a meeting couldn’t be arranged because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told The Kathmandu Post on Tuesday: “We don’t have alternatives to talks...We can’t hold our entire ties hostage to the differences over the boundary issue.” Gyawali said Nepal is confident its partnership with India will move in a positive direction. “For the time being, the boundary issues can be isolated...Differences over one issue should not overshadow our entire bilateral relations...We believe in constructive engagement, and the upcoming meeting is just one positive step towards that end,” he added. In recent weeks, the two countries have also engaged in a war of words over the origins of historic figures such as Lord Ram and Gautam Buddha. Nepal on Sunday responded to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that Gautam Buddha was one of the two greatest Indians for people around the world by saying historical and archaeological evidence shows the founder of Buddhism was born in Nepalese territory. India clarified that Jaishankar had referred to the shared heritage of the two countries. Last month, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sparked a controversy with his remarks that the “real” Ayodhya is in Nepal and that Lord Ram was Nepalese. He also said Nepal had “become a victim of cultural encroachment” and its history was manipulated. Following protests in India, the Nepal government clarified Oli’s remarks were “not linked to any political subject” and there was “no intention...to hurt the feeling and sentiment of anyone”. Nischal Pandey, director of the Kathmandu-based Centre for South Asian Studies, was quoted by the Nepalese media as saying: “A weekly war of words between Indian and Nepali officials and subsequent issuance of clarifications does not bode well for bilateral ties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-after-border-row-india-and-nepal-set-to-hold-high-level-meeting/story-2s1s6Mv7dqHkFggcxPmeRO.html
11-08-2020||India||‘Don’t bask in Modi’s glory...’: Ram Madhav tells BJP leaders in Andhra Pradesh||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav on Tuesday warned his party leaders in Andhra Pradesh not to bask in the glory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but work with a killer instinct to grab power in the state in 2024. “Dont try to go into the battle placing the gun on Modi’s shoulders. If you do it, you will remain in that one per cent (BJP’s vote share in 2019 assembly election).“Modi will be Prime Minister for the next 10-15 years. We will derive benefit out of his good governance and people- oriented programmes but that is not sufficient. Aim is to grow as a potent force,” Madhav said. Madhav addressed an event where MLC Somu Veerraju assumed responsibilities as the new BJP state unit president. He observed that BJP was in politics “not for charity.” As any political party, it aimed to come to power and serve the people and develop the state. The national general secretary said there was a vacuum in the opposition position in AP. “We have to fill that vacuum and work with a killer instinct so that we grab power in 2024,” he exhorted. Madhav chided the party state leadership for seeking the BJP high commands intervention on every issue. “Dont call Delhi (leadership) all the time and seek action.Delhi will do whatever needs to be done but the local party should travel the hard way and fight for the people,” he said. “For long, the BJP had been a junior partner in the state, we developed that mindset.Today we have to grow into a dominant party.For that, we have to change our mindset. We have to come on to the streets and fight in a democratic way,” Madhav, who hails from the state, stressed. Noting that there was “no strong opposition voice” in AP, Madhav said the BJP should build it. “Be it TRS (in neighbouring Telangana) or YSR Congress...they would want no opposition.We are observing the YSRC governments attitude towards opposition parties. We have to confront that as well.This is not a smooth ride,” he remarked. When people in power were abusing it, BJP should be geared up to fight it, he added. He wanted the BJP in the state to be like a constructive opposition, a critical friend. Veerraju took over as the party state president from his predecessor Kanna Lakshminarayana. Former Union Minister Daggubati Purandeswari, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan national vice-president Vishnuvardhan Reddy, BJP state in charge Sunil Deodhar, MLC P V N Madhav and other senior leaders attended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-bask-in-modi-s-glory-ram-madhav-tells-bjp-leaders-in-andhra-pradesh/story-oRd7zDI4XmQ2EpAPUVUGNN.html
11-08-2020||India||Haven’t demanded any post, says Sachin Pilot on his return to Jaipur||A day after sealing a peace deal with the Congress party high command, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said he has not demanded any post from the party.“I have not demanded any post from party but have said that MLAs have raised issues and there should be no vendetta politics against them,” he told reporters at his residence.He said differences can be ideological, on functioning or thoughts but in politics, there is no space for vendetta. “I had and have good relations with all leaders,” he said. “I am happy that the party leadership heard our issue be it related to functioning, development, workers participation, self-respect etc. The AICC has constituted a committee, which in a time-bound manner will address the issues,” said Pilot. On his arrival in Jaipur, he was mobbed by a huge group of supporters who welcomed him by raising slogans in his favour.Earlier in the day Pilot had said that his rebellion was never “anti-party” but merely a means to articulate the happenings in RajasthanOn Monday too he had said that he was not after any post, Pilot had said it was the party that allotted a position and could take it back as well.Pilot had met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi on Monday to end the revolt in the state unit that threatened the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government ahead of an assembly session on August 14. He put his rebellion in cold storage after the party high command on Monday promised to look into the issues he had him against Gehlot.He was sacked as deputy chief minister and removed as Congress chief in Rajasthan last month after his differences with Gehlot came to a head.After Pilot made his peace move on Monday, Gehlot also extended an olive branch on Tuesday saying peace and brotherhood will remain in party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haven-t-demanded-any-post-says-sachin-pilot-on-his-return-to-jaipur/story-wx9QlRAuMVWSgbFlzSiIPL.html
11-08-2020||India||‘Alvida, Rahat Indori sahab’: Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal condole renowned Urdu poet’s death||Renowned Urdu poet Rahat Indori (70) died in a hospital in Indore on Tuesday afternoon, where he was being treated for Covid-19 since Monday, said the hospital administration. He was hospitalised in a private hospital in Indore on feeling uneasiness more than four days back, hospital officials confirmed. The Urdu poet, who belonged to Indore, garnered recognition for giving a different dimension to delivery of Urdu poetry with his unique style and won acclaim for this in India and abroad both. He was shifted to private medical college Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), Indore’s teaching hospital on Sunday where he tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, as per hospital administration. Leaders from political sphere mourned the demise of Indori and paid condolences with messages on Twitter. Also read: Poet Rahat Indori, who had tested positive for Covid-19, passes awaySenior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid condolences by sharing Indori’s work and bid adieu to him by tweeting, “Alvida, Rahat Indori sahab”."अब ना मैं हूँ ना बाक़ी हैं ज़माने मेरे,फिर भी मशहूर हैं शहरों में फ़साने मेरे..."अलविदा, राहत इंदौरी साहब।Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh mourned the demise of Legendary Urdu poet and lyricist Dr Rahat Indori on Tuesday, saying he has left an indelible mark on the hearts of people.Rajnath, in a Hindi translated tweet, said, “I am deeply saddened by the demise of popular Urdu poet Rahat Indoriji. He was an ardent personality of Urdu.”“With his memorable poetry, he has left an indelible mark on the hearts of people. Today the literary world has suffered a great loss. My condolences to his loved ones in this hour of grief,” he added.मक़बूल शायर राहत इंदौरीजी के गुज़र जाने की खबर से मुझे काफ़ी दुख हुआ है। उर्दू अदब की वे क़द्दावर शख़्सियत थे।अपनी यादगार शायरी से उन्होंने एक अमिट छाप लोगों के दिलों पर छोड़ी है।आज साहित्य जगत को बड़ा नुक़सान हुआ है। दुख की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके चाहने वालों के साथ हैं।Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to express grief and said the country lost a great personality. मशहूर शायर राहत इंदौरी साहब के निधन की खबर जानकर बेहद दुख हुआ। आज देश ने एक महान शख़्सियत को खो दिया। ईश्वर उनकी आत्मा को शांति दें और परिवार को इस दुख को सहने की शक्ति दें।Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav also shared a picture with Indori on Twitter to condole his death.  यूँ तो सारी दुनिया के थेबस कहने को इंदौरी थेराहत इंदौरी जी को याद करते हुए...#RahatIndori pic.twitter.com/XhSbGjFbmODelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said Indori’s demise is a loss of country’s fearless voice. अलविदा राहत इंदौरी साहब! ... देश की एक बेबाक़ आवाज़ चली गई.'सभी का ख़ून है शामिल यहां की मिट्टी में,किसी के बाप का हिंदुस्तान थोड़ी है...'उनका जाना हम सबके लिए बेहद दुखद है.Earlier in the day, Indori had taken to Twitter to share the development about his infection with the disease and appealed to people to pray to the God for him so that he is able to defeat the virus. Pulmonologist of SIAMS Dr Ravi Doshi said, “Rahat Indori was suffering from multiple diseases including diabetes and kidney ailment and his lungs were highly infected with Covid-19. He was tested for Covid-19 two days back on a precautionary side and his report came back positive on Monday. He had cardiac problem about 1.30 pm on Tuesday and he was shifted on a ventilator support but he passed away at 4.30 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alvida-rahat-indori-sahab-rahul-gandhi-arvind-kejriwal-condole-renowned-urdu-poet-s-death/story-8F4insOM9ImvWdeAhZtMBM.html
11-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s health has ‘worsened’, still on ventilator, says hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who is admitted to an army hospital in Delhi, has not shown any improvement in his health post the surgery, said the hospital treating him on Tuesday, adding that his condition has “worsened” and he remains “critical” and on life support.“Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical at Army Hospital (R&R) Delhi Cantt. The former President who underwent lifesaving emergency surgery for brain clot on 10 August has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened. He remains on ventilatory support,” said the hospital in a medical bulletin released this evening. In an earlier bulletin in the day, the hospital said the President “remains critical and on ventilator support”. Mukherjee, 84, had announced on Twitter on Monday that he had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease.As news broke about Mukherjee’s coronavirus status, President Ram Nath Kovind wished for his speedy recovery and defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the Army Hospital (R&R) and met the doctors to enquire about former President’s health.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also prayed for speedy recovery of the former President, who also is a veteran Congress leader. Mukherjee, President between 2012 and 2017, had been keeping his public interactions at a minimal level after the coronavirus pandemic swept cross the country. In his Rajaji Marg residence, he stopped all gatherings and only met a handful of people.Last year, Mukherjee was awarded the Bharat Ratna - the country’s highest civilian award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-health-has-worsened-on-ventilator-says-hospital/story-LbeAllKllpzKHC90fW7vLN.html
11-08-2020||India||Regular train services to remain suspended till further notice||Regular railway services including the suburban services will continue to remain suspended till further notice, announced the railways ministry on Tuesday, citing restrictions imposed by the government on the mass transport system in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. As per the government’s last order, suspension of services had been extended up to August 12.The ministry also notified that the 230 special trains, which are running at present between select destinations, will continue to operate along with local trains in Mumbai, which are presently being run on a limited basis to ferry personnel employed with the essential services only on the requisition of state government.The ministry added that the occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis and additional special trains may be run based on the requirement.“However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before lockdown, will remain suspended for the time being,” the official release stated.Also Read: Russian Covid vaccine is safe, says Prez Putin; his daughter gets 2 shotsRegular rail services were suspended well before a nationwide lockdown was imposed by the centre beginning March 25 earlier this year. Later the ministry started operating special trains to ferry migrant workers home under the Shramik Special scheme. It was followed up by limited premium train services between select destinations in the country.Also Read: Maharashtra sees improvement in Covid-19 recovery rate amid no sign of flattening of curveThe last central government notification for Unlock 3- a term coined to indicate phased reopening of the economy after two months of hard lockdown—does not allow resumption of activities that lends to mass gatherings, like railway services, metro services, cinemas, religious, social and political congregations, entertainment parks. Several other activities including tourism remain heavily curtailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regular-train-services-to-remain-suspended-till-further-notice/story-zVjb0gQPRnmFKa7hv0LkLJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Six Congress MLAs resign from Manipur assembly after BJP-led govt wins trust vote||Imphal: Six opposition Congress members of the Manipur legislative assembly (MLAs) have submitted their resignation to the Speaker Y Khemchand Singh, said Okram Henry Singh, one of the lawmakers, who have quit. Md Abdul Nasir, who represented Lilong assembly constituency, Oinam Lukhoi Singh (Wangoi), P Brojen (Wangjing-Tentha), Ngamthang Haokip (Saitu), Ginsuanhau (Singhat) and Okram Henry Singh (Wangkhei) are the Congress legislators to tender their resignation citing their lack of trust in the party’s state leadership. They submitted their resignations on Monday at around 12:55 pm while the assembly was still in the session, said Henry Singh. “Later, we met the Speaker at the assembly,” he said. The resignations were accepted by Speaker Singh on Tuesday. Henry Singh explained the reason behind the move. “Even though I’m born and brought up with the Congress, I’m compelled to resign as an MLA as per the wishes of the people in my constituency.” Henry Singh, who was elected for the first time as a lawmaker on a Congress ticket in 2017, said the six legislators would quit the party soon and submit their resignation to Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief, Moirangthem Okendro. Earlier on Monday night, lawmaker Nasir said they resigned owing to lack of trust in the leadership of the Congress legislature party (CLP). He cited the inability of the CLP to form a state government, despite having 28 MLAs in the 60-member assembly and the party’s debacle in recent Rajya Sabha polls as the primary reasons that prompted them to quit as legislators. MLA Lukhoi said that they resigned to work for the welfare of the public amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. On Monday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government, led by Chief Minister N Biren Singh, sailed through the trust vote in a voice vote in the assembly. In the 53-member assembly, including the Speaker, 28 ruling MLAs, including the Deputy Speaker, were present in the House during the trust vote.While out of 24 Congress MLAs, only 16, headed by opposition leader and former CM O Ibobi Singh, attended Monday’s assembly session. The 60-member Manipur Assembly was reduced to a strength of 53 after four lawmakers were disqualified under the anti-defection law and three BJP MLAs had resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-congress-mlas-resign-from-manipur-assembly-after-bjp-led-govt-wins-trust-vote/story-vNwfesBqcFK8eTaLP65dlO.html
11-08-2020||India||EU announces aid worth 1.65 million euros for flood victims in India, Bangladesh and Nepal||The European Union (EU) said on Tuesday it will provide humanitarian aid funding worth 1.65 million euros to Bangladesh, India and Nepal to cope with the impact of severe floods in South Asia. Of the total funding, 500,000 euros will be used in India to provide food and livelihood assistance, emergency relief supplies, and water and sanitation services to people affected by floods. EU said this year’s monsoon rains had impacted 10.9 million people in India, and amplified their vulnerabilities amid the coronavirus pandemic. The humanitarian aid worth 1.65 million euros is on top of the 1.8 million euros announced earlier this year to support families affected by a series of disasters, including cyclone Amphan, which ravaged India and Bangladesh in May. The latest floods have affected some 17.5 million people in South Asia, destroying homes and wiping out livestock and agricultural lands, and damaging vital infrastructure, EU said. One million euros will be dedicated to addressing urgent humanitarian needs in Bangladesh, where more than two million people are in need of food assistance, water, sanitation, hygiene and emergency shelter. Some 850,000 people have been displaced and the figure is expected to increase as rains continue. In Nepal, 150,000 euros will be used to address the need for water, sanitation, shelter and essential household items following the displacement of thousands of people after heavy rains trigged landslides across the country. “The monsoon rains across South Asia have been particularly devastating this year and this urgent contribution will help our humanitarian partners on the ground in providing crucial support to those who have lost their shelters, belongings and sources of livelihood,” said Taheeni Thammannagoda, who oversees EU humanitarian programmes in Asia and the Pacific. The funding is part of EU’s Acute Large Emergency Response Tool (ALERT). Measures to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus will be incorporated in all the programmes. With the onset of the annual monsoon in June, heavy and sustained rains have caused massive floods and landslides across South Asia, killing hundreds and affecting more than 17.5 million people. Poor access to clean water has increased the risk of the spread of diseases, which is especially worrying amid the Covid-19 crisis, EU said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eu-announces-aid-worth-1-65-million-euros-for-flood-victims-in-india-bangladesh-and-nepal/story-8BcdfwDMJUHZTPX3N4uPTL.html
11-08-2020||India||Air India Express pilot Vasant Sathe cremated with state honours||Captain Deepak Vasanth Sathe was cremated in Mumbai on Tuesday with full state honours with representatives from army, navy, coastguard, Mumbai police and city mayor apart from family members and politicians paying their tributes in person.Sathe had died in the crash of an Indian Express flight with 190 people on board from Dubai which fell into a 35 feet deep valley after overshooting the runway at the tabletop Karipur Airport in Kerala in rainy conditions on Friday. Sathe’s co-pilot Captain Abhishek Kumar, too, died in the incident.Sathe was known as a highly experienced commercial pilot, who had earlier served in the Indian Air Force. He had 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft. He had flown 6,662 of these hours as the commander. Several experts believe that his experience saved the aircraft from catching fire after the crash and resulting in a bigger disaster. 18 people were killed in the crash and several others are undergoing treatment for injuries.Also Read: Maharashtra govt to accord state funeral to Air India pilot Capt Deepak Vasant Sathe Maharashtra government head earlier announced state funeral for Sathe saying his life will inspire young pilots to achieve “Sword of Honour and command over skies”.A resident of Chandivali in Mumbai, Captain Sathe’s last rites were performed at the Tagore Nagar electric crematorium in Vikhroli. Several people lined up the road as the funeral procession started from his residence, reported a news agency.Authorities, however, didn’t allow a large gathering at the funeral in view of the restrictions in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.Sathe’s father, Colonel Vasant Sathe (Retd), 87 and mother Neela, 83, were present at the Chandivli residence, where floral tributes were paid to the deceased before the final procession for the crematorium began.Sathe’s mortal remains were flown to Mumbai on Sunday and kept at the Air India facility near Terminal 2 of the Chhatrapati Shivaji international airport for some time before being taken to Bhabha Hospital in Bandra.On Tuesday morning, the body was brought from the hospital to the family home in Chandivali.Residents of the housing complex paid tributes to the pilot. Some were seen saluting him from their balconies.The pilot’s US-based elder son Shantanu also reached Mumbai on Monday for the last rites, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-pilot-vasant-sathe-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/story-pg1e7QFSNxuG6DsJqQD9sK.html
11-08-2020||India||Efforts on to prevent second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government is striving to see there is no second wave of Covid-19 in the state, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday during a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Thackeray also said hospitals will be set up in all districts of the state to control the epidemic, according to an official statement.The chief minister said Maharashtra did not hide a single Covid-19 case and death due to the disease and shared information with transparency.Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing to review measures taken to tackle Covid-19.During the meeting, the prime minister talked about the need to bring Covid-19 mortality rate down to less than one per cent, the statement said.“Mortality rate in the state is being reduced and praise is being heaped for controlling the situation in Dharavi and Worli in Mumbai.“But the battle is still not over. Efforts are on to see there is no second wave of Covid-19 in the state,” the statement quoted Thackeray as saying. The chief minister said it has been observed that after recovering from COVID-19, patients contracted some other diseases, and called for setting up a mechanism to treat such individuals.He also expressed the need to conduct research into how and why different types of virus originate.Thackeray also reiterated the demand for not holding the final year examinations for students of non-professional courses to ensure their lives are not risked in view of the current situation.He made a strong pitch for declaring students as passed by giving them aggregate marks, and called for taking a decision on it at the national-level.A decision needs to be taken in the case of final year medical education students also, he added.Thackeray also said there are 3.5 lakh beds equipped with ventilators and other facilities in the state.With no Covid-19 vaccine available so far, use of masks and observing social distancing are the only ways to tackle the disease, he added.During the meeting, Modi said 80 per cent of the Covid-19 cases in the country are from these 10 states.He said the country will emerge victorious in its fight against the pandemic if the novel coronavirus is defeated in these states, the statement said.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman and Harsh Vardhan took part in the meeting.Maharashtra Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope also participated in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-on-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray/story-oJjusiBX3Yx6M5jWsOTq1N.html
11-08-2020||India||Swollen by rain, Uttarakhand rivers flow near danger mark, Badrinath highway closed||Incessant rain since Saturday night has led to many rivers in Uttarakhand flowing near the danger mark while landslides and cave ins have been reported across the state on Tuesday, officials said. The Ganga river was flowing near the danger mark in Haridwar and Rishikesh, while the Alaknanda was flowing near the danger mark in Srinagar. The Karnprayag-Badrinath national highway was blocked at many places including Maithana, Bajpur, Nirmal Palace, Chhinka, Kshetrapal, Bhanerpani, Pagalnala, Lambagad, as heavy rain triggered landslides.In Chamoli district, 32 rural motor roads were blocked till Tuesday afternoon as debris fell and the work was underway to reopen the routes.In Bairangna area of Chamoli district, a wall of the fisheries department caved in due to overnight rain leading to the death of about one quintal of fish.Three cowsheds in Sirokhoma village of Chamoli district were damaged while electricity and drinking water supply were disrupted at many places in the district. Police kiosks near the Chamoli bus station, warehouse and electrical pole of a shop were also damaged in a minor landslide on Tuesday. After continuous rain on Monday, a 50-metre stretch of the Dehradun-Mussoorie highway caved in, blocking the movement of vehicles. However, small vehicles were allowed to move on Tuesday. Work was underway to open the vital road at the earliest.Meanwhile chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met a delegation from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Tuesday. The delegation included NMDA member Rajendra Singh, joint secretary Ramesh Kumar and joint advisor Naval Prakash. Discussing issues of natural disasters in the Himalayan state, Rawat said that in mountainous regions like Uttarakhand, natural disasters like forest fire and landslides cause more damage. “Providing relief to remote areas is a major challenge. For this, training is being done by the state government for the relief and rescue work in the event of a disaster. This includes training like providing first aid to the injured. I request the delegation to include training such as Trauma Training (first aid) in the ‘Disaster Mitra’ training program run by NDMA,” said Rawat. He further said that most plans and guidelines made for disaster management have been made according to the plain areas. “But the nature and impact of natural calamities in the mountainous regions is different from that of the plains, so while making guidelines, plans should be included as per the mountainous regions. Most of the houses in the mountainous areas are made of mud,” he said.“According to the current guidelines, such houses are called kachcha houses, due to which the disaster affected people get very little financial help. Such houses should be classified as pucca houses in mountainous areas,” said the chief minister. Singh said that shelters are being made in various states by the NDMA along with preparing ‘Disaster Mitras’ across the country. In Uttarakhand, training is being given to people from Haridwar and US Nagar districts as part of the ‘Disaster Mitra’ initiative. “If the state government provides land, then in each district of Uttarakhand, shelters can be made to accommodate 3,000-5,000 people affected by a disaster,” said Singh. The chief minister said that such shelters will prove to be very helpful in providing relief to the disaster affected and for this, all possible assistance will be provided by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swollen-by-rain-uttarakhand-rivers-flow-near-danger-mark-badrinath-highway-closed/story-yWJPUY1wq63mlsTQNjqJrJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Poet Rahat Indori, who had tested positive for Covid-19, passes away||Noted Urdu poet Rahat Indori, who had tested positive for coronavirus, passed away at an Indore hospital on Tuesday after suffering two heart attacks, said doctors treating him. He was 70. “He suffered two heart attacks today and could not be saved. He was admitted to hospital on Sunday, after testing positive for Covid-19. He had 60% pneumonia,” said Dr Vinod Bhandari of Sri Aurobindo Hospital.Indori’s Twitter bio describes him as “Indian Poet, Painter, Bollywood Lyricist”. Before he checked himself into the hospital for treatment, the poet had tweeted about being coronavirus positive, asking people to pray for his quick recovery. He further asked people to not call up either him or his home to enquire about his health. He had said they will be getting updates through Twitter.With a 50-year career in poetry, Indori, an Urdu scholar of great repute, was one of the biggest mushaira (poetry symposiums) stars in the country and someone who fearlessly called a spade a spade.Among the poet’s most powerful lines are “Sabhi ka khoon hai shamil yahan ki mitti mein; Kisi ke baap ka Hindustan thodi hai (Everybody’s blood mingles in the soil; Hindustan does not belong solely to one)”. The lines were used on posters and banners during the anti-CAA protests, pushing him to almost cult status.Earlier this year, his poem “Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi” went viral on social media, making him a sensation among the youth. Memes using the poem’s opening lines flooded social media during Valentine’s Day.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi mourned the passing of “Indori Sahab” with a couplet.  "अब ना मैं हूँ ना बाक़ी हैं ज़माने मेरे,फिर भी मशहूर हैं शहरों में फ़साने मेरे..."अलविदा, राहत इंदौरी साहब।Historian and author Rana Safvi termed the poet’s death a “huge huge loss to a fearless voice and to the world of poetry”. In fellow poet Gulzar’s view, Indori was the soul of a mushaira. “Mushaira loot ke le gaye is a saying in Urdu. Toh Rahat saab mushairon ke lootere the (he stole the thunder at symposiums),” Gulzar told PTI. Lyricist-writer Javed Akhtar called Indori’s death “an irreparable loss” to contemporary Urdu poetry and society at large.“Like Habib Jalib, he was from the fast disappearing tribe of poets who are never short of courage to call a spade a spade,” Akhtar said.Lyricist Varun Grover called him a “rockstar of the Indian literary world” and prince of the “mushaira” tradition.Indori wrote the lyrics of several songs, including “Chori Chori Jab Nazrein Mili” from Kareeb, “Koi jaye to le aye” from Ghatak , and “Neend Churai Meri” from Ishq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renowned-urdu-poet-rahat-indori-who-had-tested-positive-for-covid-19-passes-away/story-ykqcg0sbbcoQqkD8wlOPcM.html
11-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot on big Priyanka Gandhi role in Rajasthan truce deal||Underlining that his rebellion was never “anti-party” but merely a means to articulate the happenings in the state, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said he has no animosity or ill will against state chief minister Ashok Gehlot. On being asked how he would respond to the “nikamma” jibe by the CM, the young leader merely laughed it off at first. Then added that he was “deeply hurt by some of the language used against me”. Asked how would he greet the CM given the bitterness when he meets him on 14th, Pilot said he has nothing but kind words to offer. In a wide-ranging interview with HT’s Sunetra Choudhury, a day after a peace deal was struck with the party high command that promised to look into all his grievances, Sachin Pilot revealed the role played by party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview:Q. What have the last 30 days been like for you?About 3-4 weeks ago, I was served a notice under sedition charges. As deputy chief minister and party president, I felt it was unwarranted. A lot of us were deeply hurt by that and a few of our colleagues wanted to come to Delhi to tell the party organisation not just about the one issue, but also about many things we had been contemplating for long. Once that started, a lot of other developments happened, but I think ultimately the objective of the exercise we did was to bring the grassroots feedback to the leadership. We were well within our rights to raise the issue within the party forum and from day one we said that we were raising the issue as Congressmen, as legislators. I don’t think anything we did was at all anti-party.Q. You say it wasn’t anti-party but a lot of Congress leaders who were supporting you later said that you could have done it without going incommunicado with 18MLAs.The minute we came to Delhi to air our views, the next day itself a lot of acrimonious action started in Jaipur, a lot of FIRs, police cases. A lot of our colleagues felt they would be at the end of a lot of coercive action by the police and the administration. I want to place on record that we were here in Delhi, wanting to place our views and wanting to be heard. I think the reactions that came out from Jaipur and the actions that followed, it didn’t give any confidence to the legislators that we are moving in the right direction. As far as the opposition party is concerned, trying to take advantage of what is going on, they have done some politics. We had made ourselves very clear from the beginning that there was no question of leaving the party or joining any other party. I know there was a lot of speculation and stories. I came here as deputy CM and the party thought it right to remove me from this position, which is fine. Because the CM can choose his cabinet. But I wasn’t even critical of the government, but the working style, the functioning, the governance style of the chief minister - which needed altering as we have elections three years later.Q. Let’s go back to the sequence of events on July 10. You came to alert the party and the events overtook what happened. Couldn’t you have spoken to the Gandhis then like you did yesterday?There are people in different hierarchies responsible for the communication within the party leadership in Delhi and Rajasthan. Those channels didn’t work out very well as we all know in hindsight. Because the actions were being taken very quickly in Jaipur, between the notices and court cases and suspensions, it just came to pass that we had to do what we had to do. Because if we didn’t fight and stand up for what we believed in, we wouldn’t be here today. I think at the right time everyone decided to talk and I’m very happy that the Congress president has now assured all of us that a time-bound roadmap is being evolved to redress all the issues that were raised.Q. So when you were incommunicado, what was the objective in your head?First of all, all of us were here in Delhi and were never incommunicado, we were talking to people, we were moving around. I met a lot of colleagues and it was not as if anyone was bound anywhere. But yes, some of my colleagues felt apprehensive of the police. That’s why all this lockjam came about. The kinds of things that were said while we were here making our grievances heard, it wasn’t charitable, to say the least.Q. When your former boss was saying that you are nothing but a good looking face, that your qualifications were just that you spoke English and otherwise you were “nikamma”, “nakkara”, at that time did you think of an option? That maybe you need to look at another party?No, no, not for a moment. But I have to admit when I heard some of the language used against me, it did deeply hurt me. I felt I was wronged and aggrieved and then to hear the things that I heard. To say the least, it wasn’t charitable. And was unparliamentary, of course. But two wrongs don’t make a right, I’m not going to retort in the same tone and tenor. It’s unbecoming of people in public life to take the level of discourse to a point where people think it’s unbecoming. I chose not to respond. There’s no place for name-calling, it has to be issue based. Even the harshest critic wouldn’t have used some of the language that was used. I swallowed that bitter pill and it was the best thing to do at the time.Q. But they say that they have evidence that the BJP was in touch with you. What would you say about that?I have heard this for a long time but it’s very easy to make allegations. Our actions, our words are commitment are unwavering but it suits some people’s objectives to plant stories, to see a narrative where none exists.Q. But throughout this time the Congress said that their door was open so what made you talk to them on Monday and not before?How is it possible? I know that everyone was saying but actions were totally opposite. That doesn’t seem to be in harmony. A lot of our colleagues who were ministers were now police suspects. Those actions were also a major aspect of what went on in the past few weeks.Q. Would you care to share the role Priyanka Gandhi Vadra played in the entire episode, she was in touch with you throughout?She did come last night when all the MLAs were there and she had a long detailed discussion with every single one of them. We appreciated her taking time out and as a general secretary of the party, she’s played a role. I met Rahulji and Priyanka Gandhi yesterday in Mr Gandhi’s house and as then party president, it was Rahul Gandhi who said to me that I should work as deputy CM as we left the choice of CM to the party president. He chose Mr Gehlot as chief minister and he did lean on me to become as deputy and continue as party president. But in the last 18 months what has transpired, it was important to say those things. I had to share, because it was important for the party to know. Sadly, it went on for too long.Q. Can you elaborate what went on?I don’t think I should in the media. Whatever I had to say, I told the party leadership and they’ve formed a committee. That committee will take a decision in a time-bound fashion on our grievances - broadly governance, leadership issues, participation, space to workers and MLAs.Q. The CM said in the 18 months since the Rajasthan government was formed, he’s never spoken with you. Is that true?I didn’t say that, the CM has said that. But it gives you an insight of what was happening there. When I was party president for five years, I didn’t seem to have those disqualifications and negativities attached to me. Just in the 18 months, they have come to the fore. Bringing a party back to power when we were 21 MLAs and elections were lost when Ashokji was CM. At that time, Rahul Gandhiji asked me to be deputy CM and he showed faith in me. Even though I was younger than the other leaders, it was my responsibility to take everyone along. There were differences even then but as head of the family, I left no stone unturned to carry everyone under one umbrella. I think the same course for the head of the government. If someone has a grievance, you have to resolve that. You can’t sort of do the things that have happened in the recent past. When he says we haven’t spoken, it sums it up for you but I have never shown any disrespect to CM Ashok Gehlot. He is much older than I am in age and I have regards for him as a person. But I am well within my rights to point out things in terms of governance.Q. But for those who say it was CM Gehlot who held the numbers and Sachin Pilot couldn’t get the numbers together?It was never a competition about who’s got more. Whoever the party makes CM, will have the majority. The number of MLAs and leaders who had things to say were depending on me to be their voice. I did that. Ashok Gehlot was made CM by the party and I accepted that decision when I became deputy CM. But the events of that 18 months carry some meaning and that’s what I wanted to convey.Q. Was it too much of a price that you paid? Thirty days later, you are no longer the deputy CM or PCC chief? Do you regret it?If you are taking a position just to have a house and a car, I don’t think it’s worth anyone’s time as a political person. You are there to do a job, to do governance, to deliver development, and if you don’t have the space and the resources and the authority to do that, then mere positions don’t matter. I have said that whatever the party wants me to do, I am happy to do it, I have done it for more than 20 years and leadership can decide what my role can or cannot be.Q. What will you tell the CM when you meet him on the 14th?I have nothing but kind words to offer to him and warmth at a personal level. Professionally, our objectives should remain the same which is to deliver to the expectations of the people of Rajasthan. I have no animosity, no ill-will, no negative sentiment towards him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-on-big-priyanka-gandhi-role-in-rajasthan-truce-deal/story-dK1AUDsRgsPsX4rbeEL69M.html
11-08-2020||India||‘No formal inquiry into Galwan Valley clash’: Government denies report||The government of India has rejected reports that the Indian Army had conducted a formal inquiry into the June 15 clashes with Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley and a report following the probe had been submitted. A denial issued by the government’s press information bureau on Tuesday afternoon categorically stated that “no no such inquiry has been conducted or ordered by the Indian Army”.20 Indian soldiers had died along with an unknown number of casualties in the People’s Liberation of Army (PLA) when Indian soldiers’ objections to Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the disputed Line of Actual Control resulted in an attack by their Chinese counterparts in the eastern Ladakh sector. Earlier today, there were reports that “a formal Court of Inquiry (CoI) had been conducted by senior officers headed by 15 Corp Commander, Lt. Gen BS Raju, “into the standoff at Galwan, orders that preceded the incident and as well as actions taken by troops after they came under attack by the PLA while verifying the disengagement process”. Claim: Economic Times says the #Army has conducted a formal inquiry into the Galwan valley clash on June 15 and a report has been submitted#PIBFactCheck: no such inquiry has been conducted or ordered by #IndianArmy@adgpi pic.twitter.com/9cpUGVNOZ8The report further claimed that further action is now awaited after the submission of the report. It also quoted sources to say that the inquiry was “necessary” to evaluate if standing operating orders need to be “modified” to prevent a repeat of the incident.Also Read: Maintaining peace with India a diplomatic priority, says China amid Ladakh border tensionFollowing the clash, which involved use of rudimentary weapons such as wired clubs and stones due to an existing agreement between the two countries banning the use of firearms by patrolling troops, it was reported that the government had given the armed forces complete operational freedom to defend the country’s territorial integrity.Since the bloody conflict on June 15, India and China have engaged in several rounds of diplomatic and military talks for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from the confrontation areas, however, China continues to drag its feet in vacating some strategic areas India considers part of its own territory. Considering China’s reluctance, top Indian military brass has told a Parliamentary panel that the forces were ready for a long haul with deployment in forward areas of the LAC during harsh winter months to not counter Chinese aggression.Also Read: Ban on China imports: Possible spike in dumping a concernChief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat led armed forces leadership has said that the de-escalation between the two sides may take a longer time but the Indian side was ready for any eventuality and have made arrangements for it in the Ladakh sector, officials have said.The Chinese have brought in more than 40,000 troops and have been maintaining that strength since April-May timeframe.India is also well-prepared and has asked China to disengage from friction points and Depsang Plains and has built up heavily to counter any further Chinese misadventure there.The officials said that the Indian Army has moved in around two additional divisions in the Ladakh sector where already two formations are deployed for guarding against both Pakistan and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-formal-inquiry-into-galwan-valley-clash-government-denies-newspaper-report/story-n5WyGfSoIwLjDPn64oiFkP.html
11-08-2020||India||Indian-origin man jailed in Singapore for molesting woman jogger||A 60-year-old Indian-origin man in Singapore was jailed for four years and three months on Tuesday for molesting a woman jogger, according to a media report. Delivery driver Kannan Sukumaran was watching a pornographic video inside the van at about 7.30 pm on May 12 this year when he spotted the victim -- a 36-year-old woman -- jogging alone along the pavement. “The accused was further aroused by the sight of the victim, and he decided to approach her,” Deputy Public Prosecutor Kor Zhen Hong was quoted as saying by Channel News Asia. He groped the woman and tried to push her towards nearby bushes beside the pavement, but the woman resisted. In the course of the struggle, Sukumaran punched the woman once on her chest. She fell and cut her left elbow. She tried to kick Sukumaran away and began shouting for help, court documents said. Another jogger, a 39-year-old woman, heard the victim’s shouts for help and approached her. When Sukumaran saw that passers-by were responding to the victim, he ran to his van and drove off. A second jogger noted the van’s registration number and called the police. Paramedics attended to the victim but she did not want to be taken to the hospital. Sukumaran was later arrested at his home. On one charge of aggravated outrage of modesty, Sukumaran was sentenced to four years and three months’ jail, the channel reported. The prosecutor asked for four-and-a-half years’ jail. The prosecutor asked for jail time in lieu of caning, noting that Kannan would have known before committing the offence that he would be exempted from caning due to his age. For aggravated outrage of modesty, he could have been jailed between two years and 10 years. He was not caned as he is above 50 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-man-jailed-in-singapore-for-molesting-woman-jogger/story-c3MbushrP7guvGvW5y0JGJ.html
11-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rhea alleges ‘state interference, bias’ among reasons to transfer Sushant case to Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rhea alleges ‘state interference, bias’ among reasons to transfer Sushant case to MumbaiSushant Singh Rajput’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty told Supreme Court on Tuesday that there appears to be considerable amount of state interference, influence and therefore an apprehension of bias in the probe conducted by Bihar Police and added that the FIR lodged against her in Sushant’s death case in the state has no connection with any offence in Patna. Read more.Rajasthan truce sealed, Ashok Gehlot talks ‘peace, brotherhood’ in partyPeace and brotherhood will remain in party, underscored Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday, a day after Sachin Pilot sealed a truce deal with the party high command that also promised to look into the issues raised by him against the state CM. Read more.Ricky Ponting recalls time when he thought he almost lost his sonThe cricketing world has seen former Australian captain Ricky Ponting as a tough customer. A leader who wasn’t shy in being in the face of his opponents. A batsman who was ruthless in his attack and a cricketer who wanted to win at all costs. Read more.Jabra Elite Active 75t review: You get what you pay for and moreI’ve been listening to Pink Floyd’s Wish You Were Here since I was a child, but I was today years old when I heard David Gilmour clearing his throat just before the lyrics started. At 43 seconds into the song, while I was waiting for the lyrics to kick in, the opening chords had already started, I was startled by a sound I had never heard before — in all these years. Read more.Triumph Street Triple R launched in India and it’s cheaper than you thinkTriumph Motorcycles on Tuesday has launched the new Street Triple R in the Indian market at a highly aggressive price tag of ₹8.84 lakh (ex-showroom, pan India). With the introduction of the new Street Triple R, the middleweight naked segment is now an even more competitive space. Read more.Watch | Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Six mysteries that CBI needs to solveNew twists and turns continue to emerge in the Sushant Singh Rajput case with every passing day. Even as a political war continues between Bihar and Maharashtra, now the Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe. Watch video.Krishna Janmashtami 2020: History and significance of Dahi HandiKrishna Janmashtami marks the auspicious day when Lord Krishna, an avatar of the Lord Vishnu, was born to Devaki and Vasudev to rid the people of Mathura from the tyranny of King Kansa. It is one of the most important festivals in the Hindu religion. This year the celebration for Janmashtami is taking place on August 11, followed by the celebration of Dahi Handi on August 12. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rhea-alleges-state-interference-bias-among-reasons-to-transfer-sushant-case-to-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news/story-S0FptL6hWqPrQ81g3TT4UI.html
11-08-2020||India||Telangana, Andhra CMs urge PM Modi to help states boost medical infrastructure for pandemics||The Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday appealed to the Centre to take measures for strengthening of medical infrastructure to tackle pandemics like Covid-19 and provide cost-effective treatment to the people. Expressing his views during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with various chief ministers, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the Covid-19 experience had taught the country a lesson about the urgent need to step up the medical facilities for a better future with a visionary approach. “Strategic planning should be done to create comprehensive medical facilities in the country with a joint strategy by both the state and central governments. A comprehensive study has to be made in consultation with institutions like Indian Medical Association on what an ideal doctor-people ratio was and how many medical colleges the country required,” Rao said. Stating that the country had never experienced any Corona-like situation in the past, the Telangana chief minister said there was uncertainty as to how long this pandemic would last. “While dealing with the present situation, we should focus on how we are going to deal with such a situation in the future. There is every possibility that a Corona like virus may come up again in future. Hence, we have to take measures now to face any eventuality in the future,” he said. Explaining the measures taken by the state government, the chief minister said, “We have taken all the measures to contain Coronavirus. The recovery rate in the State is 71% while the death rate is 0.7%. We have increased the number of tests many folds. We have kept ready an adequate number of beds, medicines, staff and other equipment,” KCR said. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, too, urged the Centre to extend cooperation to the states to enhance the medical infrastructure to treat epidemics like Covid-19. “Andhra Pradesh is a newly formed state. We don’t have tier-1 cities like Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai and so, there is no largescale medical infrastructure like in our neighbouring states. That is why we need massive assistance from the Centre to improve our medical facilities to a considerable extent,” Jagan said. He reminded that Andhra Pradesh had begun with zero virology testing facility for Covid-19 in March and had now established testing labs in all the 13 districts. “There are 37,189 beds, including 11,000 oxygen-equipped, available in 138 public and private hospitals to treat the Covid-19 persons. Apart from these, there are 109 Covid care centres with a capacity to accommodate 56,000 people,” he said. Jagan claimed that Andhra Pradesh had been conducting 47,459 Covid-19 tears for every 10 lakhs population. The death rate in the state was only 0.89. More than 25 lakh tests were conducted in the 140 days since the first Coronavirus case was reported in the state on March 22. The state is reporting between 9,000 and 10,000 positive cases every day because of the large number of tests conducted, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-cms-urge-pm-modi-to-help-states-boost-medical-infrastructure-for-pandemics/story-U5M0izuSMWGOo6i8RTABlJ.html
11-08-2020||India||‘If these 10 states beat Covid, India can win’: PM Modi to chief ministers||India’s victory against the Covid-19 pandemic now depends on the performance of 10 states that account for 80% of active cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a group of chief ministers during a virtual meeting on Tuesday. With more than 22.68 lakh crore cases in India till Monday, Modi gave the examples of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to underline how the situation can be improved. He emphasised the need for greater cooperation between states and the Centre for more effective Covid-19 management. He also said the government’s efforts are showing results. Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Yogi Adityanath (UP), Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Tamil Nadu’s EK Palaniswami, K Chandrasekhar Rao of Telangana, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Amarinder Singh of Punjab and Gujarat’s Vijay Rupani were the chief ministers who attended the meeting. Defence minister Rajnath Singh too joined the meeting. “In some districts of Delhi, Haryana and UP, Covid-19 had posed a major problem at some stage. Then we had a review meeting and an expert committee chaired by home minister Amit Shah was constituted. As a result, we were able to achieve almost everything that we wanted to,” Modi told the chief ministers. In Delhi, Shah’s panel stepped up testing and sero-surveillance, redefined containment zones, and took several other measures to improve the situation. While Modi underlined that containment, contact tracing and surveillance hold the key in the battle against the Coronavirus, he said that once infected persons are detected, there is an urgent need to diagnose people who may have been infected by them within the next 72 hours. Modi hailed the effort of states and maintained that they can play an important role in the country’s battle against Covid-19. He pointed out that the average fatality rate, or death rate for Covid-19 patients is continuously going down while the rate of recovery is increasing with each passing day, adding that the government’s efforts are showing results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-these-10-states-beat-covid-india-can-win-pm-tells-chief-ministers/story-j7cIEh88ItI5bZDhlyOYEJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Environment ministry says 17 lakh comments on draft EIA notification||New Delhi: The union environment ministry has received nearly 17 lakh objections, comments and suggestions to the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2020 till Tuesday, including some repetitive emails. Tuesday was the last date for submitting objections and suggestions to the contentious draft regulation, according to a Delhi high court order. The ministry’s EIA division has been tasked with studying the issues raised by people in their submissions and coming out with a final notification. The notification is also being considered in the Delhi high court. “It will take us some time to consider the issues raised by these comments and suggestions. Letters have gone to the minister (Prakash Javadekar), many have come to me and to other officials. Many of them are repetitive,” said environment secretary RP Gupta. The environment ministry has also held meetings and discussions with several EIA consultants, industry bodies and companies, whose comments are being considered separately.A total of 100 environmental groups, organisations and individuals, who are part of a national campaign to oppose the draft EIA notification, have over the last week addressed emails to 785 Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from 28 states and eight union territories, they said in a statement on Tuesday.“We are calling upon them to take a stand against the anti-environment and anti-people draft EIA notification 2020 and demand its immediate withdrawal. As elected political representatives, these ministers are duty bound to protect the interests of the people and the nation and its resources, which this draft legislation is bound to adversely impact. We have called upon the ministers to write to the Ministry of Environment Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC) to demand withdrawal of the draft EIA notification 2020 and demand instead that strong environmental governance be put in place in consultation with the people, for protecting the ecology and natural resources of our country for present and future generations,” they said.“On March 18, the environment ministry made an amendment to Clause 5 (3) d of the environment protection rules, which gives the ministry 725 days to finalise the draft notification from the date it was first issued. In 2006, this was 365 days and was amended to 545 in 2017. Given the number of reactions the ministry has received and the demand for a more democratic process, it will be important for the ministry to reconsider the issuance of a final notification based on this draft. The comments can be used to set up a revised process which can be built on the comments received and to reach out to places where the news of the current amendments are yet to reach,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research. The draft has become an issue of political debate. On Sunday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the draft EIA notification is “not only disgraceful, it is dangerous.” The hashtags #IndiaNotForSale and #LootoftheNation were trending on Twitter, with people drawing attention to concerns with the draft notification and demanding its withdrawal. “Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect our environment, it could potentially unleash widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India,” Gandhi wrote in a lengthy post on a social media platform.“Campaigning against a draft which is not a final notification yet is unnecessary and premature,” Union environment minister Javadekar told journalists in an audio message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-says-17-lakh-comments-on-draft-eia-notification/story-hIZhPzTM185fplOCeAAjGI.html
11-08-2020||India||Kozhikode plane crash: Air India Express says 74 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||Air India Express on Tuesday said 74 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospital after “obtaining complete fitness”. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured in the B737 plane crash. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. The injured passengers of IX-1344 flight are being treated at various hospitals of Kozhikode, the airline said in a statement. “As on date, 74 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness,” it added. Air India Express, a wholly owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline said on Sunday that the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-plane-crash-air-india-express-says-74-injured-passengers-discharged-from-hospitals/story-obYu3jE4LOG7uFKv808smN.html
11-08-2020||India||Trader’s son killed during violent robbery in Bihar’s Nawada||A teenager was killed and his father, a prominent trader, was seriously injured during an armed robbery in their house in which robbers looted cash and goods worth Rs 10 lakh including ornaments, mobile phones and a laptop in Bihar’s Nawada town on Monday night, police said Tuesday. Satyanand Prasad was sleeping on the ground floor when more than half a dozen masked robbers entered his house at Dobhra-Par locality in Nawada.Police said the robbers tied Satyanand to the cot on which he was sleeping and stuffed a piece of cloth in his mouth. The robbers then hit him with pistol butts and blunt objects on head leaving him bleeding profusely.The miscreants then entered another room and started searching for valuables. The noise woke up Satyanand’s minor son Roshan. The robbers then attacked the boy and slit his throat, killing him on the spot. Roshan was a ninth standard student of a school in Rajgir in Nalanda district. Police said the robbers locked Prasad’s wife and daughter in another room and looted cash and valuables worth Rs 10 lakh before fleeing. Soon after the incident came to light, senior police officers, including Nawada’s superintendent of police Hariprasath S rushed to the spot. Police recovered a sharp edge weapon from the room of Roshan which was allegedly used used in the crime. Police suspect that the robbers gained entry to one of the rooms through a window adjoining the roof by cutting open the grille. Police also suspect that the robbery was pre-planned and was committed by professional dacoits, who might have killed the teenager after he resisted their bid to loot or identified the gang members. “Satyanand has been shifted to PMCH for better treatment. FSL and dog squad were pressed into service while CCTVs are being scanned by the experts,” Hariprasath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trader-s-son-killed-during-violent-robbery-in-bihar-s-nawada/story-87BBfSqQSTcUoEyGiOf0gO.html
11-08-2020||India||Three Independent MLAs make peace with Ashok Gehlot government||The three Independent lawmakers with whom the ruling Congress had temporarily snapped its ties following allegations of horse-trading on Tuesday met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday. The Independent legislators, Om Prakash Hudla, Khushveer Singh and Suresh Tak, were missing in action amid the bitter internal power tussle between sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who enjoyed the backing 18 Congress lawmakers, and the Gehlot government. Their absence had also fuelled speculations about their alleged role in horse-trading to topple the Congress government. “We are and will remain with Gehlot. There was a misunderstanding, which has been sorted,” said Tak after meeting with CM Gehlot. He explained the reason behind playing truant. “I was in Delhi and was waiting for the truth to emerge. We were nowhere involved in the alleged horse-trading,” he said, “We were upset, but not anymore. We had extended support to the Gehlot government during the Rajya Sabha polls without any pre-condition. Horse-trading is a cock-and-bull story, as we were away. We were hurt that the CM didn’t trust us. Besides, a case was lodged against us,” said Tak, who represents the Kishangarh seat in the Rajasthan Assembly. Khushveer Singh, a member of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLA) from Marwar Junction (Pali) constituency, too, reposed his faith in Gehlot. “It is a coincidence that I had met CM Gehlot and left for Gujarat to undergo treatment. My doctor had twice suspected that I could be suffering from cancer. I was unwell, which was known to the people in my constituency,” he said. He claimed that he is innocent and has not been “in contact with anyone”. “The law will take its own course, as the case was filed by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police and the Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB). I have full faith in the law. If I am guilty, then I must be punished. Besides, I have always supported CM Gehlot,” he added. Om Prakash Hudla, an MLA from Mahua constituency, too, echoed the other two Independent lawmakers. “A case was lodged against us, which the state government has since withdrawn. This led to tension. We are happy that the government has withdrawn the case. All misunderstandings were cleared today. We are keen to develop our constituencies and we discussed those issues with the CM,” Hudla said. The meeting was held ahead of the upcoming assembly session, which is slated to start from Friday (August 14).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-three-independent-mlas-make-peace-with-gehlot-government/story-791LmbNAKNOQt10NZgV0bN.html
11-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh govt to release 244 prisoners on August 15: Home minister||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to release 244 prisoners from various jails in the state on the Independence Day, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday.The government releases prisoners every year by taking into account their good conduct and on other parameters on August 15, an official said.“244 prisoners will be released from various jails,” Mishra told reporters.Meanwhile, against the backdrop of assault on two Sikhs by police personnel in Barwani district, the home minister said the state government was committed to protect the honour of all citizens.A delegation of the Sikh community already thanked chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for taking a prompt action (by suspending two police personnel) into the matter, he said.A video of the attack had gone viral.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had condemned the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-release-244-prisoners-on-august-15-home-minister/story-ewXXrnOKNiRDSOcsYOCFTJ.html
11-08-2020||India||‘BSNL employees traitors’: BJP’s Anantkumar Hegde sets up a new row||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Uttara Kannada Anantkumar Hegde, no stranger to controversies, has stirred up another one by calling BSNL employees ‘traitors’ and ‘anti-nationals’ who would be fired as they refused to work.In a video of an event in Kumta in his parliamentary constituency on Monday that has been widely shared, the MP was seen saying that the state-owned Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited was a blot on the country as even after being provided money, infrastructure and a ready market, the telco’s employees just refuse to work.“The only cure for that is privatisation which our government will do. Some 85,000 will be fired and later on more need to be fired,’ he was seen saying in the video.The opposition Congress criticised Hegde’s remarks, saying the comments only showed his own worth. The party also said that the Centre was out to privatise everything and this indicated its inability to govern.Hegde has been known to make controversial statements in the past as well.Earlier this year, he said that the freedom movement led by Mahatma Gandhi was a “drama”, drawing severe criticism from the opposition parties including the Congress which even asked Prime Minister Modi to make his stand clear on Hegde’s remarks. The former minister,however, later sought to down play the controversy, saying he never made any reference to any political party or Mahatma Gandhi and was just trying to “categorise freedom struggle”.In January 2019, Hegde had called Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao as someone who “went after a Muslim lady”, an indirect reference to Rao’s wife Tabassum. A few days later, he was reported to have described then Congress president Rahul Gandhi a “hybrid specimen” who, the BJP leader claimed, had a father who is a Muslim and a mother who is a Christian. Later the same year, he labelled a former IAS officer as a traitor and asked him to go to Pakistan.In 2018, Hegde had declared that the Constitution would be amended to remove the word ‘secular’ from the preamble, though later he apologised for the comment, saying it had been ‘twisted’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-s-85-000-employees-traitors-should-be-fired-bjp-lawmaker-anantkumar-hegde/story-I9dSizHbrc4x3UY2eUz7fM.html
11-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh tutor arrested for raping 9-year-old girl||Police on Monday arrested a man for allegedly raping a nine-year-old girl in her house in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, where he taught her younger sister.The girl told her parents about the sexual assault, which took place on Sunday, after which they lodged a complaint at the Khamardih police station of the state capital. Ajay Yadav, Raipur’s superintendent of police, said the accused was arrested after a case was lodged by her parents.“The accused, Arshad Rahmani (27), who was a teacher at a madarsa (an educational institution), used to visit the victim’s house to teach Arabic to her younger sister. On Sunday, the accused allegedly sexually assaulted her and fled away,” Mamta Sharma Ali, Khamardih police station house officer, told reporters. “We have registered a case under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and arrested the accused on Monday,” Ali said. They are investigating the case, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-tutor-arrested-for-raping-9-year-old-girl/story-1s4a7t3Ql28L7AuxgN0YOP.html
11-08-2020||India||My ‘innocuous dissent’ was seen as act of ‘treason’: Shah Faesal on quitting politics||Shah Faesal, the first resident of Jammu and Kashmir who topped the civil services exam in 2009, on Tuesday said his decision to join politics last year had done more harm than benefit as his “innocuous act” of dissent was seen as an “act of treason”.A day after announcing that he was quitting politics, the 37-year-old defended his decision saying “we evolve with time” and abrogation of the special status on August 5 last year brought forth a new political reality in Kashmir.Faesal had brought glory to the erstwhile state by standing first in the civil services exam and was seen as a role model for youths. He, however, resigned from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in January last year.“While in detention I thought a lot about it. And I realised that I am not the person who can promise to people that I can undo these decisions,” Faesal, who was released after being kept under preventive detention and later booked under the draconian Public Safety Act (PSA), told PTI from Srinagar.Faesal said he was clear that the 1949 national consensus kept Article 370 in the Constitution and the 2019 consensus abrogated it.“I told myself that I can’t do politics by selling false dreams of undoing these decisions and it’s better to quit and tell the truth to the people,” he said in written replies.The doctor-turned-bureaucrat’s political career ended suddenly with the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM), a party launched by him in February last year, announcing on Monday that he had stepped aside from its leadership and quit politics. The party’s vice-president Feroze Peerzada was nominated as its interim president till formal elections can be held for the post.About his decision of forming a political party, Faesal said he wanted to revive democratic politics in Jammu and Kashmir.“But soon after quitting (IAS), I realised that my innocuous act of dissent was being seen as an act of treason. It had done more harm than the benefit,” he said, adding that his act had discouraged a lot of civil services aspirants and his colleagues felt betrayed by him. “It upset me a lot,” Faesal said.Unsure about what the future has in store for him, Faesal said he always dreamt of a peaceful Jammu and Kashmir where there are best opportunities for education, health and employment.“But I don’t know how that is going to happen now. As of now, I am not sure about my next steps in life,” he said.Faesal had resigned from IAS before joining politics but his resignation has not yet been accepted, pending disposal of a show cause notice given to him by the government in 2018 for his controversial tweets. His name still figures in the list of ‘serving’ IAS officers on the official website of the Department of Personnel.His decision to quit politics has prompted speculation that he may want to go back to government service if permitted.The officials in the Home and Personnel ministry had said Fesal needs to first submit his explanation on the charges levelled against him after which the decision of accepting or rejecting his resignation would be taken. Asked whether he was keen on re-joining the service, Faesal said, “It is a prerogative of the government... I have always said that I want to work within the system. Let’s see what is in store for me... fingers crossed.” Faesal, a 2010 batch officer, was critical of the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5 last year and was arrested from Delhi airport days later while he was boarding a flight to Turkey. He was subsequently taken into preventive detention and later booked under the draconian PSA, from which he was released in June. PTI SKL RDM RDM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-innocuous-dissent-was-seen-as-act-of-treason-shah-faesal-on-quitting-politics/story-grOS6LtQljVf8XGBOWD8vM.html
11-08-2020||India||Cop issuing challans for not wearing masks fined as he himself was without one||A police officer issuing challans to people for not wearing masks here, even as he himself did not have one on, got a taste of his own medicine when the superintendent of police pulled him up for it.The incident took place on Monday when Baundi police station SHO Subhash Chandra Singh was handing out challans to villagers, cyclists and pedestrians and also advising them to wear masks.Some villagers claimed they were fined even though they had their faces covered with ‘angocha’ towels.Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra got to know that the SHO was issuing challans for not wearing masks, while a photograph showed him without one himself. The SHO was, subsequently, fined Rs 500, officials said.“Wearing a face mask protects a person, his family members and the public (from the disease). If our officials do not adhere to these basic points, then what message we are going to give to the society,” Mishra said on Tuesday. “Through this challan, we have tried to send a message to all police officials and personnel in the district that they are not above the public. If we commit any fault, then we should also come within the ambit of the same law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-issuing-challans-for-not-wearing-masks-fined-as-he-himself-was-without-one/story-8foRL7Bh17pVOjr6xipdQO.html
11-08-2020||India||Toll in Idukki landslide rises to 52 as three more bodies recovered||The toll in the landslip in Pettimudi in the high range Idukki district rose to 52 with three more bodies being recovered from the debris as rescue operations continued on Tuesday to trace those missing.The bodies of two men and a woman were recovered, officials said.Personnel of NDRF, Fire, Forest and police departments have expanded their search operations to the downstream of a river in their efforts to trace 19 more people who were still missing in the August 7 tragedy near Rajamala, they said.Search is also being carried out at the site of the disaster to trace those feared trapped in the debris, the officials said.Meanwhile, the water level at Mullaperiyar reservoir in Idukki district reached 136.85 feet on Tuesday.The Idukki district Collector had held discussions with the Collector of Theni in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, with regard to the release of water through the tunnel to Vaigai dam when the water level touched the 136-feet mark.The Kerala government had on Saturday asked the Tamil Nadu government to release water from Mullaperiyar to Vaigai Dam in a phased manner when the water level reached 136 feet in view of heavy rains in Idukki.With a let-up in the rains, water receded in many low-lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts.There was no red alert warning in any of the state’s 14 districts as the intensity of rains had decreased and the affected areas had started limping back to normalcy.A 151-year-old chapel of a CSI Church collapsed in the wee hours Tuesday due to the forceful inflow of the water following the breach of bunds in Pallathuruthy in Alappuzha district.Built in 1869, the chapel was used by some 30 families for conducting their religious rituals, a report from Alappuzha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-in-idukki-landslide-rises-to-52-as-three-more-bodies-recovered/story-OsdBLtq8UvpGFuk0dVdWRI.html
11-08-2020||India||Rhea alleges ‘state interference, bias’ among reasons to transfer Sushant case to Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty told Supreme Court on Tuesday that there appears to be considerable amount of state interference, influence and therefore an apprehension of bias in the probe conducted by Bihar Police and added that the FIR lodged against her in Sushant’s death case in the state has no connection with any offence in Patna.These submissions were made by Rhea’s counsel in the apex court while seeking transfer of the above FIR to Mumbai, where Rajput was found dead in his flat on June 14. On its, part, the Bihar government defended a parallel probe by the state police alleging that Maharashtra police have “not co-operated” with Bihar police in the case, according to PTI.Earlier Rhea’s counsel, senior advocate Shyam Divan had pointed out to the bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy that there was considerable delay of over 38 days in lodging of the FIR at Patna.Watch: Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Six mysteries that CBI needs to solveDivan added that all allegations made by Rajput’s father to police in Patna were related to Mumbai, where Sushant and Rhea lived. He also argued that the Mumbai Police had recorded statements of 56 persons in the case and the probe had made substantial progress while questioning the parallel probe by Bihar police.The FIR registered in Patna accuses Rhea of illegal confinement, embezzlement, abetment to suicide among other charges and the probe in the case has now been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation.Rhea had earlier expressed apprehension that she had been proclaimed guilty in an alleged media trial and denied allegations that she had diverted any money belonging to Sushant, with whom she had a live-in relationship.Also Read: Sooraj Pancholi files police complaint against those linking him to Sushant Singh Rajput, Disha Salian deaths Sushant’s family has however argued that they were forced to request for a probe by Bihar police in the case due to an alleged cover-up by the Mumbai police, which had not registered an FIR even more than a month after the actor’s death. They have now told CBI to add the charge of murder to the FIR registered by the agency after taking over the probe from Patna police. The hearing in the case is going on, on August 5, the top court had said that the truth behind the “unfortunate” death of the “gifted and talented artist” should come out.Bihar and Maharashtra government have also been made party to the case which has become a political flashpoint between the two states that have traded barbs accusing each other.The 34-year-old Bollywood actor was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-alleges-state-interference-bias-among-reasons-to-transfer-sushant-case-to-mumbai/story-HxIHBJISj5V48eVQOcOe2H.html
11-08-2020||India||CRPF jawan accused of rape by minor girl in Tripura, case lodged||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan has been charged with allegedly raping a minor girl and making her pregnant. The incident occurred at a village of Kailasahar in Unakoti district of Tripura.The case was filed late on Sunday evening but the jawan is yet to be arrested. The 35-year-old is posted at CRPF 124th battalion located in Shalbagan, few kilometres from state capital Agartala.According to sources in state police, the 17-year-old claimed in her complaint that the CRPF jawan, also her neighbour, raped her repeatedly for nearly seven months. She became pregnant but the accused denied the fact, she further said.Based on the girl’s complaint, the police registered a case under Section 417, 376 (c) (m) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “After lodging the case, we forwarded a letter to 124 battalion commandant about the incident. We are waiting for their reply till tomorrow. If we don’t get any reply by tomorrow, we will decide about our next course of action,” said Rinki Debbarma, officer in-charge of Kailasahar Women Police Station. The rape survivor is now seven months pregnant, she added. Meanwhile, the CRPF jawan could not be contacted for his reaction. Earlier this month, a 54-year-old man was arrested for raping his minor neighbour in Sepahijala district. Last month, a 17-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in Khowai District and police had held 10 accused people involved in the case.The same month, a 24-year-old was arrested for raping his seven-year-old neighbour in Khowai District.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-accused-of-rape-by-minor-girl-in-tripura-case-lodged/story-oF7DMe2suScBH2bej7NKTP.html
11-08-2020||India||Arrival of leopard cubs gives boost to Nagpur rescue centre’s animal adoption policy||The Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur, Maharashtra, updated its animal adoption policy on Monday after the arrival of four abandoned leopard cubs in July. The adoption of these captive animals will help them live in national parks and reserves because the Maharashtra government will continue to own them. However, all their expenses, including upkeep, will be borne by those who will adopt them for a month or a year. There is an option to renew the adoption clause. However, the adoptive person will not have any say regarding the animal’s diet, medicines, its size of cage, etc. Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivali, had introduced a similar adoption scheme in 2014.So far, 20 animals have been adopted under this scheme at a total cost of Rs 16.6 lakh annually.Some of the high-profile adoptive individuals are Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and his brother Tejas, Union minister Ramdas Athawale, actress Raveena Tandon, and former cricketer Sandeep Patil, among others. A forest department official said a similar initiative would be implemented in other state-run rescue centres in a bid to boost conservation. “Talks are on to implement the scheme at Melghat Tiger Reserve for elephant adoption and at the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar,” the official said. The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) had approved the scheme in 2013, as a viable option to provide financial assistance to rescue centres and zoological parks in the country and create more awareness among the public for the conservation of captive animals. Launched in October 2017 at Gorewada, the scheme had led to a one-year adoption of the only male tiger, Sahebrao, who had lost his paw during a poaching incident and brought to the rescue centre for treatment. Other animals were adopted for a maximum of one month. “There have been no takers for this scheme until recently, when four abandoned leopard cubs were brought to the rescue centre on July 16,” said Nandkishore Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada project. The state forest department’s longest-ever reunion attempt for these cubs with their mother over 16 days failed at Akola, forcing the authorities to relocate them to the Gorewada rescue centre. “We were flooded with calls about their upkeep and whether they would survive. We decided to include them in our adoption scheme with an annual cost for upkeep of Rs 50,000 for each cub,” said Kale. Soon, three of the four cubs, including a male and two females, were adopted on August 4 by two wildlife enthusiasts, Dr. Roshan Bhivapurkar and Ayushi Deshmukh, and also a private firm, AR Construction. “This gave us the impetus to further improvise the scheme,” Kale added. At present, nine tigers are up for adoption at Rs 30,000 per month and Rs 3.5 lakh for an annual package for each animal. The corresponding rate for 23 leopards is Rs 13,000 for a month for each animal and Rs 1.5 lakh annually. A two-month-old male leopard can be adopted for Rs 50,000 a year. While 10 sloth bears, including adults, are at Rs 75,000 per month for each animal and Rs 2 lakh annually. So far at SGNP, 12 leopards have been adopted at a cost of Rs. 1.2 lakh each annually; three rusty-spotted cats at Rs. 50,000 a year each; three spotted deer at Rs10,000 each a year; one Nilgai (blue bull) at Rs. 30,000 a year; and one four-horned antelope (chousingha) at Rs 10,000 a year. At present, the park has five leopards, five tigers (Rs 3.1 lakh per tiger per year), and three lions (Rs 3 lakh per lion per year) up for adoption. “We appeal to wildlife lovers to come forward and adopt the remaining animals for their upkeep,” said Vijay Barabde, superintendent of safaris and range forest officer, SGNP. Experts said that the fund allocation towards the conservation of captive animals was insufficient. “Raising money through such innovative schemes for captive animals is welcome, but at the moment these rescue centres were meeting expenses for only food and a few essential things. Their healthcare is rudimentary at best,” said Kishor Rithe, a member of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) and also a part of the governing council of the Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA). CZA norms stipulate that there should be enough wildlife veterinarians in proportion to the number of animals and adequate space for captive cages. “But these centres cannot afford to recruit an adequate number of wildlife veterinarians and are also struggling to get the required space,” said Rithe. Sceptics said the scheme is a spectacle and has a misplaced notion of conservation. “These schemes have become a status symbol and photo opportunities for those adopting these animals rather than allocating funds for conservation. More focus is needed to spend time and understand requirements for each animal adopted rather than paying and leaving responsibilities with the department, which this scheme lacks,” said Krishna Tiwari, the founder of Forest and Wildlife Conservation Society, which was set up in 2012 in a bid to promote sustainable and equitable development. Terms and conditions to adopt animals at rescue centres in Maharashtra · One animal can be adopted for a year · The amount paid towards adoption will be non-refundable and interested persons or company should pay it through a demand draft· Maharashtra government will own the animal· The adoptive person’s name will be displayed outside the adoptee animal’s cage· The adoptive person will be allowed to visit the animal once a week · The adoptive person will not be allowed to put any conditions regarding the animal’s diet, medicines, size of cages, etc. · The person will be provided with an adoption certificate on completion of the adoption term(Source: SGNP, Borivali & Gorewada rescue centre, Nagpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrival-of-leopard-cubs-gives-boost-to-nagpur-rescue-centre-s-animal-adoption-policy/story-PzBiGWLIhUdu3xH5KgBPTO.html
11-08-2020||India||In Bengal, women fight back online abuse in wake of Sushant Rajput death||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, moved the Supreme Court on Monday over “unfair media trial”, while far away in West Bengal there were strong reactions to thousands of hateful social media posts from various parts of the country against Bengali women in general. The posts started appearing around 10 days ago and many prominent women and citizens in Bengal are countering the trend. They have been joined by women leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“We condemn this. Whether Rhea Chakraborty had anything to do with the death is a subject of probe. How can all Bengali women be treated like this on social media,” Mausam Benazir Noor, TMC Rajya Sabha member and vice-chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Women, told HT. “The Centre must take action to stop these posts,” added Noor, who is also a lawyer. The Bengal unit of the BJP reacted sharply as well.“When it comes to serving mankind people remember the name of Asia’s first woman doctor Kadambini Devi. People pay homage to legendary freedom fighters such as Matangini Hazra. We cannot forget revolutionary Leela Roy, Bengal’s only woman member in the Constituent Assembly. Let us stop this nonsense. Bengalis across genders have always been the best of the souls and minds,” said Agnimitra Paul, president of the state BJP Mahila Morcha (women’s front).Kolkata-based social activist Saswati Ghosh said attempts to shame all Bengali women can also be a sign of jealousy since they have earned laurels in every field. Rupa Chakraborty Khan, a resident of Uttarpara in Bengal’s Hooghly district, has lodged a police complaint against such posts and trolling. “How can people indulge in such senseless generalisation. Bengali women are being called witches and gold diggers on Facebook and Twitter. I could not sit quiet,” she said. One of the viral tweets that people in Bengal have reacted to was posted on July 31 by Barkha Trehan, who describes herself as “Voice of Men” and “Hindu entrepreneur.” “STAY SAFE MEN / BOYS. Bengali girls are dominating, they know how to make guys fall for them. They catch big fish, good looking highly paid guys. If you want to be her servant and financer and are okay to leave your family and join her family then go ahead,” wrote Trehan. Reacting to this, popular actress and TMC Lok Sabha member Nusrat Jahan tweeted, “We “Bengali Girls” also run around – cook n conquer the world. Stop disgracing a community for your Agendas. I’m sure you don’t know your Maach-Masala-Mishti (fish, spices and sweets) well.” The hate tweets triggered reaction from cities across India. Though most people opposed the hatred, Rhea Chakraborty faced ire and public trial. Rishi Bagree, a BJP supporter with 1,84,000 followers, wrote, “It’s wrong to target Bengali Girls for something wrong done by #RheaChakroborty.”“I am from Bengal and supports @itsSSR. Want his case to be thoroughly investigated but targeting every Bengali girl just because Rhea is Bengali is utter madness,” tweeted Shibangi Hazra who is part of the Justice for SSR (Sushant Singh Rajput) movement on social media. On August 7, Prity Kunwar, a Supreme Court lawyer, tweeted, “…Ppl may say whatever but since the last 51 days, I have seen as many Bengali girls in this campaign as any other. A dirty fish has maligned the entire pond. But don’t let some cynics affect you.”Krishna Prakash, whose Twitter identity includes the words “nationalist Hindu,” wrote, “A woman is a woman..either it be Bengali, Bihari or Marathi..And dominating girls doesn’t mean that they are criminals like #RheaChakroborty..Stop your regional dirty politics here..Respect the woman..Every woman is Durga either its Bengali or Marathi.”Shiela Gangopadhyay, whose twitter name comes with the prefix ‘Chowkidar’ made popular in 2019 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wrote, “Bengali girls are Simple, honest, sincere, like any other girl from any corner of the world!.... ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-women-fight-back-online-abuse-in-wake-of-sushant-rajput-death/story-FaT8ilU9iZDtf2dEMP9nRJ.html
11-08-2020||India||PM Modi urges states to ramp up testing, says their role is crucial in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday pointed out the significance of each and every state in controlling the spread of the coronavirus disease in the country as he urged at least six of them to increase the number of tests to diagnose Covid-19.PM Modi held a video conference with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, which have added the bulk of cases to the country’s Covid-19 tally. The number of coronavirus infection crossed the 2.26-million mark, which includes more than 45,000 deaths, on Tuesday.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state in the country with Covid-19 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Apart from these three states, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have reported the highest number of coronavirus disease cases and deaths in the last 24 hours.“Today 80% of the country’s active cases are from these 10 states that is why their role is very important in the fight against Corona. The number of active cases has exceeded 6 lakh and most of them are from these 10 states,” PM Modi said during the review meeting of the coronavirus situation in the regions.“There is a need to increase testing in states where the testing rate is low and where the positivity rate is high. A special emphasis has been given on increasing testing particularly in Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana during reviews,” he said in the virtual meeting which started at 11am.Modi said that a view has emerged that the 10 states defeat the coronavirus pandemic, the country will also win. “The path to success has been achieved by the results after continuously monitoring the ground reality in your states. I am confident that with the strength of your experience, the country will win this battle and there will be a new beginning,” he said.The Prime Minister also pointed out that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapon against the viral disease. He also stressed on the importance of timely diagnosis of Covid-19, citing experts that if a person is diagnosed within 72 hours then the spread can be controlled to a great extent. Aarogya Setu, the contact tracing mobile application, is another effective way to tackle the disease.“The percentage of active cases has decreased and the recovery rate has increased and so this means that our efforts are proving effective. The most important thing is that it has also increased people’s trust and confidence and their fears have come down,” he added.The chief ministers on their part have asked Modi for a liberal financial package and to remove the cap on spending funds from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) to bridge the collection gap caused by the pandemic.“The information about the ground realities get strengthened after talking to you and we get to know that we are moving in the right direction. Therefore it was imperative that the 10 states needed to sit together and review and discuss. And today we have also got to learn a lot from each other’s experiences through this discussion,” PM Modi said during the meeting with the chief ministers.PM has held several such virtual meetings with the chief ministers to review the pandemic situation and the last one was held in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-urges-states-to-ramp-up-testing-says-their-role-is-crucial-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-JWgEi35lzZ30WScJgvSbtI.html
11-08-2020||India||Oil India’s crude and gas production takes a hit after Baghjan fire||Oil India Limited said Tuesday that the cumulative loss of crude oil and natural gas has been 25,624 MT and 61.62 million standard cubic metres (MMSCM) respectively at the Baghjan gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district well mainly due to protests. “As a result of protests/blockades/bandhs since 27th May, 2020 due to the blowout, OIL’s cumulative loss of crude oil and natural gas has been 25624 MT and 61.62 MMSCM respectively,” OIL said in a statement.. “Oil and gas Production still continues to be affected due to forceful closure of few oil and gas wells connected to Baghjan EPS. Drilling and workover operation also continue to be affected at few of the locations due to forceful closure of operation.”The gas well suffered a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on June 9 which still continues to rage despite efforts to douse it. OIL said preparations are continuing to cap the well. A second attempt to cap the blowout and the fire failed on Monday due to technical glitches. OIL plans to make another bid on Tuesday.“Following the snapping of one of the Bull Lines of the Athey wagon yesterday, the Bull Lines were removed and sent to OIL’s Engineering Workshop for repairing job. The Lines were repaired overnight and already transferred to the well site this morning. Load testing of the Bull Lines are planned today after rig up with the Athey wagon. Servicing and pressure testing of the BOP stack is also planned for today. All safety precautions are being maintained and are in place. All efforts are being taken to control the well at the earliest,” the statement said.The blowout and the subsequent fire at the gas well have caused damages to nearby areas. “Total number of families surveyed for assessment of damage for compensation till 10.08.2020 both combined in Doomdooma and Tinsukia Circle is 2,756,” OIL said.Two OIL companies have died in the fire while three foreign experts suffered injuries in an explosion last month.Oil India, the country’s second largest hydrocarbon exploration and production public sector company also said that environmental impact assessment (EIA) study on various parameters are being carried out by various agencies such as TERI, ERM, CSIR-NEIST, IIT-Guwahati apart from OIL’s in-house monitoring of air quality/noise level/gas presence. Bio remediation activities at affected areas are also in progress, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-india-s-crude-and-gas-production-takes-a-hit-after-baghjan-fire/story-wLuC5RjGKntOFvURncfWnN.html
11-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt to incur Rs 20 lakh additional expenses to hold assembly session amid Covid-19||Chhattisgarh assembly session, which will be held between August 25 and 28 amid all precautionary measures such as the installation of glass panels to separate the seats of lawmakers in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, is likely to cost an additional Rs 20 lakh expenses for the Bhupesh Baghel-led government’s exchequer. The last assembly session was adjourned after nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the contagion. “A glass panel will separate two legislators amid strict compliance of social distancing norms and other precautionary norms such as periodic sanitisation drive. Additional seats have been organised for 11 lawmakers via the glass partition,” said CS Gangrade, principal secretary, Chhattisgarh Assembly. An assembly official, requesting anonymity, pointed out that the state government would have to incur an additional expenditure of around Rs 20 lakh for the special arrangement during the upcoming assembly session. “However, the exact amount is yet to be ascertained,” he added. “Plans are also afoot to reduce the assembly staff, as only those essential to conduct the assembly proceedings will be asked to report for work. Hectic parleys are in progress to work out the modalities,” said Gangrade. “Each MLA (a member of the Chhattisgarh legislative assembly) will be given sanitisers. The personnel will ensure that no lawmaker skips the sanitising drive,” he said. “A legislator will be allowed to enter the assembly premises only with a driver in a bid to rein in overcrowding,” he added. The press and visitors’ gallery will remain closed during the upcoming assembly proceedings. “A section of media persons, who are from news agencies, may be allowed to attend. However, a final call on this is yet to be taken,” Gangrade said. However, the Chhattisgarh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – the main opposition in the state --- has alleged that the ruling Congress government is deliberately planning to bar the media persons from attending the upcoming assembly session in a bid to ensure that it doesn’t face any uncomfortable question on the floor of the House, including the Covid-19 management. “The arrangements that are in the works for the lawmakers can also be made for media persons. The government is scared of facing the media. A minister is ensuring that the media is barred from attending the assembly proceedings,” alleged Ajay Chandrakar, a former minister and a state BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-led-govt-to-incur-rs-20-lakh-additional-expenses-to-hold-four-day-assembly-session-amid-covid-19/story-58Nb4BpgWEw664calHJ77O.html
11-08-2020||India||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj says getting death threats from Pak number||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj has given a written complaint to the police claiming that he has received calls from a Pakistan number threatening to kill him in a bomb blast. In the complaint to inspector in-charge of Sadar Kotwali, Dinesh Chandra Mishra, the MP from Unnao said that he got two phone calls from some terrorist organisation of Pakistan threatening to blow him up along with his residence. According to the letter, the caller claimed that Kashmir would soon become a part of Pakistan and he also used foul language for the Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony at Ayodhya. The caller said that he and his mujahideens were keeping an eye on him round the clock, the MP said in the letter, adding that he also abused Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The MP has demanded that imemdiate steps be taken to save his life and property. Acting on the complaint, Superintendent of Police Rohan P Kanay directed circle officer Yadvendra Yadav and Kotwali in-charge to probe the matter and take help of surveillance teams. The SP said that a report has been registered. The MP has Y category security and police is also deployed at his residence but the security would be reviewed in the light of of the threat call, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-says-getting-death-threats-from-pak-number/story-KyfGStfiHTMlQEOTZStrCK.html
11-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee remains critical, on ventilator support post surgery: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to remain critical and is on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent a brain surgery.The 84-year-old was admitted to the military hospital around noon on Monday, and had also tested positive for Covid-19 prior to the surgery.“Former President of India Shri Pranab Mukherjee was admitted to Army Hospital (R&R) in Delhi Cantonment at 1207 hours on August 10, 2020 in a critical condition.“Workup at the hospital revealed a large brain clot for which he underwent emergency life saving surgery. Post surgery he continues to remain critical on ventilatory support,” a medical bulletin issued by the Hospital said.A multidisciplinary team of doctors is constantly monitoring the health of the former president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-remains-critical-on-ventilator-support-post-surgery-hospital/story-yYoySAgFH1y0JTXUutvdKN.html
11-08-2020||India||‘Daughter for a lifetime’: SC backs women’s share in parental property||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that daughters will have coparcenary rights on father’s property even if he died before the Hindu Succession (amendment) Act 2005 came into force.The bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra was answering a reference based on conflicting decisions given by past verdicts of the top court. Although the amendment was applicable to Hindu daughters as coparceners who died after coming of the act, there was no clarity on whether it will have retrospective effect. In 2016, the Supreme Court decided that such right will not be retrospective in Prakash v Phulwati case whiles in 2018 another bench of the court in Danamma v Amar held it to be retrospective.Answering the reference, the bench said, “Daughters cannot be deprived of their right to equality conferred by Section 6 of the Act.”“Daughter is always a loving daughter for the rest of their life,” Justice Mishra said.The bench said that daughters will have the right over parental property even if the coparecenor had died prior to the coming into force of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005.The amendment came into effect on September 9, 2005. The courts considered this as cut-off date to decide please by daughters seeking equal rights as coparcerners as sons in their father’s estate. The bench further directed that matters pending in trial courts on this issue be decided in six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughters-have-equal-rights-to-ancestral-property-even-if-father-died-before-2005-hindu-law-amendment-sc/story-WIJ3k02QdwzPiWgMVUjftN.html
11-08-2020||India||Draft EIA objections: Aaditya Thackeray says ‘voice of people and mother nature must be heard’||Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has raised objection over the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, issued by the Centre, citing that it “fails to align with the 2016 Paris climate agreement” and poses a threat to the “goal of sustainable growth”. Thackeray has drawn the attention of Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar in a three-page letter and stated that the Central government must hear the voice of the locals hit hard by a project and also the “unheard voice of Mother Nature”. The draft EIA has been facing opposition from environmentalists, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and some opposition parties, who have alleged that the Central government is diluting the green clearance norms. Thackeray’s letter pointed out his objections over several factors, including an exemption for “environmentally destructive activities such as coal prospecting, crushing, and screening of iron ore, seismic surveys for oil and gas exploration, etc.”; no public consultation for up to 50% in existing projects; and no EIA process for expansion up to 25% in ongoing ventures. He highlighted that India is one of the most susceptible countries to climate change and it would hit hard those living in coastal areas because of rising sea levels and an increase of salinity in river waters, posing a threat to the livelihoods of millions. “By diluting the nature and scope of scrutiny of environmental impacts of proposed projects, and by not considering climate change impact in the decision-making processes, the proposed notification goes against the mandate given to the government under Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986,” the letter stated. It added: “The voice of the public such as the locals affected by a project and the unheard voice of Mother Nature must be heard by the government. It is the public’s interest that must be upheld rather those of clearances, and the environment is at the core of people’s interest … I urge you to take these issues into consideration. The notification, in its present form, fails to align with the 2016 Paris climate agreement and poses a great threat to our goal of achieving sustainable growth.” He noted that if the projects are passed in this ecologically-sensitive region such as the Konkan coast, which is home to 28 million people, without extensive public deliberations, then it would have an adverse impact on the region’s biodiversity, the livelihood of the fisher folks, and agricultural produce. “The Sahayadris or the Western Ghats is listed in the world’s eight ‘hottest hotspots’ of biological diversity. They spread across Maharashtra and five other states and are home to 325 globally threatened flora, fauna, birds and many other species,” the letter warned. Earlier, Thackeray had opposed a coal mine proposed by Centre near the Tadoba tiger sanctuary in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district. The ruling Shiv Sena, a part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, had also stopped the construction of a power plant in Ratnagiri and a Metro rail depot at ecologically-sensitive Aarey Colony in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-eia-objections-aaditya-thackeray-says-voice-of-people-and-mother-nature-must-be-heard/story-NQQkLabxFX2tCmsXEVlzoJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Covid-19 positive Pranab Mukherjee on ventilator support after brain surgery, remains critical||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who was admitted to Army Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi after testing positive for Covid-19, underwent a “life-saving surgery”, according to the hospital.The hospital said that a brain clot was detected after which the surgery was conducted. “Post surgery he continues to remain critical on ventilator support,” the hospital said in a medical bulletin released today.Mukherjee had announced on Twitter on Monday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease. “On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” he had tweeted.President Ram Nath Kovind wished for his speedy recovery and defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the Army Hospital (R&R) in New Delhi and met the doctors to enquire about the health of the former President.“Visited the Army Hospital (R&R) in New Delhi and met the doctors to enquire about the health of former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee Ji. I pray for his well being and speedy recovery,” Singh tweeted.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also prayed for speedy recovery of the former President.Banerjee said she is concerned about the former President. “Concerned to hear about former President Pranab Mukherjee Da testing positive for Covid-19. My prayers are with him and his family during this time and I wish him a speedy recovery,” the West Bengal chief minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-pranab-mukherjee-on-ventilator-support-after-brain-surgery-remains-critical/story-qG5OIV3QiBxWiVs3Pe8EMO.html
11-08-2020||India||In meeting with PM Modi, states seek more funds to tackle Covid-19; some ask for removal of spending cap||The chief ministers of various states asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to remove the cap on spending funds from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) to meet the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease and other things.The requests were made during a video conference between PM Modi and chief ministers of various states which was held to discuss the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that the current cap of 35 per cent in SDRF for Covid-19 related expenditure, as per the guidelines of the Union home ministry, doesn’t allow the state governments to tackle the pandemic effectively.He also sought a liberal financial package for states to fill the collection gap caused by the pandemic, and also flexibility on Covid-related terms of expenditure in SDRF, news agency ANI reported quoting a statement from the chief minister’s office.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami asked for an additional ad-hoc grant. “As we have already fully exhausted State Disaster Response & Mitigation fund, I also request an ad-hoc grant of Rs 1,000 crore from NDRF immediately to fight pandemic,” Palaniswami said at the meeting, according to ANI.The demand to remove cap from SDRF was made by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan too during a meeting with PM Modi on the flood situation.Apart from Tamil Nadu and Punjab, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar also attended the meeting on Tuesday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh was also present in the review meeting.PM Modi has held several meetings with the chief ministers over the Covid-19 situation after the announcement of the first lockdown in March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meeting-with-pm-modi-states-seek-more-funds-to-tackle-covid-19-some-ask-for-removal-of-spending-cap/story-wnkMgrtWez9I9WxGQA9VSM.html
11-08-2020||India||Rajasthan truce sealed, Ashok Gehlot talks ‘peace, brotherhood’ in party||Peace and brotherhood will remain in party, underscored Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday, a day after Sachin Pilot sealed a truce deal with the party high command that also promised to look into the issues raised by him against the state CM.“If any MLA is annoyed with me, then it is my responsibility to address that. I have kept doing this in the past and will do this now also,” CM Gehlot told reporters before leaving for Jaisalmer, where the MLAs were moved fearing poaching by the BJP.The change in tune is in stark contrast to the belligerence shown by Gehlot while attacking his former Number 2 in the government in the not too distant past. Using particularly harsh language against the young Pilot, Gehlot called him “nikamma, nakkara”.“I imbibed certain values from my family, no matter how much I oppose anyone, I’ve never used such language. Ashok Gehlot ji is elder to me and I respect him personally, but I have the right to raise work-related concerns,” Sachin Pilot told reporters today.On Monday, Pilot met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi to end the revolt in the state unit that threatened the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government. The patch up in the party came ahead of an assembly session in Rajasthan on August 14. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and removed as Congress chief in Rajasthan last month after his differences with Gehlot came to a head.“Peace and brotherhood will remain in our party. A three-member committee has been formed (by Congress) to resolve the grievances. The BJP tried its best to topple the government, but in the end, all our party MLAs are together, not even one has left us,” said CM Gehlot this morning. Congress president Sonia Gandhi decided on Monday to form a three-member committee to look into grievances of its rebel leaders in Rajasthan.The panel at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) level will have senior leaders as its members and it will “hear all the sides and also go into the details of the political turmoil” in the state.The committee will also discuss the possible changes in the organisation and the government, a Congress leader said, adding that the names of the committee members and the timeframe will be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-truce-sealed-ashok-gehlot-talks-peace-brotherhood-in-party/story-T1FYuNzJTfeDXawFVQl2cL.html
11-08-2020||India||From Kerala to Assam, floods cause widespread damage: Latest developments||Several states in India are facing flood-like situation due to incessant rains. From Kerala in the South to Assam in the Northeast, floods have wreaked havoc.Many rivers are flowing above the danger mark, aggravating an already dangerous situation. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of fairly widespread rainfall in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan on Tuesday and Wednesday.In Gujarat and parts of Madhya Pradesh, there is forecast for heavy rains till Friday.Here are the latest updates on flood situation and movement of the Southwest monsoon:• The weather department said in its morning bulletin on Tuesday that the strength of monsoon westerlies over southern parts of Arabian Sea has reduced. “Under this scenario, rainfall activity is very likely to reduce further over Kerala and Karnataka during next 4 days,” the IMD bulletin said. • It also said that a fresh low pressure area is likely to form over Northwest Bay of Bengal nearby areas around August 13.• The Central Water Commission (CWC), which has been monitoring water level in the rivers across the country, said that River Bhagirathi at Deoprayag in Tehri-Garhwal district of Uttarakhand is flowing in “severe situation” today. The Pithoragarh district witnessed heavy rainfall where roads and bridges of the area were washed away by the Kali river in Sabha Gardi village.• The Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra route in Dharchula of Pithoragarh district was blocked at two locations due to incessant rainfall and landslides. The traffic movement in the area was also halted. • Several parts of Karnataka, including Karwar in Uttara Kannada district, continue to face a flood-like situation, and the CWC said on Tuesday that Cauvery river in Chamarajanagar district is flowing in “severe situation”. The Karnataka government has asked Centre for an additional special assistance of Rs 4,000 crore to deal with the situation.• Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, meanwhile, demanded that the states be allowed to use funds fully from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) in view of the situation created by Covid-19 and other difficulties faced by state including floods. He raised the demand during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference on Monday with chief ministers of flood-hit states, asking the Centre to remove the current 25 per cent limit.• The toll in the landslip at Pettimudi in Kerala’s Idukki rose to 49 with six more bodies recovered from under the debris on Monday. Vijayan said that 22 people were still missing in the August 7 tragedy.• On Monday, the Prime Minister had held a meeting through video conference with chief ministers of six states, namely Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, to review their preparedness to deal with Southwest monsoon and current flood situation in the country.• Meanwhile, the flood situation in Bihar remained grim on Monday with 20,000 more people affected by the calamity in 16 districts. The total number of flood-affected people in the state has risen to 74.40 lakh, while deaths caused due to the deluge stood at 24. Darbhanga reported the highest number of flood-related deaths at 10, followed by Muzaffarpur at six, West Champaran at four and two each in Saran and Siwan, a bulletin from the state’s Disaster Management Department said.• In Assam, 30 districts have been affected and 158 people lost their lives due to landslides triggered by floods. The state government said that floods have also caused largescale damage to physical infrastructure like roads, bridges and culverts, inundated vast areas of agricultural lands and drowned several animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-kerala-to-assam-floods-cause-widespread-damage-latest-developments/story-u4z7mjoClMBAxbiKJKntnO.html
11-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: As Pak returns $1 billion loan to Saudi Arabia, relations between two may sour and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan-Saudi Arabia tiff widens? As Islamabad returns loan, questions riseThere appears to be a shift in policy of Saudi Arabia towards Pakistan. The differences in their relations surfaced when Pakistan was made to pay back US $1 billion to Saudi Arabia last week. Pakistan has also not received the oil on deferred payments from Saudi Arabia since May as a deal signed between the two close allies for provision of US $3.2 billion worth of the fuel under the arrangement expired two months ago. Read more‘BJP tried to topple govt but no one has left’: Rajasthan CM Ashok GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday that peace and brotherhood will remain in Congress party. and attacked the BJP for “trying its best to topple his government”. The CM’s remarks came a day after a three-member party was formed by Congress president to look into the ‘grievances of its rebel leaders in Rajasthan. Read moreBJP functionary shot dead in UP’s Baghpat, Yogi Adityanath orders probeA functionary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was shot dead by unidentifed men in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district on Tuesday while he was out on a morning walk, reports said. Ajay Kumar Singh, Baghpat’s superintendent of police, said 52-year-old Sanjay Khokhar, a resident of Tilwara in Chhaprauli area, was walking when three men fired upon him killing him on the spot, according to Hindustan. Read moreKarnataka govt issues revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patientsCovid-19 patients under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset or date of sampling, and no fever for three days, as per the revised guidelines for home care issued by the government of Karnataka. Read more‘Sourav Ganguly played a big part’: Manoj Tiwary explains former India captain’s contribution in 2011 World Cup winThe 2011 World Cup win was a momentous occassion for Indian cricket. It marked the first time legendary India batsman Sachin Tendulkar had won the trophy in his stellar career, the one he truly deserved. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s father messaged Rhea Chakraborty in Nov 2019 to get update about actor, asked why she didn’t take his callSushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh, attempted to reach out to the late actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, and former business manager, Shruti Modi. According to screenshots accessed by Times Now, Singh sought an update about Sushant’s health and well-being from Rhea. Read moreAdd me to Search: Google launches People Cards in India to make users more visible onlineYou don’t have to be famous to turn up higher on people list on Google Search anymore. Google has launched People Cards, which are virtual visiting cards of sorts, that can help you be found online more easily. For people who want to be found online more easily, on Google Search at least, you don’t really need to be a celebrity. Read moreSinger Camila Cabello sends love to fans, shares tips on meditation and mental health‘Havana’ singer Camila Cabello shared her love with her fans through an Instagram post on Monday and also shared a little update about her music. The 23-year-old musician dressed in red printed dhoti-pants and a yellow off-shoulder top, posed with her guitar and keyboard in the recent picture. Read moreWill Smith’s teeth ‘knocked out’ by Jason Derulo during golf lesson. WatchHollywood actor Will Smith was giving singer Jason Derulo a golf lesson when things took a drastic turn. Or so they’d have you believe. A video, shared by both, shows how Derulo ‘knocked out’ a few of Smith’s teeth while swinging a golf club. Read moreWatch: Donald Trump abruptly escorted from briefing after shooting near White House||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-as-pak-returns-1-billion-loan-to-saudi-arabia-relations-between-two-may-sour-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Zorln2lJ6HWkOJvsajIKlK.html
11-08-2020||India||2 Indians on China-bound VBM flight found to be asymptomatic Covid-19 patients||Two Indians who flew into the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou on a special Air India flight on August 6 have been quarantined after they were found to be asymptomatic patients of Covid-19, Chinese health authorities have said.The diagnosis of the disease on an in-bound flight from India could lead Beijing to again stop Indians from flying to China during the inward journey of special repatriation flights.The August 6 Air India flight was part of New Delhi’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights meant to repatriate Indians stranded abroad; it flew in those Indians who wanted to return to China for work, and had the requisite permissions from the Chinese government.China did not allow several Indians, including families of diplomats, from taking an earlier VBM flight from New Delhi to Guangzhou city in end-June because two Indians had tested positive for Covid-19 on a Shanghai-bound special flight that landed on June 21.After the two Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19 in June, Chinese authorities gave permission only for an empty flight from India to land in the southern city of Guangzhou to repatriate Indians.Beijing only agreed to allow Indians on the August 6 flight after intense negotiations with Indian diplomats and putting in place strict health protocols – including three medical tests – for in-bound passengers from India.According to the local Chinese health commission, the two Indians found to be asymptomatic – infected but without symptoms – were a 40-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man.The diagnosis was done following tests at the Guangzhou airport under the “closed-loop management” system.Both Indians were sent for “isolation treatment” at a designated Guangzhou hospital, the statement from the health authorities said.Despite new clusters of Covid-19 breaking out in the cities of Beijing, Urumqi and Dalian since June, China has seemingly brought the coronavirus outbreak under control within the country.A number of “imported” cases of the disease are, however, being diagnosed daily, mostly among Chinese nationals returning from abroad.Chinese health authority said Tuesday that it received reports of 44 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on the Chinese mainland Monday, including 31 imported cases and 13 locally transmitted ones.By the end of Monday, a total of 2,200 imported cases had been reported on the mainland.Of them, according to official news agency, Xinhua, 2,046 had been discharged from hospitals after recovery, and 154 remained hospitalised, with one in serious condition. No deaths from the imported cases had been reported.As of Monday, the overall confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 84,712, including 794 patients who were still being treated, with 44 in severe conditions.Altogether 79,284 people had been discharged after recovery, and 4,634 had died of the disease on the mainland, the national health commission (NHC) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-indians-on-china-bound-vbm-flight-found-to-be-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients/story-EHpZ6atNInJ67Gl0CEGYrO.html
11-08-2020||India||I was hurt, says Sachin Pilot over Ashok Gehlot’s jibes during turf war||Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday there is no place for malice or personal enmity in politics and that he respects his former boss Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who had called him “nikamma” and accused him of conspiring with the Bharatiya Janata Paty (BJP) to topple his government.Pilot’s comments came a day after the patch-up following his revolt against Gehlot in July. He said while speaking to reporters Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi patiently heard the grievances he and other legislators had and that he was assured that a road map will be chalked out to solve them.The 42-year-old leader also spoke about the comments made by his former boss, Gehlot. During the turf war, Gehlot had admitted in an interview that he has not been on talking terms with his former Number 2 for the last 18 months. He had also called Pilot “nikamma (worthless) and nakaara (good for nothing)”.Watch: Sachin Pilot’s response to Ashok Gehlot’s ‘nikamma’ jibe “I have imbibed certain values in my life from my family. No matter how much I oppose anyone, even if it were my bitter enemy, I have never used such language. Ashok Gehlot ji is elder to me and I have respected him personally but I have the right to raise my concerns over work-related and governance issues if see some discrepancy,” Pilot said.“I was hurt but don’t want to respond to it. I think there should be dialogue, decency and a Lakshman Rekha in public discourse and I haven’t crossed that Lakshman Rekha in the 20 years of my poltical career,” he said.“All want to say is that the truth has come out after the kind of allegations that were levelled.”Pilot’s rebellion ended after his meeting with Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Monday, putting an end to a month-long uncertainty involving dramatic legal and political flashpoints in Rajasthan.“...Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan,” the statement issued by KC Venugopal, Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, said.The Congress had removed Pilot as the deputy chief minister and state Congress president on July 14 and two of his supporters were suspended from the party.Gehlot alleged that the BJP was trying to dislodge his government and his camp also said the BJP was helping Pilot. While the BJP repeatedly blamed the Congress’s internal rift for the Rajasthan crisis, Pilot said he would not join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-was-hurt-says-sachin-pilot-over-ashok-gehlot-s-jibes-during-turf-war/story-NEcBn9yu9u1Nh3NyaMj85M.html
11-08-2020||India||Authorities can’t curtail validity of passports issued to persons facing prosecution: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) last week reiterated that the passport authorities are not allowed to curtail the validity of passports issued to persons facing the prosecution in India, unless a specific period is mentioned in court orders concerned. The two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices SC Gupte and Abhay Ahuja, said under Rule 12 of the Passport Rules, 1980, the minimum period of validity of a passport other than for a child below 15 years of age is 10 years. The bench cited that there are at least two earlier HC judgements declaring that this period cannot be curtailed in case of a person facing criminal cases, unless a certain period is specified in the court order granting no-objection for renewal of the passport. The clarification came on a petition filed by Roshan Menezes, a merchant navy sailor from Mumbai, who had moved HC challenging action on the part of the passport authorities to renew his passport only for a year, as opposed to the usual period of 10 years prescribed under the Passports Rules, 1980. The period of validity was curtailed because of the pendency of criminal prosecution against him under before the metropolitan magistrate court at Borivali. During the pendency of the criminal case, Menezes’ passport had expired on June 17, 2019. On the basis of the magisterial order of December 4, 2019, passport authorities had issued him a fresh passport in January, but it is valid only for a year, prompting Menezes to move HC. Before HC, passport authorities took a stand that the passport valid for a year was issued to Menezes in accordance with a notification issued by the central government under provisions of the Passport Act, 1980, on August 25, 1993.The government notification had laid down rules for issuance of passports to persons against whom criminal proceedings are pending in India, providing that passports should be issued to persons facing prosecutions in the country valid only for a period specified in the court order concerned, or for a period of one year, where the order does not specify any period. HC, however, held that the authorities could not have curtailed the validity period to one year in view of two earlier court decisions, especially when no period was specified in the magisterial order. The bench has directed the authorities to extend within four weeks the validity of Menezes’ passport to the usual 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passport-authorities-cannot-curtail-validity-of-passports-issued-to-persons-facing-prosecution-bombay-hc/story-HTXgo0V7VkvRxvNVUZ5tJK.html
11-08-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally nearing 49,000; 1,341 new cases recorded||As many as 1,341 new Covid-19 cases and 1,236 recoveries were reported in Odisha, said the State Government on Tuesday.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 48,796, including 15,427 active cases and 33,020 recoveries.As many as 53,601 new coronavirus cases and 871 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Covid-19 tally has gone up to 22,68,676 including 6,39,929 active cases, 15,83,490 cured/discharged/migrated, and 45,257 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-49-000-1-341-new-cases-recorded/story-PnrKYPH3bEU8mL7OGJs5HL.html
11-08-2020||India||GST superintendent duped of Rs 1.91 lakh in KYC fraud in Mumbai||A superintendent with the central government’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) department in Mumbai was duped of Rs. 1.91 lakh by a fraudster posing as a bank employee on Sunday. The fraudster duped him by asking him to update his bank account’s Know-Your-Customer (KYC) information. Srikumar Prasad (50), who has filed a first information report (FIR) at Antop Hill police station about the scam, was asked to download a quick support application on his mobile phone and to fill his credit and debit card details in it, leading to a loss of Rs 1.91 lakh in a series of seven-eight fraudulent transactions. Prasad, who lives in the CGS colony in Antop Hill area along with his wife and two children, received a message from an unknown number at around 9:30 am on Sunday, stating that his bank account’s KYC update is pending. He was told that if he did not update the KYC information, then he would not be able to make transactions from his debit and credit cards. The message also stated that he had to call or send an SMS (short message service) on the given number to complete the KYC verification procedure. Prasad followed the instructions and called on the number, but no one answered his call, said a police officer. “On Sunday, at around 3:30 pm, a person claiming to be the bank’s employee called Prasad purportedly to help him update his KYC. The person told him that he was busy with office work in the morning and could not answer his call,” said an officer from Antop Hill police station. “The fraudster explained the KYC update process and asked Prasad to download an application, quick support, from the Google play store, and to fill his credit and debit card details in it. Prasad downloaded the application and punched in all the details in the app. Soon, he received an OTP (one-time-password) number on his mobile phone that he shared with the fraudster, who siphoned off Rs. 1.91 lakh from his bank account,” said the official. Prasad received a call from his bank, alerting him about the fraudulent transactions. Later, he blocked his bank account and filed a complaint with Antop Hill police station following which a case was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, for cheating. “We have been appealing to the public to never share their confidential bank details with anyone, even if someone claims to be a bank employee. The KYC update is not permitted on the mobile phone and even bank employees are not permitted to ask any personal details related to a customer’s account,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-gst-superintendent-duped-of-rs-1-91-lakh-in-kyc-fraud/story-f1Sw8yqceqhpNX3OPXtnFL.html
11-08-2020||India||BJP functionary shot dead in UP’s Baghpat, Yogi Adityanath orders probe||A functionary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was shot dead by unidentifed men in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district on Tuesday while he was out on a morning walk, reports said.Ajay Kumar Singh, Baghpat’s superintendent of police, said 52-year-old Sanjay Khokhar, a resident of Tilwara in Chhaprauli area, was walking when three men fired upon him killing him on the spot, according to Hindustan.HT’s sister publication cited Singh as saying that the cause of the murder is yet to be ascertained and the police are searching for the killers. Khokhar, the former district president of BJP, was hit by four bullets.Khokhar’s body has been sent for post-mortem and a first information report (FIR) has been registered at the local Chhaprauli police station, according to officials.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered an investigation into the killing and has asked for a report within 24 hours, according to news agency ANI. Adityanath has also expressed his condolences to the bereaved family members of Khokhar, the agency added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-functionary-shot-dead-in-up-s-baghpat-yogi-adityanath-orders-probe/story-O4b7WjSs9sCzJF4l7OsW7K.html
11-08-2020||India||Maharashtra sees improvement in Covid-19 recovery rate amid no sign of flattening of curve||Maharashtra coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recovery rate has been improving amid no sign of flattening of the viral outbreak curve. State health department data showed that 3,58,421 Covid-19 patients have recovered from their viral infection and discharged from various healthcare facilities in the state to date. On Sunday (August 9), Maharashtra reported the highest single-day recovery tally of 13,348 Covid-19 patients and 6,711 on the following day. In the past five days, 52,900 Covid-19 patients have recovered, as compared to 56,248 new cases reported during the corresponding period. The number of Covid-19 patients recovered from viral infection between August 6 and 10 is 10,854, 10,906, 11,081, 13,348 and 6,711, respectively While the daily new Covid-19 cases recorded during the corresponding period are 11,514, 10,483, 12,822, 12,248, and 9,181, respectively, the data showed.At present, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 68.33%, as compared to the national average of 69.80%. On July 11, the state’s recovery rate was at 55.55%. On Monday, Maharashtra recorded 9,181 new Covid-19 cases, as the state’s tally rose to 524,513, including 147,735 active cases. The viral outbreak-related death toll stands at 18,050, including 293 fresh fatalities on Monday. Gujarat and Maharashtra have the worst case fatality rate (CFR) in the country at 3.74% and 3.44%, respectively. The surge in the viral outbreak cases and a lack of robust healthcare infrastructure in Maharashtra has prompted the state government to set up makeshift facilities amid plans to ramp up the facilities shortly. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had directed the state authorities to develop field hospitals in all the major cities of Maharashtra. “We want to be prepared, if Covid-19 cases further rise as the existing healthcare infrastructure is overburdened,” said a state health department official. Thackeray had also sought the support of the Central government to set up an infectious disease hospital and research facility near Mumbai. He had put forth the demand during his recent interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan at the virtual launch of Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai, and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-improvement-in-covid-19-recovery-rate-amid-no-sign-of-flattening-of-curve/story-blRfEXgMOsjEtpFZ50kdoI.html
11-08-2020||India||‘BJP tried to topple govt but no one has left’: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday that peace and brotherhood will remain in Congress party. and attacked the BJP for “trying its best to topple his government”. The CM’s remarks came a day after a three-member party was formed by Congress president to look into the ‘grievances’ of its rebel leaders in Rajasthan.Gehlot also said that his government will complete its full term.“Peace and brotherhood will remain in our party. BJP tried its best to topple the government, but in the end, all our party MLAs are together, not even one has left us,” Gehlot told media before leaving for a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting scheduled later in the day in Jaisalmer.He added that the future road map will be decided according to the decisions taken on Monday. “The high command has constituted a three member committee to look into the grievance of them (dissidents). Decisions were taken yesterday and now accordingly the future road map will be decided,” the CM said. Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, Gehlot said that over 100 MLAs stayed united despite all efforts of by the BJP to topple the government. “They (BJP) tried everything from horse trading to threatening but all stood tall.” He said the BJP had faced defeat and the people, workers and MLAs have shown that their (BJP’s) conspiracy will not succeed. Gehlot accused the saffron party of doing politics in the name of religion, saying the BJP divides and wins polls.Ashok Gehlot exuded confidence that his government will complete its full term.“The Congress is united and the government will run for five years. We have the mandate,” said Gehlot.“I have told them (MLAs) that I will take care of you all as guardian till I am alive. They have faith on high command and me, which will be maintained,” he added. Earlier, Gehlot met three independent MLAs - Suresh Tak, Om Prakash Hudla and Khushveer Singh - at his residence. Tak said they told the chief minister that they were with him.On Monday, rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot met former party president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi following which the three-member panel was formed. “They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan,” Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said in a statement hours after Sachin Pilot’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi.Later on Monday night, welcoming the decision to form a panel, Pilot said that he was not after any post and thought certain issues had to be raised for the benefit. The crisis in Rajasthan Congress that had been brewing for nearly a month when Sachin Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister as well Rajasthan Congress president on July 14, appears to have been diffused after Monday’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-tried-to-topple-govt-but-no-one-has-left-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-iGtL2p2Ok4D6nS8P9FyYCL.html
11-08-2020||India||4G ban to be lifted from 2 J&K districts on trial basis after Aug 15: Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday informed it will lift restrictions on high-speed 4G mobile internet services in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions after August 15 on a trial basis.Attorney general KK Venugopal informed a three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana that a special committee constituted based on the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in J-K took inputs from security forces and local agencies before concluding on August 10 that threat perception due to terrorist activities in the Union territory continues to be high. Also Read: From habeas corpus to 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir: Pleas in Supreme Court“Overall situation is still not conducive to lift the restrictions in J-K,” Venugopal said.Venugopal said the restrictions will be lifted for two months in two districts, which have low intensity of terrorist activities, but on an experimental basis. The step will be reviewed periodically every week, Venugopal added.The Supreme court was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, in June seeking the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J-K administration for the failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the union territory. The top court closed the contempt case while appreciating the stand take by the Centre.“This is a good stand by the respondent,” justice R Subhash Reddy, who was on the bench, remarked.“This is a step forward,” petitioner’s counsel Huzefa Ahmadi acknowledged.However, the court asked the Centre to respond to an interim application by the petitioner which pointed out that the government is not publishing on public domain, copy of orders reviewing internet restrictions.As per the Supreme Court’s January 10 judgment on Anuradha Bhasin’s case, orders by government authorities imposing restrictions on internet have to be put out in public domain. The Centre has to file it’s response within two weeks after which the matter will be heard.In its last hearing, the top court had said that the Centre should explore the possibility of restoring 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir in view of the statements of GC Murmu, the former lieutenant governor of the Union territory, backing the restoration.Also Read: Election Commission’s rare reprimand for Kashmir Lt Guv over remarks on timing of elections“L-G Murmu has said that there is no difficulty in restoring 4G. You have to give an explanation to that,” justice R Subhash Reddy told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Jammu & Kashmir administration, last Friday.Murmu, who was succeeded by Manoj Sinha as the lieutenant governor on Friday, had said on July 24 the restoration of 4G services will not be a problem and Pakistan will continue with its propaganda even if the mobile internet speed is restricted to 2G. The Centre has cited Islamabad’s propaganda while justifying the restrictions.The Centre on July 28 told the Supreme Court it will verify media reports that said Murmu has advocated the restoration of high-speed 4G internet services. This came days after the Centre filed an affidavit before the court on July 21, saying a special panel constituted as per the latter’s May 11 order has decided against any relaxations for now. The government said the restrictions would continue for two more months before they are reviewed again. It added the panel constituted for the review on June 10 considered all aspects of the matter, including terror strikes, before deciding to continue the restrictions on 4G services.Also Read: 4G restoration in J&K: Govt to verify reports on L-G GC Murmu’s commentThe Supreme Court on May 11 passed its order after the NGO in April challenged restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G. The NGO sought restoration of 4G services saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 pandemic because of the restrictions. It pointed out that slow internet speeds make telemedicine, or online consultation, impossible.It had refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead ordered a constitution of the panel comprising high-level government officers, including the Union home secretary, to take a call on the matter.The NGO in June filed the contempt petition saying there was no information available whether the constitution of the panel was notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in Jammu and Kashmir in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as mobile internet remains restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-ban-to-be-lifted-in-j-k-from-august-16-one-district-at-a-time-centre-tells-sc/story-wjVNJeIv1QxyyRKsW2CXBL.html
11-08-2020||India||Covid-19 latest updates: 3 Indian vaccines under trial, Russia to allow civilian use this week||Pharmaceutical companies in India and around the world are putting in great efforts to treat the coronavirus disease which has infected more than 20 million people so far.Many scientific studies are also being done as part of efforts to find treatments and vaccines for Covid-19, the illness caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.A total of 26 vaccine candidates are being developed, according to the World Health Organisation, as a process normally taking up to 15 years has been squeezed into a matter of months. Here’s everything you need to know about the global efforts being made to find a vaccine fast for Covid-19:• In India, an expert committee on vaccine administration will meet on Wednesday to consider “logistics and ethical aspects” of procurement and administration of vaccines against Covid-19, the Uniomn health ministry said today. The committee will be chaired by NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul. The coronavirus disease has infected more than 2.2 million people and killed over 44,000 in India.• According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), three Indian vaccines are in different phases of clinical testing at present. Two of these vaccines - Bharat Biotech vaccine and DNA vaccine of Zydus Cadila have completed phase 1 and will begin phase 2 clinical trials, said the ICMR.• Oxford vaccine, being manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) got approval for phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, which are starting within a week at 17 sites, the institute said.• Karnataka’s deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan said on Tuesday that the state government is very keen to establish an Immunology and Vaccine Research Centre in Bengaluru in collaboration with the Emory Vaccine Centre of Atlanta University.• Serum Institute of India (SII) had said last week that it has entered into a new partnership with international vaccine alliance Gavi and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate manufacturing and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India as well as other low and middle-income countries. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla told a TV channel that the company will start manufacturing the vaccines by end of August.• Globally, Russia is racing ahead to allow civilian use of a potential coronavirus vaccine before clinical trials are complete. The government plans to give a vaccine developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute conditional registration as early as this week, which would open the door to civilian use. This has led an industry body to call this rush dangerous for the common people. Yet less than 100 people had officially received the inoculation against the epidemic by early August and its widespread use could be dangerous, the Association of Clinical Trials Organizations said in a letter sent to Health Minister Mikhail Murashko on Monday.• Meanwhile, Moderna has become the first company in the world to begin phase 3 testing of its coronavirus vaccine. The tests are being carried out at its facilities in the United States. The tests started on July 27 and the company plans to enroll 30,000 study subjects.• Pfizer too started its combined phase 2 and 3 study on July 27 and hopes to enroll 30,000 volunteers by September. The company’s CEO Albert Bourla said they have vaccinated more than 2,000 people by first week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-updates-3-indian-vaccines-under-trial-russia-to-allow-civilian-use-this-week/story-eUNncepriH354QPlOjXflK.html
11-08-2020||India||PM Modi to meet chief ministers of 10 states, review Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the chief ministers of 10 states on Tuesday to review the coronavirus situation in the regions even as the country’s Covid-19 tally surged beyond the 2.26-million mark, including more than 45,000 deaths. The Prime Minister will hold a video conference with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh at 11am. This will be the Prime Minister’s seventh such meeting with chief ministers on the pandemic. PM Modi’s last meeting with the heads of the states to discuss the coronavirus situation was held in June.Maharashtra continues to be worst-hit state in the country with Covid-19 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Apart from these three states Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh also reported the highest number of coronavirus disease cases and deaths in the last 24 hours.PM had held a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala on Monday to review the flood situation in these six states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-of-10-states-review-covid-18-situation/story-wPk4pkeNtEpvQdvfu0Ng7L.html
11-08-2020||India||‘Unfair’ for her to carry this burden indefinitely: Tharoor on Sonia completing 1 year as Cong interim chief||New Delhi [India], Aug 11 (ANI): Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that he welcomed Sonia Gandhi’s re-appointment as interim president but said that it is unfair for her to ‘carry the burden’ of the party.“We should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia Ji’s appointment as interim president last year. But I do believe it is unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely,” Tharoor told ANI on being asked about the completion of one-year of Sonia’s tenure as party’s interim president. “If Rahul Gandhi is ready to resume the leadership, he only has to withdraw his resignation. I think party workers, Congress Working Committee (CWC) and everyone will accept that because he was the incumbent President elected in December 2017,” he said.Tharoor asserted if Rahul Gandhi was not willing to come back then the party members like to have a clear cut decision as soon as possible.“If he (Rahul Gandhi) says no I do not want to come back, then the question that many of the party members are asking - How long can we carry on like this?” - that is the question. We would ideally like a clear cut decision as soon as possible,” he said.The Congress on Sunday said that Sonia Gandhi will continue to remain as the party’s interim president beyond August 10 and will continue to occupy the post till the procedure to elect a new president is completed.“Sonia Gandhi Ji is the president, she will continue till such time as a proper procedure is implemented and it will be implemented in the not too distant future,” Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters at a press conference held through video conferencing today.The senior leader said that “This is very clear that neither politics nor political parties permit or tolerate a vacuum. Just like nature abhors a vacuum, political parties cannot function in a vacuum. It is true that the tenure is expiring tomorrow. There is a laid down procedure in the party constitution for elections. As you know, it goes through the CWC etc.” As Sachin pilot has called truce with Congress to end the political turmoil in Rajasthan, Tharoor said, “Whatever Sachin’s frustrations were, at no stage, he was against the party and against the values and principles and national leaders of the party. He talked about his specific issue within the state. In all fairness, his was a specific problem in a specific set of circumstances and not a denunciation of the congress party. So congress has every reason to keep its brightest talent within it.”Stressing that reconciliation is the best way forward, he said: “I would agree that reconciliation is the best way forward. People can have legitimate ambition for positions but at the end of the day why we are in politics in order to change the country for the better. What we are seeing in the country under the BJP rule is something that the Congress must resist.”“Yes, we may have frustrations within the party but to my mind, those frustrations could be dealt with and in the cases of Rajasthan if there is a win-win situation for everybody then all of us would be happy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfair-for-her-to-carry-this-burden-indefinitely-tharoor-on-sonia-completing-1-year-as-cong-interim-chief/story-PvfsTy7Pqp6IrzYmDB0dSL.html
11-08-2020||India||DGCA suspends two senior executives of AirAsia India over safety violations||Aviation regulator DGCA has suspended two senior executives of AirAsia India for a period of three months over “safety violations”, said a senior official on Tuesday.The suspension was carried out a week ago, the official said.In June this year, one of the AirAsia India’s former pilots -- who runs a YouTube channel called Flying Beast -- alleged violations of safety norms by the low-cost airline.“We had issued a show cause notice to two AirAsia India executives -- Head of Operations Manish Uppal and Head of Flight Safety Mukesh Nema -- in June only. It has been decided now to suspend them for a period of three months,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) official said.AirAsia India did not respond to PTI’s request for a statement on this matter.Captain Gaurav Taneja, a popular Youtuber, tweeted on June 14 that he has been suspended by AirAsia India “for standing up for safe operations of an aircraft and its passengers”. On June 15, he posted a detailed video on YouTube titled “Reasons behind suspension from my pilot job”.Taneja alleged in the video that the airline has asked its pilots to do 98 per cent of landings in “Flap 3” mode, which allows it to save fuel. He said if a pilot does not do 98 per cent of landings in “Flap 3” mode, the airline considers it a violation of its standard operating procedure (SOP).Flaps are part of wings of an aircraft and they are engaged to create a drag during a landing or a take-off.Taneja gave the example of the Imphal airport, where the plane descends more steeply as compared to other airports when approaching for landing. He said when an aircraft is coming down steeply, it needs to have a drag so that it remains slow, and in these circumstances a pilot has to do a “Flap full” landing.“In order to achieve targets, what would people do? They will do Flap 3 landings without giving consideration whether it is safe or unsafe. This directly impacts the passenger safety,” he had claimed in his YouTube video.“If something happens during a Flap 3 landing, then the question would be asked to the pilot if he or she cares more about saving fuel or 180 passengers’‘ lives, Taneja had said.On June 15, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Twitter that it had taken note of the concerns raised by some stakeholders “against a particular airline and its approach to safety”.“DGCA has already started an investigation into the issues flagged and shall take appropriate action based on the outcome of the said investigation,” it added.Senior DGCA officials had confirmed on June 15 itself that AirAsia India was under investigation after Taneja’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-suspends-two-senior-executives-of-airasia-india-over-safety-violations/story-TDCBjGuSatjqofIHoR4JxJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Over 53,000 new Covid-19 cases, 871 deaths take India’s tally to 2.26 million, recovery rate at 69.79%||India reported 53,601 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 871 deaths in the last 24 hours, which has pushed the country’s tally to beyond 2.26 million, Union health ministry’s data showed on Tuesday.The country had been registering more than 60,000 Covid-19 daily for the past four days--there were 64,399 on August 9--according to the health ministry’s data. On Monday, there were 62,064 cases and more than 1,000 fatalities.There were 47,746 patients of the viral disease who were discharged from hospitals across the country between Monday and Tuesday morning as the rate of recovery touched 69.79%. According to the health ministry data, 1,583,489 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far-- a milestone it has attributed to the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently.The gap between the number of recovered and active cases is more than 943,000 now. There are 639,929 active cases and 45,257 people have died of the coronavirus disease so far, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. India now has 28.21% active cases, 69.80% cured and 1.99% deaths, it also showed.The health ministry also said on Tuesday that the expert committee on vaccine administration will meet on Wednesday to consider “logistics and ethical aspects” of procurement and administration of vaccines against the coronavirus disease. The committee, chaired by NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul, will engage with stakeholders including state governments and vaccine manufacturers, the health ministry added.The government had formed the expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan. It has been tasked with the identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration.The panel will pick the vaccine or vaccines that India can use, plan the finances for what is sure to be an expensive purchase running into billions of dollars, and prioritise the sequence of administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-53-000-new-covid-19-cases-871-deaths-take-india-s-tally-to-2-26-million-recovery-rate-at-69-79/story-0n9HZWcp5pFgNT8ABsv5fK.html
11-08-2020||India||Maharashtra govt to accord state funeral to Air India pilot Capt Deepak Vasant Sathe||The Maharashtra government will accord a state funeral to Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, pilot of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week, killing 18 people, including both the pilots.“We’ll accord state funeral to late Wing Commander(Retd) Capt DV Sathe. His life has been one that will inspire young pilots to achieve Sword of Honour & command over skies,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said in a tweet on Tuesday morning. The funeral of Captain Sathe, a resident of Chandivali in Mumbai, will be held later in the day, according to news agency PTI.  The State has decided to accord a state funeral to the late Wing Commander (Retd) Captain DV Sathe. His life has been one that shall inspire many more young pilots to achieve the Sword of Honour and command over the skies.Sathe’s remains were flown to Mumbai from Cochin International Airport in Kerala on Sunday afternoon. The body was then kept at the Air India facility near Terminal 2 of Mumbai airport for sometime before being taken to Bhabha Hospital. Sathe, the commander of the ill-fated AI flight, was a former fighter pilot with the Indian Air Force with 10,000 hours of flying experience on the Boeing 737 aircraft. He had flown 6,662 of these hours as the commander.The co-pilot and first officer of the aircraft Captain Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday in his home town Mathura in the presence of his family and officials of Air India and Air India Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-to-accord-state-funeral-to-air-india-pilot-capt-deepak-vasant-sathe/story-4xNDsm2AxVL6rGKbWj2eNL.html
11-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi suggests MGNREGA, NYAY to help poor, then shoots a question||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the Centre to implement the government’s rural employment guarantee scheme and his party’s ‘Nyuntam Aay Yojana’ (NYAY) as an economic measure for the poor in urban and rural areas of the country amid the ongoing crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Gandhi talked about the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) as well as NYAY, a minimum income guarantee scheme proposed by the Congress party as a promise ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year.“The implementation of schemes like MGNREGA for the victims of unemployment in cities and NYAY for the poor people across the country is necessary. It will also be very beneficial for the economy,” Gandhi tweet translated from Hindi read.The former Congress president also attached a graph showing the growth in the demand for jobs under MGNREGA from May 2013 to the corresponding month this year.“Will the suit-boot-robbery government understand the pain of the poor?” he asked.The Congress’ NYAY scheme promises poor households Rs 72,000 a year, no taxes will be raised and the middle class won’t have to bear the brunt of funding this scheme.Gandhi had promised then that 20% of the poorest families in the country would get Rs 72,000 each annually under the scheme if the party win the parliamentary elections. The scheme was envisaged to cover five crore families and benefit nearly 25 crore people and each family would earn at least Rs 12,000 every month. The total estimated expenditures of the scheme were around Rs 3.5 lakh crore.The Congress party had recommended the implementation of its NYAY scheme in March as well after Prime Minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-suggests-mgnrega-nyay-to-help-poor-then-shoots-a-question/story-isOWqQ3mBI569JgyIvCuPJ.html
11-08-2020||India||3 suspects apprehended in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara, arms and ammunition recovered: Army||The Army apprehended three suspects and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara on Monday.An Indian Army spokesperson said that a joint search operation was launched along with Jammu and Kashmir Police late on Monday night in which one AK rifle and two pistols with magazines were recovered from the three suspects.The joint operation is in progress, the spokesperson further said.Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police Dilbag Singh had said last week that Pakistan has adopted a new technique of sending arms and ammunition to the union territory by using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).He had further said that such incidents of Pakistani UAVs carrying weapons were detected in Kupwara, Heera Nagar, Kathua and Rajouri.Another modus operandi of Pakistan to dispatch weapons through trucks to Jammu and Kashmir was unearthed in Punjab in the past, he said.The top cop had further said that due to sustained anti-militancy operations, the security forces have been able to curtail the number of active militants in Jammu and Kashmir to less than 200 now from 300 to 350 terrorists a few years ago.Singh said that there were 76 casualties and 107 injuries in the security forces in first seven months of 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, while there were just 36 casualties and 102 injuries in the security forces in the same period in 2020.Terror incidents were also down by 70 per cent - from 198 in first seven months of 2019 to 124 in the same period in 2020, the DGP had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-suspects-apprehended-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kupwara-arms-and-ammunition-recovered-army/story-MnfZQunvQSwL5hsblnoW9I.html
11-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre should take steps to undo economic disruption caused by Covid, says Manmohan Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre should take steps to undo economic disruption: Manmohan SinghProtecting people’s livelihood, making adequate capital available for businesses and ensuring the autonomy of the financial sector are the three steps the government should take “immediately” to undo the economic disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in an interview to BBC, urging the government to consider significant amounts of direct cash transfers to the public. Read moreTaskforce for vaccine distribution to meet tomorrow, says health ministryThe expert committee on vaccine administration, chaired by NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul, will meet on Wednesday to consider “logistics and ethical aspects” of procurement and administration of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 2.2 million people and killed over 44,000 in the country, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. Read moreBihar polls will be held on time, says Election CommissionThe Election Commission has rejected the demand of the political parties in Bihar to postpone the Assembly elections in the state. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora reiterated on Monday that elections in Bihar will be held on time, and that the poll panel is making preparations keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. Read moreLebanon prez Aoun was warned in July about explosives at port: ReportLebanese security officials warned the prime minister and president last month that 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored in Beirut’s port posed a security risk and could destroy the capital if it exploded, according to documents seen by Reuters and senior security sources. Read more‘Just try to whack one and get out’: When Muralitharan asked Ishant Sharma to give him 800th Test wicketLittle over a decade ago, Sri Lankan spin legend Muttiah Muralitharan retired from international cricket after becoming the first man in history to pick up 800 Test wickets. While Murali is the most prolific wicket-taker in international cricket across formats by a mile, he did struggle to pick up his last scalp in Test cricket. Read moreTriumph Street Triple R to launch in India today: Here’s what to expectAfter the launch of the updated Street Triple RS earlier this year, Triumph Motorcycles is now gearing up to introduce the new Street Triple R in India on Tuesday (August 11). As the name says, the new ‘R’ spec model will be placed lower than the ‘RS’, but it will be a significantly updated machine against the lower ‘S’ spec model. Read moreKubbra Sait says ‘your handle has been toxic’ as Kangana Ranaut’s team asks if she wants to ‘please a few’Hours after Kubbra Sait lent her support to a Twitter trend against Kangana Ranaut, the Panga star’s team has responded. Kubbra was quick to clarify that she had nothing personal against Kangana. Read moreGoogle reintroduces Google Maps for the Apple Watch after pulling it out 3 years agoGoogle has made two new announcements about the Google Maps for on Apple platforms, according to an Ars Technica report. For starters, Google Maps will now work with the dashboard view on Apple’s CarPlay screens and second, the company is also relaunching the Google Maps app on the Apple Watch. Read moreHappy Birthday Jacqueline Fernandez: Take a look into the actor’s best looks, fitness regime and moreJacqueline Fernandez has been gracing us with her casual charm and stylish good looks ever since her introduction to the world of fashion in the Miss Universe Sri Lanka pageant of 2006, for which she was the winner. This paved her way into becoming one of the biggest names in Bollywood, that she is today. Read moreWatch: Rajnath Singh hails ‘Atmanirbhar’ vision after India bans import of 101 items||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-initiates-optical-fibre-project-to-provide-connectivity-to-asean-nations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zZF5Rb2mfSuZDG5QPIhIfL.html
11-08-2020||India||Taskforce for vaccine distribution to meet tomorrow, says health ministry||The expert committee on vaccine administration, chaired by NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul, will meet on Wednesday to consider “logistics and ethical aspects” of procurement and administration of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 2.2 million people and killed over 44,000 in the country, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.The committee will engage with stakeholders including state governments and vaccine manufacturers, the health ministry added.The government had formed the expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan. It has been tasked with the identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration.The panel will pick the vaccine or vaccines that India can use, plan the finances for what is sure to be an expensive purchase running into billions of dollars, and prioritise the sequence of administration.The high-level panel, formed by the cabinet secretary last Friday, includes AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, representatives of the ministries of external affairs, biotechnology, information technology, the director general of health services, India’s Aids Research Institute, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and also representatives from states.India registered 62,064 new Covid-19 cases and 1,007 deaths, pushing the tally to 2,215,075, according to the Union health ministry on Monday.There are 634,945 active cases and 44,386 people have died of the viral disease so far, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taskforce-for-vaccine-distribution-to-meet-tomorrow-says-health-ministry/story-cBsfGWk2C2xEfeF0P4EKJL.html
11-08-2020||India||Infant dies in ambulance in Odisha, couple claims driver took long lunch break||A couple in Odisha’s tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district claimed that their one-year-old son, who needed medical attention, died due to a long lunch break taken by the ambulance driver.The baby boy of couple Niranjan Behera and Geeta Behera was admitted to PRM Medical College and Hospital in Baripada town on Sunday after developing diarrhoea-like conditions. However, the hospital authorities referred the baby to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on Monday as his condition turned serious.But soon after the 108 ambulance, with infant and his parents onboard, left the PRM Medical College and Hospital, the driver and the pharmacist decided to have lunch break at a roadside dhaba. The couple said that both of them promised come back quickly.After waiting in the ambulance for an hour, Biranjan Behera, the father of the child went to the eatery where the driver and the pharmacist were having lunch. However, they fobbed him off saying they were aware of the condition of the child.“They came after about 90 minutes and by then it was all over. Had the driver and the pharmacist not taken a long lunch-break my nephew would have been alive now,” claimed Paramanand Behera, maternal uncle of the deceased child.After the ambulance resumed its journey for Cuttack, the child’s condition turned more serious and at Krishanachandrapur area, 10 km from Baripada, it collapsed. The baby was admitted to the Krishanachandrapur community health centre, where the doctor declared the baby dead on arrival.Enraged, the parents and other people attacked the pharmacist and the driver. They also lodged a complaint against them at the police outpost of Krishanachandrapur.However, Sayan Bose, district coordinator of Ziqitza Healthcare Limited that operates the fleet of 108 ambulance, denied of any delay by the ambulance driver. “They had gone for lunch for just 20 minutes,” he said.Last month, a 46-year-old man in Berhampur town of Odisha died after his relatives and the ambulance driver fought over the latter’s delay in arrival. In another incident last month, a 42-year-old man in Berhampur town died at his home after an ambulance driver refused to take him to hospital suspecting that he was a Covid-19 patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-dies-in-ambulance-in-odisha-couple-claims-driver-took-long-lunch-break/story-Oa6I9Refk8Oaeu3p8J0vCK.html
11-08-2020||India||Andaman optical fiber may pitch India as alternative to China in ASEAN region||The submarine optical fibre from Chennai to Port Blair that promises fifth-generation (5G) connectivity, the latest in cellular wireless technology, to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands could be the first step for India to set up an alternative to China for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries to gain international connectivity, experts say. The project, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, promises a 2,300-km submarine optical fibre cable network that will connect the islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to Chennai. The submarine fibre network is estimated to cost Rs 1,224 crore and a bulk of the fibre being sourced from NEC Corporation Japan, which also provided technical assistance during the installation, said a department of telecommunications (DoT) official. When I visited Andaman and Nicobar Islands in 2018, people complained about poor internet. A 2300 kms long submarine cable inaugurated today changes that! In quick time and challenging geographies, the cable is all set to transform lives. Kudos to those who worked on this! pic.twitter.com/XK7MgXyAtyAccording to experts, the move will open up a host of opportunities for India in the ASEAN region, where China provides a majority of the submarine optical fibre.“This will open up more opportunities for India to interact with ASEAN countries like Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos,” said Shyamal Ghosh, former secretary, DoT. “The PM had set up a line of credit to explore such options in 2017, but due to bureaucratic bottlenecks there has been no progress so far,” he said. A DoT official said that the department was working towards connecting neighbouring countries with the fibre, but said it would not fall under the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) project, which is providing submarine optical fibre connectivity in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Ghosh cited that the inability of the countries to provide a sovereign guarantee for the line of credit because private companies mostly run the telecom sector and that proved to be a major hurdle. “These (ASEAN) countries are also looking for an alternative, as they don’t want to put all their eggs in the same basket,” he said. “In Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the network will provide a stable connection as the previously used satellite was more dependent on the availability of bandwidth, especially because the islands emerge as an important strategic point in the Indian Ocean region (IOR),” he added. RK Bhatnagar, a former technological adviser to DoT, said the submarine network in the second phase of connections could easily extend to countries such as Singapore and Thailand. “India is already having an offer of $1 billion line of credit for digital connectivity with ASEAN countries. Countries such as Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam can take advantage to have their OFC (optical fibre cable) digital highways connecting to the north-eastern states through a protected ring architecture and extension by 700 kilometres (km). Myanmar and other ASEAN countries can enjoy better international bandwidth option via the north-eastern states,” said Bhatnagar. He also exuded optimism that the move would be useful after the country graduates to 5G technology. “The cable system with the incremental submarine of 1,050 km can take connectivity to the nearest port of Thailand. Greater Nicobar, the last Indian island, is less than 175 km from Rando Island in Sumatra, Indonesia. India stands to gain politically if 1,925 km of incremental submarine cable can connect three ASEAN countries such as Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia. This distance is even less than 2,300 km from Chennai to Andaman and Nicobar islands. The project can be funded through the ASEAN line of credit,” he added. Both Ghosh and Bhatnagar believe that the extension of the cable network could bring in increased opportunities for trade and revenue generation for the country. “This system route, if extended, to three countries, as suggested along with OFC ring architecture in select ASEAN countries will bring in many more projects for the Indian domestic manufacturing industry,” Bhatnagar said. The project launched on Monday aims to provide high-speed internet to boost the island’s capabilities in terms of disaster mitigation, relief work and enable access to high-speed internet connectivity. At present, this is the only undersea optical fibre cable network owned by the Indian government. Private undersea networks already exist in Mumbai and Chennai, some of which the government had partnered earlier before Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited (VSNL) was merged with Tata Communications. The project has been completed under the DoT’s initiative USOF, which was set up under the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 2003. The government, in terms of policy decisions, spearheads the USOF, whose contributors include private players such as DoT licencees Airtel, Vodafone, Reliance Jio and Tata Telecom. All these telecom companies contribute a mandatory 5% of their licence fee adjusted gross revenue (AGR) to the fund and will now be able to lease the fibre to provide connections in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. According to DoT officials familiar with the matter, the USOF collects nearly Rs 8,000 crore annually. The USOF has also led initiatives to connect military and paramilitary forces via satellite connectivity such as Very Small Aperture Satellites (VSAT) in the past. The project aims to establish 1,409 connections in remote areas and has already established 183 of them, said DoT officials familiar with the matter. Mobile coverage, which is still under the tender process, would also be provided under USOF to remote villages in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inaugurates-optical-fibre-project-to-provide-international-connectivity-to-asean-nations/story-ANoK30ADYbfaP4xPZuDx7J.html
11-08-2020||India||Bihar polls will be held on time, says Election Commission||The Election Commission has rejected the demand of the political parties in Bihar to postpone the Assembly elections in the state.Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora reiterated on Monday that elections in Bihar will be held on time, and that the poll panel is making preparations keeping in view the Covid-19 situation.Arora said this while speaking to a news channel. He said that the Election Commission is taking all the necessary precautions in the wake of the coronavirus disease.The political parties in Bihar, including Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), had urged the poll panel to postpone the elections in the state. The LJP had written a letter to the Election Commission saying it is not advisable to put lives of lakhs of people at risk by holding elections at this time.Congress leader Akhilesh Prasad Singh had also said on Sunday that the current situation in Bihar is not conducive for Assembly elections. In the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Singh said he believes that the safety of people should be given paramount importance.“The safety of a person and society is the topmost important. The current situation in Bihar and the rest of the country is pathetic. In Bihar every third family has Covie-19 case,” he told news agency ANI.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, said that whether to hold an election or postpone it falls absolutely within the ambit of Election Commission and refrained from making any comment on this issue.The Election Commission had asked for suggestions from the political parties on holding the Assembly elections in the state. The earlier deadline of July 31 was increased to August 11 by the commission.The tenure of the current Assembly will end in Bihar on November 29. President’s rule has to be imposed if the election process is not completed by November 28 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-will-be-held-on-time-says-election-commission/story-awW8ajFOd9WFwp1SXOHfpO.html
11-08-2020||India||JKAP’s Altaf Bukhari demands high-level probe into disappearance of 3 Rajouri labourers||Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Monday sought an impartial and time-bound investigation into the disappearance of three labourers from Rajouri district.In a statement issued, Bukhari urged the Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to order a high-level probe into the disappearance of Imtiaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Abrar Ahmed whose whereabouts are unknown since July 17.“The Lt Governor-led government in J&K is expected to order and pursue a serious, impartial and transparent investigation that leaves no stone unturned in finding out what happened to these three poor labourers who have lost contact with their families since July 17. The truth behind their missing must be unearthed as quickly as possible,” he remarked.The JKAP president hoped that the government will assign the probe to a sitting judge who can lead the investigations while taking all the factors into consideration. Bukhari expressed solidarity with the families of the three missing labourers and assured them of all possible help in tracing their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkap-s-altaf-bukhari-demands-high-level-probe-into-disappearance-of-3-rajouri-labourers/story-0te8iXFxpz4tD0U0pIVJgK.html
11-08-2020||India||MP police arrest serial killer after studying old murder files||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Datia have arrested an alleged serial killer, who murdered at least four people including three in less than two years and may have been involved in more such crimes, officials said on Monday.The alleged accused Jugal Kishor Dheemar, 32, a resident of Bhander town of Datia district, 405km north of state capital of Bhopal, was arrested on Sunday, said police. Dheemar was arrested in connection with the three murders, including a double murder, on the ground of the similar method of the crime he had adopted more than a decade ago, said police. It was a modus operandi of the accused--smashing the victims’ heads with a wooden rod to kill them--which sent Dheemar behind the bar, said Aman Singh Rathor, Datia’s superintendent of police. “In October 2018, a middle-aged couple, Yakub Beg and Salma Beg, residents of Bohrana Mohalla, Bhander, were found dead at their home. Their heads were smashed with a wooden rod which was recovered from the spot of the crime by the police,” Rathor said.A special team was formed to arrest the criminal but the police couldn’t found any clue. In June this year, a 46-year-old Aganwadi worker Lodha Bai, a resident of Peerbali Mohalla of Bhander, was found dead in her house. Her head was also smashed with a wooden rod, he added.“In both the cases, we didn’t find any strong evidence but the modus operandi was found common. Police team read the case diaries of murders that had taken place at least in the past 15 years and they found that a 35-year-old man Irfan Khan had been killed in the same manner in 2009 by Dheemar. Dheemar was arrested in 2009. He was released on bail three years ago. The matter is pending before the court,” he added. “During investigation, local residents told the police team about their suspicion on Dheemar’s unusual behaviour. Police arrested him on Sunday and during the interrogation, he confessed to have committed the murders,” said Rathor. “Dheemar told the police that he had killed Yakub and Salma because they had scolded him for sitting in the verandah of their house. He killed the Anganwadi worker as she had scolded him when he accidentally almost fell on her while walking. He killed all the three during the night when they were sleeping in their homes. He had committed loot also in these two houses,” he said. He was produced before a court on Monday, which sent him to police remand for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-arrest-serial-killer-after-studying-old-murder-files/story-0VATyrFAsJJF2hNkOzAGhL.html
11-08-2020||India||Chart plan to recover AGR dues: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the government to prepare a plan to recover adjusted gross revenue (AGR)-related dues from bankrupt telecom operators, including Reliance Communications Ltd (RCom), Aircel Group and Videocon Communications Ltd. While observing that recovery of dues may not be possible from telcos undergoing insolvency, the apex court asked the government whether spectrum can be sold under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The case has been adjourned to August 14. The court, however, did not mention the order reserved on the staggered payment of dues by Vodafone Idea Ltd, Bharti Airtel Ltd and Tata Teleservices. Both Vodafone and Airtel have sought 15 years to clear the dues, while Tata Teleservices wants 7-10 years. However, recovery of the dues face a major hurdle. The department of telecom (DoT) is classified as an operational creditor, RCom said in its affidavit to the apex court. This would mean DoT will be pushed lower down the pecking order in trying to recover its dues under insolvency proceedings, as financial creditors are prioritised under these proceedings. For instance, the winning bidder for RCom’s spectrum, real estate, enterprise and data centre business UV Asset Reconstruction Co., has offered ₹14,000 crore for these assets. DoT may recover next to nothing on its outstanding dues of ₹25,199 crore from RCom if this resolution plan is approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chart-plan-to-recover-agr-dues-supreme-court/story-gZVqW1JP7WoxAd4HxqWi9N.html
11-08-2020||India||New L-G Manoj Sinha fuels hope of political revival in J&K||The appointment of Manoj Sinha, a former union minister and a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, as the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir, replacing bureaucrat GC Murmu, has raised expectations that political activity in the region, suspended since it was stripped of its special status and converted into a Union territory (UT) a year ago, is on the verge of being revived.Regional parties in J&K have a long list of demands starting with a resumption of a dialogue between them and the central government. Three days after Parliament passed bills to effectively revoke Article 370, which conferred special status on J&K, and Article 35A, which empowered the state legislature to define permanent citizens for whom government jobs and property ownership was reserved, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 8, 2019, assured people of the erstwhile state that they would elect their own political representatives.“Your representative will be elected by you; he will be one of you. The MLAs would be elected just as they used to be elected earlier. The cabinet would just be as it used to be earlier. The chief ministers would just be as they were before,” the PM said.The erstwhile state was converted into two UTs, J&K and Ladakh, with effect from October 31.Unlike J&K, Ladakh will not have its own legislature. A year later, although a host of political leaders including two former chief ministers National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah have been set free from detention that began on the eve of the constitutional changes pushed through on August 5 last year, political activity largely stays suspended. A third former CM and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader, Mehbooba Mufti, continues to be in detention and most leaders said they are still not allowed to leave home without the permission of the police. The appointment of career politician Sinha as lieutenant governor, announced on August 6, is being read as a signal that the Centre is keen to revive political activity and pave the way for the beginning of a new political chapter following the formation of the UT. The former state has been without a government since the collapse of the PDP-BJP coalition in June 2018. The process of electing a new assembly cannot start before the process of delimitation exercise, mandated by the J&K Reorganisation Act, is complete. The political landscape of J&K itself is in the midst of a churn. The regional parties, National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are grappling with the conditions imposed by the changed scenario, the Congress is barely noticeable and the BJP has been aggressively trying to expand its footprint in the UT, particularly in the Kashmir Valley. A new political entity, the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, led by Altaf Bukhari , a former minister, created some buzz. but is yet to emerge as an alternative to the regional parties, while the Jammu and Kashmir Political Movement (Independent) came and went in a flash. Parties that were launched in recent times, including the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement started by former IAS officer Shah Faesal, and Sajjad Lone’s J&K Peoples Conference barely found a mention after their founder-leaders were placed under detention. Lone was set free recently and on Monday, Faesal told India Today that he is “ending” his “short gig with politics.” Soon after taking over, Sinha told journalists in the Valley that there is a need “to establish a dialogue with the common people of Jammu and Kashmir…”“There will be no discrimination against anyone and there should be peace and stability,” he said. The governor’s statement has not enthused the local politicians, who complain of being sidelined. Wahid Para, spokesperson for the PDP who was in detention until recently, said: “We are battling for space and freedom of leadership. Kashmir is leaderless and representatives are restricted from speaking and moving freely. There’s silence and absence of political activity. On one hand, they talk of Naya Kashmir and on the other hand Kashmiris are feeling left out since no one is talking to us. I wonder what Governor Sahib will do.” Davinder Rana, a spokesperson of the National Conference, said the lieutenant governor’s political experience should serve to act as a bridge between the people and the administration. “His political experience will only be useful if he can use it to reach out to the people at the grassroots, understand them and their aspirations and convey these to the policymakers in Delhi who, in turn, can draft policies that meet the aspirations of the people and lead to their political social and economic empowerment with dignity and honour,” Rana said. Former CM and NC leader Omar Abdullah recently wrote that he would not be contesting polls till the statehood of J&K is restored. While the BJP says the political vacuum is temporary, Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Studies of Developing Societies said it is too early to even say there is a vacuum in the UT. “We cannot say regional parties have lost significance unless there is an election to prove so. And political activity has been put on hold so that the centre gets full control of the region.” A senior BJP leader, however, asserted that political activity in the UT will be revived. “Whenever there is a political vacuum, new leadership emerges,” the leader said on condition of anonymity“Post-Independence, an attempt was made to make the people believe they were special, but at the same time there were no deliverables,” the BJP leader said. The leader did not reject the possibility of old alliances being rekindled and leaders who have been written off getting back in the saddle. While people in the UT, particularly in the Valley, have questioned the outcome of the reorganization, criticising the government for failing to check terror attacks, provide internet services and create jobs , the government has defended the move by pointing to the benefits that have reached the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, Gorkhas, West Pakistani Refugees and Pakistan-Occupied Jammu and Kashmir displaced persons, who were excluded from caste-based reservation in jobs and educational institutions, voting rights in the state and property rights. “There has been a change. Unheard voices of the Gujars and the Bakarwals, the refugees are now being heard. Discrimination that existed for decades has ended, so the benefits outweigh the concerns that a section of people and politicians in the Valley have about the scrapping of Articles 370 and 35A,” said the BJP leader quoted above. The PM too has been critical of Articles 370 and 35A for having “given nothing but secessionism, terrorism, nepotism and widespread corruption on a large scale to Jammu-Kashmir” and as “a weapon used by Pakistan to flare up the emotions of some people.” In Jammu, where the scrapping of the special status drew a mixed response but the demand for restoring statehood is unequivocal, the BJP says delimitation, which will add more assembly seats to the Jammu region, will change the political fortunes of the region. “The hegemony of the Kashmiri politicians will be over and the regional aspirations of Jammu will no longer be ignored,” said a local BJP leader. “There is nothing on the ground to suggest that. In the absence of a statutory arrangement in place to press for equal sharing of resources and jobs between the two regions, Jammu could still be at the mercy of whichever party comes to power,” said former bureaucrat and commentator KB Jandial. BJP’s national general secretary P Murlidhar Rao said the polity of J&K will now be redefined. “Politics will now have to adhere to the true spirit of the Indian Constitution and the definition of secularism will have to be reflected in the Valley. The practice of delegitimizing and derecognising the minorities in the Valley will end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-l-g-manoj-sinha-fuels-hope-of-political-revival-in-j-k/story-IJbawdcfRzNyPxLSCRuv1K.html
11-08-2020||India||The many rebellions of Congress leaders||Over the years, the Congress has seen scores of rebellions and defections by party men more senior and prized than Sachin Pilot. But never in recent memory has a disaffected leader been as assiduously wooed as the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister after his revolt against Ashok Gehlot. The Congress leadership’s peace overtures to Pilot -- including his latest meeting with Rahul Gandhi -- were unprecedented also in the light of the chief minister’s majority support in the legislature party: 100-plus loyalists against a mutinous 20-odd. Party spokespersons described Pilot as a “valued” colleague, as “family” while advocating dialogue to sort out the misunderstandings or grievances he has with Gehlot. To be sure, this may also have been made possible by the lack of options before Pilot once it became clear he couldn’t get more legislators to switch to his camp. Albeit on a much smaller scale, the clamor -- it seemed to lose steam after the initial burst on Twitter by Congress leaders of Pilot’s generation -- to not let him leave was reminiscent of 1999. That was when Sonia Gandhi quit as Congress president after the Sharad Pawar-led rebellion on the issue of her foreign origin. The only difference: she resigned, and Pilot was sacked from the positions he held for ignoring the party’s urgings to bury the hatchet.To be fair, much of Pilot’s insubordination, if that’s the word, was unattributed. Personally remaining incommunicado, his was a proxy media offensive against Gehlot’s “excesses” to marginalise his faction. A thread that ran common to these off-the-record conversations was the assertion that Pilot had no plans to cross over to the Bharatiya Janata Party; and that his battle was against the CM, not the party’s central command. It’s another matter that bipartisan observers saw circumstantial evidence flying in the face of his claim of no truck with the BJP.Be that as it may, these averments, which could’ve been tactics to skirt disciplinary action or make the party complacent, distinguished l’affaire Pilot from past intraparty ferments. The Congress For Democracy (CFD), formed by Jagjivan Ram and HN Bahuguna before the 1977 elections, was a frontal denouncement of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency. Before that, Chandra Shekhar, the original Young Turk of Indian politics, chose jail over a ministerial berth by refusing to back suspension of democratic freedoms under the draconian 1975 proclamation. In the early phase of her long innings, Indira, then a relative neophyte, fought the powerful syndicate of Congress old guard in 1966-67 to become Prime Minister. The group that wanted her tamed included such stalwarts as Morarji Desai, K Kamaraj and S Nijalingappa. She had to wait till the 1969 presidential poll to put her “stamp of supremacy” on the party. The turning point came when her candidate, VV Giri defeated the syndicate’s nominee, Sanjeeva Reddy.That’s now a bygone era. Today’s Congress is without even the truncated strength bequeathed to it by PV Narasimha Rao, who ran a good minority regime but paid scant attention to the health of the organisation he led by default after Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination. The period, made difficult by the 1992 Ayodhya episode, witnessed senior functionaries leaving the party in a veritable procession. The breakaway group led by ND Tiwari had people like Arjun Singh and Natwar Singh in it. They rejoined the Congress in 1998 after Rao ceased to be its president, and his successor Sitaram Kesri was dispensed with to make room for Sonia Gandhi. The Congress she inherited was a pale copy of the one headed by her husband. With over 400 seats in the Lok Sabha, Rajiv Gandhi appeared unstoppable when elected PM in 1984. The sheen wore off fast as charges of graft (read Bofors) and other missteps (read Shah Bano; opening of temple doors in Ayodhya) which clouded the initiatives for which he’s remembered: advent of information technology; empowerment of Panchayati Raj institutions; warding off global pressure to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT). In the second half of Rajiv’s rule, his former defence and finance minister, VP Singh declared an all-out war, using the Bofors scam to marshal the entire Opposition against the Congress. The Janata Dal that formed the government in 1989 under Singh was founded a year earlier. Besides him, the trinity that unraveled the legislatively formidable Rajiv dispensation included the latter’s ambitious cousin, Arun Nehru and Arif Mohammad Khan, who fell out with him when the government gave in to the hardline lobby in the Shah Bano case. From the memoirs of Giani Zail Singh and PC Alexander, it is evident that Arun Nehru engineered Pranab Mukherjee’s ouster from Rajiv’s inner circle after the 1984 elections in the wake of Indira’s assassination. That saw Mukherjee forming his own party-- before merging it with the Congress in 1989. In Rajiv’s own words, the reconciliation happened when he realised that many things told to him about his mother’s trusted men, such as Mukherjee and RK Dhawan, were untrue. The episode could be a lesson for the incumbent high command on the risks of being misled by those they trust. Like Mukherjee, who rose to be India’s President, other Congress biggies who formed their own parties but later returned to the Congress were former Kerala CMs K Karunakaran and AK Antony. An ace party hand, GK Moopanar floated his Tamil Mannila Congress in the 1990s. But for the DMK’s opposition, he could’ve been the PM of the United Front government in 1996. Another Indira loyalist, VC Shukla’s homecoming happened in 2004 after stints in Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party and the BJP. He also served as a minister under VP Singh and Chandra Shekhar. The restlessness of talented people in the Congress today is largely the work of its fixation with the Nehru-Gandhi name, which has undoubtedly kept it from falling apart, besides fetching it power on Sonia Gandhi’s watch from 2004 to 2014. But in the absence of the glue of power, even that utilitarian value of the “first family” came unstuck with a string of debilitating defections: Hemata Biswa Sarma, Jaganmohan Reddy and Jyotiradtiya Scindia, to name a few (and whose decisions to part ways has seriously dented the party).That brings Pilot back into the narrative. In his early forties, he hasn’t left the Congress and seems to have returned to the fold after keeping the party on the tenterhooks for weeks. Perhaps Pilot’s terms of entente were unrealistic. After all, a CM with majority support in the legislature could not be removed at his asking. He needed to agree to a middle ground. And seems to have.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-many-rebellions-of-congress-leaders/story-K0yzMHAggMyW2wjWWLXqAK.html
11-08-2020||India||India donates 10 ventilators to Nepal||The Indian Army has donated 10 ICU ventilators to the Nepali Army to support its efforts to cope with the Covid-19 crisis, with Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra reaffirming New Delhi’s commitment to help the people of Nepal in prevailing over the pandemic. Kwatra presented the ventilators to Nepali Army chief Gen Purna Chandra Thapa, who is also the honorary general of the Indian Army, during a ceremony held at the army headquarters in Kathmandu on Sunday. “The Indian Army has a long record of extending support to the Nepali Army as a first responder for humanitarian assistance and relief. The gifting of ventilators is part of this continued humanitarian cooperation between the two armies,” said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-donates-10-ventilators-to-nepal/story-A1xvDxwTkHCSOOQmG2QLIK.html
11-08-2020||India||Centre shortlists consultants for National War Museum||The government has started work on a National War Museum at the India Gate hexagon in New Delhi, ending a four-year long wait for a structure that should have come up along with the National War Memorial which opened on February 25. The planned museum will be connected through an underground passage with the memorial, according to documents reviewed by Hindustan Times.The ministry of housing and urban affairs’ arm the Central Public Works Department of India has shortlisted two New-Delhi based firms, CP Kukreja Architects and Suresh Goel & Associates. CPWD opened the financial bid for the tender on July 23 for selecting the consultant for comprehensive architectural and engineering planning for the proposed National War Museum and underground connecting passage between National War Museum and Memorial in New Delhi.The construction of the project is expected to cost around Rs 450 crore, according to officials aware of the development.“The objective of this bid documents is to engage a consultant to plan the National War Museum at Princes’ Park with parking facility in the basement and Underground passage connecting with National War Memorial. The National War Museum Complex is to be connected with National War Memorial through a pedestrian Underground passage. The land area allotted for development of National War Museum Complex is around 10.71 Acre,” said the tender document, which has been reviewed by HT. “The plan shall entail concept, plan, detailed design and strategies, development works, demolition of existing buildings as well as related infrastructure and site development works. These new iconic structures shall be a legacy for 150 to 200 years at the very least,” it added.A combined Quality and Cost Bases selection (QCBS) process shall be adopted for the selection of Consultant. The first stage in the selection process shall be evaluation of the technical proposal submitted by the Bidders, the tender document states.The final selection of the firm will be on the basis of the Final Composite Score (FCS) derived by combining the Technical Score (TS) and the Financial Score (FS) with 80% and 20% ratio respectively. A similar method was also adopted for the selection of the firm for Central Vista project in 2019, which was awarded to Gujarat based-HCP design. CP Kukreja Architects was also among the shortlisted bidders for the Central Vista project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 25 inaugurated the National War Memorial. The plan to construct a National War Memorial has been under consideration since 1961 at the apex level. “The consideration acquired momentum in 2014 and after a deliberate process the Union Cabinet on 7 October 2015 approved construction of National War Memorial & Museum (NWM&M) within the National capital’s Lutyen’s zone,” the war memorial’s website states. For the memorial a two stage Global competition was held in 2016-17 and Chennai based WeBe Design Lab Chennai was appointed the project consultant. A similar competition was held for the museum, but it soon turned controversial with the runner-up accusing the winner of plagiarism, and the battle ending up in court. Now, CPWD seems to have decided to push ahead with the project for the museum. “India has a rich military heritage. The gallantry of Indian soldiers is recognized world over. Since Independence, the Indian Armed Forces have fought four major wars to defend national borders and uphold our national interests. The Armed Forces have also won laurels and glory while operating in UN mandated peace missions, combating terror and insurgency and during conduct of Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief Operations,” the CPWD tender said.“A National War Museum has been planned in New Delhi as tribute to Indian soldiers and to showcase the nation’s military culture, customs, traditions and history. The Museum is envisaged to be world class, state of the art building which will be a ‘must visit’ landmark for those visiting New Delhi,” it added.According to the tender, the consultant should adhere to the Central Vista Committee Guidelines and Lutyens Bungalow Zone Guidelines while carrying out the consultancy work.“A pre-bid meeting was held on March 16 by CPWD officials with senior officials from the defence ministry and around 15 interested firms. Followed by this five firms had evinced interest and presented their designs and two qualified for the financial bids,” a senior official said. The firm for the museum will soon be selected, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-shortlists-consultants-for-national-war-museum/story-GAxh53jFAzxFJ8bl3MfPvK.html
11-08-2020||India||India to send 4 officers to UN to boost diplomatic presence||India has decided to upgrade its diplomatic presence at the UN before taking over as a non-permanent member of the Security Council in January 2021 by appointing an additional deputy permanent representative (DPR) and a counsellor to handle UNSC matters. External affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar will personally review India’s stint at the UNSC every month.According to South Block, R Ravindran, a 1999 batch Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer and presently joint secretary (Central and West Africa), will join the Indian Permanent Mission to the UN in New York with a rank equivalent to that of a DPR. Pratik Mathur, a 2007 IFS officer and deputy secretary (PMO), will join as a counsellor. While the mission is headed by T S Tirumurti and has Nagaraj Naidu as DPR, the two officers will join the group before the 75th UN General Assembly opens on September 15,2020. Preparatory work for new non-permanent members begins months before they formally join the UNSC.Ravindran served in the office of the Indian permanent representative to the UN under Hardeep Singh Puri, now minister of civil aviation, urban development and commerce, who headed the mission when India was a non-permanent member in 2011-2012. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already spelled out India’s approach at the UNSC by spelling out a 5S approach -- Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) , Shanti (global peace) and Samiriddhi (global prosperity) -- with the overall objective of a “New Orientation of a Reformed Multilateral System.”While India got 184 out of 192 valid votes cast for the UNSC seat, the vote numbers surprised New Delhi as India’s adversaries, particularly Pakistan, Turkey, Malaysai and backed by Islamabad’s all-weather friend Chinam had spread negativity about the revocation of article 370 in Kashmir on August 5 last year. “Our understanding is that India got these many votes as its forces stood up to China at Galwan in East Ladakh in June. Although only 129 votes are required, India got additional votes for having the capacity to fight for its territory,” said a senior government official.It was a reference to the violent brawl that took place in Galwan on June 15 in which heavily outnumbered Indian soldiers fought back against Chinese troops. India lost 20 men in the skirmish and China suffered an unspecified number of casualties. From conversations with a bunch of diplomats, it is quite evident that India is set to play a constructive role at the UNSC without forgetting that it is still waiting to become a permanent member of the Council after 75 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-send-4-officers-to-un-to-boost-diplomatic-presence/story-ayFfk7eiyeywz9vOMxrgLO.html
11-08-2020||India||Rafales practising night-flying in Himachal Pradesh||The five newly acquired top-of-the-line Rafale fighter jets from France are being kept away from the 1,597-km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector out of concern that People’s Liberation Army (PLA) radars in occupied Aksai Chin could identify their frequency signatures and jam the signals in a worst-case scenario.The Rafales, based in Ambala, are understood to be practising night flying in the mountainous terrain of Himachal Pradesh so that the Golden Arrows squadron, with its Meteor beyond-visual-range air-to-air missiles and SCALP air-to-ground standoff weapons will be ready if the situation deteriorates on the LAC.According to South Block officials, the Rafale fighters are “fully operational,” with the first 18 platforms to be placed in Ambala and the next 18 fighters to be based in the Hashimara airbase near the border with Bhutan. Military aviation experts say the Rafales can also be used for training purposes in the Ladakh sector as all these fighters are equipped with programmable signal processors (PSP) or the capacity to change signal frequencies in the event of hostilities.“Even though the Chinese PLA have placed their electronic intelligence radars on mountain tops in occupied Aksai Chin area for clear line of sight, the wartime signature of Rafale will be different from that in practice mode. The PLA aircraft detection radars are good as they have been manufactured, keeping the US air force in mind,” an expert said, requesting anonymity.Although Indian and Chinese diplomatic and military interlocutors are engaged in a constant dialogue for total disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, the three services are not only focused on the western sector but also the remaining part of the LAC as well as on the high seas. Last week, Army Chief General M.M. Naravane made it clear to central and eastern army commanders that they should not be caught by surprise by the PLA on the LAC and should be in the highest state of military preparedness.The Indian Navy has also been directed to monitor the Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean to ensure that Chinese PLA warships are kept at bay from the Indian sea board and island territories. The surface and undersea assets are on operational alert with Chinese ships being monitored from the Malacca Straits to the Gulf of Aden.Although the Chinese PLA’s air activity has reduced in the Ladakh sector as compared to the first week of July after the Galwan Valley flare-up in June, the Indian Air Force is taking no chances and is watching the Lhasa Gonggar and Hotan airbases in particular. On June 15, a violent brawl flared between Indian and Chinese solders in Galwan in eastern Ladakh, leaving 20 Indian soldiers dead and an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafales-practising-night-flying-in-himachal-pradesh/story-cf5IDColAqhc186UPr1XaN.html
11-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||According to a report by the American Academy of Pediatrics released over the weekend, the number of Covid-19 cases among children increased by 97,078 in the US between July 16 and July 20. This number, according to the report, is 29% of all cases among children reported since the start of the pandemic, and represents a 40% increase (there were 241,904 cases among children on July 16 and this went up to 338,982 by July 30). Overall, according to data from worldometers.info, the US saw the addition of 22% of its total cases as on July 30 in the period between July 16 and July 30. Clearly, infections among children (albeit on a lower base), have grown faster than in the total population (including children) in this period. The report considered children to be those under the age of 17 or 19 (although two states set the ceiling at 14 and one considered young people till the age of 24).The American Academy of Pediatrics report is relevant in that country given the debate over the reopening of schools. For that reason, it is relevant in India, too, where, as HT reported late last week, there has been a plan for school reopenings ready for at least a month, although there has been no decision on the timing of this (some reports have suggested that it could be September 1 for students in Classes 11 and 12).Similar data for India isn’t available. Neither the Indian Council of Medical Research nor the Union health ministry release caseload data by age groups on a regular basis. They did so once in April, but since then, while they have released data on deaths by age groups at least thrice, they have not shared details of cases. According to people familiar with the data, though, the proportion of children (those under the age of 18) in the caseload was around 8% at the end of July, when India had around 1.7 million cases. In the absence of more granular details, it is difficult to assess whether this number has been rising in recent weeks. Still, while the information isn’t in the public domain, it is available, which means the government can analyse whether cases among children have been on the rise even as India’s overall caseload has soared -- just the kind of input that should go into a decision on reopening schools. The data also shows that the majority of infections (till the end of July) were among people below the age of 45, but that the majority of deaths (till August 4), among those over the age of 45 – but that’s another story.The issue of school openings is a controversial one around the world; it is also one that has vexed governments. Most governments believe (and justifiably so) that keeping schools closed disadvantages the already disadvantaged. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson distilled these sentiments in an article published in the Mail on Sunday. He cited research that claimed that “the attainment gap between children from economically deprived households and their peers could widen by more than a third” and referred to UN secretary general Antonio Guterres’s comments last week about this being a “generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities”. He added that keeping schools closed “a moment longer than absolutely necessary is socially intolerable, economically unsustainable and morally indefensible”.All of Johnson’s observations are valid – and they are perhaps not out of place in a country that has seen a sharp fall in cases. According to the New York Times database, the seven-day average of daily new cases in the UK was 876 (on Sunday). That’s higher than the 500-level the average was at in early July, but far off peaks seen in April and May.The reason why the issue has become as controversial as it has in the US is because the country is considering reopening amidst a clear second wave (which is just coming off its peak). India’s challenge is even tougher, and from both ends – the digital divide is real and affects many children who go to government schools and even most of those who study in private schools under the government’s Right To Education law; and the number of coronavirus disease cases in the country continues to rise. India ended Monday with 51,127 new cases, and a total of 2,263,864 cases thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-UXvMnUNxTDtWzPSSxmWYqN.html
11-08-2020||India||62% cases but only 13% fatalities among those below 45 years||Around six out of every 10 (62%) infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India have been among people below the age of 45 years, but Covid-19 patients above 45 years of age account for nearly nine in 10 (87%) of all deaths, shows government data.The findings about the age-wise distribution of infections and deaths in India appear to be in line with what scientists have observed about the global trends of the disease — it disproportionally infects younger people, while it severely affects those who are older. Officials, however, have not released new data about the break-up of cases based on gender and comorbidities.The unreleased case data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, accessed by HT, also shows that more than half (54%) of the people infected in India are between the ages of 18 and 44, while half (50%) the people who succumbed to the disease are above 60 years of age.  The data for age-wise breakup of cases pertains to the time when India had 1.7 million cases (July 31, according to HT’s dashboard), officials from the health department who did not wish to be identified said. “The India data also corroborates what experts have found globally that the disease is relatively less common among children, and mostly affects the adult population. Older adults, and those with comorbidities, are at a higher risk of developing severe form of the disease, hence, need to be more careful,” said a health ministry official, who asked not to be named.People between the ages of 26 and 44 years are the single largest group of people who have been infected with Sars-CoV-2 (40%). This is followed by people between 45 years and 60 years (26%). Meanwhile, with 8% infected, the under-17 age group has the least proportion of infections. “What we need to understand about this virus is that it is highly contagious and everyone is equally exposed. In children, however, in terms of overall numbers the infections are less. It may seem like those who are more likely to be mobile are the ones most affected but we are seeing that even if one family member is infected and brings the infection home then all family members are likely to contract the infection. That’s the level of transmissibility we see,” said Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The government has not released data on breakup of cases based on age since April. But since then, they have released data on deaths split by age groups at least thrice — on May 1, June 2, and July 10 , during the health ministry’s press briefings on Covid-19 . Most deaths — 50% — are in the age group of 60 years and above, followed by 37% deaths among people between 45 years and 60 years in age. About 11% of people who succumbed to the disease were between 26 and 44 years of age and 1% each belonged to the 18 - 25 years and below 17 years cohorts. This set of data was released by the government on August 4.The latest mortality data also shows 68% of the Covid-19 deaths in the country are among men and 32% are of women. “It is a new virus and there is lots that is not known about the disease; however, the evidence before us currently suggests that having co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and also obesity is a key factor in determining whether a positive case will develop serious illness or not. It also contributes to overall deaths due to Covid-19, with a large number of those dying due to Covid-19 having found to be suffering from at least one of these health conditions. Comorbidities interfere in the recovery process,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant, medicine department, Moolchand hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/62-cases-but-only-13-fatalities-among-those-below-45-years/story-ApwNkJiijl9UomOAm1RNQJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Amidst Idukki landslide debris, 2 dogs search for their ‘best friends’||This is the story of four dogs, and while, like all dog stories, it is about love, devotion, and duty, it isn’t a happy one. The four dogs have been a constant presence at Rajamalai in Kerala’s Idukki district, the site of a landslide that has claimed at least 45 lives. Two have been there for three days now, ever since the landslide on Friday. Local breeds, they are searching for their humans. Some rescue workers tried to offer them food, but they seem to have no interest in that. Finally, some locals coaxed them into eating a few bites, said Muniyandi, a plantation worker who has been at the site of the landslide since Saturday. In the early hours of Friday, a portion of the Pettimalai hills, near the hill-station Munnar, caved in, razing at least 30 houses of poor plantation workers, claiming at least 45 lives. At least 28, including the humans of the two dogs, are still missing. “The pets’ plight has moved everyone. Whenever a body is extricated, they rush to the spot . Then they return to the shade under the rocks, waiting for the next,” said MJ Babu, a senior journalist from Munnar. Some people tried to take the dogs, one black and the other grey, to their houses, but the canines have stood their ground. Also on the site is Maya, a Belgian Malinois from Kerala Police who has helped discover at least six bodies under the rubble, and her colleague, Dona, a Labrador Retriever whose speciality is finding survivors (unfortunately, Dona has had little luck so far). Maya is still in training but has surprised even her handler P Prabhat. Kerala’s director general of police Lokanth Behra, who had a brief stint with the National Investigation Agency before joining the post, said the canine squad has 150 trained dogs that are specialists in sniffing out bodies, explosives, gold and so on.“ Maya has done wonders on her first assignment itself and she will be rewarded properly,” said the state police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amidst-idukki-landslide-debris-2-dogs-search-for-their-best-friends/story-IB3O2lPZ3RX8f3g9O4uNWP.html
11-08-2020||India||Boost for CM Ashok Gehlot as Sachin Pilot mutiny all but over||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion raised questions about the stability of the Congress government in the state, appeared to have agreed to a truce after his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Monday, putting an end to a month-long uncertainty involving dramatic legal and political flashpoints in the western state.Pilot expressed his “grievances in detail” in the “open and conclusive discussion” with former party president Gandhi, the Congress said in a statement, while declaring the formation of a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by the 42-year-old leader and the 18 other rebel legislators who backed him.“...Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan,” the statement issued by KC Venugopal, Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, said.  Leaders close to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who has had differences with Pilot on a number of issues since the Congress-led government came to power in December 2018, said Gehlot will accept the high command’s decision and termed Pilot’s move as a “face-saver”. Pilot’s apparent softening of stance not only bolsters Gehlot politically and eliminates any possible threat to his government but also gives a much-needed breather to the Congress, which has been suffering due to a perceived generational gap between its old and young leaders at a time when it is also struggling to stay relevant nationally in the face of an aggressive Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) . At one point, a rapprochement looked distant with Gehlot launching a personal attack on Pilot , but Monday’s meeting changed all that. The meeting, which came four days ahead of the beginning of a crucial assembly session in the state, took place for over two hours after noon at the 12, Tughlaq Road residence of Gandhi, a leader from the Pilot camp familiar with the details told HT, requesting anonymity. He also confirmed the presence of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “The Gandhis did save the day for the Gehlot government,” the person quoted above said, confirming a peaceful resolution. “They [the Congress leadership] assured Pilot that the issues he had would be looked into,” he said.“The Congress leadership appreciated that Pilot did not respond to utterances by the chief minister and other leaders owing allegiance to him. All issues that his supporters raised will also be looked into,” said the leader. “Pilot also stressed that the grievances of his people should be addressed, they should get respect and their work should get done and he categorically stated that he does not want any post.” Later in the day, Pilot said “we raised issues of principles before the Congress leadership, and welcome their assurance of a time-bound redressal of our grievances”. Asserting that he is not after any post and that the party can take back any position given to him, Pilot told the media that he thought certain issues had to be raised for the benefit of the party.“While a lot of unparliamentarily words were used, I have chosen to maintain the dignity of the discourse,” Pilot told HT. He also said he was set to head back for Jaipur on Tuesday. Pilot has given up his claim to chief ministership, a second Congress leader HT spoke to said, though there was no word on this from the former deputy chief minister’s team. It was the first time that Gandhi met Pilot since the now-dismissed deputy chief minister left Jaipur on July 12. Since then, he has camped at various places in the national capital region — from Faridabad to Manesar — with the Congress legislators backing him. The state Congress unit and Pilot and his team have also been locked in a legal battle over the speaker’s powers in initiating disqualification proceedings against them. It was not immediately clear whether Pilot will be given a responsibility at the central level as part of the peace formula. Pilot and the legislators supporting him are expected to attend the crucial assembly session beginning August 14. Confident of its numbers, the Gehlot government was expected to take a floor test in the House. But, in view of the latest developments, it is not sure if that will be required. On Monday, seven-time legislator Bhanwarlal Sharma, a key member of the Pilot camp who was suspended by the Congress, met Gehlot to assure him of his support.“It [the session] is on the 14th; so there is time left. We will be making an announcement soon,” said another leader from the Pilot camp.The second Congress leader said it was Pilot who sought a meeting with the central leadership. This leader said Pilot has been speaking to senior leaders Ahmad Patel and Venugopal.Asked if Rajasthan will be out of bounds for Pilot, another party functionary said: “We are not aware of any promise given to him by Rahul Gandhi. What transpired between them at the personal level is not known to us.”A section in the Congress believes Pilot had a rethink because of a difference of opinion within his group; some of them were worried that Pilot did not have the numbers to destabilise Gehlot’s government. Rajasthan-based political analyst Narayan Bareth said the developments are lesson for the Congress that it should promote only those who have risen through the ranks. “Pilot should also realise that the organisation and its ideology are more important than any post,” he said. The crisis in Rajasthan surfaced after Pilot received a notice from the special operations group of Rajasthan Police on July 10, triggering a revolt that has been in the offing for months. It asked him to record his statement regarding an alleged attempt to topple the Congress government. Though the Congress said a similar notice was sent to Gehlot, leaders close to Pilot called it a “joke”; for it is the chief minister who is in charge of the home department that oversees the police force. Pilot’s camp said the notice was yet another move to “humiliate” the deputy chief minister and “undermine” his authority. The Congress removed Pilot as the deputy chief minister and state Congress president on July 14 and two of his supporters, including Sharma, were suspended from the party. Gehlot alleged that the Centre’s ruling BJP was trying to topple his government and his camp also said the BJP was helping Pilot. While the BJP repeatedly blamed the Congress’s internal rift for the Rajasthan crisis, Pilot said publicly that he would not join the BJP. As the spotlight turned to the numbers amidst possibilities of a floor test, the Gehlot camp appeared to have the support of 101 legislators (though this did not include speaker CP Joshi) in the 200-member assembly. Pilot had the backing of 18 other Congress MLAs and three independents. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, one Congress MLA said to be close to Pilot, is indisposed. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. On the day the Rajasthan crisis appeared to have been resolved, state BJP president Satish Poonia sharpened his attack on Gehlot, asking him to quit on moral grounds. “I had said on day one that it is the infighting of the Congress and they kept running from one place to another. There should be an audit of it in ‘janta ki adalat’,” Poonia told reporters at the party office in Jaipur, referring to allegations that his party was involved in the mutiny. “In this entire episode, the one who is actually a villain tried to become a hero. Ashok Gehlot should quit as the chief minister on moral grounds as it would lead to the solution of a lot of problems.” (with inputs from HTC in Jaipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-for-cm-gehlot-as-pilot-mutiny-all-but-over/story-f5WRk4bYZosfzo1LFQAKnL.html
11-08-2020||India||Ban on China imports: Possible spike in dumping a concern||India is on alert against a possible increase in the dumping of Chinese products, either directly or through third countries, in the Indian market as major economies move to impose restrictions on Chinese imports, two officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. An investigation has already confirmed dumping of Chinese polyethylene terephthalate (PET), a raw material to manufacture bottles for packaging of food and beverages, after the US, Canada, Brazil and Argentina restricted its imports from China. The finance ministry will take appropriate remedial actions soon based on a final investigation report, the officials cited above, who work in two different economic ministries, said.Another cause of concern is a recent executive order by US President Donald Trump directing the federal government to purchase essential drugs from only American manufacturers. The move could block a major market for Chinese drug manufacturers and prompt them to push their products into the Indian market, they said.“As the government agencies as well as the domestic industry are vigilant, adoption of any illegal means by Chinese firms to access Indian market would be foiled,” one of the officials said.There is no blanket ban on Chinese imports, provided Beijing follows rules, does not engage in dumping to hurt Indian industries, and does not pose a threat to India’s national security. “All critical items are still imported [from China]. Actions are initiated against only those Chinese products that hurt domestic companies. It is the duty of the government to protect Indian businesses,” the first official said. He cited the example of PET resin being domped from China. “It is hurting domestic firms such as RIL [Reliance Industries Ltd]. On the basis of a complaint from the industry, DGTR (Directorate General of Trade Remedies) investigated the matter and its preliminary report found dumping by the Chinese firms,” a second official said. The preliminary investigation report of DGTR, issued on August 5, confirmed the development. Proposing to impose an anti-dumping duty on import of Chinese PET resin, DGTR said on Wednesday: “Information provided by the petitioners shows that trade remedial measures have been invoked by USA, Canada, Brazil and Argentina against Chinese imports of subject goods [PET resin] show the pattern of dumping by the concerned producers/exporters of the subject country [China]. The petitioners have emphasized that the closure of these markets to the exporters indicates threat of increased dumping and further injury to the domestic industry.”Officials said a similar situation may emerge for the Indian pharmaceutical sector after President Trump’s executive order. “Over the course of the next four years, we will bring our pharmaceutical and medical supply chains home and we will end reliance on China and other foreign nations,” a PTI report from Washington said on Friday. quoting Trump.China and India are twoof the world’s biggest pharmaceutical exporters. While China has a near monopoly in active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), India is the largest exporter of generic medicines, the second official said. “The US market will squeeze and Indian pharmaceutical manufacturers will face stiff competition from Chinese products in almost all markets. The government’s effort to revive domestic API manufacturing may also get affected by influx of cheaper Chinese products,” he added.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner of consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said: “India has always been the dumping ground for Chinese products. With America restricting imports from China, more things could be dumped in India. India has always been using both tariff-based and non-tariff based approach to limit the dumping of Chinese goods but often in vain.”“Improving the cost- effective domestic manufacturing capabilities, establishing an integrated value-added supply chain and more importantly favourable regulatory regimes are solutions for fostering domestic manufacturing in the long run,” he added.He said more and more countries are reducing their import dependence on China either by encouraging domestic manufacturing like India through the Atmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) or through an outright ban on imports like the America First policy of Trump.Deepak Sood secretary general of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Assocham) said: “When it comes to pharmaceuticals, our critical imports from China relate to APIs. The Indian government has come up with several effective measures to boost self-reliance in these crucial areas as well. For the rest of pharma products, our domestic industry can compete with the Chinese within and outside India. Even for APIs, we expect to soon catch up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-china-imports-possible-spike-in-dumping-a-concern/story-OgNY7mG4eF3l9kWwHruExN.html
11-08-2020||India||At launch, PM Modi hails optical fibre project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the first undersea optical fibre project for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, which will provide high-speed broadband connections in the Union territory at par with services available in the mainland, and likely open up new opportunities for India in South-east Asia .“From Chennai to Port Blair, Port Blair to Little Andaman and Port Blair to Swaraj Dweep, this service has started in large parts of Andaman Nicobar from today,” Modi said after inaugurating the project through video conferencing. On December 30, 2018, the Prime Minister had laid the foundation for the 2,312-kilometre-long submarine optical fibre cable project connecting Chennai and Port Blair, capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.The project has been implemented at a cost of Rs 1,224 crore.Besides Port Blair, it will connect other islands including Swaraj Dweep (Havelock), Long Island, Rangat, Little Andaman, Kamorta, Car Nicobar and Greater Nicobar.A bulk of the fibre used in the project has been sourced from NEC Corporation of Japan, which also provided technical assistance during the installation, said a Department of Telecommunications (DoT) official, requesting anonymity. “The optical fibre connectivity project to connect Andaman and Nicobar with the rest of the country and the world is a symbol of our commitment towards ease of living,” Modi said.According to official data, an internet speed of 400 gigabyte (Gb) per second will be provided in Port Blair and 200 Gb per second in other islands. The project will give a boost to 4G mobile services and digital services like tele-education, tele-health, e-governance services and tourism on the islands.“High impact projects are being expanded in 12 islands of Andaman and Nicobar. Issue of mobile and internet connectivity have been resolved today. Apart from this, physical connectivity through road, air, and water are being strengthened,” Modi said.The optical fibre facility will enable thousands of families in the Union territory to access education and banking services, and shop and consult doctors online.The project will open up a host of opportunities for India in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) region, positioning it as an alternative to China, experts said. A majority of the submarine optical fibre for international connectivity in the region is now provided by China. “This will open up more opportunities for India to interact with ASEAN countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos,” said former DoT secretary Shyamal Ghosh. “The PM had set up a line of credit to explore such options in 2017 but due to bureaucratic bottlenecks that hasn’t been able to move forward.” Ghosh added that the inability of the countries to provide a sovereign guarantee for the line of credit, given that private companies mostly run the telecom sector, was a hurdle. “These countries are also looking for an alternative, they don’t want to put all their eggs in the same basked,” he said. “In Andaman and Nicobar, the network will provide a stable connection as the previously used satellite was more dependent on availability of bandwidth, especially as the islands emerge as an important strategic and critical point in the Indian ocean.” According former DoT technology advisor RK Bhatnagar, the submarine network in the second phase of connections could easily extend to countries like Singapore and Thailand. “India is already having an offer of $1 billion line of credit for digital connectivity of ASEAN countries. Countries like Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam can take advantage to have their OFC digital highways connecting to India’s Northeastern states through protected ring architecture and extension by 700 kms provides Myanmar, other ASEAN countries and even India’s Northeastern states with better International bandwidth options,” said Bhatnagar, adding that this will be useful when India moves to 5G Networks. The minister of Telecom Ravi Shankar Prasad added that the DoT aims to provide connectivity in remote and difficult areas. Prasad informed that a tender for 354 uncovered villages in the strategic, remote and border areas of the country has been finalised and is under implementation in 144 villages of the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and remaining villages in the States of Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh and other priority areas of Gujarat. “These villages have been strategically choosen to cover border area connectivity on mobile. After commissioning of these villages, there will be no uncovered villages in UTs of J&K, Ladakh for mobile connectivity. Satellite based DSPTs (Digital Satellite Phone Terminal) are also being provided at 1347 sites for Army, BRO, BSF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB etc. Out of which 183 sites are already commissioned and remaining are in process,” he said.The project launched on Monday aims to provide high-speed internet to boost the islands’ capabilities in terms of disaster mitigation, relief work and enable access to high-speed internet connectivity. This is the only undersea optical fiber cable network to be owned by the Indian government in the country presently. Private undersea networks already exist in Mumbai and Chennai, some of which the government had partnered with before Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd was merged with Tata Communications. (PTI contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-launch-pm-hails-optical-fibre-project/story-o1VKzIGmWlRwyam6ykcTnJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Smuggling accused Swapna Suresh’s bail plea rejected||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Monday rejected the bail application of main accused in Kerala gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and ordered that provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act will remain in the case. Meanwhile, investigating the UAE leg of the case, a team of NIA officials reached Dubai on Sunday night to interrogate a key accused , Faisal Fareed , currently in custody of the police there, and pick up evidence gathered by the authorities there, people familiar with the matter said. Apart from Fareed, who is believed to be the man who sent gold in diplomatic baggage from Dubai, the two-member NIA team will question a few other suspects who have been taken into custody by Dubai police, the officials said. One of the officials, who asked not to be named, said that Fareed’s firm was contracted in the UAE to clear and send diplomatic baggage to India. It is suspected that Fareed also set up a network of hawala dealers and couriers to help sell the gold once it was in Kerala. Fareed is an Indian hailing from Kerala’s Thrissur but resides in UAE. The anti-terror probe agency , last month, also approached Interpol seeking a “blue notice” against Fareed. A blue notice is issued to collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime. Investigations by NIA have revealed that Fareed forged the seal and emblem of the UAE embassy to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage and the gold coming here was to be used for terror activities. During its stay in Dubai, NIA team will also seek details of shell companies, which were used for transferring the money, as well as hawala operators linked to gold smuggling. UAE authorities are believed to have carried out some investigation into the matter on India’s request and will likely to hand over their findings to the NIA team. In Kochi, where the bail application was heard last week, Suresh’s counsel opposed the invoking of UAPA against her, saying no terror angle was involved and the case only dealt with economic offences but Assistant Solicitor General P Vijaykumar , appearing for NIA contended that major proceeds from the smuggling were diverted to fund anti-national activities. After a week-long hearing, unusual in bail petitions, the court posted the decision for Monday. This is the first time UAPA is being imposed in the country in a smuggling case. “Earlier smuggling came under the Customs Act but after the amendment in UAPA, money laundering and serious economic offences that affect country’s stability also come under it. True, this is first time UAPA is implied in smuggling case,” said Supreme Court lawyer M R Abhilash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smuggling-accused-suresh-s-bail-plea-rejected/story-MlQS88LSuSMCKYIrfkbJfO.html
11-08-2020||India||Govt unveils steps for self-reliance in defence sector||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday outlined a raft of initiatives and activities planned during the week to give a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement) and cut dependence on imported military hardware --- from upgrading the facilities of defence public sector undertakings and modernisation of shipyards to launching locally-made defence items and signing of new memoranda of understanding with the private sector to boost indigenisation. During a virtual launch of some of the initiatives as part of the Atmanirbhar Week celebrations, Singh said the government has made “timely and thoughtful interventions” during the Covid-19 pandemic including issuing a negative list for imports, raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the defence sector and creating a separate budget for domestic capital procurement to promote self-reliance. From artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles, India on Sunday announced that it would ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. “This list of negative items contains not only small items but weapon systems of high and critical technology. More such items will be added to this list shortly, which will save crores of rupees in imports,” the minister said. It is an established fact that military balance between adversaries cannot be measured or evaluated on imported systems that reflect the degree to which a country’s security has been outsourced, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). “With focus on research and development, new defence technologies and defence manufacturing, the negative import list released on Sunday reflects an aggressive and compelling strategy towards indigenisation,” Lamba said. Lamba added that India’s leap towards military industrialisation will alter the dynamics of not only the country’s capability , but its export programme as well. The Pinaka rocket complex at Ordnance Factory Chanda in Maharashtra is upgrading its facilities to meet the army’s enhanced requirement of rockets, and Bharat Electronics Limited has indigenised the Maareech integration facility for manufacturing, integration and testing of the anti-torpedo defence system designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, the defence ministry said in a statement. It added that the Kolkata-based Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Ltd has enhanced its capacities to meet the production requirement for the ongoing P-17A project to build warships. Also, a steel preparation shop was inaugurated at the Goa Shipyard on Monday for indigenous construction of glass reinforced plastic (GRP) hulls for minesweeping vessels. Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and India has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers. India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April. The ongoing border row with China in eastern Ladakh has lent fresh urgency to develop a robust defence industrial base to boost the military’s capabilities with locally-made weapons and systems. The focus on self-reliance in the defence sector comes at a time when India is making emergency military purchases from several countries including the United States, Russia, Israel and France. The border conflict has forced India to speed up the purchase of military hardware including fighter jets, smart air-to-ground weapons, missiles, rockets, multi-mission drones, air defence systems, GPS-guided artillery ammunition, tank ammunition and even assault rifles. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-unveils-steps-for-self-reliance-in-defence-sector/story-OQzTJkuYbDBHfms4uBIOEK.html
11-08-2020||India||BJP wants security for J&K cadre||After the killing of five party workers in two months by terror groups stoked panic among its cadre in the Kashmir Valley, the Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought more secure living spaces for senior functionaries and public representatives at the panchayat and district levels. According to a party functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity, the demand for “safe spaces” in Srinagar and other district headquarters was placed before BJP president JP Nadda last week. “There is a clear targeted killing of BJP workers; the party is working on measures that will be taken to address the concerns of the workers in the Valley. For now, they have been urged to remain cautious and avoid travelling unless it is urgent,” said a senior BJP leader in Delhi.There are intelligence inputs that attacks could intensify in the run-up to Independence Day, the functionary said. Since the killing of Ajay Bharti, a Congress man and the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in south Kashmir’s Larkipora area in June, five BJP workers have been gunned down.The victims include Wasim Bari, his brother Umar Bashir and father Bashir Ahmed, who were all shot outside their shop in Bandipora in July. Sarpanch Sajad Ahmad Khanday was killed in Kulgam on Friday and on Monday, party worker Abdul Hamid Najar in Budgam succumbed to bullet injuries he suffered in an attack.“Six others have been injured in attacks,” said a BJP functionary based in Kashmir. While a number of Sarpanchs and block development council (BDC) officials have been provided accommodation away from their home districts and villages, local BJP leaders believe there is a need to consider construction of safe houses at district headquarters where their families can be housed as well. “When the panchayat member of the BDC visit their homes they become sitting ducks for terrorists. There is no doubt that the number of panchayat representatives runs into thousands, and providing security will be difficult; but some steps have to be taken to assure the workers who have opted to work for the development of the people,” said the Kashmir-based BJP functionary quoted above. Killing of political workers in the Valley started soon after the eruption of terrorism in the former state in the late-1990s. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party claim to have lost hundreds of party workers to terror attacks over the past three decades. Hina Bhatt, who contested the 2014 general elections on a BJP ticket and is currently the vice chairperson of the Khadi Village Industries Board, said political party workers on the ground are a “soft target” and their killing is used to send a message to discourage others from joining the political mainstream. “When the NC and the PDP were in power, their workers and functionaries were targeted; now it is the BJP workers who are being attacked. A lot of people in the Valley are joining the BJP, which is a setback for the terror groups,” she said. The increase in attacks against political workers, Bhatt said, is also retaliation against a crackdown on terrorists in the Valley. “In the last one year so many terrorists have been killed, so this is the easiest way to demoralise those who support the government and party workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wants-security-for-j-k-cadre/story-OEhFzTqO59KebvG3dm3SqN.html
11-08-2020||India||Shot at, BJP worker succumbs to injuries||A day after unidentified men shot and wounded Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activist Abdul Hamid Najar when he was on a morning walk in central Kashmir’s Budgam, he died of the injuries in hospital on Monday.Najar was the district president of the party’s Other Backward Classes front. He was the third BJP functionary to be attacked in Kashmir in five days and second to be killed by suspected militants. One functionary who survived an attack in south Kashmir is still battling for his life.Najar was attacked when he was on a morning walk on Sunday. He was injured in the stomach and admitted to SMHS Hospital in Srinagar for treatment. He died of his injuries in the morning.“All efforts to save our injured colleague failed and he passed away around 5.30 am. He was later buried at his native place in Budgam,” BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said.On Thursday, unidentified gunmen killed Sajjad Ahmad Khanday, who was sarpach of Vessu village in Qazigund block in Kulgam. Khanday was shot by gunmen close to his house. Two days earlier, sarpanch Arif Ahmad was shot by suspected militants near his home in Akhran village of Devsar in Kulgam. He was hit in the neck and his condition is said to be critical.After the attack Najar on Sunday, four leaders and workers of the Budgam unit of the party resigned. The leaders didn’t cite any reason for the resignation.Three BJP workers fromf Kulgam– Nisar Ahmad Wani, constituency president from Kund; Sabzar Ahmad Paddar, vice president of the Devsar constituency; and BJP activist Ashiq Hussain Palla from Warpora-Kund – have also announced their decision to dissociate themselves from the party.Last month, BJP’s former district president of Bandipora, Waseem Bari, was killed, along with his father Basheer Ahmad and brother Suhail Basheer, inside his shop. Jammu and Kashmir Police had said that two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) members were involved in the killing of Bari and his kin.Following the killings, two BJP leaders had resigned from the party. including Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat.Police had received inputs that militants may try to target sarpanchs and block development council (BDC) chairmen ahead of August 5, the first anniversary of the revocation of Article 370 that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir.Following the inputs. dozens of panchayat members and BDC chairmen were shifted to safe locations. Dozens of panchayat members have been taken to hotels in high-security zones in different places across the Kashmir and asked not to venture out till Independence Day on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shot-at-bjp-worker-succumbs-to-injuries/story-cVOjwJ6whfypmbXDtG1PSJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Shah Faesal ends ‘political gig’, resigns from party||Seventeen months after laying the foundation of a new political party, former Indian Administrative Service officer Shah Faesal has resigned as president of the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Movement, saying that he wanted to “move on and start afresh.” .The 37-year-old former bureaucrat on Sunday removed the party tag from his bio on social media, giving rise to speculation that he could rejoin the government or pursue other interests. Faesal formed the party in March 2019.In a statement on Monday, the Peoples Movement said Faesal had stepped down as party president and vice president Feroze Peerzada had been appointed to replace him: ‘’State Executive Committee of J&K Peoples Movement (JKPM) in an online meeting today discussed the ongoing political developments in the state. In the said meeting, request of Dr. Shah Faesal to spare him from the organisational responsibilities was discussed. Dr Shah Faesal had informed State Executive Members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation,” the statement said.“Keeping in view this request, it was decided to accept his request so that he can better continue with his life and contribute whichever way he chooses,’’ it added .Faesal resigned as an IAS officer in 2018, citing personnel reasons. He was detained at Delhi airport on August 4, 2019 after he reached the national capital from Srinagar, a day before Parliament pushed through constitutional changes revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcating it into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh.In his first comments after resigning, Faesal told India Today: “I am ending my short gig with politics. I don’t want to take Kashmiris down the garden path. Let truth be told.”“There is a new reality in Kashmir and we have to come to terms with it. As a member of IAS, I have been a stakeholder in the future of this nation. I can’t imagine why some people would be anti-India. I can’t be seen as a traitor to a nation that has given me everything in life. I want to move on and start afresh. In whatsoever position that is,” Faesal said.He said he was taking it one day at a time, “Life can’t stop. We have huge challenges of poverty, illiteracy, inequality and unemployment in front of us. I can’t waste my life in chasing illusions when there is so much to be done for the ordinary people. Where will I go next, only time will tell. But as of now, I am sure that I need to move and spread some positivity in my life and in the lives of others.”Faesal is still under house arrest. After his arrest, he was first detained int Centaur Hotel, which was declared a sub- jail, along with other political prisoners and then moved to the MLAs Hostel; In February, the Public Safety Act was invoked against him, but was revoked before he was released in June. He was subsequently put under house arrest.Shah Faesal was the IAS topper of 2010 and worked in various positions in the Jammu and & Kashmir administration. The government has not accepted his resignation yet.Though some of his friends said he could rejoin the government, some others believe he wants to go to the US or UK for further studies.The Peoples Movement statement also said the party had accepted the resignation of chairman Javed Mustafa Mir. a former minister who left the People’s Democratic Party to join Faesal’s group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faesal-ends-political-gig-resigns-from-party/story-gx5s910w6UAVTN4l4ALutN.html
11-08-2020||India||500 people and 100 elephants die due to conflict each year: Centre||The Union environment ministry on Monday said at least 500 people and 100 elephants die in India due to human-elephant conflict annually. While releasing a document on the best practices of conflict management and a portal on addressing conflict, ministry officials said there are 30,000 elephants in the wild in India and 2,700 in captivity.Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general of forests (wildlife), said financial contribution to states for payment of compensation and other conflict mitigation strategies increased by 30% this financial year compared to the previous year. “New elephant reserves have been declared and elephant corridors have also been identified in the past five years to address the problem. Elephants have also been included in appendix 1 of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals to ensure better conservation.”Sanjay Kumar, director general of forests, said the population and distribution of elephants in India was expanding. “New interactions are happening now leading to more conflict. They are migrating to newer areas. We are trying to identify research methodologies to understand how the population can remain stable in new areas,” he said.The portal and the document was released by Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar. “We do not kill animals in India. Animals are revered here. So we have to devise good conflict management practices. We have already started a fodder and water augmentation programme in elephant areas,” Javadekar said. “In the last 20 to 30 years elephants have moved to new areas. From Jharkhand and Odisha they have moved to southern West Bengal. Quite a large dispersal had taken place in the 1980’s and another in recent years. They have moved from Jharkhand to Chhattisgarh and very recently to Madhya Pradesh. These are not elephant areas. I think we should try to prevent their movement through human dominated areas. We had advised earlier also that zonation is required for elephant movement which can help reduce conflict,” said R Sukumar, an ecologist specialising in elephants at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-people-and-100-elephants-die-due-to-conflict-each-year-centre/story-ctmxG05VAngJtsAUdeDO9I.html
11-08-2020||India||Senior BSF staff succumbs to coronavirus in Chhattisgarh, state tally mounts to 12,502||An Assistant Commandant of the Border Security Force (BSF) succumbed to the coronavirus infection in Chhattisgarh on Monday. The Covid-19 count mounted to 12,502 with the addition of 304 new cases while the death toll climbed to 99 after three patients including an assistant commandant of the BSF died. “A 57-year-old assistant commandant (AC) of the Border security Force (BSF), who hailed from Maharashtra, succumbed to the viral infection. The officer was posted at the sector headquarter of the BSF in Bhilai. He tested positive on July 31, and was later referred to AIIMS on August 5,” said a senior official of BSF talking to Hindustan Times. According to the medical bulletin released on Monday, a total of 148 new Covid-19 cases reported from Raipur district, 40 from Durg, 20 from Mahasamund, 15 from Rajnandgaon, 12 from Janjgir-Champa, 11 from Narayanpur, 9 from Jashpur, seven each from Bemetara and Surguja districts, six from Bilaspur, four each from Kondagaon, Sukma and Bijapur districts and three each from Gariaband, Balodabazar and Raigarh districts, he said. The senior official of BSF said that the overall count of infections in the BSF has reached 416 in the state. Chhattisgarh, where the infection has spread in all the 28 districts, has recorded over 8,500 cases and 82 deaths in the last one month, he said. With a total of 4,283 cases so far, Raipur district tops the state tally. Raipur has so far recorded 45 deaths due to the infectious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-bsf-staff-succumbs-to-coronavirus-in-chhattisgarh-state-tally-mounts-to-12-502/story-rdZf6WNeMT5kFGO6VXCd1M.html
11-08-2020||India||‘De-escalation may take longer, Army prepared’||Top brass of the Indian military including Chief of Defence Staff general Bipin Rawat informed a committee of lawmakers on Monday that the de-escalation in Ladakh, where Chinese troops transgressed in June, forcing India to deploy heavily along the Line of Actual Control, may be a long-drawn process but that the Indian armed forces is prepared for it and has made all arrangements for troop deployment in the harsh winter. The top general and three-star Generals who attended the meeting also emphasised that the Indian armed forces is prepared to face any onslaught but at the same time efforts are also on to bridge the trust deficit with China, whose transgression resulted in a bloody conflict in Galwan valley on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers including a colonel, and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Apart from Gen. Rawat, at least four three-star Generals including Vice Chief of Indian army, Lt. Gen S K Saini were also present. Reversing the trust deficit created by the brutal clash at Galwan Valley will also be enormously hard, and it is expected to be an impediment to the disengagement and de-escalation processes, HT reported on July 3. Military negotiations with China have hit a roadblock due to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/de-escalation-may-take-longer-army-prepared/story-c5eMVZYrmvOCCWbXS2YA4K.html
11-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear 6 BSP MLAs’ transfer plea today||The Supreme Court on Tuesday will hear a petition by six former legislators of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Rajasthan demanding the transfer of a petition seeking their disqualification from the Rajasthan high court to the apex court.The six members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) had merged with the Congress in 2019 for which they faced disqualification petitions filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Madan Dilawar. Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi rejected the disqualification pleas on July 29. This prompted Dilawar to approach the Rajasthan high court, which issued notice to Joshi on July 30 but refused to stay the speaker’s directive. In a related development, the Congress party approached the high court to be added as a party to the proceedings there. This matter is also listed on Tuesday when the HC could decide the fate of the six BSP MLAs — Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), Lakhan Singh Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) ahead of a crucial special assembly session called by chief minister Ashok Gehlot beginning August 14. While the proceedings remain pending in the high court, Dilawar filed an appeal in the Supreme Court to stay the speaker’s July 29 order. A stay could be crucial in the event chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who has faced a rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs of his party, faces a trust vote in the House. Senior advocate Harish Salve appeared for Dilawar before an apex bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. He said the issue in focus is whether the six MLAs could merge their political party with the Congress when their original political party, BSP, headed by Mayawati ,has refused to sanction the merger. The merger took place on September 16, 2019 and was approved by the speaker on September 18, 2019. The bench told Salve that the Rajasthan high court had issued notices on Dilawar’s petition and the matter is pending there. Salve informed the Court that to delay the proceedings there, the six BSP MLAs have sought to transfer the petition pending with HC to the Supreme Court. “Their petition (filed on August 8) is pending in the Supreme Court and they are not moving for listing it. Obviously they want to claim in HC that the matter is pending in the Supreme Court.” The six MLAs have sought a transfer on the grounds that the legal issues raised in Dilawar’s petition before the HC are under consideration of the top court in another case from Assam, in a case titled Mr. Mithou Krose v Imtilemba Sangtam. The bench sought details of the petition and directed that it be listed on Tuesday along with Dilawar’s plea.Salve pointed out that the speaker wrongly dismissed the disqualification pleas filed by him in July this year accepting the merger of the six MLAs with Congress. According to Dilawar, the six MLAs were elected to the Rajasthan assembly on a BSP ticket in December 2018. They ought to be disqualified on the grounds of defection under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, Salve said. But the six MLAs have claimed that as per paragraph 4 of the Tenth Schedule, when two-thirds of the members of a political party within the assembly merges with another political party in the House, the members will be immune from disqualification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-6-bsp-mlas-transfer-plea-today/story-Wq2XbFFeghik0sC6OM0cGN.html
11-08-2020||India||Kerala landslide toll at 48; 22 still missing||The toll in Rajamalai landslide in Idukki district went up to 48 on Monday with the recovery of six more bodies while 22 are still missing, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. He said some bodies were recovered from a river and rescue work is still going on despite inclement weather. Rejecting criticism from Opposition parties, who questioned his delay in visiting the affected district, Vijayan said he will visit the spot at an appropriate time. “There is no discrimination between plane crash victims and those affected by landslide. What the government announced in the latter case is only an interim relief and it will be raised further. Some parties are whipping it up unnecessarily to create confusion among people,” he said. Opposition Congress and BJP had questioned discrepancy in relief in twin tragedies that struck Kerala on Friday. While the CM had announced Rs 10 lakh relief for families of the dead in the plane crash, landslide victims were given only Rs 2 lakh. But Vijayan said the government will ensure rehabilitation of affected plantation workers. He also said rescue work will continue till the recovery of the last body. But an official of the Kannan Devan Hills Plantation Limited, which owns the estate, said it will be difficult to ascertain exact number of people trapped in the landslide as some houses had guests and children, studying outside Idukki, who came home due to the lockdown. The official cited that few who died were not on company’s records, indicating that the toll may go up. Most of the victims hail from south Tamil Nadu districts but are settled in plantation areas for work for more than two generations. Six temporary workers engaged by the Eravikulam National Park are also among the victims. The forest department said the epicentre of the landslide can be Shola forest which can be ascertained only after weather clears up. Besides people, they fear there could be a loss of wildlife as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-landslide-toll-at-48-22-still-missing/story-4X4XUOR2rwYIoVzNO0pvML.html
11-08-2020||India||PM Modi reviews situation in six flood-affected states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday underlined the need for a better coordination between the central and state agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting of floods.He also stressed on extensive use of innovative technologies for improving the forecast-and-warning system.The prime minister made these remarks at a virtual meeting with the chief ministers and representatives of six states to review the flood situation in various parts of the country.The states that attended the meeting, which was convened to review their preparedness to deal with the southwest monsoon and the current flood situation in the country, were Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala.A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said at the meeting, Modi highlighted that the investments in localised early warning systems should be increased so that the people of an area can be cautioned on time in case of a threatening situation such as breached river embankments, inundation or lightning.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar drew the Prime Minister’s attention to the non-cooperation by Nepal in carrying out annual maintenance work on embankments falling on the other side of the international border, across Darbhanga and Madhepura districts, and also pitched for the removal of 25% cap on the amount to be spent for extending gratuitous relief to affected people in times of natural calamities.Kumar said, “Floods in north Bihar are invariably caused by heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of rivers originating from Nepal. But in the absence of required co-operation from the neighbouring country, despite reaching out on official level, embankment repair works could not be completed on schedule in May and got extended to June-end this year.”Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government demanded setting up of a committee under the prime minister for tackling crisis situations in states and ensuring a better coordination. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also sought an immediate central assistance for Maharashtra in view of the June 3 Cyclone Nisarga that caused widespread damage in the state’s coastal districts and the August 5 downpour and heavy winds that battered Mumbai.The Karnataka government said it requested the prime minister to provide an additional special assistance of Rs 4,000 crore to handle the flood situation in the southern state.Representing the state government at the meeting, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that according to an initial assessment, the state had suffered a loss of Rs 4,000 crore due to the floods. “It is a preliminary estimate because the rains are continuing. A proper survey has to be done,” he said.The meet, which lasted for nearly an hour and a half, was also attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, health minister Harsh Vardhan, ministers of state for home Nityanand Rai and G Kishan Reddy, and senior officers of the central ministries and organisations concerned.The prime minister asserted that in view of the COVID-19 situation, the states must ensure that people follow all health precautions such as wearing of face masks, hand sanitisation and maintaining an adequate physical distance with each other while undertaking rescue efforts.He said the relief material must include provisions for hand washing and sanitising and face masks for the affected people. Special provisions should be made for elderly people, pregnant women and people with co-morbidities, he observed.Modi said the states should ensure that all development and infrastructure projects are built with resilience to withstand local disasters and help reduce the consequential losses.The prime minister pointed out that over the last few years, forecasting agencies such as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and the Central Water Commission (CWC) are making concerted efforts to make better and more usable flood forecasts.They are trying to provide not only rainfall and river-level forecasts, but also location-specific forecasts of inundation, he added.Pilot projects are underway to use innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence to improve the location-specific forecasts, for which the states should provide the necessary information to these agencies and timely disseminate the warnings to the local communities, Modi said.“The prime minister emphasised on better coordination between all central and state agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting of floods and extensive use of innovative technologies for improving forecast and warning system,” the PMO statement said.The chief ministers of Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Kerala and the home minister of Karnataka gave updates on the flood situation and rescue efforts in their respective states, according to the statement.They lauded the efforts of central agencies, including the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), for a timely deployment of teams and rescuing people.The states also put forward some suggestions for short-term and long-term measures to mitigate the effects of floods.The prime minister directed officials to take action on the suggestions.He said the Centre will continue to provide support to the states and Union territories to strengthen their capabilities in dealing with various disasters.According to those present at the meet, Modi said he would have visited all the states but could not due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-situation-in-six-flood-affected-states/story-IXW8wtLHWn92CZYdvb15JK.html
11-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea blames media, polls in SC plea||The death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is being blown out of proportion by the media since it comes in the run up to the elections in Bihar, the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, who is now being investigated for allegedly abetting his suicide, told the Supreme Court on Monday.The petition in the top court in Delhi was filed while Chakraborty, her brother Showik and father Indrajit were questioned for at least 10 hours by the Enforcement Directorate, which is looking for financial angle into the June 14 death when Rajput was found hanged at his flat in Mumbai. “Media Channels are examining and cross-examining all the witnesses in the case. Petitioner (Rhea Chakraborty) is already convicted by media even before a foul play in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput is established. Extreme trauma and infringement of privacy of the rights of petitioner is caused due to constant sensationalisation of this case,” the affidavit filed through advocate Malak Manish Bhatt stated.The apex court is slated to hear on Tuesday Chakraborty’s petition seeking transfer of the case registered against her in connection with Rajput’s death from Patna to Mumbai.In its probe, the Mumbai Police found the cause of death as “asphyxia due to hanging” and filed an accidental death report (ADR) to begin an investigation. Chakraborty, who was in a live-in relationship with Rajput for a year till she shifted to her house on June 8, was also questioned by the Mumbai police.The investigation by Mumbai police was ongoing when Rajput’s father, KK Singh, filed a police complaint at Rajeev Nagar police station in Patna on July 25 against Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide. His father also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s bank account and mentally harassed him.Patna police registered an FIR on July 25 based on Singh’s complaint for offences relating to abetment of suicide, cheating and criminal intimidation.Chakraborty moved the top court on July 29 challenging the jurisdiction of the Bihar police in the matter, saying that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the probe on August 5 based on a request by the Bihar police.The Maharashtra government has, however, opposed it stating Bihar did not have jurisdiction to refer the case to CBI since the cause of action arose in Mumbai.“Investigation into financial scams of thousands of crores by Enforcement Directorate and CBI never see the light of the day and at drop of a hat, cases get registered even without there being a jurisdiction in the foundational case. Petitioner urges that she should be protected and not be made scapegoat of political agendas,” Chakraborty submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-blames-media-polls-in-sc-plea/story-u0R97JgmotnsN5wC8XS5OJ.html
11-08-2020||India||India crosses 1.5 million recoveries: Health data||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries have crossed 1.5 million, a milestone the Union heakth ministry attributes to its strategy of aggressive testing, tracking and treatment of people infected by the virus.With record single-day recoveries of 54,859 on Sunday (according to the ministry’s database), the national recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has now touched almost 70%.“Recovery of 15,35,743 Covid-19 patients has been made possible because of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently. Better ambulance services, focus on standard of care and use of non-invasive oxygen have given the desired results,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday.Effective patient management has also led to India’s case fatality rate (CFR) dropping to 2%, the ministry claimed; the government aims to bring it down to 1%. On both parameters India has done better than the world. The global CFR was 3.69% on Sunday and the recovery rate, 64.42%. “The record-high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country viz. the active cases has reduced and currently comprises only 28.66% of the total positive cases,” the ministry added in its statement.“It suggests we are improving at various levels of care including at the societal level as well as in hospitals. It suggests that we have learnt to take care of our positive cases; we have learnt how soon to act and what works and what doesn’t. We are able to provide more organized and systematic treatment clinically. Those involved in Covid-19 management are learning by the day by reading and from each other,” said Dr VK Paul, a member of the government’s policy think tank Niti Ayog, and chairman of one of the national Covid task forces.To be sure, aggressive testing and tracking through house- to-house surveys and well implemented containment strategies and surveillance in these areas may lead to an initial increase in positive cases but it reduces over time with well implemented strategies, according to experts in the health ministry managing Covid-19 situation.India performed 719,364 Covid-19 tests on Saturday, taking the total testing closer to the Indian Council of Medical Research‘s (ICMR) target of one million per day by the end of August, HT reported on Monday.Virologists agree that it is normal for the number of Covid-19-positive cases to spike when testing goes up.“It is normal to see an immediate surge in the positivity rate when testing is ramped up manifold. It means all cases are being successfully identified, and after a prolonged period of time the percentage starts going down as people are tracked and isolated in time so that they do not pass on the infection,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head of the virology department at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. According to government data, around 10 Indian states account for at least 80% of the new Covid-19 cases. Many of the new cases are coming from the hinterland and the peninsula. “What is worrisome is that the infection is spreading to newer areas, especially rural areas. The spillage is indeed a cause for concern and needs to be addressed. They should have taken steps earlier when the movement of people had begun because this was the fear that the infection might spread to rural areas from the cities,” said John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-1-5-million-recoveries-health-data/story-yK73WE637ea3yULMbSSmSI.html
11-08-2020||India||Centre should take steps to undo economic disruption: Manmohan Singh||Protecting people’s livelihood, making adequate capital available for businesses and ensuring the autonomy of the financial sector are the three steps the government should take “immediately” to undo the economic disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in an interview to BBC, urging the government to consider significant amounts of direct cash transfers to the public.The former PM and the senior Congress leader warned that the disruptions due to the lockdown to prevent infections would lead to a prolonged slowdown and that it was important to strategise the response, including by measures such as offering credit guarantees to businesses and making financial institutions more robust. The interview was done over email, the BBC reported in a story published on Monday based on the exchange.Speaking about the economic slowdown, he said it was caused by a humanitarian crisis and a “deep and prolonged economic slowdown” was “inevitable”. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the lowest in 11 years. It followed precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record.India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year (2020-21) especially because the country had seen a hard lockdown for two full months of the quarter (April and May).The BBC report quoting Singh said India followed what other nations were doing and “perhaps a lockdown at that stage was an inevitable choice”. “But the government’s shock and awe approach to the lockdown has caused tremendous pain to people. The suddenness of the announcement and the stringency of the lockdown were thoughtless and insensitive,” the report quoting Singh said. “Public health emergencies such as this are best dealt with locally by local administrators and public health officials, with broad guidelines from the Centre. Perhaps, we should have devolved the Covid-19 battle to the state and local administrations much sooner,” Singh told BBC. Singh said higher borrowing was inevitable and that “we must not be shy of borrowing, but we must be prudent on how we use that borrowing”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-take-steps-to-undo-economic-disruption-manmohan/story-EBafgIAKgMMHDJaMK40RIJ.html
11-08-2020||India||Ex-President on ventilator support after testing Covid positive||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, 84, was put on ventilator support on Monday after undergoing a brain surgery at the Army Research and Referral hospital, where he was admitted in the morning after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He tested positive while undergoing routine check-up.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” Mukherjee tweeted on Monday afternoon. Officials aware of the developments said the former president was on ventilator after undergoing a successful brain surgery for removal of a clot. Mukherjee, president between 2012 and 2017, kept his public interactions minimal after the pandemic struck the country in January. In his Rajaji Marg residence in New Delhi, he stopped all gatherings and only met a handful of people. According to the officials quoted above, he is under close monitoring in the hospital. Army R&R has been Mukherjee’s preferred hospital for treatment since he became the defence minister in 2004. President Ram Nath Kovind spoke to his daughter, Congress leader Sharmistha Mukherjee, and inquired about the health of her father. Kovind and many Indian leaders wished him a speedy recovery. Mukherjee underwent an angioplasty – a procedure to open blocked or narrowed coronary arteries – at the same hospital in 2014. He had decided not to contest the 2017 presidential elections citing “advanced age and failing health.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the R&R Hospital and enquired about the former president’s health. While west Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern about Mukherjee’s health and wished him well, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union minister Piyush Goel and many others wished Mukherjee a speedy recovery. Minister of railways Piyush Goyal tweeted, “I pray for the well being and speedy recovery of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I am confident he will be successful in recovering from the virus quickly. Wishing him strength and good health.” “Please take care sir. We are praying for your speedy recovery and good health @CitiznMukherjee,” tweeted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Abhijeet Mukherjee, a Congress leader and the former president’s son, tweeted, “I wish my father a speedy recovery! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health.” Several leaders from across the political spectrum also wished Mukherjee an early recovery. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “I have come to know former President of India Sh. Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery.” Last year, Mukherjee was awarded the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-president-on-ventilator-support-after-testing-covid-positive/story-8jQsjBXRsepcfnOXJ6VNGM.html
11-08-2020||India||Not after any post, welcome Congress leadership’s assurance, says Sachin Pilot||Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said on Monday he chose to maintain the “dignity of the discourse” on the political situation in Rajasthan even as he was surprised by personal attacks on a few occasions. “While a lot of unparliamentarily words were used, I have chosen to maintain the dignity of the discourse,” Pilot told HT.After he appeared to have agreed to a truce following a meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Pilot spoke to the media at night and he said he thought certain issues had to be raised for the benefit of the party.“We raised issues of principles before Congress leadership and welcome their assurance of time-bound redressal of our grievances,” Pilot said. Stressing that he was not after any post, Pilot said it was the party that allotted a position and could take it back as well.Pilot also spoke on the Congress’s decision to form a three-member panel to resolve issues raised by the rebels. “(Congress president) Sonia Gandhi Ji heard all our concerns and the governance issues that we raised. Formation of the three-member committee by the Congress President is a welcome step. I think all the issues will be resolved,” he said.Meanwhile, Congress leader said a formula for Pilot’s return was being worked out, according to news agency PTI.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said “the political crisis in Rajasthan Congress stands resolved amicably by the intervention of none other than Rahul Gandhi himself”.“This is reflective of steadfast unity in Congress party and the commitment of Congress legislators to never fall prey to BJP’s evil designs to defeat democracy,” he told PTI.However, Congress leaders ruled out that Ashok Gehlot will be replaced as Rajasthan chief minister or Pilot will be reinstated as the party’s Rajasthan chief, a post which was filled immediately after the Congress sacked Pilot following his open revolt against Gehlot last month.A section of Congress of said Rahul Gandhi will decide Pilot’s role in the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-after-any-post-welcome-cong-leadership-s-assurance-says-pilot/story-oFBemBuj5CuRV5e1nLzBgI.html
11-08-2020||India||Three-member panel to address rebels’ grievances||Congress president Sonia Gandhi decided on Monday to form a three-member committee to look into grievances of its rebel leaders in Rajasthan after Sachin Pilot met former party chief Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi to end a revolt that threatened chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s government. The panel at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) level will have senior leaders as its members and it will “hear all the sides and also go into the details of the political turmoil” in the state before submitting its report, including a possible solution, to the Congress high command. The committee will also discuss the possible changes in the organisation and the government, a Congress leader said, adding that the names of the committee members and the timeframe will be announced soon. In a statement, KC Venugopal, Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, said Pilot met with Gandhi and expressed his grievances in detail. “They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan,” he said. “Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three member committee to address the issues raised by Shri Sachin Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof,” added Venugopal. Congress leaders familiar with the development, however, ruled out that Pilot will be given back the positions he held till July 14, when he was sacked as the deputy chief minister and also removed as the Rajasthan Congress president. Leaders close to the Pilot camp termed Monday’s development a “win-win situation” for the rebels. “The Congress leadership appreciated that Pilot did not respond to utterances by the chief minister and other leaders owing allegiance to him. All issues that his supporters had raised will also be looked into,” said a leader close to the former deputy chief minister. “The leadership also took cognisance that Pilot all along maintained that he will never join the BJP. Pilot is happy with the developments so far and is also confident that he will get his due in the future. Inevitability of it one cannot deny. Diwali will come if not today but in future definitely. If he agreed to come back, there must be some reason,” the leader added. “Pilot also stressed that the grievances of his people should be addressed, they should get respect and their work should get done and he categorically stated that he does not want any post,” he said. “The leadership also recognised the fact that if Pilot goes the government will certainly fall and the party will lose another state,” the leader further added. Pilot and the legislators supporting him are expected to attend the assembly session, beginning August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-member-panel-to-address-rebels-grievances/story-knBBWS0Wae3AKpRTDiCYbP.html
11-08-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot emerges stronger as Congress bridges Rajasthan rift||The resolution of the Rajasthan battle within the Congress on Monday brings to an end the possibility of a split in the party and cements its position in the state, boosts the morale of the rank and file, provides a mechanism for conflict resolution, and re-establishes the centrality of the Gandhis in mediating party disputes — for now. All of this will make Congress leaders, struggling with a series of successive setbacks, smile. But the Rajasthan battle was essentially a political and personal battle between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. And it is clear that Gehlot has won more than he has lost. First, examine Pilot’s actions, objectives and current political position. The resolution on Monday was not the outcome Pilot was hoping for. He set out to dislodge Gehlot as CM and take over. He threw down the gauntlet of an open rebellion, defying the party’s instruction to attend legislative party meetings or returning to Rajasthan. His loyalists publicly, and he privately, spoke out consistently against Gehlot. He staked his deputy chief ministership and state presidency in the battle. And he appeared to entertain options of a political life outside the Congress, with some suggesting that he had plans for a regional party. At the end of the episode, Pilot has not been able to oust Gehlot, who arguably is even more strongly entrenched in his position as CM. Pilot has also lost control of the party organisation in the state — a key source of power. He is no longer deputy CM. His hold over rebel legislators is proven to have been limited, as they were getting restless and wanted to return to the party when it became clear that the Gehlot government may survive. His expectation that there may be over 30 legislators who would back him did not bear out. And all he has, at the moment, to show for his rebellion, is an intra-Congress committee to examine his grievances. As Congress leaders know, setting up a committee is often a way to provide a face-saver but freeze the problem. But political lives hinge on hope. And so Pilot will be hoping that the fact that there will be a mechanism to listen to his complaints will give him a new start in the party. He will hope that his linkages with Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi — they enabled his return — will prove to be a source of power in the future. And he will hope that with age on his side (he is only 42) , the Congress’s commitment that his grievances will be address will translate into a secure political future in Rajasthan, if not now, then later. What about Gehlot? The entire crisis has established Gehlot as a powerful regional leader of the Congress, with formidable control over the party machine in Rajasthan. The fact that he took a clear position against Pilot and the rebel legislators — and kept his government intact — will rank as an achievement. Gehlot consolidated his legislators, shuffling them between resorts to prevent any defection; he launched an offensive against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and linked Pilot to BJP’s designs; he got Pilot sacked from both the government and as state president and swiftly moved in to take control of the state organisation by appointing a loyalist; he displayed the confidence to call for an assembly session and took on the Governor on the issue; and he managed to keep the Congress central leadership on his side — despite the fact that there was sympathy for Pilot. These strategies have paid off. Gehlot will survive as CM; he won’t have to worry about Pilot, at least for the time being, becoming a destabilising factor. The CM is understood to have wanted Pilot out of the party entirely — and Pilot’s return may not please him. But this, for now, will only be a minor irritant in a larger win. And what about the Gandhis? The fact that the resolution happened on August 10 — exactly a year since Sonia Gandhi took charge as president of the party for what was considered an interim period but has stretched — may be just a coincidence. But while Sonia is in charge, it was Rahul Gandhi, who formally stepped away from organisational matters last year, and Priyanka, whose formal mandate does not extend to Rajasthan, who brought an end to the crisis. Their supporters will suggest that this, once again, shows the family’s centrality in reconciling conflicts — especially since Rahul Gandhi has been criticised for his inability to do so in a range of other states, where leaders once close to him have left the party. As the Rajasthan drama ends, CM Gehlot will be smiling — while keeping a sharp eye on his rival, Pilot, to ensure doesn’t present future challenges. Pilot will be torn between a sense of having failed to achieve his mission, with a hope for a better future with the patronage of the Gandhi siblings. And the Gandhis and their supporters will be happy to see the Congress keep another government back in the party, with no defections, and foiling the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) hopes of bagging yet another state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-emerges-stronger-as-cong-bridges-rajasthan-rift/story-vv9xunxvw1RHt9pE5Fh76L.html
11-08-2020||India||Indian Rafales practise mountain night flying for Ladakh in Himachal Pradesh||India’s newly-acquired five Rafale fighters are practising night flying in the mountainous terrain of Himachal Pradesh so that the Golden Arrows squadron with its Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and SCALP air-to-ground stand-off weapon will be ready if the situation deteriorates on the 1,597 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter said.The first batch of Rafale fighters, which landed at the Indian Air Force air base at Ambala on July 29, are “fully operational” with the first 18 platforms to be placed in Ambala and the next 18 fighters to be based in Hasimara air base near the border with Bhutan. India has contracted to purchase 36 jets made by Dassault Aviation, South Block officials said.A government official said the top-of-the-line fighter jets are staying away from the LAC lest the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) radars in occupied Aksai Chin identify their frequency signatures and use it to jam in the worst case scenario.Also Read: Rafale is a game changer, Chinese J 20 does not come close, says former air chief DhanoaMilitary aviation experts, however, say that Rafales can also be used for training in Ladakh sector as all these fighters are equipped with programmable signal processors (PSP) or the capacity to change signal frequencies in the event of hostilities.“Even though the Chinese PLA have placed their electronic intelligence radars on mountain tops in the occupied Aksai Chin area for a clear line of sight, the war-time signature of Rafale will be different from that in practise mode. The PLA aircraft detection radars are good as they have been manufactured keeping the US air force in mind,” said an expert.The Rafale jets are armed with Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles — weapons that will allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.Also Read: Rafale vs J-20: Ex-IAF chief Dhanoa calls China’s bluff with ‘two simple questions’The Meteor missiles have a no-escape zone believed to be three times greater than that of current medium-range air-to-air missiles. The missile system, powered by a unique rocket-ramjet motor, has a range of over 120 kilometres.The SCALP is a deep-strike cruise missile with pinpoint terminal accuracy through its highly accurate seeker and target recognition system.Even though the India-China diplomatic and military interlocutors are in constant dialogue for total disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, the three services are not only focused on western sector but also the remaining part of the LAC as well as the high seas. Last week, Army Chief General MM Naravane made it clear to central and eastern army commanders that they should not be caught by surprise by the PLA on the LAC and should be in the highest state of military preparedness.The Indian Navy has also been told to monitor the Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal and Indian Ocean to ensure that Chinese PLA warships are kept at bay from the Indian seaboard and island territories. The surface and undersea assets are on operational alert with Chinese ships being monitored from Malacca Straits to Gulf of Aden.Even though the Chinese PLA air activity has reduced in the Ladakh sector as compared to the first week of July post Galwan flare-up, the Indian Air Force is taking no chances and is tracking the air movements, particularly at Lhasa Gonggar airbase in the Tibet region and Hotan airbase in China’s Xinjiang region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-rafales-practise-mountain-night-flying-for-ladakh-in-himachal-pradesh/story-4pQA6tKKXDsgHYLyaKdq1H.html
11-08-2020||India||Israeli scientists coming to India with 4 potential Covid breakthrough tech||A special flight of Israeli scientists is heading to India this week to work with their counterparts to finalise four breakthrough pandemic-related technologies to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 pathogen that causes coronavirus. These include two Covid-19 tests that could give results in minutes from a saliva sample. A third that could tell if a person has incipient Covid by listening to their voice. And a fourth, a virus detector that uses radio waves on a breath sample.The Israelis will work out of AIIMS in the national capital Delhi. “The first phase of testing of these technologies was done in Israel. The last stage will now be carried out in India,” said Israel’s ambassador to India, Ron Malka. One technology is a new Covid test that uses polyamino acids to produce a result in 30 minutes, said Dani Gold, head of Israel’s Directorate of Defence Research and Development.“This will mean you can be tested as you enter an airport, a mall or anywhere and be cleared. Real-time testing would allow the economy to open again.”A second, inexpensive biochemical test that can be used at home and gives a result in 30 minutes. Both can work with a saliva sample.The third technology uses artificial intelligence (AI) to listen to a person’s voice and determine if he or she has first stage Covid. “It plays on the fact Covid attacks the respiratory system. One could even do the diagnosis through a cell phone,” said Gold. The third method is a breath analyser. “One would breathe into a tube. We put the tube into a machine which uses terahertz radio frequencies and an algorithm to tell if you have the virus.”The project is led by Gold and K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to Prime Minister Modi. The funding, logistics, cooperation and results are mutual, said Malkin.The Israeli and Indian scientists will carry out 4,000-5,000 tests of each technology in India to determine if they can work. Indian scientists will also be contributing on the algorithm side.“India is an AI (artificial intelligence)) superpower,” said Gold. “With these tests, hopefully we will be able to mature the technology and deploy it across the board.”The airplane will also bring cutting-edge technologies and equipment to help India, including robots, telemedicine, special sanitising equipment and so on. Noting that India had helped in evacuating thousands of Israelis and provided emergency medical supplies in the early days of the pandemic, Malkin said, the new cooperation was “part of our strong bilateral friendship.” PM Modi and Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu have spoken three times since the viral crisis broke out.Gold said the Israeli team would be in India for about “a week and a half.”Gold is famous in Israel for having invented the vaunted Iron Dome anti-missile defence system that provides a city-sized coverage against Katyusha-style rockets and mortar bombs, shooting down the incoming threats with small interceptor missiles.Malkin, in response to a question, said he was unaware of any special arms purchases by India from Israel because of the border clashes between India and China.“The two countries have had long-standing defence relations,” he said. “Relations have grown rapidly across many sectors, ranging from agriculture to defence, and now health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-israeli-scientists-to-work-on-4-covid-tests-through-voice-breath-and-saliva/story-DDBLV1mQATYh9m070sAlyK.html
