12-08-2020||India||IAF objects to its portrayal in Netflix film on Kargil war||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has objected to an incorrect portrayal of gender bias and its work culture in the Dharma Productions’ movie ‘Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl’, which was released on streaming platform Netflix on Wednesday.In a letter to the Dharma Productions, Netflix, and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), IAF said certain scenes and dialogues in the movie were found to portray the force in “an undue negative light”. “In the aim to glorify the screen character of ‘Ex-Fit Lt Gunjan Saxena’, M/s Dharma Productions presented some situations that are misleading and portray an inappropriate work culture especially against women in the IAF,” the letter, the contents of which were seen by HT, said. It added IAF has always ensured the organisation is gender neutral and has always provided equal opportunities to both women and men personnel.IAF has also provided a summary of the scenes and dialogues, which it considers objectionable and an incorrect presentation of gender bias. It added the production house was informed about the objectionable portions of the movie and was advised to delete or modify them. “However, the production house has not deleted the scenes, but had proposed a media plan in the run-up to the release and inserting a disclaimer in the movie,” the letter said. It called the measures inadequate.CBFC does not regulate platforms like Netflix even as the Union information and broadcasting ministry is working to prepare a regulatory framework. The Centre has been looking at self-regulatory mechanisms for such platforms.As per the initial understanding, Dharma Productions had agreed to represent IAF with authenticity and make efforts to ensure the film helps to inspire the next generation of officers, according to a person familiar with the developments.Attempts to reach Dharma Productions and Netflix were unsuccessful at the time of the report. When contacted, an I&B ministry official said OTT platforms do not come under the purview of the ministry.The movie is based on Gunjan Saxena, who became the first woman IAF pilot to take part in the 1999 Kargil war.The headcount of women in the armed forces is upwards of 3,300. They include 1,300 in the IAF. But combat roles were off-limits for women until the IAF took the lead in overcoming internal resistance to grant them equal opportunities in 2015 when they became eligible for the fighter stream.Warships, tanks, and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.The army is currently in the process of granting permanent commission to short service commissioned women following a Supreme Court verdict. In February, the court ruled that women should be considered for command roles and that all women officers are entitled to permanent commission. It asked the army to give them a permanent commission in a major boost to gender parity.Last month, the defence ministry wrote a letter to CBFC drawing attention to movies and web series producers distorting the army’s image and advised they obtain no-objection certificates before airing their movies or shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-objects-to-its-portrayal-in-netflix-film-on-kargil-war/story-81rXcXOj3qZ6O2Q8YcR3vM.html
12-08-2020||India||Chinese envoy says onus ‘not on China’ to resolve border standoff||The onus for resolving the border standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control is “not on China”, the Chinese envoy has said, even as he accused Indian troops of crossing the disputed border and triggering a violent clash on June 15. Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong made the assertions in a signed article in the latest issue of his embassy’s magazine, China-India Review, which was posted online late on Wednesday night. Referring to the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties and the issue of resolving the dispute and managing differences, Sun wrote: “If one analyses this incident carefully, it’s quite clear that the onus is not on China. The Indian side crossed the LAC for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops. “The Indian forces seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries and severely violated basic norms governing international relations.” Sun contended the clash was “completely instigated by the Indian side and the responsibility does not lie with the Chinese side”. He reiterated China’s position that the June 15 incident “happened on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and the Indian side crossed the LAC first”, and the “Galwan Valley is located on the Chinese side of the LAC”. Sun’s remarks – which came on the eve of the standoff completing 100 days, as the first clash between the border troops occurred on May 5 – are unlikely to go down well with the Indian government. The external affairs ministry had in June rejected the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley as “exaggerated and untenable”. And while the Chinese side has sought to convey a picture of progress in the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC and even said disengagement has been completed at most points, the Indian side has asserted the procedure is far from complete. India has also called on the Chinese side to deliver on its commitments made during meetings of corps commanders and a conversation between the Special Representatives on the border issue on the issue of disengagement. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the Chinese envoy’s article. Despite India’s assertions in recent weeks that its troops didn’t cross the LAC and that their patrolling had been hampered by Chinese forces since April, the Chinese envoy sought to blame the entire standoff on the Indian side. “The two sides basically have kept the peace for decades. However, since the beginning of this year, the Indian side has continuously built facilities at or crossing the LAC in the Galwan Valley, constantly changing the status quo of ground control,” he wrote. “On May 6, the Indian border troops crossed the LAC in the Galwan Valley by night and trespassed into China’s territory. They resorted to violent means to create a standoff between the two sides and built infrastructures in an attempt to maintain a permanent presence. Second, the Indian side violated the consensus and started provocation, which led to the escalation of the situation,” he added. Sun wrote that at a meeting of the corps commander on June 6, the Indian side “promised that they would not cross the estuary of the Galwan river to patrol and build facilities, and the two sides agreed to build observation posts on either side of the Galwan river mouth”. He alleged that “Indian border troops copped out on the consensus reached in the commander-level meeting” and “again crossed the line for provocations, which triggered the conflict”. “At present, the overall situation in the China-India border areas is stable and controllable. We hope the Indian side meet the Chinese side halfway, avoid taking actions that may complicate the border situation and take concrete actions to maintain stability in the border areas,” Sun wrote. The magazine has several articles giving the Chinese side of the standoff and one that criticises the Indian government’s ban on nearly 60 Chinese-origin mobile phone applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-envoy-says-onus-not-on-china-to-resolve-border-standoff/story-cHgr3Ekgn5er5xH2Q6XfmN.html
12-08-2020||India||Dewasom board to reopen over 1,000 shrines in Kerala||The Travancore Dewasom Board (TDB) on Wednesday announced that except the Sabarimala hill temple, it will reopen 1,000-odd shrines it runs across south Kerala from Monday. The reopening of the temples, which were shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, will coincide with the Malayalam New Year.Officials said Sabarimala’s reopening could lead to a steady stream of devotees from the neighbouring states and affect the ongoing Covid-19 control measures. TDB had earlier planned to allow devotees, who have made online bookings after furnishing Covid-free certificates, to visit the hill shrine. But a large number of inquiries regarding the temple’s reopening forced the TDB to defer the reopening, for now, the officials added.“We are planning to open all temples with Ganapati Homam [special offering for Lord Ganapati] on August 17 [Monday]. The special offering will mark the auspicious occasion. There will be a strict tab on devotees and entry will be restricted under the Covid-19 protocol,” said TDB president N Vasu. He requested the elderly and children under 10 to avoid visiting temples.Vasu said they have suffered an estimated loss of Rs 400 crore due to closure of temples over the last five months.Religious places reopened in June across the country for the first time in over 70 days as the Centre eased the curbs that were imposed to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Many temples, churches, and mosques in Kerala deferred reopening in view of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in June. Some churches and mosques were opened on special occasions but temples remained closed. Many temple bodies made provisions for virtual offerings to deal with losses they suffered but failed to attract devotees. TDB was forced to utilise revenue from the Sabarimala temple to fund smaller temples in south Kerala and to pay salaries of its 3,500-odd employees. With Sabarimala’s closure, many temple employees were forced to take salary cuts.At another major shrine, Sree Krishna temple in Guruvayur, the monthly donations collection were anywhere between Rs four to five crore. Besides money, it would often get gold, silver, diamond offerings. Daily pujas also contributed to enough money. Though the temple publicised its online offering, it failed to attract devotees. “With the devotees’ return, we hope the financial position will improve,” said a temple official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dewasom-board-to-reopen-over-1-000-shrines-in-kerala/story-aa6XrrGhn8yWSfG7dS78EO.html
12-08-2020||India||438 new coronavirus cases, four more deaths in Chhattisgarh||With 438 more people, including the wife of a former chief minister, testing positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh on Wednesday, the case count in the state rose to 13,498, a health officials said.The death toll reached 109 after four more persons succumbed to the viral infection and co-morbidities, while another patient allegedly committed suicide by jumping off from the second floor of a hospital here,the official said.A total of 269 patients were also discharged, taking the number of recovered cases to 9,508.Of the fresh cases, 154 were reported from Raipur district, 55 from Rajnandgaon, 41 from Raigarh, 29 from Durg, 26 from Bastar, 19 from Sukma, 17 from Bilaspur, 14 from Narayanpur, 13 from Jashpur, 11 from Korba, 10 each from Balodabazar and Surajpur districts, nine from Janjgir-Champa, six from Mahasamund and five each from Balod and Kanker districts, he said.Three cases each were reported from Dhamtari and Bemetara districts, two from Bijapur while one case each came from Gariaband, Mungeli and Surguja, he said.Besides, three persons from other states who had arrived in Chhattisgarh tested positive for the viral infection, he said.BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh tweeted on Wednesday that his wife Veena Singh had tested positive for coronavirus.“She has been admitted to the hospital on the advice of the doctors. I along with my family will remain in isolation and undergo check-up. All those who have come in contact with us are requested to stay in isolation and get themselves tested,” he said.A 50-year-old coronavirus patient from Durg district, admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), died on Wednesday morning.A 45-year-old Raipur-based woman, who was suffering from pneumonia, gastroenteritis and Covid-19, died in the wee hours on Wednesday.Besides, one death each was reported from Raipur and Durg districts, the health official said.A 65-year-old male patient from Raipur who was admitted to the AIIMS on August 7 allegedly committed suicide by jumping off from the fire exit point near bathroom on the second floor of the institute on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, he said.“Due to the patient’s abnormal behavior, psychiatry consultation was provided to him on August 8. His agitated behavior continued and he was being treated for it,” said the official.The state has now 3,881 active cases, as 9,508 people have been discharged after recovery, while 109 have died so far, he said.Chhattisgarh recorded over 9,400 cases and 90 deaths just in the last one month, he said.With a total of 4,566 cases so far, Raipur district tops the state tally.Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 13,498, new cases 438, total deaths 109, discharged 9,508, active cases 3,881, people tested so far 3,94,141.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/438-new-coronavirus-cases-four-more-deaths-in-chhattisgarh/story-SGIO9Rw0IA8kWnaYkIBHoM.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Forced to work in Covid-19 ward’, nursing student jumps off hostel building in Uttar Pradesh||Nurses and some nursing students at a Shahjahanpur medical college hospital in Uttar Pradesh staged a protest against the college administration after a nursing student allegedly jumped off the first floor of the hostel alleging torture, harassment and forced deployment in Covid-19 ward of the hospital by the authorities. Senior police and administrative officials of the district interacted with the students and assured them of their support.A 22-year-old nurse from Uttar Pradesh was injured after she allegedly jumped off the first floor of her hostel located inside a medical college campus in Tilhar area of Shahjahanpur on Tuesday evening, police said. The nursing student recorded and shared a video claiming they were being forced to work in Covid-19 ward by the college administration and alleged mental harassment.Police have lodged an FIR against the principal and two other staff of the medical college and initiated investigation.Confirming the incident, superintendent of police of Shahjahanpur S Anand said, “The incident occurred at Varun Arjun Medical College in Tilhar area at 6 pm on Tuesday. The nurse jumped from the first floor and was injured. She has been admitted to medical college hospital.”“They are not increasing our salaries and we don’t even have a health insurance, they torture us mentally, stopped my food and force us for duty,” the nurse could be heard saying in the video.Also Read: UP reports 4,583 new Covid-19 casesIn a police complaint, the mother of the girl has alleged that her daughter was forced to work in Covid-19 ward and was not given protective equipment mandated by the central government.“The management threatened to cancel her diploma. She was also threatened and was not provided food,” the mother has alleged in the police complaint.Based on her complaint, police have lodged an FIR under section 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at Tilhar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-to-work-in-covid-19-ward-nursing-student-jumps-off-hostel-building-in-uttar-pradesh/story-PHVxpl3xOBuY4pAMHZ9BuL.html
12-08-2020||India||Odisha plans one lakh tests per day as Covid-19 cases cross 50k mark||As Covid-19 tally in Odisha crossed the 50,000-mark and death toll mounted to 305, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said on Wednesday that the state government would increase testing in the coming weeks.Reviewing the pandemic situation in the state on a day when the Covid-19 tally rose to 50,672 with the highest single-day surge of 1,876 cases, Patnaik asked the district collectors to increase testing at sub-divisional hospitals and community health centres. Similarly, Block Development Officers and officials of panchayati raj institutions have been asked to motivate people to voluntarily come forward for testing.Director of Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, Dr Ajay Parida said the state would now start testing about one lakh samples a day. In the last 24 hours, Odisha tested 32,053 samples of which 23,000 samples were tested through rapid antigen method and 8,000 through RT-PCR method. Currently, the state has the capacity to conduct 8,000-10,000 RT-PCR tests per day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Now more emphasis is being laid on rapid antigen tests because you can know the result at the point of care whether one is positive or negative within 4-5 hours. Antigen kits are now available with district hospitals and municipalities. The advantage with rapid antigen kits is that a large number of people can be screened and positive cases can be identified and segregated,” he said.The chief minister said Odisha is one of the few states in the country which is providing universal care for Covid-19 patients completely free of cost. “From testing to treatment to food, transport, accommodation, everything is provided free of cost, and the objective is that because of financial problems nobody should suffer without getting treatment in Odisha,” Patnaik said.The chief minister said those Covid positive patients who will be staying in home isolation, would be provided a kit containing dos and don’ts, few basic medicines and a list of telephone numbers of doctors, counsellors/ tele-medicine professionals and government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-plans-one-lakh-tests-per-day-as-covid-19-cases-cross-50k-mark/story-SUyC1ywqpo8tScwvDwNuHP.html
12-08-2020||India||Woman sells baby for money after hubby walks out on her in Hyderabad||A two-month-old baby was allegedly sold off by his mother for Rs 45,000 to make both ends meet after husband walks out on her, police said on Wednesday.Based on a complaint filed by the man who returned to her, the infant was traced and six people, including the mother, were arrested, the police said.The woman, who was facing financial problems after her husband left their house following a quarrel with her on a petty issue on August 3, sold her son to meet her needs, they said.On August 8, the man returned home and asked his wife about the baby. She told him that she had sold the baby through some mediators, they said, adding that the six were held based on the complaint from the baby’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-sells-baby-for-money-after-hubby-walks-out-on-her-in-hyderabad/story-CUw3Z8xzB4geOujdKSFWEI.html
12-08-2020||India||Kamala Harris’ political views shaped by her Indian mother: Uncle||Kamala Harris’ ability to stick to her principles and her commitment to human rights are two qualities that will stand her in good stead if she and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden win the US elections, her uncle Gopalan Balachandran said on Wednesday. Balachandran said much of Harris’ views on politics and civil rights were shaped by her strong-willed mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who went against convention by travelling to the US for studies in 1958, and her grandfather, PV Gopalan, who rose from a humble beginning as a stenographer to become a government official who was deputed to Zambia in the 1960s to help with a refugee crisis because of his experience in rehabilitating refugees from Pakistan. In an interview at his home in New Delhi, which was virtually taken over by media crews on Wednesday following the news that Biden had picked Harris as his running mate, the 80-year-old academic who specialises in civil nuclear issues and economics said his strongest impression of his niece was her ability to stand her ground. Referring to Harris’ decision in 2004, when she was serving as district attorney in San Francisco, not to seek the death penalty for the killer of a policeman despite opposition from the police union, Balachandran said: “The ability to stick to her principles and to convince those who opposed her logic to come to her side, that was my strongest impression of her.” Also Read: ‘We have arrived,’ say Indian American after Kamala Harris selectionHarris’ commitment to human rights and justice is largely due to her mother Shyamala, who married Jamaican national Donald Harris after meeting him during the black civil rights movement of the 1960s. Balachandran, who has a PhD in economics and computer science from the University of Wisconsin, said his sister Shyamala was politically active in the US when it was unheard of for Indian-Americans to do so. This commitment to rights issues has been reflected in Harris’ position against India’s Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the situation in Kashmir, Balachandran said, acknowledging that she is unlikely to change her stance even if it upsets those in the corridors of power in New Delhi. “She likes India, obviously her family is Indian but that doesn’t mean she gives a free pass to everything that India does. She will not accept somebody saying, ‘It’s done in India, so why are you stopping it?’ She’ll say, ‘Look it may be India but is something which should not be done, which is against my feelings’,” he added. Also Read: Kamala Harris and her rise | HT EditorialBut Balachandran, who was earlier part of the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) and served as a consultant to the Americas division of the external affairs ministry, said he believes India-US relations are too strong to be affected by the views of an individual. “Today there’s nothing in India-US relations that requires presidential or vice presidential intervention at the highest level. These are small things – whether one export control licence should be given to India or not...Both the US administration and Congress are already working on [these issues], all that she has to make sure is the administration follows what they are told to do,” he said. Harris, the first American of Indian and African origin and only the third woman to run for vice president, also has a strong connection to her roots. “Her roots are a combination of things – her mother’s roots are her roots, and her mother’s roots were strongly Indian in one sense and strongly independent in the other sense. [Harris’] roots are strongly influenced by her mother, and through her mother, when she used to come to India, her grandfather and others,” Balachandran said. Asked if Harris had benefited from the progressive and liberal views of her grandfather, PV Gopalan, and grandmother Rajam, Balachandran said: “They just said people are equal, people should do what they want, they should study, you should not force them to do something. So what’s so liberal about it? That’s how you treat human beings.”“[They] didn’t mind the Jamaican son-in-law, a Mexican daughter-in-law, a 19-year-old daughter going abroad to study by herself and taking part in demonstrations in another country.” Balachandran said he had no plans to speak to Harris before the US elections are over, mainly because of concerns that someone in the US could use such a conversation to target her during the campaign. “If I tell her something, [they will say her] uncle is an expert on India-US relations and is advising her. The Indians are interfering in the US,” he said. But he did send a message to Harris after learning that Biden had chosen her as running mate. “I sent her a congratulatory message this morning. I said, ‘Kamala, congratulations. Shyamala would have been very proud.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-political-views-shaped-by-her-indian-mother-uncle/story-DHkN8tPAtxTU3npbA2ptyI.html
12-08-2020||India||Minor girl allegedly raped in orphanage five months ago dies in Hyderabad||A 14-year old orphan girl, who was allegedly raped by a man repeatedly at an orphanage in March, died on Wednesday at a government hospital in Hyderabad where she was being treated, police said. Patancheru deputy superintendent of police R Rajeshwar Rao said the ghastly incident happened at an orphanage in Ameenpur on the outskirts of Hyderabad sometime before the enforcement of lockdown in the country in the last week of March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are yet to ascertain the exact period when the sexual assault on the girl had happened,” he said. The prime accused – Venugopal, a donor of the orphanage and two others including, orphanage warder Vijaya and her brother Jayadeep – had already been arrested last month and sent to judicial remand, the DSP said. A case was booked against Venugopal under Sections 376(3), 342, 323, 328, 506 and 109 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 5(l) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act on July 31. “Now that the girl has died, we are examining the possibility of altering the sections to make it as a rape and murder case,” Rao said. Investigations revealed that the girl was admitted in the orphanage by her uncle in 2015 after both her parents had died in an accident. Venugopal, who used to come to the orphanage frequently, had allegedly assaulted her sexually several times, as a result of which she had developed health complications. After the lockdown, the girl came to her uncle’s place in Bowenpally. When her relatives noticed that she was not keeping well, they took her to a local hospital where the doctors confirmed that she had been sexually assaulted. They lodged a complaint with the local police who later transferred the case to Ameenpur police station. The relatives first admitted her in a juvenile home for girls from where she was taken to Niloufer Hospital, Hyderabad in the last week of July. With her condition deteriorating, she was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit and had been kept on a ventilator. She succumbed in the early hours of Wednesday. The police said the girl’s body was handed over to her relatives after autopsy for last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-allegedly-raped-in-orphanage-five-months-ago-dies-in-hyderabad/story-oVrl3sqV4axlHnyeKbe2YP.html
12-08-2020||India||Committed to implement Clause 6 of Assam Accord, says Assam govt||The Assam government on Wednesday assured that it is committed to implement the Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord which pertains to safeguards for the preservation and promotion of Assamese identity and heritage. The assurance by the state’s finance, education, health and PWD minister Himanta Biswa Sarma came a day after All Assam Students Union (AASU) made public a high-level committee’s confidential report on the implementation of Clause 6 of the accord. Among other things, the report seeks reservation for Assamese in Parliament, state assembly, local bodies, and regulation of entry of people from other states into Assam. “We are resolved to implement the Clause 6 and are on track. By releasing the report, AASU has created complications. The committee’s report would be tabled in assembly at a future date and it will define and ratify definition of Assamese people,” Sarma said while addressing a press conference. “It is only after the assembly passes a resolution, the matter will go to Centre and implementation process of Clause 6 will begin,” he added. The tripartite accord involving AASU, whose members were a part of the committee, the state government and the Centre was signed in 1985. It was signed after a six-year agitation against illegal immigrants. A 13-member committee headed by justice (Retd) Biplab Kumar Sarma submitted the report to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February this year. Clarity on who can be called an Assamese was one of the committee’s main tasks as the accord did not clearly define it. The report proposes January 1951 as the cut-off date for any Indian citizen residing in Assam to be defined as an Assamese for the purpose of implementing Clause 6. The report also seeks quotas in government jobs. It also talks about issues related to land and land rights, linguistic, cultural and social rights and protection of the state’s resources and biodiversity Upset at ‘inaction’ by the government on the report even after five months of its submission, AASU made it public on Tuesday. “AASU may be upset at ‘inaction’ of few months, but the committee report itself says that the recommendations are to be implemented within two years after careful scrutiny by a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge as it involves constitutional provisions,” said Sarma. “Since our government is at the end of our tenure and the assembly elections are due in few months, it might be better if the newly elected assembly takes up the issue of ratifying definition of Assamese people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-implement-clause-6-of-assam-accord-says-assam-govt/story-2iaX79SCqrRDDIzwWUY4QI.html
12-08-2020||India||HM militant eliminated in Pulwama encounter, army loses soldier||A soldier of the Indian Army and a militant were killed in a gun battle at southern district of Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, while another soldier was injured, officials said on Wednesday.The encounter started on Tuesday night when security forces were searching the Kamrazipora area of Pulwama based on inputs about the presence of militants there.The officials said that Sowar Jilajeet Singh Yadav received injuries in an exchange of fire with militants near an orchard in Kamrazipora and later succumbed. A militant was also killed in the encounter.“A terrorist killed and a soldier laid down his life in the line of duty. One AK rifle along with grenades, pouches and other war like stores were recovered. Search operation is in progress,” said Indian Army’s Srinagar based PRO, Colonel Rajesh Kalia.A police spokesman said the militants were given an opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which retaliated leading to an encounter.The slain militant has been identified as Azaad Lalhari, a resident of Pulwama. As per police record, Azaad was affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen and had a history of terror crime.Also Read: Medical professionals from Pakistan occupied territory can’t practice in India: MCI“He was involved in planning and executing several terror attacks in the area. Several terror crime cases were registered against him including one pertaining to the killing of HC Anoop Singh at Prichoo in Pulwama,” the spokesperson said.Local reports said that another militant managed to flee during the search operation, however, the claim was not corroborated by the security agencies.An army spokesman later said that Sowar Jilajeet Singh Yadav was leading the security team when it ran into the terrorists during the operation.“In the ensuing firefight, one terrorist was eliminated and Sowar Jilajeet Singh Yadav received gunshot wounds. Despite being grievously injured, he continued to fight. He was subsequently evacuated to 92 Base Hospital, Srinagar where he eventually succumbed to his injuries,” the spokesman said.Also Read: Chhattisgarh: Four Maoists killed in encounter with security forcesArmy offered tributes to Yadav in a solemn ceremony at Badami Bagh Cantonment where Lt Gen BS Raju, Chinar Corps Commander and all ranks were present to pay their homage.Yadav was 25 years old and had joined the Army on March 18, 2014. He belonged to Village Ijari of Sadar Tehsil, Jaunpur District in Uttar Pradesh and is survived by his wife. Yadav’s mortal remains were taken to his native place, where he would be cremated with full military honors.Soldier fired upon at Srinagar National HighwayMeanwhile, one soldier was injured in a separate incident in North Kashmir where militants fired upon a quick reaction team of army on Srinagar-Baramulla National Highway.“Terrorists fired at a Quick Reaction Team (QRT) of Indian Army today. The QRT was moving from Baramulla towards Gulmarg on the Srinagar-Baramulla National Highway near Trumgund Hygam crossing. One Army soldier was injured. Search operation is in progress,” Colonel Kalia said.Militant arrested in BandiporaSecurity forces arrested an active militant of proscribed outfit Lashkar e Taiba from Hajin area of north Kashmir’s Bandipora and recovered arms & ammunition from his possession. “Based on credible information, Handwara Police along with Bandipora Police, 13RR, 32RR & 92BN CRPF have arrested one active terrorist identified as Aquib Ahmad Rather alias Jana, a resident of Sahipora, Handwara from Hajin area of Bandipora,” a police spokesman said.Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from his possession. As per police records he was linked with proscribed outfit LeT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jem-militant-eliminated-in-pulwama-encounter-army-loses-brave-soldier/story-xWGEMedK74dsbBkY9GhVjI.html
12-08-2020||India||Several Naga bodies oppose removal of Nagaland Governor as interlocutor for peace talks||Several prominent Naga groups on Wednesday opposed the removal of Nagaland Governor RN Ravi as the interlocutor for the ongoing peace talks as sought by the Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM). On Tuesday, the NSCN-IM accused Ravi of creating hurdles in the final agreement of the Naga political issue and sought his removal as interlocutor. “We find no logic to remove Ravi as the interlocutor at this point of time. The formal talks concluded on October 31 last year and we are all waiting for the signing of the final agreement. But NSCN-IM is indulging in delaying tactics now,” said Alezo Venuh, coordinator of the working committee of Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). The NNPGs are a group of seven Naga outfits and organizations who along with NSCN-IM are also involved in talks with the Centre to sign a final agreement to the Naga issue. “There is no ground to remove Ravi. There is no point going back to square one. Whoever is asking for the interlocutor’s removal doesn’t want a solution, but wants to continue the issue. The talks have been going on for 23 years, the Naga people now want a solution without delay,” said Venuh. In a statement issued on Tuesday NSCN-IM had said the peace process is in a state of “simmering tension” and reaching “tipping point” because of Ravi’s “vitriolic attack” on Naga issue. “The issue is now in the court of Government of India that should come out with an undertaking that Framework Agreement (signed in August 2015) is still alive in its original form and to be handled by somebody other than RN Ravi,” the statement read. The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with the central government since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) in 2015, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long pending Naga issue. Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and other pro-talks rebel outfits (Naga National Political Groups-NNPGs) concluded In October, 2019 a formal deal to end the decades old Naga political problem is still awaited. The NSCN-IM’s accusations against Ravi comes at a time when another round of meetings to thrash out a final agreement is set to begin in New Delhi from next week in which senior NSCN-IM and NNPGs leaders are expected to take part. However, the Apex Naga Tribal Hohos of Nagaland (ANTHN), an organization of the 14 major Naga tribes in the state, in a statement issued on Tuesday backed Ravi’s continuance as interlocutor. “The peace process is in the last leg, therefore demanding change of interlocutor at this stage is uncalled for. It is the Centre’s prerogative on who they want to represent it at the talks. We shouldn’t have any problem with that and focus on putting our views across,” said Theja Therieh, executive member of Naga Tribes Council (NTC). Earlier several organizations like Lotha Hoho, Nagaland Gaon Bura Federation and Zeliangrong Baudi had also come out in support of Ravi and opposed demands for his removal as interlocutor. “We have no connection with NSCN-IM’s statement and there is no question of favouring or not favouring removal of Ravi as interlocutor from our side,” said HK Zhimomi, president of Naga Hoho, the apex tribal body of Nagas in Nagaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-naga-bodies-oppose-removal-of-nagaland-governor-as-interlocutor-for-peace-talks/story-Hdw8TJBNAV1jV8mci9RfKP.html
12-08-2020||India||Customs seek details of diplomatic consignments from Kerala protocol officer as gold probe widens||The Customs department on Wednesday asked the Kerala protocol officer to furnish details of diplomatic consignments that arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport in the last few months as part of the probe into the gold smuggling case.Speculation is also rife that state higher education minister K T Jaleel may be grilled to clear the air on the “import of holy books”.As a local arrangement in Kerala, exemption certificates for diplomatic bags are issued by the state protocol officer after obtaining details like weight and country of origin, people aware of the ongoing probe into the gold smuggling case said.After the gold smuggling racket was busted with the seizure of 30 kg of the yellow metal on July 5 from a bag that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates consulate, Jaleel claimed that the consulate had donated copies of Quran and he took them to his constituency for distribution. But former diplomats and others said no country exports religious books and special permission was needed for such imports also. “Religious books are not imported. If at all it happens, special permission is needed for this,” said former diplomat T P Sreenivasan. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said no such permission was sought. A senior officer of the Customs said a heavy consignment came on March 4 in 30 bags weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram in a government vehicle. “We have got some definite information. We are really intrigued about the contents. Investigation is going on the right track,” he said. Jaleel’s number figured prominently in the call lists of the main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh. The minister then addressed a press conference in Malappuram saying he had interacted with her for distribution of Ramzan kits offered by the UAE consulate. He also said he was in touch with her as a “diplomatic staff” but he did not mention the consignment he took to Malappuram.It came to light a week after when Customs and NIA officials questioned employees and a driver of the C-Apt (Kerala Centre for Advanced Printing and Training), a government body under Jaleel’s ministry. After this, the minister admitted he took holy books to his constituency and he was ready for any punishment for this. He also took a swipe at journalists saying “these holy books were not made in gold”. But BJP state president K Surendran said the minister dragged religion into the issue after his alleged role came to light. “His lies are falling one by one. We have information these consignments were unloaded in three places including Bengaluru,” he said. When contacted the minister refused any comments saying he stands by what he had said earlier. Meanwhile Kerala police chief Loknath Behra has directed the state cyber wing to probe bullying of senior Malayalam electronic media journalists including women scribes and submit a report in 24 hours.The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) had petitioned chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying these journalists were targeted and attacked on social media citing their personal life and other details “for taking proactive stand on several issues including the sensational gold smuggling case.” Shockingly, the CM’s Press secretary also posted some comments against electronic media journalists, which many senior journalists alleged triggered such an intense cyber bullying against scribes. When asked about this, the CM evaded a direct reply saying the law was applicable to all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-seek-details-of-diplomatic-consignments-from-kerala-protocol-officer-as-gold-probe-widens/story-TpbQTtLDiMYgUVrGokT64I.html
12-08-2020||India||Jagan Reddy’s scheme for women allows cash transfer, promotes self-reliance||The Jagan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday launched yet another populist scheme – YSR Cheyutha – aimed at promoting entrepreneurship opportunities for women belonging to weaker sections and minorities. Launching the scheme over a video link from his camp office in Tadepalli in Amaravati, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said YSR Cheyutha scheme would ensure self-reliance among women by promoting entrepreneurship. Under this scheme, about 23 lakh women belonging to SC, ST, OBC and Minority communities in the age group of 45-60 years will get a direct cash transfer of Rs 18,750 per year aggregating to Rs 75,000 in four years. The scheme would cost the state government around Rs 17,000 crore. This year, the government had earmarked Rs 4,687 crore. “The amount would be directly transferred into the bank account of mothers and sisters, who are free to spend the same on the activity of their choice,” Jagan said. He pointed out that among 23 lakh beneficiaries, about eight lakh widows and single women in the age group of 45-60 years were already receiving monthly social pensions and they would get additional benefit under YSR Cheyutha. “At present, each such woman is getting Rs 27,000 per year in the form of pensions, at the rate of Rs 2,250 per month. In addition to this, they would receive Rs 18,750 per year under YSR Cheyutha. The total amount comes to Rs 45,750 per annum,” he said. The chief minister said under the YSR Cheyutha scheme, the government would extend marketing and technical assistance to all the beneficiaries. Besides, the government would also facilitate securing loans from banks for their business activities. “The state government has signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with major FMCG giants like Proctor and Gamble, Anand Milk Union Limited (AMUL), Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) and India Tobacco Limited (ITC) to strengthen rural economy and the beneficiaries of Cheyutha can be stakeholders in their business,” Jagan said. Beneficiaries from across the state thanked the chief minister through a video conference. They appreciated the government for taking up such initiative, which will help them invest the amount in setting up their own business. The opposition Telugu Desam Party, however, described the YSR Cheyutha scheme as a big fraud played on the women by the Jagan government. Senior TDP lawmaker Nimmala Ramanaidu reminded that in his election manifesto, Jagan had promised to give pensions to the extent of Rs 3,000 per month to women below 45 years of age. “As such, each woman should get Rs 36,000 per year and Rs 1.80 lakh in his five-year tenure. What he is giving now for women between 45 and 60 years is just Rs 18,750 per year. Is it not cheating the innocent women after garnering their votes in the elections?” Ramanaidu asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-s-scheme-for-women-allows-cash-transfer-promotes-self-reliance/story-l42AFN62bOvqhUWUK3gKdO.html
12-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand wants permit regime near China border to end for strategic reasons||Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj has written to the Centre urging it to remove some areas from Inner Line restrictions near Indo-China border in the state to boost tourism there, said officials. The letter was written by the minister on Tuesday in which he cited that removing some areas from Inner Line restrictions would also help in preventing migration of locals from those areas. The move follows reports of China increasing troop deployment at the border adjoining Uttarakhand amid the tensions between the two sides after the Galwan Valley episode. Maharaj said, “I have written to the Ministry of Home Affairs to remove some areas from the Inner Line including Gartang Gali in Uttarkashi district, Timmersain Mahadev in Chamoli and Om Parvat in Pithoragarh district. These areas presently fall under the Inner Line due to which there are certain restrictions on tourism activities there.” Also Read: India can play a crucial role in easing global strategic reliance on China: British lawmaker“Presently, foreigners are not allowed to visit these areas apart from the limited number of Indian tourists permitted per day. If these areas are removed from the Inner Line, then not only foreign tourists will be allowed there but the number of Indians visiting them will also increase,” said Maharaj. The minister said that a boost in tourism in those border areas will help in their development. “If there is development there, then the locals will stay there and not opt for migration. This in turn will also help in security purposes as the locals could keep an eye on the Chinese activities near the border and inform the security forces,” said Maharaj. He added that the state government was ready to develop various facilities to boost tourism activities in these bordering areas provided Centre grants the request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-wants-permit-regime-near-china-border-to-end-for-strategic-reasons/story-9wWbctDzmRYGydK4JpGKSN.html
12-08-2020||India||Kerala: Idukki landslide death toll rises to 54||With the recovery of two more bodies, the death toll of the Rajamala landslide in Idukki rose to 54 on Wednesday, informed the Idukki District Collector (DC).“Two more bodies were found today, taking the death toll in the Rajamala landslide to 54. 16 missing people are yet to be traced,” the DC said.Two NDRF teams, a full unit of Idukki fire and rescue team, a team each from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, and a team which received special training are leading the rescue operations in Idukki’s Rajamala, the District Information Office had said on Sunday.On Friday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakhs to kin of the deceased.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also expressed his condolences over deaths due to landslide and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakhs each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the kin of deceased.Heavy rains in several parts of Kerala triggered floods and landslides which have wreaked havoc in the region over the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-idukki-landslide-death-toll-rises-to-54/story-2GkBe9LPQK8dA2qrToCOnM.html
12-08-2020||India||Surveillance system, Braille signs, speed of 160 kmph in private trains’ draft proposal||Electronic sliding doors in coaches, passenger surveillance system, automatic announcement display, destination information in Hindi, English and regional languages, among others, are some of the draft proposals for running of private trains in India. The train operations are expected to begin by 2023. The ministry of railways on Wednesday issued draft specifications that need to be adhered to for plying private trains along 109 proposed routes. The trains would also be designed to operate at a maximum service speed of 160 kmph. “Train shall be designed so that they can operate safely at a maximum speed of 180 kmph during testing. The train shall be designed for a life of 35 years. The train shall be designed so as to minimise the risks posed by obsolescence,” the specifications said.The trains will be designed to run at a maximum speed of 160 kmph. The ministry expects a reduction in journey time by around 10-15% at 130 kmph and around 30% at 160 kmph. Initially, they will run at 130 kmph and are slated to run at 160 kmph by March 2024, according to ministry officials.A pre-bid meeting was held by the ministry of railways on Wednesday with the firms. Private players will be given full freedom to decide the fare for the passengers and will be given the option of either purchasing the trains or leasing them in terms of procurement. “The Passenger Car Surveillance System (PRSS) shall comprise an IP based close circuit television (CCTV) network, surveillance cameras and other accessories as required with on board equipment for streaming of video to the central server for selected cameras. Each sitting car of train shall be provided with minimum six surveillance cameras to cover the passenger area. For a sleeper train, each car shall be provided with two surveillance cameras at appropriate location to cover the entire corridor. In addition, adequate numbers in the Gangway/vestibule area as deemed necessary shall also be provided, “ the draft specifications said. According to the draft specifications, the private trains shall have a minimum of 16 (sixteen) passenger carrying cars. Minimum length of the train shall be 384 (three hundred eighty four) meters, buffer to buffer. The maximum train length shall not exceed that of the longest passenger train operating on the route of the railway network. For the avoidance of doubt, a car having a driving cab and also carrying the passengers shall be considered as a passenger carrying car.Each coach will be provided with two digital destination boards displaying the originating, destination station, vehicle number and train number.Emergency talk-back option will be provided in the coach. Once pressed, it shall be possible for the passenger to communicate with the train driver or guard.“All Users shall be able to contact the Loco Pilot/Guard/TS by activating an emergency alarm signal handle to stop the Train and receive assistance. The effect on the train of an activated alarm signal may vary, depending on the location of the train and the lines on which it is travelling,” the specification said. The trains will also have Braille signs. The specifications state normal and emergency equipment and controls which the users or crew may operate, shall be clearly identified, and operating procedures shall be presented in both text and graphic formats. “Passenger emergency signs shall also be embossed in Braille raised typeface,” it said. It also said that the trains shall be designed to keep the noise emissions as low as possible and it will be designed to prevent drumming, rattles or vibrations throughout its life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/braille-signs-cctvs-speed-of-160-kmph-in-private-trains-draft-proposal/story-J2CTlvFNvYFw5Fj4BiapnM.html
12-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bombardier, Siemens among 23 firms keen on running private trains in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bombardier, Siemens among 23 firms keen on running private trains in IndiaBombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd are the big names among 23 firms that have evinced interest in running private trains on Indian Railways’ network of more than 100 key routes. Read moreSubhash Ghai says he’s ‘amused’ by Mahima Chaudhry’s claim that he bullied her: ‘She apologised... I forgave her’Filmmaker Subhash Ghai has reacted to actor Mahima Chaudhry’s claim that he bullied her and asked all other producers not to work with her. Read moreMicrosoft Surface Duo to launch on September 10, priced around ₹1 lakhMicrosoft unveiled its first dual-screen smartphone ‘Surface Duo’ last October. It has now finally announced the launch date of Surface Duo, and even its price tag. Read moreThis unique stop-motion video has been created using water. WatchIf you’re a fan of sports and (or) stop-motion, then this clip may seem tailor-made for you. However, even if you don’t specifically enjoy any of these genres, the general artistry behind this video may still leave you floored. Read moreWatch: Ravi Shankar Prasad speaks on Sushant Rajput death probeAs the probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput intensifies, Union Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has now called for a fair probe into the case. In an exclusive interview with Hindustan Editor-in-Chief Shashi Shekhar, Prasad said that the actor’s loss is a loss for the nation and not just the state of Bihar. Read moreA once-in-6,800-years opportunity: Neowise comet lends a perfectly romantic backdrop to this man’s proposalMost people want to make their proposals that special moment that they can make a fond memory of and cherish for a lifetime, the kind of story you’ll want to inspire other romantics with for years to come. Read moreRichie Benaud kept on saying if I bowl to potential, India will beat Australia: Former India spinner Dilip DoshiFormer India left-arm spinner Dilip Doshi revealed how legendary Australian cricketer Richie Benaud had said India would go on to win the Test against Australia in Melbourne in the 1981 series if Doshi played to his full potential. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bombardier-siemens-among-23-firms-keen-on-running-private-trains-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GUnRAqi1DJnKnumCCfYS2J.html
12-08-2020||India||Bombardier, Siemens among 23 firms keen on running private trains in India||Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd are the big names among 23 firms that have evinced interest in running private trains on Indian Railways’ network of more than 100 key routes.A pre-bid meeting was held by the ministry of railways on Wednesday with the firms. The private firms raised several queries regarding flexibility in clusters, eligibility criteria, bidding process, procurement of trains, fares, operations and Maintenance, officials aware of the development said.Private players will be given full freedom to decide the fare for the passengers and will be given the option of either purchasing the trains or leasing them in terms of procurement, officials from the Niti Aayog and railway ministry clarified.The 23 firms who have sought interest in the tender are: Medha Group, ALSTOM Transport India Ltd, state-run BEML Limited, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Bharat Forge, IRCTC Ltd, Bombardier Transportation India, CAF India Pvt. Ltd, Gateway Rail, GMR Infrastructure Ltd, Hind Rectifiers Limited, Iboard India Private Limited, ISQ ASIA Infrastructure investments PTE.LTD, Jasan Infra Private Limited, JKB Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Ltd (L&T IDPL), Medha group, Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL), National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, PSGG Technologies Pvt Ltd, R.K Associates & Hoteliers Pvt.Ltd, Siemens Limited, Sterlite Power and Titagragh Wagons Limited.“The ministry of railway inter alia emphasised that complete freedom will be given to private partner in terms of procurement of trains - can either be purchased or taken on lease. MoR also clarified that risks with regard to operation of trains shall be allocated to the parties best suited to manage them. MoR also informed that the private entity shall have the freedom to decide on the fare to be charged from its passengers,” the ministry said on Wednesday.“As part of the Bidding Process, MoR conducted the second Pre-Application Conference on August 12 which received an over-whelming positive response, with participation from about 23 prospective Applicants with varied profiles. Applicants’ queries with regard to the definition of Gross Revenue were also addressed. Regarding haulage charges, MoR informed the indicative haulage charges @ Rs 512.31 per train km for 2019-20 with indexation,” the ministry added.The railway ministry on July 1 began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes - a process that aims to, for the first time, to open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The ministry issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.The private partners will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP). The first pre-Application Conference was held on July 21. Post the first pre-application conference, ministry of railways reduced the RFQ fee by one tenth for participating in more than one project, removed restriction of up to 3 projects per bidder and clarified that leasing of trains is allowed. The ministry has also shared traffic data, draft concession agreement, draft feasibility report and draft manual for standards and specifications of trains.The railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter will select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 are expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry plans to run the trains along 12 clusters across Indian Railways’s network. It has planned two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.According to the ministry, the planned investment will come to around Rs 30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains.The trains will be designed to run at a maximum speed of 160 kmph. The ministry expects a reduction in journey time by around 10-15% at 130 kmph and around 30% at 160 kmph. Initially, they will run at 130 kmph and are slated to run at 160 kmph by March 2024.The private entity shall pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process. The railways is expected to receive total haulage charges of around Rs 3,000 crore per annum from operation of these 151 trains.The railways is currently undergoing losses in the passenger segment, and the national carrier aims to meet its expenditure through a minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to the national carrier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombardier-siemens-among-23-firms-keen-on-running-private-trains-in-india/story-7TYfOJZDmnAbR9CxsExdNM.html
12-08-2020||India||Govt panel on Covid-19 vaccine protocol discusses delivery mechanism||The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 which met for the first time on Wednesday, deliberated on the conceptualization and implementation mechanisms for creation of a digital infrastructure for inventory management and delivery mechanism of the vaccine, the Union health ministry said in a statement.The expert group also discussed tracking of the vaccination process with particular focus on last mile delivery.The meeting was chaired by Dr V K Paul, Member Niti Aayog along with Secretary (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) as co-Chair.The group discussed broad parameters guiding the selection of Covid-19 vaccine candidates for the country and sought inputs from the Standing Technical Sub-Committee of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the statement said. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine update: All about Russia’s ‘Sputnik V’ and its availability“The group delved on the procurement mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccine, including both indigenous and international manufacturing along with guiding principles for prioritization of population groups for vaccination.”“The expert group discussed on the financial resources required for procurement of COVID-19 vaccine and various options of financing the same. Available options in terms of delivery platforms, cold chain and associated infrastructure for roll out of Covid-19 vaccination were also taken up.”The members also deliberated on strategy and follow-up action on all possible scenarios to ensure equitable and transparent delivery of the vaccine. “Issues related to vaccine safety and surveillance were taken up and strategy for community involvement through transparent information and awareness creation were discussed,” the statement said.The meeting also took into account India’s support to its key neighbors and development partner countries for Covid-19 vaccines.“The expert group discussed that India will leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity and will also engage with all international players for early delivery of vaccines not only in India but also in low and middle income countries,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-panel-on-covid-19-vaccine-protocol-discusses-delivery-mechanism/story-HvtEWpYFRJ1Y0GcCnrK6dO.html
12-08-2020||India||Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi dies after cardiac arrest||Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi died on Wednesday due to cardiac arrest. Tyagi was party’s general secretary and spokesperson for its Uttar Pradesh unit. Tyagi died in Ghaziabad.“We are deeply saddened by the sudden demise of Shri Rajiv Tyagi. A staunch Congressman & a true patriot. Our thoughts and prayers are with his families & friends in this time of grief,” Congress tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who is also party in charge for Uttar Pradesh East said Tyagi’s death was a personal loss to her.“The untimely demise of Rajiv Tyagi, spokesperson for the Indian National Congress, is a personal loss to me. He cannot be replaced. Rajiv ji was a warrior dedicated to ideology,” Priyanka said in her tweet.BJP leader Sambit Patra expressed shock at Tyagi’s demise saying he had participated in a television debate with him minutes earlier.“Can’t believe that my friend and Congress spokesperson @RT For India is no longer with us. We had debated together on Aaj Tak on the 5pm show earlier today. Life is very unpredictable. I can’t find words still,” Patra said.Earlier today, Tyagi had tweeted that he will appear on Hindi news channel AAJ Tak at 5pm. NCP leader Nawab Malik, too, offered his condolences on Rajiv Tyagi’s demise.“Saddened to hear about the demise of @RTforIndia, National spokesperson of @INCIndia. Prayers, strength and condolences to the family and close ones in the hour of grief,” Malik’s tweet said.Senior Maharashtra Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat also described Rajiv Tyagi’s death as shocking.“The news of the sudden demise of Congress leader Shri. Rajiv Tyagi is extremely shocking and saddening. Heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones. May his soul rest in peace,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-rajiv-tyagi-dies-after-cardiac-arrest/story-c5vepLOlqtnKC71WjxSevL.html
12-08-2020||India||Five lakh small-time vendors applied for loans under PM SVANidhi scheme: Centre||The number of loan sanctions and number of applications received under PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme have crossed the mark of 1 lakh and 5 lakhs respectively within 41 days of commencement of the lending process on July 02, 2020, according to an official release by the government on Wednesday. The scheme was launched to financially help street vendors bounce back from the setback received during the coronavirus pandemic by giving them access to affordable working capital credit for resumption of businesses post Covid-19 lockdown. The scheme announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs provides for collateral-free working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 of 1 year tenure and was aimed to assist about 50 lakh street vendors in the urban areas.“Incentives in the form of interest subsidy @ 7% per annum on regular repayment of loan, cashback up to Rs 1,200 per annum on undertaking prescribed digital transactions and eligibility for enhanced next tranche of loan have also been provided under the PM SVANidhi scheme,” the official statement added.Also Read: Is economy recovering with easing of lockdown or sinking?One of the secondary stated objectives of the scheme is to create a credit profile of these small time entrepreneurs by onboarding them on digital payment platforms to integrate with the formal urban economy, the statement says.The government has also provisioned to provide collateral free credit to several other sectors of the economy as part of its financial package to mitigate the adverse economic impact of coronavirus pandemic and to ease liquidity flow in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-lakh-small-time-vendors-applied-for-loans-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme-centre/story-mOGKErYDcSuJGITcuwWcxM.html
12-08-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot loyalists return to Jaipur hotel ahead of Rajasthan trust vote||The ruling Congress party in Rajasthan will stick to its plan of holding a floor test in the forthcoming session of the state assembly despite Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 MLAs returning to its fold, party leaders said on Wednesday.The day of the floor test will be decided by the business advisory committee which is expected to meet ThursdayEarlier in the day, the Congress MLAs loyal to chief minister Ashok Gehlot returned to Jaipur’s Fairmont hotel from Jaisalmer. Pilot’s flock of MLAs were, however, not invited to Fairmont Hotel, where the Gehlot loyalists will stay till the assembly session starts on August 14, leaders said.Until two days ago, the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government was facing a majority crisis in the assembly, but the situation now seems to be under control with the return of rebels. A senior Congress leader on condition of anonymity said the fact that although the party earlier had the numbers in its favour, it wasn’t enough to be in a comfortable zone. “The entire political crisis is being witnessed by the public. A message is needed to be sent that the government is safe and promises made will be fulfilled – a floor test would be held for the same,” he said. The leader also said that the BJP’s alleged Operation Lotus that sought to topple the government might be on hold for now but it would return. “A floor test by the government will leave no space for such threats for at least next six months. The BJP used all means such as misuse of ED, IT and CBI and horse trading to destabilize the government. Our objective is to save the democracy and the elected government,” he said.AICC general secretary Avinash Pande said, “I am happy that the Congress members stood united like a family to serve the people. The Opposition was challenging the majority of the government. We want that they only should ask for a floor trust, rest it is for the business advisory committee to decide.” Political analyst Narayan Bareth said Congress wants to take no risk. “The ruling party is still keeping an eye on rebels because they may still not have faith in them. They would also want to convey to the rebels that they aren’t dependent on them. In addition, the floor test will give them a breather for six months.”BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said Congress’ agenda for convening the assembly session was to remove the rebel MLAs.“No one is aware of the conditions under which they have returned, but it seems that the government was under pressure from the high command and has accepted them,” Sharma said. He said the fight between Gehlot and Pilot is still on and they are working to show each other down. “The BJP neither asked nor will ask for a floor test. Let them do whatever they want to do – this is their internal issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-loyalists-return-to-jaipur-hotel-ahead-of-rajasthan-trust-vote/story-FKvO8EnuwznJMMlgACfKAL.html
12-08-2020||India||Goa govt, Sunburn organisers collaborate to raise money for Covid-19||Percept Live, the organisers of the popular annual electronic dance music festival Sunburn, would contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, CM Pramod Sawant announced on Wednesday. The CM made the announcement while interacting with media persons after a Cabinet meeting. He said Percept Live had sought permission from the Goa government to raise money to combat against the viral scourge and would donate proceeds of its online music festival to the CM’s Relief Fund. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Percept Live is doing a live event and the proceeds of the event will be contributed to the CM’s Relief Fund to combat the Covid-19 pandemic,” the CM said. “It’s an online musical festival for free that is being held in Berlin. The donation is voluntary. The money will come to the CM’s Relief Fund. We don’t need to spend any money. The organisers are doing it to promote Goa and Goa Tourism. The music has been recorded. They only sought our permission for the online fundraiser,” the CM added. Earlier, the Goa government had responded positively to Percept Live’s proposal to organise an online fundraiser event for the CM’s Relief Fund to tackle the Covid-19 menace. The CM also lamented that the state government has received only Rs 6 crore to date from the Central government in its fight against Covid-19, even though it has drawn New Delhi’s attention for more funds. “So far, the Central government has given us only Rs 6 crore. However, we have written to the authorities in New Delhi that we need more money, as our Covid-19 caseload has gone up significantly,” the CM said. Sunburn, an electronic dance music festival, had started in Goa in 2007 and has since grown in both its reach and popularity.The festival has led to the launch of several offshoot festivals at campuses of Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and other college campuses, including online events, on a global scale. Usually, the annual festival is held in Goa between December 27 and 29. Past events had hosted some of the marquee names from the music industry, including Chainsmokers, Martin Garrix, Jason Derulo, David Guetta, etc, and drew celebrities from across the country to Goa. However, the organisers have had several run-ins with the successive state government over payments and dues, while efforts were on to shift the event to Pune. Several legal cases between the state government and the organisers are still unresolved. Sunburn was also in the news for occasional deaths due to drug overdose. Besides, local residents had frequently complained about inordinate traffic snarls and the litter that were strewn all around the place in the wake of the annual music festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-sunburn-organisers-collaborate-to-raise-money-for-covid-19/story-DhtnSrCib48aS38jzGU3sO.html
12-08-2020||India||AYUSH minister tests positive for coronavirus, opts for home isolation||Union minister of state for defence, Shripad Naik, has tested positive for Covid-19, he revealed on Wednesday in a Twitter post, saying he has opted for home isolation. “I underwent Covid-19 test today and it has turned out asymptomatically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation,” he tweeted.  I underwent Covid-19 test today & it has turned out assymptomaically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation. Those who have came in contact with me in last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions.The minister further advised those who have come in contact with him in the last few days to get tested and take required precautions.Barely two days ago, the minister had launched a booklet and devotional CD ahead of the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The minister was also involved in examining flood affected areas in North Goa, a constituency he represents as a Lok Sabha MP. In June, Naik, who doubles up as AYUSH minister, claimed that yoga practitioners have less chances of getting infected by coronavirus. He had said yoga boosts immunity and strengthens the respiratory system, which helps build resistance against diseases like Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-shripad-naik-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-opts-for-home-isolation/story-H3pu7Y2002w0QGLQl9eHoM.html
12-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand youth says senior IPS officer tortured and stripped him, probe ordered||An 18-year-old Dehradun youth lodged a complaint against additional director general (jail) PVK Prasad, a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, for allegedly beating him inside a police check-post after forcibly stripping him with the help of other cops in Dehradun on Tuesday. The senior IPS officer also submitted a complaint against the youth to deputy inspector general, Dehradun. The youth, a student of class 11, submitted his written complaint to director general (law & order), Ashok Kumar, alleging that the senior IPS officer and additional director general (jail) PVK Prasad brutally beat him up after he reportedly called his daughter. HT has a copy of the three-page complaint given by the youth to the police. The complaint stated that he “came in contact with the officer’s daughter a few months ago through a common friend and spoke over the phone on several occasions as friends. However, after some time their contact stopped due to some reasons.” Then a few days ago on August 9, the girl messaged him on Instagram following which he gave his mobile number and asked her to call him. But he didn’t receive any call from her. He then called on her mobile number on August 10 and the call was received by Prasad, the girl’s father.Also Read: Uttarakhand woman tries to take her own life, dies; police starts probe “The police officer then identified himself as the girl’s father and asked me to meet him as he wanted some help regarding his daughter. Believing him, I went to meet him on the same day. But he took me to Bindal police check-post where he thrashed me after forcibly getting me naked with the help of some cops present there,” said the complainant. The youth also accused Prasad of “clicking his naked photos on his mobile phone and burning him with a cigarette butt inside the police checkpost.” “While beating me up, he clicked my photos while I was naked and threatened to make them viral. He then also forcibly put a cigarette in my mouth against my religious beliefs and lit it up before forcing me to take a drag. Later he took it out of my mouth and burnt my right wrist by stubbing it there,” said the youth. “He then threatened me not to ever call her daughter and not to reveal the incident to anyone while threatening me of dire consequences before letting me go. After reaching home, I however informed my parents and went to hospital for treatment,” he said. Meanwhile IPS Prasad refuted all the allegations of beating the youth and accused him of harassing his daughter over a period of time in his complaint against the youth submitted to deputy inspector general Dehradun. Speaking on the allegations he levelled against the youth, Prasad said, “He is an 18-year-old adult and my daughter is a minor. What is the reason that he befriended her? He has been harassing her since the last few months after which when he called on her number I decided to dig in more about him after smelling a rat.” “To inquire more about him I called him to the police check post where I questioned him on messaging my daughter on social media platforms to which he didn’t give any satisfactory answer. When I questioned him further in a strict manner, he then confessed to have harassed and blackmailed at least seven more minor girls. I also got to know that he is involved in selling drugs and trapping minor girls through it,” said Prasad. He also claimed that the boy was rusticated from his previous school for “beating some classmates and involvement in drugs.” “I had called him to the check-post to question him on these illegal activities after which I let him go on August 10 at 3pm but he reached home at around 7pm. In between that he got the injuries on his body from somebody else to frame allegations that I beat him up,” he said. The youth’s father, however, refuted the allegations made by Prasad and said, “He had already threatened my son and us that he will frame us in wrong case of rape or drug smuggling. His complaint is on that line only which is no surprise to us as all are concocted.” He added, “As far as the claims that my son had been rusticated from his previous school are concerned, we had shifted him from there to another school as the education was not good there. He is at present in class 11 after passing class 10 with distinction marks.” He also informed that on Wednesday, he submitted a complaint against Prasad in the state human rights commission also. “We have urged the commission to take cognisance of the brutality and direct appropriate action. We are afraid that he will harm my son and us because of which we lodged a complaint against him asking the police leadership to save us from him.” Confirming the incident, DG (law & order) Ashok Kumar said, “Police have received both the complaints which have been forwarded to Dehradun district police concerned for a probe.” Also Read: Patients protest lack of facilities, substandard food at Uttarakhand Covid care centreThe deputy inspector general Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi said, “We have received the complaints from both the sides and are inquiring about the allegations leveled by both against each other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-youth-says-senior-ips-officer-tortured-and-stripped-him-probe-ordered/story-2YpVD4ecGxDXnKNoMb0TzJ.html
12-08-2020||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot may seek trust vote, will allow time to reset ties||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is likely to seek a trust vote despite the rebel legislators returning to the Congress as the move will give a breather of six months to the party to set its house in order, people familiar with the development said.While the chief minister told HT that the decision on the floor test will be taken once the assembly session starts on August 14, a Congress leader said the move is unavoidable as the party cannot keep its legislators lodged in hotels forever.The party’s two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – have also been camping in the state for the past one month since July 12.With 19 rebel legislators returning to the party fold, the Congress has a comfortable majority in the 200-member assembly. Congress leaders claim that the party enjoys the backing of 125 legislators, including independents, and other supporting parties.“No doubt, floor test is the only solution and we can go for it at any opportune time. We will prove our majority on the floor of the House,” said the leader on condition of anonymity.“We will get a breather of six months to address all the issues raised by party leaders and legislators from both sides,” he further said, referring to both the Gehlot and Sachin Pilot camps.Also, the three-member All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel formed to look into grievances of rebel legislators will submit its report by then, the leader quoted above added.Another Congress functionary monitoring the party developments in Rajasthan said the government can move the trust vote anytime in the assembly. He said the strategy for the session will be finalised on Thursday. The legislators, who were shifted to Jaisalmer on July 31, were back in Jaipur on Wednesday.But the legislators backing Gehlot displayed their anger and resentment at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at Jaisalmer on Tuesday over the “amicable resolution” of the crisis and return of Pilot and his supporters to the party fold.As many as 70 of the 100 legislators were vocal against Pilot, questioning how could the Congress take the rebels back after they tried to topple the government, a party leader present in the meeting said.“Who paid the fee of senior lawyers Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi? Who paid the bills of the hotel where rebel Congress legislators stayed? Why did the BJP government in Haryana and the 1,100 state police personnel protect the Congress legislators?” were some of the questions raised at the CLP meeting, according to this leader.Gehlot told reporters on Wednesday that it was natural for these legislators to be upset and that they have to bear in the interest of the people of the state.“It is natural for them to be upset. The way this episode happened, they had to stay in hotels. But I told them that in the interest of the country, state, its people and for saving democracy, sometimes we have to bear,” he said.“We will work together and our colleagues who had gone have also returned and I hope that all will work together after settling the complaints and grievances,” the chief minister said, referring to the rebel legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-may-seek-trust-vote-will-allow-time-to-reset-ties/story-3t6h8QUmEh4jZSQFstVeFI.html
12-08-2020||India||Medical professionals from Pakistan occupied territory can’t practice in India: MCI||The medical council of India has declared qualification obtained from medical colleges located in Pakistan Occupied Jammu-Kashmir and Ladakh (PoJKL) ineligible for practice of modern medicine in India through a notification issued on Wednesday.The notification says that any medical institute in POJKL requires permission under the Indian Medical Council act, 1956 since the occupied territories are an integral part of India and therefore subject to Indian laws and regulations.“Such permission has not been granted to any medical college in POKJL. Therefore any qualification obtained from medical colleges located within these illegally occupied areas of India shall not entitle a person for grant of registration under Indian Medical Council Act 1956 to practice Modern Medicine in India,” the IMA notification dated August 10 states.The act stipulates that the medical qualifications granted by any university or medical institution in India which are included in the First Schedule shall be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of the act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-professionals-from-pakistan-occupied-territory-can-t-practice-in-india-mci/story-AFXcQAOxdaVNPFNnfaAyjO.html
12-08-2020||India||Parth is immature, don’t give any importance to what he says: Sharad Pawar||Sharad Pawar, the president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), appears to be miffed with his grand-nephew Parth Pawar, the son of Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, as he described him “immature”. The veteran politician was reacting to Parth’s demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the death of actor Sushant Singh, who had died by suicide at his Bandra apartment on June 14. His statement also sparked off speculations about differences within the Pawar clan, which had seen open revolt by Ajit and a few other NCP lawmakers last November. They had got together with the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and had hurriedly cobbled together a Maharashtra government that barely lasted for 80 hours, as most NCP legislators, who were loyal to the party chief, refused to side with the rebel faction. “I give no importance to what my grand-nephew says. He is immature. I have 100% trust in Maharashtra and Mumbai Police,” Pawar told media persons at the YB Chavan Centre on Wednesday. He, however, added that there is no reason to oppose the CBI investigation. “But, if someone still wants a CBI probe, then there is no reason to oppose it,” he said. On July 27, Parth had met the state home minister, Anil Deshmukh, who is also from the NCP, and demanded a CBI investigation in the Rajput death case. Parth’s demand was contrary to the stand taken by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government, in which NCP is one of the partners along with the Shiv Sena and the Congress. Earlier, the state government had handed over the probe to the Mumbai Police. “With the whole country, especially youth, seeking a proper investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, I urged Anil Deshmukh to take national emotions into consideration and initiate a CBI investigation,” Parth had tweeted in which he had also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amir Shah. Parth had contested last year’s Lok Sabha election from Maval constituency in Maharashtra against the wishes of the NCP chief. However, he had lost the parliamentary election to a Shiv Sena-BJP candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parth-is-immature-don-t-give-any-importance-to-what-he-says-sharad-pawar/story-JMpXglI5kelu70nJvJnCxI.html
12-08-2020||India||1 dead as SUV plunges into gorge in Uttarakhand, monsoon mayhem blights state||One woman died in Uttarakhand’s Rudraprayag district on Wednesday after an SUV plunged 200 metres into a gorge after the driver lost control of the vehicle in heavy rain, officials said.Officials from State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) said that two persons were also injured in the accident and search is underway for a fourth passenger. Vineet Kumar, an SDRF official in the state said, “We received an update from Rudraprayag district control room that a Scorpio vehicle with four passengers fell into a 200 metre deep gorge on Agasthyamuni Road. One person fell out of the vehicle and injured himself before the car fell into the gorge. SDRF officials immediately rushed to the spot and started rescue operation.” He said that the person who fell initially was rushed to a nearby hospital by locals and during the rescue operation, SDRF officials rescued a woman who was severely injured and was taken to a hospital. The body of a woman who had died was retrieved. A search was underway to find the fourth passenger.In Uttarkashi district, the Gangotri highway was opened on Wednesday after being blocked for almost 31 hours. Landslides due to continuous heavy rain had blocked the highway disrupting connection to the Gangotri and around 15 villages near the Indo-China border. In Bageshwar district, around 40 roads were blocked on Wednesday due to debris falling from the mountains due to incessant heavy rainfall. In Chamoli district, Badrinath highway was closed on Wednesday for the third day due to landslides. The highway was blocked at Bhanerpani, Gulabkoti, Pagalnala, Hanumanchatti, Lambagad and a few other places. Around 145 pilgrims going to Badrinath shrine were stopped at safe locations due to the road being blocked. The India Meteorological Department issued a a red alert for the next two days and predicted that heavy to very heavy rainfall with intense spells at a few places and extremely heavy rain at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Pauri, Tehri, Dehradun and Haridwar districts the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-as-suv-plunges-into-gorge-in-uttarakhand-monsoon-mayhem-blights-state/story-Jw3RoMnGsRy4lUQ4Rl8eON.html
12-08-2020||India||Goa cuts red tape for telecom towers to address poor connectivity concerns||The permission of local bodies -- be it panchayats or municipal bodies -- will no longer be mandatory for telecom infrastructure companies to set up towers in Goa, according to a new Goa Telecom Infrastructure Policy, 2020 that was approved by the state cabinet on Wednesday. The decision to streamline the processes for setting up towers in the state was made in a bid to improve connectivity, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. “The major change is that the permissions from local bodies will no longer be needed. But a one-time payment of Rs 50,000 will be given to the local body as a licence fee. In urban and semi urban areas it is Rs 50,000 monthly rent for the operators and in rural areas it is half of that,” Sawant said. “If it is in a private property, they will need the permission from the land owner and can then approach the government for permissions,” Sawant said. The need for a permission from the local body was holding up the installation of towers, Sawant said adding that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the state’s poor connectivity and has sent children scurrying up hills, treetops, roofs of houses, etc in the search of connectivity. However, owing to opposition from residents, panchayats and municipal bodies have been slow in processing permissions for setting up the towers with around 300 tower permissions pending for permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cuts-red-tape-for-telecom-towers-to-address-poor-connectivity-concerns/story-R2Ckthi3uXfvIljXrMlriN.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Nobody talks when farmers die’: Sharad Pawar on Sushant Singh Rajput case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was an unfortunate event but it should not be discussed so much. “I don’t think it is such a big issue. A farmer told me that over 20 farmers have died by suicide, nobody spoke about it,” Pawar said. Pawar refrained from making any comments on the investigation that is being going on in the case. “I’ve seen Maharashtra & Mumbai police for the last 50 years and I trust them. I don’t want to comment on what others have accused them of. If someone thinks that the CBI or any other agency should probe the matter then I won’t oppose it,” he stated.  Also read: Will look into it, says Sanjay Raut over apology demanded by Sushant’s familyIt is unfortunate that a person died by suicide, but why is it being discussed so much? I don't think it is such a big issue. A farmer told me that over 20 farmers have died by suicide, nobody spoke about it: NCP chief Sharad Pawar #SushantSinghRajputDeathCase https://t.co/LsHJ8gaQwrThirty-four-year-old actor died by suicide on June 14 and was found dead at his Mumbai residence. The governments of two states, Bihar and Maharashtra, have been in a tussle over the investigation of the actor’s death. Maharashtra has been contending that Bihar had no jurisdiction in the matter since the death took place in Mumbai. Meanwhile, Mumbai Police have recorded statements of 56 people including Rajput’s sisters, his friend and actress Rhea Chakraborty and some other film personalities in connection with his death.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family issues 9-page letter - ‘You are not done killing Sushant’On July 25, Rajput’s father KK Singh lodged a complaint with Patna police against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members, accusing them of abetting his son’s suicide.An FIR has been registered by Patna police against Chakraborty and others under various IPC sections.Chakraborty, her family members, among others have been questioned by investigation agency the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on several counts in connection to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-says-nobody-talks-when-farmers-die/story-yg8SgZoPdRzYy1MWLUju6J.html
12-08-2020||India||Monsoon strengthens over northwest India but Delhi remains largely dry||There is a moderate risk of flash floods in many parts of Uttarakhand, including Bageshwar, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts, as monsoon strengthens over northwest India, according to Central Water Commission’s (CWC) flood warning. Eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) has recorded extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), on Tuesday along with very heavy rains reported over Uttarakhand, Haryana, eastern Madhya Pradesh (MP), eastern Rajasthan and parts of Gujarat, but only very light rain over Delhi. Delhi has a 35% of rain deficiency to date. “Most parts of north-west India have started recorded very heavy rains, except for Delhi, since Sunday (August 9). But the region is getting moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea. The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is to the north of its normal position (from Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). So, rains are expected during the next two-three days. A low-pressure area is also developing over the north-west Bay of Bengal, which will bring good rains to central India and extremely heavy rains to Gujarat,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC). When a low-pressure area had developed over the Bay of Bengal, the Konkan region had recorded severe rains, but this time Gujarat will record the impact of the low-pressure area, which is likely to develop on Thursday, Sathi Devi said. A north-south trough runs from Bihar to the west-central Bay of Bengal in lower tropospheric levels. A cyclonic circulation lies over the north-west and adjoining the west-central Bay of Bengal off the Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Wednesday. Under the influence of the two systems, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the north-west Bay of Bengal by Thursday. It is likely to persist over the region and become more organised over the north Bay of Bengal during the next two-three days. The western part of the monsoon trough has shifted to the north of its normal position and it is likely to remain there during the next 48 hours. The eastern part of it is in its near-normal position. Due to these favourable conditions widespread and very heavy rain is likely over major parts of northwest India (Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, UP) during the next two-three days. Extremely heavy rain is also likely over Gujarat and eastern Rajasthan and heavy to very heavy rain over northern parts of Konkan and Goa between Thursday and Saturday (August 13 to 15). As on Tuesday, 20 Stations (13 in Bihar, three in Uttar Pradesh, two in Assam and one each in Jharkhand and West Bengal) are flowing in a severe flood situation and 36 stations (13 in Bihar, 10 in Assam, five in Uttar Pradesh, three in Kerala, two in Uttarakhand and one each in Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal) are flowing above normal flood situation. Severe flood is declared, when the water level is touching or exceeding the danger level but below the highest flood level (HFL). Monsoon rain until Wednesday over the country had 0% deficiency. But there is 22% and 2% rain deficiency over northwest India and central India, respectively; and 23% and 8% excess rainfall over the southern peninsula and eastern and north-east India, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-strengthens-over-northwest-india-but-delhi-remains-largely-dry/story-ZopycxLn5EpVZFS9MUArCM.html
12-08-2020||India||Imran Khan govt’s warning backfires, sends army chief to firefight in Saudi||Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Ahmed Bajwa will travel to Saudi Arabia next week amid efforts by the Imran Khan government to soothe tempers in Saudi Arabia after foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi presented an ultimatum to the kingdom, according to Pakistani newspaper The News.In an interview last week, the foreign minister asked the Saudi-led Organisation of Islamic Conference to convene a meeting of the foreign ministers. “If you cannot convene it, then I’ll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir and support the oppressed Kashmiris,” Qureshi had told a TV channel.The foreign ministry later followed up on the minister’s ultimatum, signalling that it wasn’t an off-the-cuff remark. The foreign office rejected suggestions that the minister’s statement was against diplomatic norms.Foreign minister Qureshi has since then twice called a press conference to offer a clarification but later cancelled the invites. In Islamabad, the cancelled news conferences were seen to reflect the government’s assessment that a mere clarification wasn’t going to be enough to put relations between the two countries back on track.There has been no official announcement about Gen Bajwa’s visit yet.Gen Bajwa did, however, meet Saudi Ambassador Admiral Nawaf Bin Said Al-Maliki on Monday to discuss what the army had then described as “matters of mutual interest, regional security situation and bilateral defence relations”.The newspaper, quoting diplomatic sources, suggested the visit had raised hopes in Islamabad that the recent “misunderstanding” would be resolved soon.It is a tough task, given how Saudi Arabia had called in a $ 1 billion loan extended at Imran Khan’s request to bail out the economy in 2018. The Saudi package entailed $3 billion in loans and a $3.2 billion oil credit facility, according to Asian Nikkei Review. The oil credit facility was suspended in May and the Saudis later asked Pakistan to repay the loan in full. Pakistan repaid the $ 1 billion loan, borrowing from its “iron brother” China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-govt-s-warning-backfires-sends-army-chief-to-firefight-in-saudi-report/story-VMCt4Da56OLJmH8qL4RdeL.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Miracle that am alive’: Karnataka Congress MLA describes attack, his escape||Karnataka Congress MLA Srinivasa Murthy says he had a miraculous escape from an angry mob wielding machetes, swords and petrol bombs that attacked his house on Tuesday night in Bengaluru and looted valuables while vandalizing his property.The MLA claimed that the attack seemed to be “well-planned” and demanded a probe into the incident by either CBI or CB-CID after meeting state revenue minister R Ashoka at the Vidhan Soudha on Wednesday afternoon.“It is a miracle that I am alive… When the incident happened I was outside. Some well wishers in the area called me and forewarned me and thus I managed to escape, otherwise I don’t think I would be alive today,” Srinivasa Murthy told reporters,He said that it seems like the attack was “planned well in advance” adding that the mob wielding lathis, swords and machetes entered and vandalised his house, threw petrol bombs, and looted jewellery and other valuables.“If a MLA cannot get security then who can stay safe?,” Murthy asked.At least three people have been killed with more than 100 including 60 cops were injured following the mob violence over an objectionable Facebook post by Srinivasa Murthy’s nephew allegedly insulting the prophet of a community went viral in DJ Halli, and KJ Halli areas of the state capital in Pulakeshinagar locality.Also Read: Bengaluru Police arrests accused of sharing ‘derogatory’ social media post, 110 people for violenceThe mob also attacked Murthy’s house, damaging it completely and looting valuables while setting several articles on fire. The Congress MLA says it could have been worse had the police not arrived on time.“Only timely arrival of police prevented them from setting the gas cylinder at my house ablaze but they had looted everything by then,” Murthy said.Section 144 of CRPC has been imposed across Bangalore and 169 people have been arrested for the violence. Police have also arrested MLA’s relative Naveen, accused of posting religiously offensive material on Facebook.Also Read: 3 die after violence erupts in Bengaluru over Facebook postThe Congress MLA said that he had fallen out with his nephew for the last 10 years and had nothing to do with his actions. He also alleged that the mob was made up of outsiders since different communities in his constituency have a history of living harmoniously.“Hindus and Muslims in my constituency have always had good relations with each other. We have lived there for more than 50 years and nothing of this sort has ever happened,” he said, demanding a probe and action against the perpetrators of the violence.Karnataka home minister Basvraj Bommai has announced a probe by the district magistrate into the entire incident.Decision was taken after a meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miracle-that-i-am-alive-congress-mla-describes-mob-attack-on-house-his-escape/story-2eoZwrvYX0BnGnUC9W4cUP.html
12-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman tries to take her own life, dies; police starts probe||A woman (32) from Ramnagar in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district died by suicide while undergoing treatment in a government hospital on Wednesday morning, the police said. Ravi Saini, in-charge, Ramnagar police station, said, according to the husband of the deceased, she tried to take her own life at around 1:30 am on Tuesday for reasons not known to him. Initially, the police took her to a nearby government hospital, where the authorities referred her to Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani, the main referral healthcare facility in the Kumaon region. She died in the hospital on Wednesday morning during treatment. Saini said her body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and an investigation has started to ascertain the reasons behind her unnatural death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-tries-to-take-her-own-life-dies-police-starts-probe/story-lefv9q5lJzOz6GRGEnY27H.html
12-08-2020||India||ASHA worker booked for giving water mixed with hand sanitiser to 10-month-old baby||A 10-month-old baby boy was given water mixed with hand sanitiser, whose use is commonplace these days because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, by an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker. The incident occurred at a healthcare centre, located at Sonaimuri village in Tripura’s Unakoti district, where the baby, who is now out of danger, was taken for polio vaccination on Tuesday. The village is located around 133 kilometres (km) away from the state capital, Agartala. A complaint was registered at Kumarghat police station, under whose jurisdiction the Sonaimuri village falls, against the ASHA worker Pushpa Das, who had given water to the baby. The police said a woman took her baby to the health centre on Tuesday for polio vaccination. After the vaccination, the woman asked Das for water to quench her baby’s thirst. Das handed over a bottle of water to the woman to make him drink water. The baby started feeling unwell after drinking the water and had to be taken to a hospital. Later, it was revealed that the bottle contained water mixed with hand sanitiser. “We took a general diary on the basis of the woman’s complaint on Tuesday evening. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the ASHA worker didn’t know that the bottle contained water mixed with hand sanitiser. An investigation is on. Now, the baby is out of danger,” said Pradyot Datta, the officer in-charge of Kumarghat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-asha-worker-booked-for-giving-water-mixed-with-hand-sanitiser-to-10-month-old-baby/story-3tQ2f5fTj92SwAZgIa76aN.html
12-08-2020||India||West Bengal: Tigress gives birth to three cubs at Bengal Safari in Siliguri||The authorities at North Bengal Wild Animal Park, popularly known as Bengal Safari, near Siliguri, the largest town in north Bengal, celebrated on Wednesday, when Sheela, a Royal Bengal tigress gave birth to three cubs. The raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has led the park to be closed to visitors since the viral outbreak was initially reported in end-March. Royal Bengal tigers’ population in the park has grown to seven following the birth of the three cubs. “The cubs were born between 4.45 am and 7.20 am. The cubs’ gender is yet to be ascertained, as we cannot go close to Sheela right now,” said Dharamdeo Rai, director, Bengal Safari. In May 2018, Sheela had given birth to three cubs and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had named them Rika, Kika, and Ika. Unfortunately, Ika did not survive. Sheela and her mate Viban were brought to the park from Nandankanan Zoological Park in Bhubaneswar. Bengal Safari authorities are yet to take a call whether they will name the cubs or wait for CM Banerjee’s next visit to north Bengal. The park, which was inaugurated by CM Banerjee in January 2016, is located on the outskirts of Siliguri and is close to Mahananda Wild Life Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district. Spread over 297 hectares, Bengal Safari is home to leopards, one-horned rhino, Himalayan black bear, elephants, gharials, deer, among other animals; and has proved to be a crowd-puller. The CM’s dream project has an aviary, a nature interpretation centre and a watchtower has also been recently set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-tigress-gives-birth-to-three-cubs-at-bengal-safari-in-siliguri/story-tcMnxoJjkyrGBa0X3X69KL.html
12-08-2020||India||SIT to probe Bulandshahr topper’s death in accident||The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the death of student Sudeeksha Bhati in a road accident near Aurangabad town of Bulandshahr district on Monday. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, S K Singh said that circle officer Deeksha would lead the SIT which includes two inspectors and a station house officer (SHO). “The SIT has been directed to probe the case from all angles,” he said. Sudeeksha, who was from Dadri town in Gautam Buddha Nagar district, was a meritorious student who topped the district in Class 12 in 2018 and received scholarship to pursue further studies in the US. She had returned from the US in June due to the coronavirus pandemic and was due to depart on August 20 to rejoin her college. She had gone to meet her maternal uncle in Bulandshahr with her brother Nigam Bhati when their motorbike rammed into another motorcycle moving ahead of them. Sudeeksha died on the spot and later her family members blamed the youths on the other motorcycle for harassing her on the road which led to the accident. SSP Singh said that an extensive exercise was being carried out to identify the other bikes and the riders at the time of the accident. “We don’t have the complete number of the motorcycle and we are trying to locate all Bullet motorcycles in the area with the help of the regional transport office”, he said. He, however, held the media responsible for giving undue hype to a “simple accident case”. He said an eyewitness of the accident Hemant Sharma had told the police that the rider of a Bullet motorcycle braked to protect himself and his pillion rider from colliding with a milk tanker coming from the opposite side. Sudeeksha’s brother lost control over his bike and it rammed into the Bullet motorcycle.Singh said that Sudheeksha’s brother used Hemant’s phone to inform his family in Noida about the accident and it was Hemant who informed the police. “But nobody seems interested in knowing the facts,” said Singh, adding that the SIT would bring out the truth by investigating the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-to-probe-bulandshahr-topper-s-death-in-accident/story-E1mevAPtUH04uLzrwmW2WO.html
12-08-2020||India||India can play a crucial role in easing global strategic reliance on China: British lawmaker||India could play a crucial role in reversing the alarming strategic dependence of the world’s democracies on China, which has made no secret of its ambition to emerge as an unrivalled global power by the middle of the century, says Iain Duncan Smith, an influential British lawmaker with the ruling Conservative party.Sir Iain, a former leader of the Conservative party, pointed out that authoritarian China, under its leader Xi Jinping, has made no secret about its ambition to dominate the globe.“The Chinese government has become even more dictatorial and intolerant in the last few years under President Xi and as far as I can make out by what he has said and by their behaviour, that his government’s plan is that by 2040 or thereabouts, China wishes to be the world’s biggest economy possessing the world’s largest and most powerful military. Those things are what they said they wish to be, and everything else feeds into that,” he said.During his keynote speech at the 19th party congress in October 2017, Xi had declared what is called the “twin centenary” goals. By 2020, he announced, China would eliminate poverty and become a “moderately prosperous society”. By the middle of the century, in tune with the centenary celebrations of the formation of People’s Republic of China (PRC) in 1949, China would emerge as the most advanced nation in the world, exercising leadership in all spheres.Sir Iain highlighted that China has been quite open about airing its lofty global aspirations as its historic mission. “China’s ambition is to restore itself, as I believe, to its natural place, which is the most dominant nation in the world. This a consistent idea about China’s rightful place and all these countries around it end up offering China suzerainty. They are formally independent nations that are dependent on China. And I think this whole exercise in the South China Sea, where they have occupied territory to which they have no right to, and where they are now building military stations on these man-made islands are part of this grand project.”On several occasions, Xi has flagged the “great rejuvenation” of his country as his strategic goal, which has been widely attributed as an aspiration to establish a 21st century the Middle Kingdom. “The fact that the Chinese regard themselves as superior to the rest of the human race, and that this belief has a racial component, will confront the rest of the world with a serious problem,” predicted Martin Jacques, the author of the 2009 bestseller, “When China Rules the World: The Rise of the Middle Kingdom and the End of the Western World.” China has established linkages in “strategic areas” which have made the “free world” structurally dependent on Beijing, Sir Iain observed.“Let us take the case of telecommunications. Telecommunications has to be secured from the top to bottom. You can’t be half-secure. You can’t tolerate what is deemed as an untrusted vendor in your system. For example, the government has now agreed that they will remove Huawei, but they are going to take their time to do that. We need to speed that up.”The British politician also cited nuclear energy as an area where the dependence of China was likely to be harmful.“China is already heavily involved in one nuclear plant (in the United Kingdom), about to be involved in another and they are bidding for a third. My answer is -we should review this because this is nuclear technology and it is possible that during a moment of dispute, China is able to shut down these plants and we are unable to start it.”Sir Iain also pointed to “new growth areas” such as electric cars where dependence on China was likely to limit freedom of choice of the “free world”.“Then you got the other area where the new growth area as in electric vehicles, and these are battery-powered vehicles. But who is the biggest producer of batteries in the world--it is China.”“The other area is rare earth materials that have to be mined. China controls 95 per cent of these mines, many of them in Congo, with several of them employing young children, which is a disgrace. But anyway they own it. So if you see strategically, the Chinese government controls all the key areas that the free world would need anyway.”In a recent article that he wrote in the Telegraph newspaper, Sir Iain explained that rare earth metals are critical to a range of devices including smartphones, computers, LEDs, catalytic converters, electricity generation and storage, and the batteries required by electric vehicles. They are also essential in several defence applications, including radar, the guidance systems of missiles and laser rangefinders. Apart from controlling the world supply of rare-earth metals, China also controls the majority of the global processing capacity.“So all this gives you an indication of how they are playing the game, and we are blind; we are simply not prepared or haven’t been prepared to look upon this in strategic terms, and now we have to change, strategically review this if necessary.”India can play a major role in mounting a riposte to eliminate critical dependence on China, Sir Iain observed. For instance, New Delhi can join the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC)--co-chaired by Sir Iain with partner democracies, including the US, Japan, Australia and Canada.“We now I think have 17 countries on board. We are hoping that in the next few days, we will have India join, which is very important. IPAC is made up of people on the Left and the Right. All of them are parliamentarians like myself. And we agree that we need to look at China in a strategic way. So we as a unit all agree to call upon our governments to have a strategic review of our dependency on China.”Besides, focusing on human rights, IPAC has been compiling documents “that prove that Chinese officials have been involved directly in the sterilisation of Uyghur women in Xinjiang, and the full incarceration of these people, literally to obliterate the concept of Uyghurs within China”.Sir Iain stressed that China under Xi “breaks every rule in the book..whether it is the terrible treatment of Christians, of Falun Gong or whether it is the takeover of the South China Sea, even though the UN has told him, that he has no right to that, engages in border disputes with India, threatens Taiwan, and then through the Belt and the Road Initiative (BRI) brings much of the developing world to his orbit and under his control.”.The British lawmaker highlighted that the solution to countering Chinese aggressive behaviour and dependency partly lies with India.“One of my observations to British universities, for example, is, look, you have become addicted to Chinese students. But there is another country that would love to have the same kind of linkage when it comes to opening your doors, and that is India. Let us open our doors, and then you would not need this kind of money that comes from China.”On the geopolitical plain, India offers a “wonderful counterbalance” to China in the region, Sir Iain observed.“India can show some leadership in the area, and in the south china sea as well as part of that process, having a good relationship with democracies such as Australia, the US and the UK. All this could be the way that you could counter this aggressive behaviour of China. We need to urgently establish a comprehensive strategic dialogue with India to think this through.”Asked if Britain would like to join the security-oriented Indo-Pacific quad--the four-nation group of India, US, Japan and Australia, Sir Iain said: “I would love us to join that. That would be the perfect outcome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-play-a-crucial-role-in-easing-global-strategic-reliance-on-china-says-british-lawmaker/story-IplNb1yK8CTGBFLbcVZnWN.html
12-08-2020||India||Locked in a room, six cows starve to death in Madhya Pradesh||At least six cows died of suffocation and starvation on Tuesday after they were locked by some villagers in a room in an abandoned building for three days in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri district - 312 km north of Bhopal, in Gwalior-Chambal region - said police. An FIR has been registered against seven residents of Gochoni village of the district under MP Cow Progeny Slaughter Prevention Act and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The accused include Asharam Lodhi, Brijesh Lodhi, Nathuram Lodhi and four others who are absconding, said police. Shivpuri collector Anugraha P ordered an inquiry in the matter. Also read: Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 recovery rate touches 75%, says CM ChouhanShivpuri superintendent of police (SP), Rajesh Chandel said, “On Tuesday late evening, a watchman (chowkidar) of Gochoni village informed the police at Himmatpur outpost about a foul smell coming from a room in an abandoned building in the village. When the police personnel reached the place and broke open the room, as many as 12 cows were found in an unconscious state.” “The police team called a team of veterinary doctors and they informed that six cows had died. The remaining six were moved to a veterinary hospital,” he added. “In the investigation, it was found that Asharam Lodhi, Brijesh Lodhi and Nathuram Lodhi with four others locked the cows in the room which had no ventilation. They locked the cows animals on Sunday to protect their crops from the animals. They didn’t even provide any food or water to the cows which resulted in the death of the six of them,” he added. “Police are investigating the matter and trying to nab the accused,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locked-in-a-room-six-cows-starve-to-death-in-madhya-pradesh/story-C6XvuVQD7nYLM6Bnrkru8L.html
12-08-2020||India||Sushant was not as famous during his lifetime as after death: Majeed Memon||Majeed Memon, a former Rajya Sabha (RS) member of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), triggered a row on Wednesday, when he said that the later actor Sushant Singh Rajput found more fame after his death by suicide than while he was alive. He said Rajput is grabbing the headlines more than, perhaps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi or US President Donald Trump. The NCP quickly distanced itself from Memon’s statement and said it was his personal opinion. The party did not support the statement. Memon also clarified that his statement should not be misinterpreted, as he, too, sought justice for the late and popular actor. “Rajput was not as famous during his lifetime as he is after his death. The space in the media he is occupying nowadays is, perhaps, more than our PM or President of US!” Memon said in a series of tweets on Wednesday afternoon. “When a crime is at an investigation stage, secrecy has to be maintained. Publicising every development in the process of collecting vital evidence adversely affects the interest of truth and justice,” he further tweeted, while criticising a section of media for their disproportionate coverage of Rajput’s death. “The statement made by Majeed Memon on Twitter is his personal opinion and not of the NCP. Our party does not endorse or support his statement in any form or manner. He is not a spokesperson of the NCP, which must be noted by all,” said Nawab Malik, spokesperson, NCP, and the minister for minority affairs minister, Maharashtra. “There is so much noise on my tweet on Rajput. Does it mean that Rajput was not popular during his lifetime or that he should not get justice? Certainly not. Misinterpretation should be avoided. The tweet does not in any way insults or belittle him,” the ex-RS member clarified through another tweet. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing the death of Rajput, who was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-was-not-as-famous-during-his-lifetime-as-after-death-majeed-memon/story-fbDNtRlfXhtxIuvGuWhEOM.html
12-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP’s horse-trading politics defeated in Rajasthan, says Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP’s horse-trading politics defeated in Rajasthan, says Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryTwo days after the Congress high command brokered peace between Sachin Pilot and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Wednesday that the horse-trading politics of BJP has been defeated. Read more‘In haste to launch new projects’: Tejashwi Yadav’s dig at CM over another bridge fiascoRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar over the collapse of the approach path to the newly inaugurated Bangra Ghat Mahasetu bridge in Gopalganj. Read moreTwo HAL light combat choppers deployed in LadakhTwo light combat helicopters, produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, have been deployed in the Ladakh sector to support the Indian Air Force at short notice amid the border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), HAL said in a statement on Wednesday. Read moreRajasthan peace deal done, 4 big reasons why Congress brought Sachin Pilot back into the foldThe breakthrough came after Pilot met with the Congress top brass, including former party president Rahul Gandhi and his sister and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Read more‘He’s off my Christmas list’: Stuart Broad reacts after father and match referee Chris Broad slaps fine for code of conduct breachAfter England’s ‘Barmy Army’ supporters group tweeted the news of his sanction on Tuesday, Stuart Broad said of his father Chris: “He’s off the Christmas card & present list.” Read moreSanjay Dutt’s wife Maanayata on his cancer diagnosis: ‘God has yet again chosen to test us’Sanjay Dutt’s wife, Maanayata Dutt, has issued a statement after it was revealed that he was diagnosed with lung cancer on Tuesday. She said that the family has faced testing times in the past as well, and that she is confident that ‘this too shall pass’. Read moreEverything new that’s coming to Google Meet, Classroom to make online learning betterSince the pandemic started and all classes were canceled, students and teachers have come up with innovative ways of using Google tools to optimise online learning. Google is now adding more features to make things better for them. Read moreVikram Sarabhai birth anniversary: Remembering Father of the Indian Space Program and ISRO’s founder on his 101st birthdayTripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb remembers ISRO founder Vikram Sarabhai on his 101st birth anniversary; Skyroot Aerospace celebrates by successful test firing of upper stage rocket engine. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-s-horse-trading-politics-defeated-in-rajasthan-says-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZoT9Ne4X4fnUZ2xNscxhhP.html
12-08-2020||India||BJP’s horse-trading politics defeated in Rajasthan, says Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Two days after the Congress high command brokered peace between Sachin Pilot and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Wednesday that the horse-trading politics of BJP has been defeated.“Rajasthan episode has destroyed the myth that BJP and its theatrics cannot be beaten. Horse-trading politics of BJP has been defeated,” PTI quoted Chowdhury as saying.For over a month, Gehlot had consistently accused the opposition BJP of horse-trading in an attempt to bring down his government. The Congress has put up a united front after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ensured that differences between Pilot and Gehlot did not worsen.On Wednesday, Gehlot extended an olive branch to Pilot saying that those who had gone away from the party are finally back and that he hoped to work together for the benefit of the state although it was natural for MLAs to be upset at the chain of events over the past month. Pilot, who returned to Jaipur on Tuesday, said he has not demanded any post from the party but underlined that there should be no vendetta against MLAs who supported him on a range of issues.The patch up has boosted the ruling Congress party ahead of an Assembly session on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-horse-trading-politics-defeated-in-rajasthan-says-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury/story-AVNHSoeUcWOYCDxuBtS8ZN.html
12-08-2020||India||Kerala shrines under Devaswom Board to open next week; Sabarimala stays shut||The empty coffers and clamour from devotees and employees has forced major shrine boards in Kerala to open doors of temples shut since the lockdown in March. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs 1000-odd temples in south Kerala, has decided to open all shrines under its control from August 17, Malayalam New Year Day, except Sabarimala hill temple.The TDB feels that if Sabarimala temple is opened there will be a steady stream of devotees from neighbouring states and it will affect the ongoing Covid-19 control measures so it deferred its decision on the hill temple. Earlier it planned ‘darshan’ for devotees who made online booking after furnishing Covid-free certificates, but excess enquiries forced the TDB to defer it for now. “We are planning to open all temples with ‘Ganapati Homam’ (special offering for Lord Ganapati) on August 17. The special offering will mark the auspicious occasion. There will be a strict tab on devotees and entry will be restricted under Covid protocol,” said TDB president N Vasu, requesting elders and children below 10 years to wait for some more time. He said there is an estimated loss of Rs 400 crore due to closure of temples in the last five months.Though the Union Government had eased restrictions on religious places in May, many temples, churches and mosques deferred opening in view of big spurt in virus cases in June first week. Some churches and mosques were opened on special occasions but temples remained closed.After lockdown drained its coffers badly, many temple bodies took the e-route to bolster their financial health but virtual offerings failed to catch up with devotees, statistics show. Revenue of Sabarimala was used to fund smaller temples in south Kerala and for salaries of 3,500-odd employees of the TDB. But after Sabarimala’s closure, many temple employees were forced to suffer salary cuts. In another major shrine, Sree Krishna temple in Guruvayur, the hundi (donation box) collection every month was anywhere between Rs 4 crore and five crore. Besides currency, it often used to get gold, silver and at times diamond and daily poojas also contributed enough money to coffers. Despite big publicity to online offerings, it failed to attract devotees. “With devotees’ return, we hope our financial position will improve,” said a senior temple official. The church, which runs many educational institutions, hospitals, and other establishments, also suffered. Most of the institutions are directly linked to chapels and are finding it difficult to maintain upkeep costs and salaries of the people engaged. After the lockdown, the government had halted admissions and interviews in educational institutions. They also introduced virtual offerings to tide over the crunch situation but failed to attract believers. Now some churches and mosques are functioning with restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-shrines-under-devaswom-board-to-open-next-week-sabarimala-stays-shut/story-JEVbmPBvmXEdtpGPz3u0IJ.html
12-08-2020||India||Riot-hit areas of Bengaluru’s Pulakeshinagar resemble war zone||Areas under Pulakeshinagar assembly constituency here resembled a war zone on Wednesday, hours after after an unruly mob went on a rampage torching vehicles, irked over a ‘communally sensitive’ social media post allegedly by put up by a relative of a Congress MLA.Charred vehicles, shards of glass from broken windows, stones and bricks lie strewn over the deserted roads of the violence-affected localities.Earlier, three people were killed in police firing and scores of others wounded, including at least 50 policemen in the violence and arson that erupted in the city on Tuesday night and continued till the wee hours of Wednesday.Property of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and his family members were targeted after a ‘communally sensitive’ social media post uploaded online by one of his relatives enraged a section of people.“We were not at home when all this happened,” Jayanthi, the MLA’s sister said weeping inconsolably.“The only solace is that my brother and his family are safe,” she said.The violent crowd set on fire police vehicles and barged into DJ Halli police station on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday and damaged the property.Police have arrested about 110 people on charges of rioting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riot-hit-areas-of-bengaluru-s-pulakeshinagar-resemble-war-zone/story-k79IHPyJQthKcp1q5kVd8L.html
12-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt starts process of setting up six plants for generating electricity from solid waste||Working towards better solid waste management, the Uttarakhand government has now started working on the process of generating electricity from solid waste in the state. Madan Kaushik, minister for urban development in the state has asked officials to make a detailed plan regarding the setting up of six plants where electricity can be generated from solid waste in the state. These plants will be set up in Roorkee, Rudrapur, Kashipur, Haldwani, Rishikesh and Kotdwar. “A biogas plant should be set up with the help of the Indian Oil Corporation in Haridwar and a waste-to-energy plant in Roorkee. An action plan should be prepared for the upcoming plants in Haldwani, Kashipur, Rishikesh, Rudrapur and Kotdwar. Along with making the action plan, monitoring should be done in all the municipal bodies for proper waste segregation, making compost, and other activities for proper solid waste management,” said the minister. Also read: Patients protest lack of facilities, substandard food at Uttarakhand Covid care centreHe further said that urban local bodies should sell waste to concerned departments after segregation. “After the segregation of waste, urban local bodies should get income by selling material to the Agriculture Department and Horticulture Department for making compost. The money received by the 14th Finance Commission will be spent in Solid Waste Management until 100% door-to-door collection and source segmentation is done,” said Kaushik. As per the records of the pollution control board, around 300 megawatts of electricity can be generated from the waste generated in the state. According to the latest State of Environment Report released by Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board, “It is estimated that about 900 metric tonnes/day solid waste is being generated from the urban local bodies in Uttarakhand. Currently, two waste management plants are working in Haridwar (Sarai) out of which about 50% of waste is being lifted and dumped at unidentified locations.” The report further states that “No urban local body has defined collection, segregation, transportation and disposal mechanisms to comply with the Municipal Solid Wastes Rules, 2000.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-starts-process-of-setting-up-six-plants-for-generating-electricity-from-solid-waste/story-m2QRWvVSdD9Sui7p3xXITP.html
12-08-2020||India||Nagpur private hospitals ordered to refund excess fee charged for Covid-19 treatment||Nagpur municipal body has directed two Covid designated private hospitals in the city to refund excess amounts charged from patients after receiving complaints of hospitals fleecing patients in the name of Covid 19 treatment despite the ceiling set by the state government for charging coronavirus patients.Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said that 80% beds in private hospitals in the city, designated as Covid centres, had been taken over by the state government and were thus regulated by the treatment cost slabs set previously by the government.“In these private hospitals, 80% of the beds are reserved as government beds and 20% beds are their own. Hospitals can levy charge on the 20% beds as per their own policy. As far as 80% of beds are concerned, they are to be charged as per the government policy,” Mundhe was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Complaints of private hospitals overcharging patients for Covid-19 treatment have been reported from several states including Maharashtra. The Central government was the first to appoint a committee to fix costs at government and private hospitals for Covid-19 testing and treatment. Several states including Maharashtra followed suit and set up price bands to prevent profiteering in times of crisis. Also Read: Navi Mumbai chief warns hospitals not to overcharge Covid patientsNagpur commissioner said strict action will be taken if hospitals violated rules.Earlier in May, the state government’s health department had issued directives restricting private hospitals from charging more than up to Rs 4,000 per day for a general bed; Rs 7,500 per day in the intensive care unit (ICU); and Rs 9,000 per day for treatment with a ventilator facility. The charges also include meals for patients. The regulations make it mandatory for all private hospitals to follow the rules laid down by the state government during a pandemic, according to the Epidemic Diseases Act.Restrictions also apply on the billing of medicines at these facilities apart from consultancy fees of doctors along with other expenses.Also Read: Patients protest lack of facilities, substandard food at Uttarakhand Covid care centreThe price capping was done after several incidents of exorbitant billing by private hospitals was reported from across the state including a case when a Covid-positive patient had to pay Rs 16 lakh for a 15-day stay in a private hospital and cases when people had to take loans to pay private hospitals bills.Private hospitals like Nanavati Hospital were found to be charging Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,800 per personal protective equipment (PPE) even though the cost of PPEs were much less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-private-hospitals-ordered-to-refund-excess-fee-charged-for-covid-19-treatment/story-M7BzBDx67sj7haSZDTWknO.html
12-08-2020||India||IAF objects to ‘negative portrayal’ of work culture in Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has objected to the portrayal of its work culture in Dharma Production’s soon to be released movie Gunjan Saxena…The Kargil Girl. In its letter to Dharma Production, Netflix and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), IAF said certain scenes and dialogues in the movie and trailer, which were forwarded to it for viewing, were found to “portray the IAF in an undue negative light”. According to an initial understanding, Dharma Production had agreed to represent IAF with authenticity and make all efforts to ensure the film helps to inspire the next generation of IAF officers. The movie’s trailer was released recently on the over the top (OTT) platform, IAF said in its letter. IAF said according to its information, the movie is being released on Wednesday. “In the aim to glorify the screen character of ‘Ex-Flt Lt Gunjan Saxena’, M/s Dharma Productions presented some situations that are misleading and portray an inappropriate work culture, especially against women in the IAF,” the letter said. It added IAF as a service has always ensured the organisation is gender neutral and provided equal opportunities to male and women personnel. IAF has also provided a summary of scenes and dialogues that it considers objectionable and an incorrect presentation of the gender bias. The letter said the production house was informed about the objectionable portions of the movie and advised to delete or modify these. Also read | Gunjan Saxena The Kargil Girl movie review: Janhvi Kapoor busts boys locker room in new Netflix film“However, the production house has not deleted the scenes but had proposed a media plan in the run up to the release and inserting a disclaimer in the movie,” the letter said, adding IAF considers these measures inadequate. CBFC does not regulate OTT platforms such as Netflix even though the information and broadcasting ministry is working to prepare a regulatory framework for them. The Centre has been looking at self-regulatory mechanisms for these platforms. Last month, the defence ministry wrote a letter to CBFC, Mumbai, drawing attention to producers of movies and web series distorting the image of the Indian Army and said they should obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before airing their movies or shows. The headcount of women in the armed forces is upwards of 3,300, including 1,300 in IAF, but combat roles were off limits to them until IAF took the lead in crushing internal resistance to grant them equal opportunities in 2015, when they became eligible for the fighter stream. Warships, tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992. The army is currently in the process of granting permanent commission to short service commissioned women following a Supreme Court verdict. In February, the Supreme Court ruled women should be considered for command roles and all women officers are entitled to permanent commission. It asked the army to give them permanent commission within three months in a major boost to gender parity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-objects-to-undue-negative-portrayal-of-work-culture-in-movie-gunjan-saxena-the-kargil-girl/story-fB2XQQj5lDWma0b7VU9ZtJ.html
12-08-2020||India||‘In haste to launch new projects’: Tejashwi Yadav’s dig at CM over another bridge fiasco||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar over the collapse of the approach path to the newly inaugurated Bangra Ghat Mahasetu bridge in Gopalganj. The collapse occurred earlier in the day as flow from Saran Dam increased following the damage to the dam. Yadav’s acerbic remarks came as CM Nitish Kumar had inaugurated the bridge in Gopalganj through video conferencing earlier in the day. Yadav said that the chief minister is in haste to inaugurate projects. “On one hand, the CM was inaugurating Bangra Ghat Mahasetu in Gopalganj, on the other hand, the approach path to the bridge collapsed. Same path had collapsed 12 days ago also. The CM is in a haste to inaugurate new projects, what if lives were lost in this collapse?” Yadav said.  Also read: In poll-bound Bihar, it is advantage Nitish KumarOn one hand,CM was inaugurating Bangra Ghat Mahasetu in Gopalganj & on the other hand, approach path to the bridge collapsed. Same path had collapsed 12 days ago also. CM is in a haste to inaugurate new projects,what if lives were lost in this collapse?: Tejashwi Yadav,RJD.#Bihar pic.twitter.com/Lz83UVcHszThis comes a month after Bihar opposition leaders took a dig at CM Kumar after a newly inaugurated bridge, constructed at the cost Rs 263.47 crore, collapsed within a month of its opening.A portion of Sattarghat Bridge on Gandak River, that was inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar in June in Gopalganj, collapsed last month after water flow increased in the river due to heavy rainfall. “Beware! If someone calls it Nitish ji’s corruption? 263 crores is just a show of good governance. Their rats alone consume alcohol worth this amount,” Yadav had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-haste-to-launch-new-projects-tejashwi-yadav-s-dig-at-cm-over-collapse-of-approach-path-of-new-bridge/story-uOso3Adwn3TIlHW8oP6w3K.html
12-08-2020||India||Rajasthan peace deal done, 4 big reasons why Congress brought Sachin Pilot back into the fold||The month-long political crisis in Rajasthan is finally over with rebel Sachin Pilot returning to the Congress fold. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, against whom Pilot had rebelled, is also making conciliatory gestures promising to listen to the grievances that the Pilot camp had.The breakthrough came after Pilot met with the Congress top brass, including former party president Rahul Gandhi and his sister and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.It was Priyanka who finally found a middle ground between Gehlot and Pilot. But the latter’s return is not without a political gameplan.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, Congress felt Pilot’s need not just for elections in Rajasthan but Lok Sabha polls too. Also, Priyanka is preparing the ground for 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. At least 55 seats in the state are dominated by the Gujjar community, where Pilot holds considerable sway. If Pilot had quit the Congress, the party would have suffered in these pockets.Apart from this, the community can also decide the fortunes of the elections in 14 seats in Madhya Pradesh. And if their numbers are included in Haryana, Delhi and other parts of northern India, Gujjars are in a strong position in many constituencies.One of the reasons for Congress’ win in Rajasthan in the 2018 Assembly elections was the support it got from Gujjars who constitute seven per cent of the votebank. When Priyanka realised Pilot’s hold on the community - not just in Rajasthan but the entire country - she immediately got down to ironing out the differences between him and Gehlot reported Hindustan.Another important thing which worked in Pilot’s favour was the pressure being built from the young brigade of the Congress. According to Hindustan, young leaders like Deepender Hooda and Jitendra Singh told the top leaders of the party that Pilot’s ouster could lead to exodus of young leaders from Congress.The Abdullah family from Jammu and Kashmir also played a crucial role in dousing the fire, Hindustan reported. Farooq Abdullah and son Omar, who have good relations with the Gandhi family, started lobbying for Pilot through Ghulam Nabi Azad and Ahmed Patel and the efforts soon bore fruit.Also, a section within the Congress is not happy with Gehlot. When he was a general secretary and based in Delhi, many of his ‘victims’ from that time conveyed to the Gandhis that too much reliance on Gehlot could cost Congress a lot in Rajasthan, according to Hindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-peace-deal-done-4-big-reasons-why-congress-brought-sachin-pilot-back-into-the-fold/story-Sqy0MW4RESTY9wbYKXOVOL.html
12-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh court refuses to hand over Jheeram attack conspiracy case to NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Jagdalpur has declined to hand over the FIR lodged by a Congress leader in Bastar seeking a probe in the alleged conspiracy behind the Jheeram Valley attack to the NIA, for which the agency had moved an application in June. The court ruled that the case will be investigated by the state police. However, NIA’s counsel said that the agency will move the state high court challenging the order of Jagdalpur sessions court. Twenty-seven people, including senior Congress leaders Nand Kumar Patel, Mahendra Karma, Dinesh Patel and VC Shukla were killed allegedly in an attack by a group of 150 Maoists in 2013. On May 26, 2013, the NIA registered a case on this attack and started investigations. Recently, on May 25, 2020, Jitendra Mudaliyar, son of Congress leader Uday Mudaliyar, who was also killed in Darbha Valley attack (also referred to as the Jheeram Valley attack), registered an FIR in Bastar district with regard to the attack on the Congress convoy. The NIA moved an application on June 16 in Jagdalpur NIA court seeking handing over of the case registered by Mudaliyar to NIA for further investigation. “Bastar police presented its view point before the NIA court mentioning that this case is different from the 2013 case, because the new case would mainly investigate the conspiracy angle of the incident. On 10th of August 2020, Jagdalpur NIA court rejected agency’s application for transferring the Jheeram case (FIR registered in May 2020) to NIA for further investigation,” Inspector General of Police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P told HT. On the other hand, NIA’s counsel said the agency will challenge the order in the state high court. “We have argued that as per the NIA Act and also the CrPC, there cannot be two FIRs for a single offence and it falls within NIA’s jurisdiction because the agency is already investigating the matter pertaining to the same offence,” said Kishore Bhaduri, NIA’s counsel talking to HT. Bhaduri also alleged that the NIA court had incorrectly relied solely on section 10 of the NIA act.“The order was made relying on section 10 of NIA act to decline handing over of the file of FIR to NIA. The sessions court has omitted to consider the implications of section 6 and partially read the provision under section 10 of the NIA act, which is always subject to section 6. We will move to high court,” said Bhaduri. State unit of the Congress party has welcomed the court order. “We welcome the order of Jagdalpur court and secondly we want to know why the conspiracy angle should not be investigated? Why NIA doesn’t want the state police to investigate, which will unfold the conspiracy behind the Darbha Valley killing,” said Congress spokesperson Shailesh Nitin Trivedi. The BJP, too, said it welcomes the decision of the court and added that the Congress leadership should now come forward to submit the evidence to back up their claims of conspiracy behind the attack. “We also welcome the decision of the court. The Congress leaders always claim that they have evidence about the conspiracy and now they can come forward and submit the evidence to Chhattisgarh police. The matter should be resolved,” said BJP spokesperson Sachidanand Upasane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-court-refuses-to-hand-over-jheeram-attack-conspiracy-case-to-nia/story-ATIXV921pYLm8ZeCWqzDCO.html
12-08-2020||India||Tigress found dead in Dudhwa buffer zone in UP’s Lakhimpur||Officials said on Wednesday they have recovered the carcass of a young tigress from the buffer zone of the Dudhwa National Park in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur district on Tuesday. Dr Anil Kumar Patel, deputy director of the Dudhwa buffer zone, said the carcass of the big cat was recovered from a forest area under Jatpura beat of Mailani range on Tuesday morning. Patel said the tigress was around four to five years old.“No injury marks were detected on the body while all the organs of the big cat were found intact,” he said and added that “the conditions indicated the tigress seemed to have died a few days back”.“However, a nylon rope piece was found tied around the tigress’ neck causing abrasion marks round the neck, which raised doubts of some foul play,” he added. Patel said a thorough probe into the tigress’ death would be conducted and an autopsy will be carried out according to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines to ascertain the exact cause of death, Patel said. He added “a report in this connection would be lodged under wildlife protection act.”Reports said a farmer from the neighbouring Hardua village had gone to the fields to collect grass when a big cat hiding in the bushes charged upon him. He raised an alarm following which fellow villagers rushed to the spot and the big cat ran back into the neighbouring forests.The villagers later found the dead body of the tigress lying in the bushes and called the forest authorities.Patel along with his team rushed the spot and carried out preliminary investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-found-dead-in-dudhwa-buffer-zone-in-up-s-lakhimpur/story-m41fukHu2vApqNGYCsXntI.html
12-08-2020||India||Two HAL light combat choppers deployed in Ladakh||Two light combat helicopters, produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, have been deployed in the Ladakh sector to support the Indian Air Force at short notice amid the border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), HAL said in a statement on Wednesday. “It is the lightest attack helicopter in the world designed and developed by HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of Indian armed forces reflecting the crucial role of HAL in Atma Nirbhar Bharat.” said HAL chairman R Madhavan. The LCH figures on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. The state-run aircraft maker is expecting an order for 15 LCHs by the year-end --- 10 for the IAF and five for the army. The IAF and the army together need 160 LCHs. The deployment of the twin-engine LCH in the Ladakh sector is symbolic in nature and an acknowledgement of the potential that the platform holds but it is yet to be fully weaponised to meet the IAF’s requirements, people familiar with the LCH programme said. “The LCH holds a lot of promise but is not really capable of carrying out missions in its current configuration. It lacks anti-armour and air-to-air weapons. That’s work in progress,” the officials said. The LCH is equipped with 70mm rockets and a chin-mounted cannon. Also read: For Ladakh stand-off, how India readied its fleet of Apache attack choppers“The LCH may not be carrying its full weapons load as of today but when the weapon integration is complete, it will prove its worth,” said Air Marshal KK Nohwar (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. During a visit to the Ladakh sector last week, IAF vice chief Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora flew in one of the two LCHs from the Daulat Beg Oldie airbase, near the contested LAC. Air Marshal Arora took off from a high-altitude location to a forward area for a simulated attack on a target, the HAL statement said. “This was followed by a landing at one of the most treacherous helipads in the region. The LCH successfully demonstrated its quick deployment prowess to forward locations in extreme temperatures,” the statement said. LCH is a potent platform because of its state-of-the-art systems and highly accurate weapons (it will eventually carry) that are capable of hitting any type of target by day or night, it added. The two LCHs deployed in Ladakh are prototypes and the ones that will be supplied to the IAF will come with the desired weapons capability, said an HAL official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. On the upcoming order for 15 LCH, the HAL said, “Technical evaluation and the price negotiations have been concluded and the order is expected shortly. However, as a proactive measure HAL has launched limited series production in anticipation of orders at its Bengaluru facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-hal-light-combat-choppers-deployed-in-ladakh/story-mQ3MtbvOn9KoNQprZtZw6O.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Modi hai toh Mumkin hai’, tweets Rahul Gandhi. It is a jibe||With a pithy one liner, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took yet another swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Infosys founder NR Narayana Murthy’s warning that the country’s GDP growth may touch its lowest since independence in the backdrop of a raging coronavirus pandemic. Gandhi employed PM Modi’s widely popular 2019 election campaign slogan to hit out at him, tweeting: “Modi hai toh mumkin hai (If Modi is there, everything is possible)”. He also attached a screenshot of the report carrying the IT software icon’s remark.On Monday, Murthy had flagged fears of the country’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product) touching its lowest since 1947 and as a way out suggested developing a system that allows every player in every sector of the country’s economy to operate at full steam, with precautions of course.“India’s GDP is expected to shrink by at least five per cent. There is a fear that we may even reach the lowest GDP since Independence, since 1947,” said Murthy at an online event.Rahul Gandhi - through a tweet a day, video messages - has been attacking the government over a host of issues. On Tuesday, the Congress leader urged the Centre to implement the government’s rural employment guarantee scheme and his party’s ‘Nyuntam Aay Yojana’ (NYAY) as an economic measure for the poor in urban and rural areas of the country amid the ongoing crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In an earlier tweet, Gandhi had said he warned the government about Covid19 and the economy, but they rubbished it. Businesses have pinned hopes on more demand-boosting measures from the government, including ramping up the execution of infrastructure projects, more economic reforms and a goods and services tax (GST) rate cut if the other steps fail to revive consumption. Business leaders have said they are worried about movement curbs imposed by authorities, an issue that was also cited by RBI last week as a reason for several high-frequency economic indicators levelling off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-hai-toh-mumkin-hai-tweets-rahul-gandhi-it-is-a-jibe/story-7jMfzB9xlp6vjtjivQ33nM.html
12-08-2020||India||Will look into it: Sanjay Raut says over apology demanded by Sushant’s family||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday his comments about the relationship between Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his family was based on the information he has, according to news agency ANI.A cousin of Rajput, who was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra in June, has sent a legal notice to Raut. Neeraj Singh Babloo, who is also Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Bihar, had demanded a public apology from Raut on Monday within 48 hours, failing which he said he will take legal action against him.“If there has been any kind of miss on our part, we will think about it. But I will have to look into it. What I have said so far is based on the information I have, Sushant’s family is speaking on the basis of information they have,” Sanjay Raut said, according to ANI.Raut had claimed in his weekly column in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ that the actor didn’t share good relations with his father KK Singh. “I have received such information. How many times did Rajput visit his father in Patna in the last few years?” Raut, who is Saamana’s executive editor, asked.Raut also said Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey was working for a political party and alleged he tried to contest an election on a BJP ticket. “What can you expect from such a police force?” he asked.Rajput’s maternal uncle, RC Singh, said an attempt is being made to divert the direction of the probe being conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Singh also said Rajput had a very good relationship with his father and his father had not remarried as alleged by Raut.The 34-year-old was found dead in his home on June 14. The case was being investigated by the Mumbai Police but the Bihar Police launched a separate probe after the actor’s father filed a First Information Report (FIR) against his son’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others in Patna, alleging abetment to suicide. After a turf war between the two police forces, the probe has now been taken over by the central agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-look-into-it-sanjay-raut-says-over-apology-demanded-by-sushant-s-family/story-wnRo6VDzbETEaOH4QqY65N.html
12-08-2020||India||Supreme Court considers starting few physical courts from next week||A Committee of seven judges, constituted by the Chief Justice of India, convened a meeting on Tuesday, and discussed several issues, including whether physical courts can start or not, the Supreme Court Advocates On Records Association (SCAORA) said.“The judges’ Committee is seriously considering to start at least 2-3 physical courts from the next week and in the meantime, the Registry would take necessary steps to prepare the courts for physical functioning,” the SCAORA said in a statement.The Presidents of SCBA (Supreme Court Bar Association), SCAORA and Bar Council of India (BCI) Chairman, had also attended the Committee meeting held yesterday.SCAORA President Shivaji M Jadhav, and SCBA President and senior Supreme Court lawyer Dushyant Dave urged the judges to start physical courts at the earliest, after taking required measures suggested by medical experts, keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic.The SCAORA said that the physical courts, if possible to start, will be in addition to the now existing virtual courts and people would have the option to do virtual hearing as well.Matters from the final hearing list published before the lockdown would be listed before the physical Courts. The final decision would be taken by the Judges committee in a day or two, the SCAORA said.This comes as physical court hearings are halted in the Supreme Court in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-considers-starting-few-physical-courts-from-next-week/story-i0JzIvwEpZMdeaUZshUi5K.html
12-08-2020||India||Light to moderate showers reported in the past 24 hours in Mumbai, suburbs||Light to moderate showers were reported over the past 24 hours in Mumbai and its suburbs barring certain intense spells at isolated places. Santacruz and Colaba weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai; and south Mumbai, respectively, have received intermittent moderate rainfall between 8:30 am on Tuesday and Wednesday.Santacruz and Colaba weather stations reported 30.7 millimetres (mm) and 16.7 mm rainfall, respectively, which can be categorised as moderate, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities’ classification.IMD considers rainfall between 15.6 and 64.4 mm as moderate. On Wednesday morning, negligible rainfall was recorded at both the weather stations, but isolated areas across the city recorded a downpour. The maximum rainfall was recorded in the north-western suburbs of Mumbai between 8:30 am and 12.30 pm. Dahisar recorded 19.5 mm rain, followed by Thane (18.7 mm), Borivali (15.6 mm), Goregaon (15.5 mm), Malad (15.4 mm), Bhayander (13 mm), Powai (10.2 mm), and Bandra (10.6 mm). IMD authorities have predicted that cloud cover with moderate rainfall would persist coupled with a possibility of a downpour over isolated areas.“More rain intensity has been reported towards the north-western suburbs of Mumbai over the past 24 hours. This trend is likely to continue. Radar and satellite images have indicated dense cloud cover over the north Konkan coast, which may lead to heavy showers in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), surrounding areas and the Western Ghats over the next 48 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (D-G), western region, IMD. Across Maharashtra, the maximum rainfall was reported from Matheran (72.2 mm), followed by Mahabaleshwar (58.6 mm), Dahanu (43 mm), Thane (37 mm), and Mumbai (30 mm). Mumbai suburbs have received 63% of excess rainfall between June 1 and Wednesday (August 12), while the corresponding figure for south Mumbai is 70%. Maharashtra has recorded 8% of excess rainfall at 713.1 during this period, as compared to a normal of 657.3 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-showers-reported-in-the-past-24-hours-in-mumbai-suburbs/story-JQVWBZdWMgYqD9O779sXtM.html
12-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee still critical but haemodynamically stable: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s condition continues to be critical at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi, according to the health bulletin released on Wednesday. Mukherjee had undergone a brain surgery on Monday.“Presently he is haemodynamically stable and on ventilator,” the hospital said in the medical bulletin on Wednesday.His daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee posted an emotional message on Twitter on Wednesday morning stating that she hopes God chooses the best path for him and gives her the strength to accept whatever comes ahead.She also recalled that last year around the same time her father was awarded the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country and this year, he is critically ill.“Last year 8 August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna. Exactly a year later on 10 Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns” her Tweet said. Last year 8August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna.Exactly a year later on 10Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns🙏Mukherjee, 84, had said on Monday on Twitter that he had also tested positive for the novel coronavirus.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” Mukherjee tweeted.People in his ancestral village in West Bengal are praying for his speedy recovery. The residents of Kirnahar area in West Bengal’s Birbhum district have started a 72-hour yajna from Tuesday.Mukherjee’s sister and other members of the family prayed for him at their residence at Miriti village in Kirnahar area.Mukherjee was the India’s president between 2012 and 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-still-critical-but-haemodynamically-stable-hospital/story-CKcDmyYmi1J36y3UDEn0sJ.html
12-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: A look at the Covid-19 situation across the world and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Battling Covid-19: Countries with highest number of cases and deathsAbout eight months into the Covid-19 pandemic and the world has witnessed the total number of coronavirus cases jump to over 20 million. According to Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tally, over 7.3 lakh people have lost their lives due to Covid-19 globally, whereas more than 13 million people have beaten the deadly virus across the globe. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine update: All about Russia’s ‘Sputnik V’ and its availabilityEver since Russia dropped the bombshell announcement of giving a regulatory approval for the “Sputnik V” vaccine for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the development has been met by scepticism. One of the biggest concerns is that the approval comes before the completion of human trials. Read moreMay God do whatever is best for him: Pranab Mukherjee’s daughterThe daughter of former president Pranab Mukherjee, who is critical and on ventilator support after a brain surgery in an Indian Army hospital in Delhi, shared a prayer on Twitter on Wednesday. Read moreThermal scanning, social distancing in Rajasthan Assembly session beginning FridayThe authorities at the Rajasthan Assembly, whose upcoming session starts from Friday (August 14), have made seating arrangements for 315 people in the 200-member House in a bid to comply with the social distancing norms amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, officials said. Read moreWould have been really tight if World Cup wasn’t postponed: Mithali RajIndian women’s cricket has been on a high in the last three years. They captured the imagination of the nation when they finished runners-up in the 2017 ODI World Cup in England, and again reached the final of the T20 version in Australia early this year. Read moreCBSE students urge SC to take suo motu cognizance of board’s decision to conduct compartment examOver 800 students from across the country have approached the Supreme Court through a letter petition requesting it to take suo motu cognisance of the decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to conduct compartment exams during the Covid-19 outbreak. Read moreTikTok has been collecting device identifiers for over a year in violation of Android policiesAmidst all the security concerns piling up against TikTok, a Wall Street Journal investigation has discovered that TikTok’s Android app has been collecting users’ MAC addresses for 18 months. This violates Android’s rules. Read moreHappy Birthday Sara Ali Khan: 5 classic styles that the millennial fashionista has brought back and howSara Ali Khan’s personality, her humility and most importantly, her sartorial sense have been talking points since before her Bollywood debut in December 2018. The best part is that she has proven how she can rock nearly everything she’s styled in and we love the ease with which she carries herself. Read moreSanitation workers win praise for reporting lost package despite heavy rain in ChennaiThere are times when people go above and beyond to offer their help and service when the need arises. Such acts of kindness always strike a chord with people. A similar instance was highlighted in a post on Facebook and has since won people over. Read moreWatch| ‘Ram Rajya was Mahatma Gandhi’s political vision’: BJP MP Sudhanshu Trivedi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-a-look-at-the-covid-19-situation-across-the-world-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EVFlKY9MaWmmU4cPr5MTrK.html
12-08-2020||India||Medal for excellence in investigation awarded to 121 policemen this year||One hundred twenty one police personnel have been awarded the Union home ministry’s “Medal for Excellence in Investigation” for the year 2020.Out of these, 15 awardees are from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), 10 each are from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, eight from Uttar Pradesh Police and seven each from Kerala and West Bengal Police.The list also includes 21 women police officers.Last year, 96 policemen, including 13 women officers, had received the coveted award.This medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise excellence in investigation by officers.That year, 101 police personnel had received the award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medal-for-excellence-in-investigation-awarded-to-121-policemen-this-year/story-2A8irpx0Xlm28Lgz1kaIXL.html
12-08-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: Strong mob had gathered, pelted stones at police, says eyewitness||An eyewitness said on Wednesday there was a strong mob, which pelted stones at police personnel and damaged property at a police station during the violence on Tuesday night in Bengaluru.At least three people have died and scores of police personnel have been injured after the violence in Pulakeshi Nagar of the state capital of Karnataka on Tuesday night. The violence broke out over a social media message, which was allegedly posted by a relative of a Congress legislator. Police vehicles were also damaged and set on fire.Sharif, who was an eyewitness to the violence at the police station in DJ Halli, said he had come to record his statement. “We are from civil defence and have come to protect the police. It was not the police’s fault, it was the public’s fault,” he told reporters.“This (police station) is like my temple, my masjid. We have to support the police,” he added.Bengaluru Police have arrested 149 people for arson, stone-pelting and assault on the police, officials said. Congress’ member of legislative assembly (MLA) Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was also arrested for sharing the “derogatory” post on Facebook.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted to condemn the violence and that he has already ordered action against those taking the law into their hands. Yediyurappa said those who attacked the police, media and the public will not be spared and strict action will be taken. He also appealed for calm.Yediyurappa appealed to people to maintain peace and said that violence against journalists, police and people was unacceptable.“The miscreants in the DJ Halli police station has led to the assault and rioting at MLA Akhand Srinivasa’s house and police station. Already, directives have been issued against the perpetrators and the government has taken all possible steps to curb the situation,” Yediyurappa tweeted (roughly translated from Kannada).Also Read: Bengaluru clashes: Digvijaya Singh seeks probe into source social media post“The attack on journalists, the police and the public in the riot last night was unacceptable. The government will not tolerate such provocations and rumours. Strict action against perpetrators is certain. I appeal to people to maintain peace and act with restraint and without panic,” he said in another tweet.Murthy’s house was also vandalised by the mob following the social media post by his nephew. Residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy was also attacked after the violence broke out.A curfew has been clamped in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits after the violence broke out in the area. Police have also imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Bengaluru to prohibit the assembly of four or more persons in an area.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-violence-60-000-strong-mob-had-gathered-pelted-stones-at-police-says-eyewitness/story-crI8IxdZtKJ6XMpglHNgHM.html
12-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Four Maoists killed in encounter with security forces||Security forces have gunned down alleged four members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist at Jagargunda in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district in the Bastar region during a brief encounter on Wednesday morning. The bodies of the Maoist rebels are yet to be identified and combing operation is still in progress, the police said. Inspector-general of Police (IGP), Bastar range, Chhattisgarh Police, Sunderraj P, said the joint operation was launched by District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) Commando Battalions for Resolute Action (CoBRA) troops in Nilagod jungle based on an intelligence input about the presence of the Maoist cadres, who owed their allegiance to Jagargunda Area Committee. “At around, 9:30 am on Wednesday, there was an exchange of heavy fire between the troops and Maoists near Pulamphar jungle under the jurisdiction of Jagargunda police station in the Sukma district. The firing lasted for about 20 minutes. We have recovered male bodies of four Maoists, whose identity is yet to be ascertained,” Sunderraj said. “A .303 rifle and a cache of country-made weapons, explosive and camping materials have been recovered from the encounter site,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-four-maoists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces/story-b5TFhfkdJTGWhyPFkLhXKJ.html
12-08-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi asks Gujarat to increase Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed on the need to increase coronavirus testing in Gujarat in view of the “high positivity rate” prevailing in the state.The PM made the suggestion during his virtual interaction with chief ministers of 10 states, including Gujarat’s Vijay Rupani, on the latest Covid-19 situation.“Testing needs to be ramped up especiallyin those states where testing rate is low and positivity rate is high.These states are Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana.“This suggestion to increase testing in these states emerged during this review meeting,” said Modi in his address.After taking part in the virtual meet from Gandhinagar, chief minister Rupani, in a statement, said he had informed the PM that Gujarat’s daily testing average is 456 tests per million.“Gujarat has 34 government-run and 59 private laboratories to conduct such a high number of tests. In addition, rapid antigen tests are being conducted in each district and in major cities,” said the statement.Rupani added that around 47,000 Covid-19 beds and 2,300 ventilators are currently available in the state.Maintaining that Gujarat’s patient recovery rate is more than 76 per cent, Rupani informed the PM that there are about 14,000 active cases in the state at present, while around 55,000 patients have been discharged till now.Rupani also said Gujarat’s mortality rate due to coronavirus has gone down from 7.8 per cent to 2.1 per cent.The chief minister expressed confidence that the country will defeat the pandemic with Modi’s continuous guidance, the release said.Till August 11, Gujarat has recorded 73,238 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-asks-gujarat-to-increase-covid-19-testing/story-4vOsACa67nIcHCnpjrZF5O.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Friends who had gone away are back, will work together’: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said that it is natural for MLAs to be upset and the way the chain of events took place in the past month. He said that those who had gone away from the party are finally back and he hopes to work together for the benefit of the state. “We will work together. Our friends who had gone away have now come back. I hope that we will do away with all our differences and fulfill our resolve to serve the state,” Gehlot said.  Also read: CM talks peace a day after truce; Pilot back in JaipurWe will work together. Our friends who had gone away have now come back. I hope that we will do away with all our differences and fulfill our resolve to serve the state: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot https://t.co/6geXcb72wy“It’s natural for MLAs to be upset. The manner in which this episode occurred and the way in which they stayed for a month, it was natural. I’ve explained to them that sometimes we need to be tolerant if we have to serve the nation, state, people and save the democracy,” the chief minister added. Gehlot said that the fight is to save the democracy and it will continue.  Also read: Rajasthan crisis - Relieved, Congress leaders credit Rahul GandhiThe fight is to save democracy and it will continue. All our MLAs stayed together for such a long time. This is a victory of the people of Rajasthan. It is our duty to serve the people of the state: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot in Jaisalmer pic.twitter.com/bqlU2zXlGw“All our MLAs stayed together for such a long time. This is a victory of the people of Rajasthan,” Gehlot added. The Congress party is looking at a closed chapter to over a month-long political tussle in Rajasthan after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot met with party leadership on Monday night. Later, the MLAs met top Congress leaders and were assured that their grievances would be redressed in a time.Senior leader and party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that Pilot and the supporting MLAs have resolved to work with the Congress government in Rajasthan and for strengthening the party in the state.Congress president Sonia Gandhi also announced the formation of a three-member committee that would hear the grievances of rebel leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/friends-who-had-gone-away-are-back-will-work-together-ashok-gehlot/story-AB9yhSbnlJYyZD33Yym52I.html
12-08-2020||India||HC upholds life sentence of a widow who killed her new born daughter to hide illicit relationship||Mumbai. The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday upheld the conviction and life sentence of a widow, who had killed her new-born daughter 27 years ago, purportedly to hide her illicit relationship and the unwanted pregnancy caused eight years after her husband’s death. The two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices RD Dhanuka and Surendra Tavade, upheld the conviction of Kamlabai Gharat, as the prosecution had proved the chain of circumstances against her beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt. There was nobody else, except the appellant-accused to commit the murder of her new-born daughter, the court said. The bench has directed Alibag district and sessions court to secure Gharat’s presence and remand her to prison for serving the remainder of the jail term. According to the prosecution, on November 10, 1993, residents of Nhava Sheva in Uran found a new-born girl abandoned near Sheva bus stand.One of the residents took the infant to his house, where she was provided with the necessary care and food. He reported the matter to local police authorities, who arrested Gharat after finding out that she was pregnant, and suspected her of abandoning the new-born.Initially, the police took Gharat and the infant to the Rural Hospital at Uran and later to Alibag Civil Hospital, where she strangulated her child. In 1995, the sessions court convicted Gharat for murder and sentenced her to life. However, she was acquitted of abandoning the child. Later, Gharat moved HC in an appeal challenging her conviction on various grounds. The bench on Tuesday dismissed the appeal. It concluded that the prosecution had proved all the circumstances against Gharat such as the abandonment of the child, the good physical condition of the neonate before her murder, and the fact that the new-born girl was with her ever since they were taken to the Rural Hospital at Uran and later to Alibag Civil Hospital. The bench held that the prosecution had proved homicidal death of the child and that there was no one around when the infant was killed, except for Gharat. The judges found that there was a motive for Gharat to commit the crime --- to hide the entire episode of her illicit affair -- the pregnancy caused eight years after the death of her husband and birth of the unwanted child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-life-sentence-of-a-widow-who-killed-her-new-born-daughter-to-hide-illicit-relationship/story-d4oScCqIeowzebYKT8ml2K.html
12-08-2020||India||PM Modi to launch platform to honour honest taxpayers on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the platform “Transparent Taxation--Honoring the Honest” on Thursday as part of the government’s ongoing direct tax reforms, an official statement said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has been implementing a series of reforms since last year, when it reduced corporate tax from 30% to 22%. For new manufacturing units, the tax rate was further cut to 15%, and the dividend distribution tax was abolished. “The focus of the tax reforms has been on reduction in tax rates and on simplification of direct tax laws,” the finance ministry said in a statement on Wednesday.The ministry has also launched a drive to increasingly make the taxation system faceless and transparent to stop overreach by taxmen and check corruption. “This includes bringing more transparency in official communications through the newly introduced Document Identification Number (DIN) wherein every communication of the department would carry a computer generated unique document identification number,” it said. Similarly, to increase the ease of compliance for taxpayers, the income-tax (IT) department has moved forward with pre-filing of income tax returns to make compliance more convenient for individual taxpayers. Compliance norms for startups have been simplified, it said. “With a view to provide for resolution of pending tax disputes the IT department also brought out the Direct Tax ‘Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020’ under which declarations for settling disputes are being filed currently,” it said.The statement listed recent reforms such as raising the monetary thresholds for filing of departmental appeals in various appellate courts to reduce taxpayer grievances and litigation, and promoting digital transactions. “The IT department is committed to take the initiatives forward and has also made efforts to ease compliances for taxpayers during the Covid times by extending statutory timeliness for filing returns as also releasing refunds expeditiously to increase liquidity in the hands of taxpayers,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-platform-to-honour-honest-taxpayers-on-thursday/story-dAI6xUF9CK94b1QCfAMNsM.html
12-08-2020||India||May God do whatever is best for him: Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter||The daughter of former president Pranab Mukherjee, who is critical and on ventilator support after a brain surgery in an Indian Army hospital in Delhi, shared a prayer on Twitter on Wednesday.“Last year 8August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna.Exactly a year later on 10Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns,” Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted.Doctors treating him at the Army Hospital Research And Referral said on Tuesday evening that Mukherjee has not shown any improvement in his health after the surgery, adding that his condition has “worsened” and he remains “critical” and on life support.“Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical at Army Hospital (R&R) Delhi Cantt. The former President who underwent lifesaving emergency surgery for brain clot on 10 August has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened. He remains on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a medical bulletin.Villagers in Mukherjee’s ancestral village in West Bengal started a Maha Mrityunjaya yajna on Tuesday for the speedy recovery of the former president.The 84-year-old former president had announced on Twitter on Monday that he had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Mukherjee, who was the India’s president between 2012 and 2017, had been keeping his public interactions at a minimal level after the coronavirus pandemic swept cross the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-god-do-whatever-is-best-for-him-pranab-mukherjee-s-daughter/story-PrrL78LMeh3fLE40xPMKsN.html
12-08-2020||India||Congress condemns Bengaluru clashes, CM Yediyurappa promises ‘ruthless action’ against culprits||The Congress party has condemned the violence at their legislator R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s house in Bengaluru.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka unit of Congress, also criticised the Facebook post which led to the clashes, calling it derogatory.“Completely condemn the violence unleashed on our party legislator’s house as well as on the police. Equally condemn the derogatory Facebook post. Nobody should indulge in violence,” Shivakumar said. I condemn the violence that has happened in Bengaluru. No one must take law into their own hands.The Government must take strict and exemplary action against the person who made the derogatory social media post as well as those who indulged in rioting and arson. pic.twitter.com/Adhl152LPtHe also said that a meeting of all Congress’s Bengaluru MLAs has been conveyed at 12 noon at the party office to discuss the matter.Responding to a tweet by BL Santhosh, the national organisation secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shivakumar said, “Let them (BJP) play politics even in such an unfortunate incident. We will address the situation as required.”Santhosh had tweeted, “Dead silence by @INCIndia @INCKarnataka even after their Dalit MLA Sri Akhanda Srinivas Murthy was attacked, house ransacked yesterday in Bengaluru. Total support for Right to riot? For them appeasement in the only official party policy.”Three people were killed in the violence in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas of Bengaluru on Tuesday night. While two of those killed in the incident have been identified, the police are trying to ascertain the identity of the third person. the police have imposed curfew in the affected areas.More than 160 people have been arrested in connection with the violence in which 60 police personnel were also injured.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant has appealed for calm. Additional police force is being deployed across Bengaluru where Section 144 has been imposed. Leaves of all police personnel have been cancelled to ensure adequate security on ground, the police sources said.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa condemned the violence on Twitter, saying ruthless action will be taken against those who are found taking law into their hands.He also said that those who attacked police, media and the public will not be spared. He appealed for calm.The police have arrested the youth accused of posting the message which irked the minority community members. The police have claimed that the youth Naveen is a relative of MLA Murthy. Naveen has however claimed that his account was hacked.Meanwhile, Murthy is scheduled to meet revenue minister R Ashoka and seek protection for himself and his family after part of his residence was burnt down by the protesters who threw stones and bottles at the building. Some vehicles parked outside the house were also damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-condemns-bengaluru-clashes-cm-yediyurappa-promises-ruthless-action-against-culprits/story-crWljks3jIenR5j4imv7LN.html
12-08-2020||India||PM Modi to launch ‘transparent’ scheme on Thursday to reward country’s honest taxpayers||In a bid to honour and encourage honest taxpayers of the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a new tax scheme on Thursday. The platform for “Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest” will be launched by PM Modi via video-conferencing.The event will see top officials from the Chambers of Commerce, Trade Associations, Chartered Accountants’ associations in attendance, besides officials of the Income Tax Department. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister of State (MoS), Finance, Anurag Singh Thakur will also be present. Also read: PM Modi pitches NCR model for 10 hardest hit statesPrime Minister @narendramodi will launch the platform for "Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest" on the 13th August 2020.The focus of the tax reforms has been on reduction in tax rates and on simplification of direct tax laws.Read here: https://t.co/iTXxUXPD1wThe Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT) has carried out several major tax reforms in direct taxes in the recent years. Last year, corporate tax rates were reduced from 30 percent to 22 percent and for new manufacturing units, the rates were reduced to 15 percent. Dividend distribution tax was also abolished, a government release stated. The release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office said, “the focus of the tax reforms has been on reduction in tax rates and on simplification of direct tax laws. Several initiatives have been taken by the CBDT for bringing in efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the IT Department”.The upcoming launch of the platform for “ Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest “ by the Prime Minister will further carry forward the journey of direct tax reforms, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-transparent-scheme-on-thursday-to-reward-country-s-honest-taxpayers/story-iAidX6zAzq7Z58YWmovhYK.html
12-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges to 2.32 million, recovery rate over 70%||With more than 60,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 834 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s tally went beyond 2.32 million, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday morning.According to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard, there were 60,963 cases and 834 deaths between Tuesday and Wednesday morning which took the number of infections to 2,329,638, the third highest number of cases after the United States and Brazil. There have been 633,650 cases in the 12 days and at least 58,000 cases on an average over the past week every day -- the highest in the world. The death toll stands at 46,091. India’s rate of recovery has improved to 70.37% as 1,639,599 people, 56,110 in the last 24 hours, have been discharged from hospitals so far. There are 643,948 active cases, according to the health ministry. The gap between the active and recovered cases is now 995,651. “The TEST, TRACK, TREAT strategy showing desired result- early identification and prompt isolation/hospitalisation aiding exponential growth in recoveries,” the ministry tweeted on Wednesday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urge the chief ministers of the 10 hardest-hit states in the country to focus on containment and surveillance, tracking and testing of close contacts of any infected person within 72 hours, and ramping up testing which he said would help track, contain and mitigate the outbreak in India.The meeting was attended by chief ministers of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu – some of the most populous states of the country – and four others that together account for 80% of the active Covid-19 cases and 82% of fatalities due to the viral disease.HT’s dashboard of Covid-19 statistics showed that Bihar, at 9,180 tests per million, has the lowest testing rate in the country. The per million testing in Gujarat was 14,973, UP 14,266, West Bengal 11,683 and Telangana 16,788 -- all under the national average of 18,968 tests per million.The National Expert Group on vaccine administration will meet on Wednesday to decide on logistics, procurement and administration of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, as and when it is ready. The committee is likely to engage with all stakeholders, including state governments and vaccine manufacturers, on the issue in Wednesday’s meeting.Among the 24 vaccine candidates currently under various stages of clinical trials, three are at advances stages of phase three trials in the US, UK and China.Globally, there have been more than 20.28 infections and 741,126 people have succumbed to the viral disease, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-to-2-32-million-recovery-rate-over-70/story-5I5SAyM503xoFFTZYBh8wN.html
12-08-2020||India||Barmer: Pakistan Rangers accept intruder’s body after identity was established||Pakistan Rangers accepted the body of an intruder (23), who was shot dead by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Friday night, on Tuesday evening after his identity was established.The intruder got killed after he had crossed the Indo-Pak border near pillar number 919 that falls under the jurisdiction of Bakhasar police station in Barmer district. Initially, Pakistan Rangers had denied any intrusion from Pakistani soil. However, Pakistani Rangers agreed to accept the intruder’s body following at least three rounds of flag meetings with the BSF. On Saturday noon, Pakistani Rangers produced an identity document of the intruder and his body was handed over on Tuesday at around 7 pm, BSF officials said. The deceased has been identified as Bheru Ram, a resident of Dudharo village in Sindh’s province Tharparkar district, Pakistan. Tharparkar, the largest district in Sindh province, also has the highest Hindu population in Muslim-majority Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barmer-pakistan-rangers-accept-intruder-s-body-after-identity-was-established/story-L7o93KEHC2SvsUgoeqmpwM.html
12-08-2020||India||Lakhs left in lurch after Aadhar made mandatory for pension in Odisha; activists slam move||With the accounts of 11 lakh of an estimated 49 lakh beneficaries of old age, disability and widow pension in Odisha yet to be verified with their respective Aadhar numbers, right to food activists allege that the latest decision to debar such people from availing monthly welfare entitlements is a callous move during the coronavirus pandemic.At least 49 lakh old, disabled, transgenders, HIV affected and widows in Odisha get monthly pension between Rs 500 and Rs 700 under the National Social Assistance Programme and Madhu Babu Pension Yojana. Though the rising bills have been a major drain on the state exchequer, these welfare measures coupled with subsidies have kept starvation deaths at bay.However, the state Social Security & Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities department decided to disburse the monthly pension to people with Aadhaar verified accounts from this month. This left around 11 lakh people in the lurch. “Aadhaar, as a proof of identity, has been made mandatory for availing benefit under both the pension schemes from August 2020,” the department said in a letter to all district collectors.As per the updated National Dashboard of National Social Assistance Programme, only 83% of the NSAP accounts in Odisha have been “verified” by Aadhaar, while only 74% have been verified for the MBPY scheme leaving out 11 lakh persons.Joint secretary of SSEPD department, Dipak Routray, said that Aadhar verification was being done to weed out ghost beneficiaries. “During the Aadhar verification, we found out about ghost beneficiaries. Only those with Aadhar verified accounts will get the pension. We are trying to finish the verification process as soon as possible, but can’t say how long will the entire process take,” said Routray.Sameet Panda, a right to food activist, condemned the move. “People who depend on the allowances can die of starvation when the pandemic is raging. Mandatory linkages with Aadhaar have caused mass exclusions, both at the point of disbursal of welfare entitlements (because of biometric or technical failures) and during the process of seeding and verification. The Aadhar seeding and verification processes are also shrouded in opacity,” he said.Activists also raised question on how the state government after opposing the Aadhar linking with pensioner’s account in 2017 on the grounds that it would cause hardship to the beneficiaries has now done a volte face. “Aadhar seeding or verification can fail for a range of reasons, often without any of the responsible officials understanding the reason, or how it should be remedied. The Aadhar-enabled Payments System (AePS) comes with its own share of failures due to poor design, missing safeguards, and a confusing array of failure codes,” said a member of Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhijan, a group that works for Right to Food.Activists said if eligible beneficiaries are left out due to Aadhar verification process then there is a possibility of starvation deaths happening like Dukhi Jani, a 46-year-old tribal woman in Nayagarh district who died after going without food for three days in June.Opposition leaders also said that the government should not stop the monthly pension on the pretext of Aadhar verification. “For a large number of tribals and Dalits in the remote districts, the pension is the only source of sustenance. The govt can continue giving the pension while doing the verification process,” said Pradipta Naik, Leader of Opposition in Odisha Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhs-left-in-lurch-after-aadhar-made-mandatory-for-pension-in-odisha-activists-slam-move/story-47HresjdXjJB48r8KU2QqJ.html
12-08-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh sanitiser deaths: Main accused arrested, learned from YouTube videos||The investigation into the death of 10 people due to consuming hand sanitiser led the police to a school drop-out who started manufacturing hand sanitiser by watching YouTube videos.Sale Srinivas, the prime accused in the case, had worked in a petrol pump for some time before taking to manufacturing of sanitiser. Ten people have so far been arrested in the case, Prakasam district police chief Siddharth Kaushal said.Though the police had initially claimed that only 10 people had died of consuming hand sanitiser, the Superintendent of Police (SP) later said that there were 16 people who had succumbed in a span of three days between July 29 and 31. “Most of them were beggars, hamalis and rickshaw pullers who got addicted to liquor. They had consumed hand sanitiser due to non-availability of alcohol,” Kaushal said.A five-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the district police, with the support of special enforcement bureau and drug inspectors, was entrusted with the investigation into the supply of sanitiser to the dealers in Kurichedu village in the district.“The SIT collected 69 bottles from the different scenes of crime and identified that the deceased consumed eight brands of sanitisers. The team started locating their addresses and manufacturing units. One of these brands - Perfect Gold - had no batch number and was found to have been supplied by Vandana Pharma from Bengaluru. But during investigation, the SIT found that there was no such company,” the SP said. After intensive search, the SIT traced the dealer of Perfect Gold brand of sanitiser at Prashasan Nagar in Hyderabad and seized heavy stocks of sanitiser boxes in the premises of distributor. On interrogation, the dealer confessed that one Sale Srinivas from Subhashnagar, Jedimetla was supplying this sanitiser to him on cheapest rates.The SIT officials took Srinivas into custody. During interrogation, it was revealed that Srinivas, a school drop-out from Siddapuram village of Vikarabad district, had worked in a petrol bunk and as solid paint remover for some time and had little knowledge of chemicals.On noticing the increasing demand for sanitiser during the Covid-19 period, Srinivas got into sanitiser manufacturing with the help of his elder brother two chemical sellers. They suggested to him that methanol which is cheaper than ethanol can be used for using sanitiser to get bigger profits.“So, he started making sanitiser using methanol by watching the process in YouTube videos under the brand name of Perfect Gold. He did not get any license from drug administration authority or did not get any permission from the government to install the manufacturing unit,” the SP said. Initially, Srinivas used to distribute sanitiser bottles in an auto and later, he got in touch with one distributor Kesav Agaraval who agreed to distribution of large quantities of sanitiser. Thus, he had supplied the sanitiser to various shops. The SIT officials found the supply chain and distribution track of Perfect Gold hand sanitiser from Hyderabad to Kurichedu and busted the entire racket. “We have arrested Srinivas and four others who were involved in the manufacture and distribution of methanol-based hand sanitiser and five medical shop owners in Darsi and Kurichedu who sold this brand of sanitiser to the victims,” Kaushal said. All the 10 accused were produced before a local court in Darsi, which remanded them to two-week judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-sanitiser-deaths-main-accused-arrested-learned-from-youtube-videos/story-k9ZD34lsu545L6i8jvXcWN.html
12-08-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: 3 dead, over 100 arrested after arson, stone-pelting||At least three people died and 60 police personnel were injured after violence broke out in the eastern part of Karnataka’s Bengaluru on Tuesday night over a social media message, which was allegedly posted by a relative of a Congress legislator.Bengaluru Police have arrested 149 people for arson, stone-pelting and assault on the police, officials said. Congress’ member of legislative assembly (MLA) Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was also arrested for sharing the “derogatory” post on Facebook.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted to condemn the violence and that he has already ordered action against those taking the law into their hands. Yediyurappa said those who attacked the police, media and the public will not be spared and strict action will be taken. He also appealed for calm.Here is what we know so far:• The violence broke out in Pulakeshi Nagar of the state capital of Karnataka after protesters vandalised a police station and Congress leader Murthy’s house. They hurled bottles and stones at the legislator’s house and the policemen, officials said.• Murthy’s house was attacked by people for an alleged controversial post on Facebook regarding a religious figure by his nephew.• The protesters also damaged some of the vehicles parked near the MLA’s hosue.• People familiar with the development said the man arrested for posting the content has denied his role, saying his social media account was hacked.• “DG Halli and KG Halli saw violent incidents. To bring this under control, police used lathi charge, tear gas and firing. Police Commissioner went to the spot. Police bandobast is in place. Strict action will be taken against those offenders,” Bengaluru Police tweeted.• Murthy appealed to the protesters to not resort to violence in a video message. “There is no need to fight. We all are brothers. We will get the person punished as per law. We will also be with you,” he said.• Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant also tweeted to appeal for peace.• Curfew was imposed in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits after violence broke out in the area.• Police have imposed Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Bengaluru to prohibit the assembly of four or more persons in an area.• Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home minister, also said nobody will be allowed to take the law into their own hands. He added that additional police forces have been deployed to maintain law and order.• Additional police forces are being rushed and leaves of all personnel have been cancelled to ensure adequate security on the ground across the city, according to people familiar with the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-violence-3-dead-over-100-arrested-after-arson-stone-pelting/story-JWc6Cn6suN24Bft1I8iDeN.html
12-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Who is Joe Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Who is Kamala Harris? A few facts about Joe Biden’s running mateKamala Harris made history when she was picked by Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden as his running mate on Tuesday. She is the first Asian-American on a major presidential ticket. She is the daughter of Indian mother from Chennai, Shyamala Gopalan Harris, a cancer researcher who passed away in 2009, and Jamaican father, Donald Harris, who teaches at Stanford University. Read moreCurtains down on 26-year-old Isro spy case, scientist Nambi Narayanan gets additional compensation from Kerala govtThe Kerala government on Tuesday handed over an additional compensation of Rs 1.30 crore to former scientist of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Nambi Narayanan to settle the two-and-half-decade-old spy case in which he was implicated by the state police. Read more2 die after violence erupts in Bengaluru over Facebook postTwo people were killed in Bengaluru after police opened fire as clashes broke out in parts of the city on Tuesday night after a youth allegedly posted derogatory content inciting hatred on Facebook. Members of the minority community pelted stones at the residence of Congress MLA Akhanda Shrinivasa Murthy, DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. Read more5 charred to death after private bus catches fire in Karnataka’s ChitradurgaAt least five people were burnt alive after a bus travelling from Vijayapura to Bengaluru caught fire on the highway in Chitradurga district of Karnataka in the early hours of Wednesday. The private bus was said to be carrying 32 passengers when it caught fire on National Highway 4 at KR Halli in Hiriyur taluk of the district. Read moreSebi pulls up Kirloskar’s promoters for fraudThe markets regulator has charged some of the promoters of Kirloskar Brothers Ltd (KBL) with fraud in a decade-old case of the promoter group selling a 13.5% stake in the then ailing company to Kirloskar Industries Ltd, harming the interests of minority investors. Read moreIPL 2020: Watchdog body on alert as tournament moves outThe Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) of the Indian cricket board said it is aware of “certain betting exchanges” in the UAE where this year’s IPL will be held from September 19 to November 8. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta shares old video of him saying ‘whatever I know, I have learnt is from my sisters’Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti has shared a video of the late actor talking about his love for his sisters, amid allegations that he had a strained relationship with them. In the video, which was first published in 2017, he says that he has learnt everything from them - be it learning how to ride a bike or his love for physics. Read moreThis car maker claims its new electric sedan is first EV with 500-mile rangeElectric vehicle startup Lucid Motors, which aims to begin selling its first luxury model, the Lucid Air, in early 2021, said on Tuesday that the new sedan is the first to achieve a 500-mile driving range. Read moreInternational Youth Day 2020: History, significance and theme of the dayInternational Youth Day was designated by the United Nations (UN) in the year 1999, in an attempt to raise awareness regarding the cultural and legal issue concerning youth. The first IYD was observed on 12 August 2000 and has been observed annually ever since. Read moreWatch| ‘Congress will decide my role’: Sachin Pilot welcomed by supporters in Jaipur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-who-is-joe-biden-s-running-mate-kamala-harris-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oLavbAL3bBCxZN02Sqod1M.html
12-08-2020||India||Lawmaker’s house vandalised, vehicles damaged in Bengaluru clashes which left 60 cops injured||The police in Bengaluru have arrested 149 people in connection with the violence in the city over a Facebook post. The death toll rose to three on Wednesday after one more injured person succumbed to injuries sustained in Tuesday’s clashes.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that 60 cops, including an Additional Commissioner of Police, were injured while trying to control the violence in the DJ Halli and KG Halli areas.The police said they have arrested the man accused of sharing the controversial post which the protesters from the minority community say allegedly insulted a religious figure. News agency ANI quoted police commissioner Pant as saying that the accused has been identified as Naveen who is the nephew of Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy.People familiar with the developments said that the youth has denied his role saying that his social media account was hacked.Pant further appealed to everyone to cooperate with the force in order to maintain peace.The clashes took place in Bengaluru’s Pulakeshi Nagar area on Tuesday night when he protesters, irked over the Facebok post, vandalised a police station and a Congress legislator’s residence. They hurled bottles and stones at the lawmaker’s house and the policemen.Some of the vehicles parked near the MLA’s house were also damaged.Murthy later released a video message where he appealed to the protesters to not resort to violence. “There is no need to fight. We all are brothers. We will get the person punished as per law. We will also be with you,” he said in the video message.Section 144 has been imposed across Bengaluru after the violence. State home minister B Bommai said that nobody will be allowed to take the law into their own hands. He also added that additional police forces have been deployed to maintain law and order. The situation in the city remains tense but police assured that matters have been brought under control.Bommai will meet chief minister BS Yediyurappa to brief him about the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawmaker-s-house-vandalised-vehicles-damaged-in-bengaluru-clashes-which-left-60-cops-injured/story-WelL5AH0Yc3piKlWSzXeSK.html
12-08-2020||India||Army soldier, terrorist killed in J-K’s Pulwama, say police||At least one soldier of the Indian Army and an unidentified terrorist were killed during a gunbattle in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday morning.Kashmir Zone police tweeted that the encounter took place in Kamrazipura of Pulwama. There was an exchange of fire when security forces approached an orchard in Kamrazipora early on Wednesday. The soldier was injured in the initial exchange of firing and later succumbed. They added the search operation is on. One AK 47 assault rifle along with grenades, pouches and other war like stores were recovered from the encounter site, an army spokesperson said.On Tuesday, security forces arrested five people, including a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist, recovered a large cache of weapons in the frontier district of Kupwara near Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-soldier-terrorist-killed-in-j-k-s-pulwama-say-police/story-zHA7PSm1lbRQf9SYIPGPkM.html
12-08-2020||India||Amid heavy monsoon, UN to provide humanitarian support to most vulnerable, affected communities in India||The United Nations stands ready to provide humanitarian support to the most vulnerable and affected communities in India, a spokesperson for the UN Secretary General has said amid heavy monsoon in the region.“In neighbouring India, the monsoon there has reportedly claimed more than 770 lives. According to authorities, more than 500,000 people have been evacuated. The UN stands ready to provide humanitarian support to the most vulnerable and affected communities in India,” Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General António Guterres said.Giving an update from UN humanitarian colleagues on flooding in Asia, Dujarric said in Bangladesh, people are experiencing the worst and longest monsoon flooding in years, with a quarter of the country being inundated. At least 5.4 million people have been affected by severe flooding, with 11,000 households displaced and 135 people killed, he added.Humanitarian partners are working with the Government of Bangladesh to provide food, shelter, clean water, hygiene supplies and other supplies. A USD 40 million response plan has been launched to help the more than one million of the people most in need in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-heavy-monsoon-un-to-provide-humanitarian-support-to-most-vulnerable-affected-communities-in-india/story-Y559HZSQoxcxlIWwXUScvK.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Need to assess if Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe and effective’: AIIMS Director||Russia stunned the world when it announced on Tuesday that it has given statutory approval for the public use of coronavirus vaccine. Experts have been startled since the announcement by Russian President Vladimir Putin.All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria on Tuesday said that there was a need to assess the safety and effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Russia if it is successful.“If Russia’s vaccine is successful, then we will have to see critically whether it is safe and effective. There should not be any side effects of the vaccine and it should provide good immunity and protection. India has the capacity for mass production of vaccine,” Dr Guleria said.Putin said yesterday that the vaccine offers “sustainable immunity” against Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. He also said that one of his own daughters had received the inoculation and felt good afterwards.The vaccine, which will be called “Sputnik V” in homage to the world’s first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, has however not yet completed its final trials.Some scientists fear Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety.“Normally you need a large number of people to be tested before you approve a vaccine,” said Peter Kremsner from the University Hospital in Tuebingen, Germany, currently testing CureVac’s Covid-19 vaccine in clinical trials.“In that respect, I think it’s reckless to do that (approve it) if lots of people haven’t already been tested.”Top US infectious disease official Dr Anthony Fauci said he had not heard any evidence that the vaccine was ready for widespread use.“I hope that the Russians have actually definitively proven that the vaccine is safe and effective. I seriously doubt that they’ve done that,” Fauci said.The Russian business conglomerate Sistema has said it expects to put the vaccine, developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, into mass production by the end of the year.Government officials have said it will be administered to medical personnel, and then to teachers, on a voluntary basis at the end of this month or in early September. Mass roll-out in Russia is expected to start in October. The vaccine is administered in two doses and consists of two serotypes of a human adenovirus, each carrying an S-antigen of the new coronavirus, which enter human cells and produce an immune response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-assess-if-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-is-safe-and-effective-aiims-director/story-emtGbLHgYl2YvZnnrQwXRM.html
12-08-2020||India||Curtains down on 26-year-old Isro spy case, scientist Nambi Narayanan gets additional compensation from Kerala govt||The Kerala government on Tuesday handed over an additional compensation of Rs 1.30 crore to former scientist of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) Nambi Narayanan to settle the two-and-half-decade-old spy case in which he was implicated by the state police. A case was filed by Narayanan (79) in the sessions court in Thiruvananthapuram after the Supreme Court in 2018 ordered that his arrest in the case was “unnecessary and he was implicated” and granted him an interim relief of Rs 50 lakh. The court had also observed that Narayanan deserved more and he could approach a lower court for proper compensation. Earlier, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had also ordered a relief Rs 10 lakh to him. After the Supreme Court’s order, the Kerala government had asked former chief secretary K Jayakumar to look into the matter and fix an exact compensation amount and arrive at a settlement. Later, his suggestions were submitted before the court and a settlement was clinched. “I am happy. It is not for money alone I fought. My fight was against injustice,” Narayanan said after accepting the cheque. The Isro spy case relates to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents and secrets of the county’s cryogenic engine technology to enemy countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women.The case had generated enough heat. Many books were written over the sensational case and a Bollywood director had even made a biopic on Narayanan who had to pay a heavy price along with former chief minister K Karunakaran. Its release was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Narayanan was conferred the Padma Bhushan last year. The case surfaced in 1994 and Karunakaran was forced to quit after a section of his party led by A K Antony and Oommen Chandy revolted against him after the then police chief’s name (Ramon Srivastav) also cropped up in the case. It was alleged that two senior scientists of Isro - Nambi Narayanan and D Sasikumaran - had sold space secrets for money and sexual favours. Two Maldivian women were also arrested in connection with the case. Srivastav was then Inspector General of Police. However, in 1998, the Supreme Court had quashed the case after accepting the CBI inquiry report that it was cooked up. When the espionage case was unearthed, Narayanan was in-charge of the cryogenic division. He was the first to introduce liquid fuel rocket technology. The country’s space technology had to suffer badly due to the espionage case, he said in one of the interviews pointing to a larger conspiracy in the case. “Hated by all I thought of committing suicide on several occasions. But I never wanted to die as a traitor. I lived all these years only to tell this,” Naryanana had told the Hindustan Times in one of the earlier interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curtains-down-on-26-year-old-isro-spy-case-scientist-nambi-narayanan-gets-additional-compensation-from-kerala-govt/story-Itklhcse1VgPLPyCWbIalM.html
12-08-2020||India||Is economy recovering with easing of lockdown or sinking?||We will (hopefully) have GDP statistics for the April-June quarter by the end of this month. There is complete unanimity that the June quarter will see an economic contraction vis-a-vis last year. India was under a strict lockdown for most of this period (two of the three months, with lockdowns continuing for longer in some parts of the country). The real question is what has happened to economic activity from July onwards. Is it recovering with the easing of lockdown restrictions? Has it plateaued with cases still rising and the imposition of intermittent lockdowns? Or has it become worse? There is also the question of whether the recovery is merely sequential – current month over previous month – or strong enough to prevent an annual contraction from the second quarter onwards. Most high frequency indicators suggest a sequential recovery until June, with a flattening in July. The latest Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS) of the Reserve Bank of India —it was conducted in the first half of July — paints a poor picture. It shows that people believe that the economic situation was much worse in July than in May when compared to year-ago levels. This suggests that India’s GDP might remain in contraction mode in the September quarter, something RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee has hinted at and which, a recent Reuters poll of economists seconded. The CCS also suggests that some key high frequency indictors might not be capturing the actual magnitude of distress. The net current perception — difference between share of respondents who believe the situation has improved and deteriorated -- on general economic situation, compared to a year ago, reached its lowest level in the July CCS. To give an idea about the extent of fall, these numbers were -60 and -65.9 in the May and July rounds of the CCS. The previous low was -36.9 in September 2013. A comparison of current perception on general economic situation in the CCS along with quarterly GDP figures shows that they have pretty much moved in tandem. This suggests that there is a high probability that the unprecedented collapse in May and July CCS might reflect in GDP numbers as well. The CCS also records response on the employment situation. Here also, the current perception compared to a year ago has collapsed. Interestingly, the CCS response on employment does not seem to be in sync with the only monthly indicator of unemployment rates available in India, which are collected by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).While CMIE’s unemployment rate data showed a spike in May 2020, when the country was under an almost complete lockdown, it has come back to pre-lockdown levels in July. Because the CCS is conducted in 13 cities in India, we have compared urban unemployment from the CMIE. To be sure, CMIE’s employment indicators are far from sacrosanct and show divergence with the figures published by the Periodic Labour Force Surveys (PLFS), which are India’s official source of employment data. The differences between CMIE and PLFS employment indicators were discussed in detail in a Mint story by Sriharsha Devulapalli and Pramit Bhattacharya. Also, the divergence between CMIE unemployment rates and CCS perception on employment existed even before the pandemic. Does the CCS not capture the reality of the labour market? A research note published on 10 July, for the same period when the latest round of CCS was conducted, by Pranjul Bhandari, chief economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets Private Limited, offers a clue. It says that while unemployment rates might come back to normal, “wage outlook could be dimmer than in the pre-pandemic world”. Bhandari lists three reasons for this: more jobs being generated in the rural areas where wages are lower, a second-round-pandemic-led global weakness in labour markets due to job losses in the first round; and expectations of lower economic growth, an important driver of wages.A squeeze in wages, even if it comes with an unchanged unemployment rate, will have a contractionary effect on purchasing power, aggregate demand and, therefore, growth. Anecdotal evidence suggests that a large number of workers might have suffered a fall in incomes even though they have not lost their jobs. A Mint story on 11 August pointed out that equity mutual funds have seen a fall in contribution from systematic investment plans, which suggests a corresponding decline in disposable incomes. While it is important to track sequential recovery in the economy, it is crucial to not lose sight of the challenge of coming out of the annual contraction zone as soon as possible. Restoring consumer confidence, which is key to demand, is a prerequisite to achieving this. The latest CCS findings suggest that it will take more than a sequential recovery to boost consumer confidence -- and growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-economy-recovering-with-easing-of-lockdown-or-sinking/story-Ga5sxkcRZyyVpbsYRI5nwI.html
12-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: Has 3rd curve flattening begun?||A much-needed third flattening of the global case curve of Covid-19 appears to have begun, largely due to a recent plateau in daily cases in the US and Brazil – two nations worst hit by the virus. In the last two weeks, with new cases in the US and Brazil hitting a plateau, the third (and most severe) wave of infections has started exhibiting signs that it may be relenting, shows data. India, which is currently reporting the highest number of daily infections in the world, is one of two countries among the world’s 10 worst hit where cases are still continuously rising.  The three nations with the highest number of cases – US (5,251,446 cases as on Tuesday morning), Brazil (3,057,470) and India (2,263,864) – together account for 52.2% of all cases in the world. In the first 10 days of August, 60.3% of all cases have come from these three nations, which also explains why a plateau in two of these has influenced the global trajectory.Among the 10 countries that have reported the highest number of case in the world, daily cases are still continuously rising in only two – India and Colombia. Other than the US and Brazil, daily cases also appear hitting a plateau in Mexico (7th spot, 480,278 cases). Russia (4th, 892,654 cases), South Africa (5th, 563,598 cases) and Chile (9th, 375,044 cases) . The remaining two – Spain (10th, 370,060 cases) and Peru (7th, 483,133 cases) – managed to control outbreaks once, but are now seeing a resurgence of cases. All caseloads are from the worldometers.info dashboard. To be sure, the global Covid-19 curve has flattened twice before — first, when the Chinese outbreak peaked and the contagion was yet to reach the West; the second, when cases dropped in Europe — however, it has risen again with more ferocity both times as the virus has spread to new regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-3rd-curve-flattening-begun/story-WSTrirfCGSQ5eCmKIqK5XO.html
12-08-2020||India||SC orders disposal of Kafeel Khan plea in 15 days||Liberty of individual was prioritised by the Supreme Court (SC) even in times when functioning of the court was constrained due to Covid-19, Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde said on Tuesday while hearing a plea relating to the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was hearing a plea filed by Khan’s mother Nuzhat Perween seeking time-bound hearing by Allahabad high court (HC) of a petition seeking Khan’s release. “Liberty is something which we have prioritised even during hard times,” CJI Bobde remarked.Khan was detained under the National Security Act for speeches made in December 2019 at Aligarh Muslim University during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Perween initially approached the SC seeking his release but the top court, on March 18, asked her to move the high court first. The hearing before the HC was delayed, prompting Perween to move the apex court. “We request the HC to dispose of the matter peremptorily as early as possible, having regard to the fact that it involves the liberty of the applicant, within a period of fifteen days from the date the parties appear before it,” the SC ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-disposal-of-kafeel-khan-plea-in-15-days/story-CeY4GTKHW5eiup5E5oe1zI.html
12-08-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu completes 3 years as Vice President||Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah completed three years in office amid Covid-related uncertainties but also amid signals of an improved performance in the Upper House of Parliament, which he dubbed as “winds of change”. Naidu cited in-House research and data analysis to show that the productivity of the Rajya Sabha has been declining over the last 25 years and the House could use 100% of its allotted time only once in 1999 during the last 20 years. But in 2019, the average productivity climbed at 78.42% during 2019, the highest usage of time since 2010. Naidu said that after he began his innings, the productivity in the three sessions before the 2019 general election stood at 28.90%, 27.3% and just 6.8%. After the polls, the last three sessions saw 104%, 99% and 76% productivity. Of the 93 bills passed by Rajya Sabha during his tenure, 60 were passed during the last three sessions. He said, “Despite the given composition of the House and stated positions of different parties, Rajya Sabha has passed some major bills like the Triple Talaq Bill, the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill and the J&K Reorganisation Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-completes-3-years-as-vice-president/story-yEjSadlZCDzguWXthiYeZM.html
12-08-2020||India||Panel to meet today to discuss vaccine protocols||The National Expert Group on vaccine administration will meet on Wednesday to decide on logistics, procurement and administration of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, as and when it is ready. Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, heads the panel.“The terms of reference of this expert committee are to streamline suitable vaccine selection, how procurement of vaccine will be done, how the vaccine would be delivered and prioritising groups to whom vaccine has to be administered,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, on Tuesday. “The committee will also consider other issues related to logistics of the vaccine like cold chain, inventory, how to arrange resources to procure vaccine and how to address the equity issues linked to vaccination,” he said.The committee is likely to engage with all stakeholders, including state governments and vaccine manufacturers, on the issue in Wednesday’s meeting.Among the 24 vaccine candidates currently under various stages of clinical trials, three are at advances stages of phase three trials in the US, UK and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-meet-today-to-discuss-vaccine-protocols/story-q8FSXcVJps12UDpEeDiXqN.html
12-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India needs a new testing protocol. Actually, any country that is continuing to see a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections needs one. Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, and one of the clearest thinkers when it comes to issues related to health, recognises this. In recent interviews, he has been harshly critical of the testing process in the US, going so far as to term it worthless. Gates’s issues are with access and delays. Some people in the US are waiting a week up to 10 days for their results. That doesn’t help. Not everyone who gets tested is in quarantine or self-isolation, which means an early result can sequester them and prevent them from infecting more people (that’s how the chain of infection is broken).The problem is that the best tests for Covid-19, the molecular ones such as the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, take at least 48 hours to show results. Add delays caused by logistics and backlogs, and the average time in which results for such tests come out is between three and four days. That’s the number cited by public health officials across most states in India (and at least in states where complete or partial lockdowns are still on, there is some amount of enforced quarantining and social distancing), although there have been reports of delays from some states. The fact is, India has increased its testing game and can conduct at least 500,000 RT-PCR tests a day now, up from a few thousands.But more are needed, and, sometimes, time is of the essence – which brings us to rapid antigen tests, which now account for around a fourth (and on some days a bit more) of tests being conducted in India.This column has previously focused on antigen tests, and when they are best used. Simply put (and there is no change in this writer’s position), antigen tests are best used when time, not capacity, is a constraint. The only way to deal with a capacity constraint is to acquire more capacity. So, if Covid-19 cases in a hot spot or containment zone are peaking, and there is an urgent need to test a large number of people in a short period of time, and isolate or treat the infected so as to prevent further infections, an antigen test may be the best fit. Or, if, as in the US, tests are taking a week to 10 days, then an antigen test may serve the purpose. The results of these tests are usually available onsite, and within the hour. This could explain why there is a sudden clamour for antigen tests in the US (and it is clear that its use wouldn’t be out of place in some states or some counties where cases are soaring; parts of California, for instance, seem ideal candidates for such tests). That applies to India too – antigen tests would definitely help in parts of the hinterland and the peninsula that are seeing a surge in cases.But (and it’s a big one), there is a problem with antigen tests, one that, again, has been mentioned in earlier instalments of this column – the high false negative rate. This means that an infected person is identified as uninfected. According to multiple research studies, the proportion of false negatives ranges between 20% and 50%. Which means that at least one in five people, and as many as one in two, is erroneously identified as uninfected despite carrying the virus. The main reason (it isn’t the only one) for this error would appear to be the inability of antigen tests to amplify the viral protein (in contrast, RT-PCR ones have the ability to identify even traces of the virus on the basis of their genetic material, which is what makes them accurate). So, what’s the solution?Interestingly, one part of the solution is already part of the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, or ICMR, as part of its antigen testing protocol – that those with symptoms of Covid-19 or SARI (severe acute respiratory infections) who are shown to be negative in an antigen test, be administered the RT-PCR test.Another would be to take multiple samples (two should suffice) from anyone appearing for an antigen test, and testing them, ideally using two different antigen tests (each one is different), or, if unavoidable, even the same one but separately. If there is a discrepancy between the two test results, then the person should be asked to undergo the RT-PCR test.With more Indian states using antigen tests (in addition to RT-PCR ones, and not always when they should be using them), ICMR should issue a new testing protocol that mandates: when antigen tests can be used; how antigen tests should be conducted (two simultaneous ones as described above); and the follow-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8Rb4gp04nDQBkvhOKTvnhO.html
12-08-2020||India||4G to return in J&K after Aug 15 on trial basis: Centre to SC||Restrictions on 4G mobile internet will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of India’s youngest Union Territory (UT) after August 15 on a trial basis, the central government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday, stopping short of a blanket removal of restrictions across the region because of security concerns.The decision was arrived at on the recommendations made by a special committee constituted on the top court’s May 11 directive to the Centre to review restrictions on high-speed mobile internet in J&K, the government’s senior-most law officer, attorney general KK Venugopal, informed a three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana.“Access to high speed internet could be provided on a trial basis in a calibrated manner in specified limited areas to assess the impact on the security scenario; the area should have low intensity of terrorist activities. The relaxation from 2G to 4G should be limited for the present to one district each in the Jammu division and Kashmir division,” Venugopal said, reading out the committee’s recommendations.The relaxation will be reviewed by state authorities every seven days and by central authorities after two months, Venugopal added, maintaining that total relaxation of such restrictions in the entire UT will not be possible due to continuing security concerns.“Any opening on a trial basis should not be in any area adjoining the International Border/Line of Control. Keeping in view the heightened threat perception, these relaxations would come into effect after August 15, 2020.” The Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed in June by the Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J&K administration for failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speeds in the Union Territory, where people are only able to access 2G services.The top court appreciated the stand taken by the Centre and closed the contempt case on Tuesday based on Venugopal’s submission.“This is a good stand by the respondent,” justice R Subhash Reddy, who was on the bench, remarked.“This is a step forward,” the petitioner’s counsel, Huzefa Ahmadi, acknowledged.However, the court asked the Centre to respond to an interim application by the petitioner which pointed out that the government was not publishing in the public domain copies of the orders reviewing internet restrictions. Under a Supreme Court ruling on January 10, orders by government authorities imposing restrictions on the internet have to be put out in the public domain.The Centre has to file its response within two weeks after which the court will pronounce its order.“While it is a welcome step that the restrictions are sought to be eased soon, the continuing lack of clarity on the material before the review committee constituted under Telecom Services Suspension Rules and the special review committee set up by the Supreme Court on May 11, particularly on whether such material is fresh or stale, is troubling. Subjecting fundamental rights of the people of an entire region to a process of trial and error is, for want of a better expression – interesting,” said Supreme Court advocate Prasanna S.When the contempt case was last heard on August 7, the apex court asked the Centre to explore the possibility of restoring 4G mobile internet services in the Valley in view of statements made by former lieutenant governor (L-G) of J&K GC Murmu advocating such a move.“L-G Murmu has said that there is no difficulty in restoring 4G. You have to give an explanation to that,” justice R Subhash Reddy told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Jammu & Kashmir administration, last Friday.Murmu, who was succeeded by Manoj Sinha as the lieutenant governor on August 7, said on July 24 that the restoration of 4G services would not be a problem and Pakistan will continue with its propaganda even if the mobile internet speed is restricted to 2G. The centre submitted, on Tuesday, that the special committee took inputs from security forces and local agencies before concluding on August 10 that threat perception due to terrorist activities in the Union Territory continues to be high.“The committee was of the considered view that given the current security scenario, both in Jammu and Kashmir and in surrounding areas, the overall situation is still not conducive to lifting the limited restrictions on high speed internet through mobile devices whilst allowing broadband and 2G across the board,” Venugopal said.The committee, comprising the secretary of ministry of home affairs, secretary of ministry of communications and the chief secretary of J&K, was constituted based on Supreme Court’s May 11 order. That order was passed in an earlier plea filed in April by the same NGO, pointing out that lack of 4G services in the UT was causing difficulties to medical and health professionals and the general population in accessing the latest government advisories and other information during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Restrictions on internet services were first introduced in August 2019 when J&K was placed under lockdown after the scrapping of the contentious Article 370 that conferred special status on it, and its bifurcation into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-to-return-in-j-k-after-aug-15-on-trial-basis-centre-to-sc/story-vPnEJFQzKoScbmScCdymKP.html
12-08-2020||India||Hindu daughter has equal right in property, says SC||The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, gave Hindu daughters their rightful due of their father’s property by extending the scope of a beneficial legislation introduced in 2005 to cases where the father was not alive on the date when the law was introduced. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra ruled that the 2005 law, which amended the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, to say a daughter would have the same rights as the son, would also apply irrespective of whether she was born before or after the amendment. Further, it ruled that she could not be denied her share on the ground that her father died before the law came into effect.Tuesday’s ruling makes the 2005 amendment retrospective. “The provisions contained in substituted section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act confer status of coparcener (equal shareholders while inheriting properties) on the daughter born before or after amendment in the same manner as son with same rights and liabilities. Since the right in coparcenary is by birth, it is not necessary that father coparcener should be living as on September 9, 2005 (the date when the law came into force),” the bench, which also comprised justices S Abdul Nazeer and MR Shah, ruled.To ensure that this decision does not lead to reopening of earlier family settlements or partition suits already decided on, the three-judge bench held that a registered settlement or partition suit decreed prior to December 20, 2004 (the date when the amendment Bill was tabled in Rajya Sabha), will not be reopened.The bench said: “Daughters cannot be deprived of their right of equality conferred upon them by Section 6 of the Amendment Act.” The court fixed six months as an outer limit for courts where related suits are pending to pronounce the final decree. The Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act of 2005 made daughters coparceners in Hindu undivided family by birth, giving them the same right as sons. Section 6(1)(a) in the Act said that coparcenary benefit will apply “on and from the commencement of the Amendment Act of 2005 with effect from September 9, 2005.” Many daughters approached high courts claiming benefit under this law but were denied on the ground that their fathers were not alive as on September 9, 2005. This interpretation became the law of the land in 2016 when the Supreme Court held in the Prakash v Phulwati case that father must be alive for daughters to claim succession rights. Overruling this decision, a three-judge bench of the apex court on Tuesday said, “Since the right in coparcenary is by birth, it is not necessary that father coparcener should be living as on September 9, 2005.” It further made the law applicable to even daughters born prior to the commencement of the Act. By stating so, the Court upheld a 2018 ruling of the apex court in Danamma v Amar which extended benefit to a daughter whose father expired prior to 2005. Speaking to HT, senior advocate R Venkatramani, who assisted the court as amicus curiae in this matter, said, “This judgment has put the law on a proper footing . But what happens in those cases where the son of the coparcener father has alienated or sold or transferred the rights in the property long time ago. He cannot be asked to pay to his sister the share in that property. To avoid chaos, there cannot be reopening of an old partition deed or settlement.” The central government opposed the idea of giving retrospective operation to the 2005 law since a coparcener in Hindu family law has a right to seek partition. For this reason, the law fixed a cut-off date of December 20, 2004, to avoid reopening of any settlement or partition decree prior to this date. The court accepted the December 20, 2004, date as cut-off but emphasised that if a daughter seeks partition or a share, the same cannot be denied on the basis of an oral family settlement but on a final decree of a court or a registered family settlement. If oral settlement is to be presented, the bench held, it has to be supported “ by public documents.” Advocate Sridhar Potaraju, one of the lawyers who argued in this case said: “The judgment is a reassertion of the constitutional value of equality to women in personal law without any preconditions. The judgment factors all aspects.” But there is a flip side too, he added. “Daughters as coparceners include married daughters. Coparcenary right is an undefined liability and any liability of father including family debt will be extended to daughters as well. It remains to be seen if the husband of the married daughter will be open to bear this burden.” Prior to the 2005 Act, several states, including Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, and Maharashtra, introduced state amendments in the Hindu Succession Act of 1956 extending equal rights to daughters in Hindu Mitakshara coparcenary property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-daughter-has-equal-right-in-property-says-sc/story-bn6Ho4gMpXD9O6kN30M4PI.html
12-08-2020||India||PM Modi pitches NCR model for 10 hardest hit states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi cited on Tuesday the Covid-19 response in the National Capital Region (NCR), including Delhi, to urge the chief ministers of the 10 hardest-hit states to focus on three particular areas that he said would help track, contain and mitigate the outbreak – strategies that he said are crucial to defeat the virus across the country. The meeting was attended by chief ministers of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu – some of the most populous states of the country – and four others that together account for 80% of the active Covid cases and 82% of fatalities due to the viral disease.“If we defeat the coronavirus in these states, India will win the battle against the virus,” Modi said, according to a transcript of his remarks at the meeting, where he also praised the efforts by authorities and health workers across the country. According to health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the PM said the states must focus on containment and surveillance, tracking and testing of close contacts of any infected person within 72 hours, and ramping up testing further to bring down the test positivity rate. “We have seen that increasing testing helps us identify and contain the spread... And once we increase testing even further, we will see that the goal of bringing the fatality rate below 1% will be achievable,” Modi said, according to the government release, after noting that daily tests have now risen above the 700,000 level.Bhushan, who held a press briefing separately, said the PM particularly urged Bihar, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Telangana to ramp up testing. Bihar, at 9,180 tests per million, has the lowest testing rate in the country, HT’s dashboard of Covid-19 statistics showed. The per million testing in Gujarat was 14,973, UP 14,266, West Bengal 11,683 and Telangana 16,788 -- all under the national average of 18,968 tests per million.“The health ministry believes that even if a state is carrying out tests above the recommended per million population threshold but the positivity rate is high, they must increase tests even further to bring the proportion down to under 5% or 10%,” Bhushan said. As on Tuesday, India has at least 2.32 million confirmed coronavirus infections, the third highest number of cases after the United States and Brazil. On an average over the past week, there have been at least 58,000 cases every day in India -- the highest in the world -- and emerging hot spots in the five aforementioned states are turning into a particular worry.The health ministry official, however, said new recovery and mortality figures suggest that the situation has largely improved in the country. “We have in recent days carried out a record number of tests and our case fatality rate has come down below 2% for the first time,” Bhushan said. Delhi, which is among the few regions to have crossed its peak of the outbreak, reported a test positivity rate of 6.5% on Tuesday. At its peak, the figure was 35% on June 11 in the national capital.According to the government release, the Prime Minister recounted the experience of the Union home minister in preparing a response roadmap along with the governments of Delhi and other NCR region states, which showed that containment strategies such as segregation of containment zones and improved screening of people in high risk category were the best way to combat the disease. “The results of these steps are there for all to see... steps like better management in hospitals and increasing ICU beds also proved very helpful,” the release cited the PM as saying.“We understand the disease better and what works and what doesn’t work in terms of Covid-19 treatment. Earlier we were losing patients because there were not many options. Like today we know steroids work very well in saving lives. Better knowledge has led to more lives being saved in hospitals,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, medicine department, Moolchand Hospital.Some of the chief ministers who attended the meeting also raised concerns that they said were hampering the response against the virus. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said her state was yet to receive over ₹57,000 crore in financial dues from the Union government. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray urged the Union government to rethink an issue connected with education, reiterating the state’s demand to declare students in final year of college to be deemed as automatically graduated on the basis of their past performance. The higher education regulator University Grants Commission is against any such move, which has also been announced by states such as Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Delhi. The matter is currently before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-pitches-ncr-model-for-10-hardest-hit-states/story-7LmsWM7kN8Wp365mhoiguL.html
12-08-2020||India||Centre focusses on tracking, testing asymptomatic cases||The Centre has asked states to use real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) method to test asymptomatic people who develop Covid-19 symptoms after testing negative following rapid antigen testing. The moderate-to-low sensitivity of antigen tests has raised concerns of large number false negatives cases being detected. “We are fully seized of the problem [of the higher number of negatives] and which is why we have directed states to mandatorily repeat rRT-PCR testing for confirmation. It was not the states complaining rather a health ministry proactively directing the states to focus on this issue,” said Union health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan.“We have directed states to not just mandatorily conduct rRT-PCR tests of all symptomatic negatives of rapid antigen tests to confirm Covid-19 but also monitor asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people for a few days and test them also using rRT-PCR if they turn symptomatic. If both these categories are covered, then we will be able to capture most of the Covid-19 cases who would have otherwise been missed.”Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved antigen-based testing for Covid-19 diagnosis in India on June 14. The move has helped in ramping up testing as part of the government’s test, track, and treat strategy to control the spread of the infection. An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body in the form of the production of antibodies against the disease. Detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines infection.According to ICMR, antigen-based testing accounts for about 25-30% of all tests being performed in the country.Dr Ekta Gupta, a senior virologist at Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said a testing kit’s performance is purely dependent on its ability to accurately detect true positives and true negatives, which is called the sensitivity and specificity, wherein higher sensitivity means more accurate results.“Antigen tests, because of their moderate sensitivity, are good at detecting positives accurately and for negative results one should repeat the test using rRT-PCR testing method that is considered to be the gold standard in diagnosing a current infection.”An ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified, said their guidelines clearly mention that all symptomatic cases, whose rapid antigen test results are negative, should undergo a confirmatory rRT-PCR test. “ICMR has drafted comprehensive testing guidelines and to get accurate results, it is important to comply with the guidelines... The guidelines need to be uniformly followed.”Dr CS Bedi, medical advisor, SD Biosensor, the first company whose antigen-based test kit was approved, said: “The results also depend on where the swab is collected; it should be nasopharyngeal swab and not just nasal swab. Many technicians have had been taking nasal swabs as they are used to RT-PCR way of sample collection that affected the result. If there is no virus in the sample, it will test negative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-focusses-on-tracking-testing-asymptomatic-cases/story-MJ4L34OcJ6rhZsIYVIXqsO.html
12-08-2020||India||‘Krishna was born in jail today, you want bail?’: CJI to convict||The hearing of a bail plea before the Supreme Court on Tuesday witnessed some lighter moments with the Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, citing that the petitioner was seeking permission to leave jail on the day of Sri Krishna Janmashtami, the day Lord Krishna was believed to have been born inside a jail.The court was hearing a plea by one Dharmendra Valvi, who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for murder.“You want bail or jail? Today Lord Krishna was born in jail. Do you want to leave jail?” CJI Bobde asked the petitioner’s counsel in jest. The counsel replied in the affirmative. “Good. Religion is not something you are extremely attached to,” the CJI remarked before granting bail.Sri Krishna Janmashtami is an annual Hindu festival celebrating the birth of Lord Krishna, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. Krishna is believed to have been born in a prison cell in Mathura where his parents, Devaki and Vasudeva, were imprisoned by his uncle Kansa.Dharmendra Valvi, a Congress I party member, and five other party workers, were accused of murdering a political opponent from the BJP in 1994. They were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court and the same was upheld by the Bombay high court in September 2017.The appeal against the high court verdict is pending before the Supreme Court.“During the pendency of the main appeal, the appellant, Dharmendra Valvi is directed to be released on bail on furnishing bail bonds in the sum of Rs 25,000 with two sureties of the like amount,” the top court ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krishna-was-born-in-jail-today-you-want-bail-cji-to-convict/story-ReY1DcqD74B3PipyEhIsxL.html
12-08-2020||India||Northwest India warned of intense rainfall from August 12 to 15||Northwest India’s monsoon deficiency, as of Tuesday, was 22% and Delhi’s, 34% , but that could change with the India Meteorological Department issued an intense rain warning for the region between August 12 and 15. “The monsoon trough is likely to be active and meander around its normal position during the next 4-5 days. Convergence of strong southerly-south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea over northwest and adjoining central India is very likely during next 3-4 days,” IMD said in a statement.A monsoon trough is a region of low pressure, passing from northwest India (Rajasthan) to the Bay of Bengal. When the trough is in its normal position, it passes from Ganganagar in Rajasthan , through parts of Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal to the Bay of Bengal. “The monsoon trough is at its normal position. A low-pressure area is also forming over Bay of Bengal. The combination of two can bring intense rains. Rains have been variable in the last two to three days but now we are expecting more widespread rains,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.A fresh low-pressure area is also likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal around August 13. Due to these favourable conditions, heavy to very heavy rain is likely over major parts of northwest India (Western Himalayan region, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh) during next 2-3 days, according to IMD’s Tuesday bulletin.Very heavy rain is also very likely over Gujarat, East Rajasthan and parts of central India during August 11 to 15. Extremely heavy rain is also likely in some parts of Gujarat and east Rajasthan, over northern parts of Konkan and Goa, during August 14 to 15. Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is likely over Bihar, east Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours.IMD has issued an orange category warning for Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east and west Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, east and west Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh for August 12. An orange category warning implies that disaster management authorities should prepare for any rain or flooding related disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nw-india-warned-of-intense-rainfall-from-aug-12-to-15/story-7JNiPW4kZUxlJG4xHnQjPP.html
12-08-2020||India||I-T dept raids Chinese firms for money laundering, hawala||The Income Tax department on Tuesday raided certain Chinese individuals and Indian professionals allegedly involved in money laundering and hawala transactions, officials said. The I-T department said it found that more than 40 bank accounts were created in India, which were linked to several shell companies, in which transactions worth Rs 1,000 crore were done over a period of time. Officials familiar with the probe said the main suspect was identified as an individual identified as Charlie Peng, a Chinese national living on a fake Indian passport in Manipur for the past six years. Around half a dozen more of his associates, who were helping him in money laundering and hawala transactions, were also identified. People in the IT department and finance ministry, familiar with the raids, said Peng was taking the help of some Indian chartered accountants and bank officials for alleged illegal financial transactions through shell companies and was also using the hawala route. A subsidiary of a Chinese company was identified and its role is being investigated, the officials added. Peng’s Chinese name was identified as Luo Sang. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to be roped in for money laundering investigations and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) may be asked to probe if a larger nexus is suspected. “Based on credible information that few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through series of shell entities, a search action was mounted at various premises of these Chinese entities, their close confederates and couple of bank employees,” a Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) statement said.  “A subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over ~100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India,”the statement said. “Incriminating documents in respect of hawala transactions and laundering of money with active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants has been found as a result of search action,” it added. The department refused to divulge the name of other Chinese individuals or companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-raids-chinese-firms-for-money-laundering-hawala/story-HpWeCM9F3jus0jrVhAwJhP.html
12-08-2020||India||Suspension of net services on House IT panel’s radar||The parliamentary panel on information technology (IT) on Tuesday asked the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to develop a framework for reviewing suspension of internet services in a region, including the time within which this will be done. The panel’s observations came in the backdrop of a high-speed internet shutdown that has been in place in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir for over a year now, and on the day the Centre said that it would lift restrictions on high-speed 4G mobile internet services in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions after August 15 on a trial basis.The comments also come against the background of an increase in the number of Internet shutdowns in the country -- usually for law and order, or security considerations. According to the Software Freedom Law Centre, 385 Internet shutdowns were recorded between January 2012 and March 15, 2020; 237 were observed to be preventive -- restrictions were imposed in anticipation of law and order problems and 148 were reactive and imposed to contain ongoing breakdowns. Of these, nearly 100 incidents were recorded in 2019. Most shutdowns were localised, extending to a district or a few districts, and, in the rare case, a state or union territory.  The decision to restrict access to Internet in J&K came in August last year after the Centre decided to strip the erstwhile state of its special status and divide it into two Union territories.The central government has cited national security grounds for blocking high-speed 4G Internet services in the region. The Centre filed an affidavit before the Supreme Court on July 21, saying a special panel constituted as per the latter’s May 11 order has decided against any relaxations for now. It added the panel constituted for the review on June 10 considered all aspects of the matter, including terror strikes, before deciding to continue the restrictions on 4G services.According to members of Parliament who participated in the meeting, the issue was discussed at length, including Supreme Court proceedings wherein the Centre said Internet services would be “gradually restored “in J&K after August 15 . Congress leader and chairperson of the IT panel, Shashi Tharoor, tweeted that the meeting lasted for over an hour. “The internet shutdown in Jammu and Kashmir was on the agenda,” said a member of Parliament (MP) present at the meeting. “It wasn’t a topic that was raised separately.” A second MP present at the meeting asked: “How can one pick and choose which areas one can provide internet to?”According to a third MP, the issue of whether DoT has the powers to do this was also discussed. Law and order, it was pointed out, was a state subject. All three MPs spoke on condition of anonymityThe Centre has also set up a committee under the home secretary to constantly review the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir as it mulls restoring 4G telecom services on a “trial basis.” Those present at the meeting said that Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra and Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil both stressed the need for the government to follow the Supreme Court’s directives and implement the changes. “Even the SC has said that provisions imply that the ban can only be ‘temporary’, then how can it last this long,” said the second MP. Gohil declined to comment because the proceedings of the Parliamentary panel are supposed to be confidential. Hindustan Times reached out to Moitra, but she hadn’t responded before press time.The first MP said that a BJP MP also raised the point that Jammu and Kashmir did not get access to mobile services till 2003, despite the services being launched in 1995 in the rest of the country. “But we are talking about the present situation, the situation is different, the debates are different, our understanding of human rights has changed.” The panel also discussed the setting up of 5G networks across the country, the latest technology project to be taken up by DoT. The MPs also discussed India’s capability to produce the equipment locally. “Atmanirbhar Bharat {Self-Reliant India} does not mean just assembling products in India,” said the first MP. “We have to move towards producing all the components in India as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-net-services-on-house-it-panel-s-radar/story-HNAYj5NkZ9aXP35atTbkWM.html
12-08-2020||India||SC reserves verdict in Rhea Chakraborty’s transfer plea||Mumbai Police is not investigating the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and no FIR has been registered by them, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Bihar government told the Supreme Court on Friday, even as Maharashtra government and actor Rhea Chakraborty maintained that Bihar has “absolutely no jurisdiction” to interfere with the case which, they said, was being used by Bihar government to garner political mileage. The arguments and counter arguments were made before a single-judge bench of justice Hrishikesh Roy, who is hearing the transfer petition filed by Chakraborty seeking transfer from Patna to Mumbai of the case registered against her in connection with Rajput’s death.“FIR was registered by Bihar Police based on an incident which has no connection with Patna. I have apprehension of bias and fear that state interference led to Bihar police registering case. Patna police has absolutely no jurisdiction to register a case. This case is being used for political gains,” senior counsel Shyam Divan submitted on behalf of Chakraborty.Divan also took exception to the media sensationalising the case, stating: “Parallel media trial is happening which is highly undesirable. Having regard to the political impact, case should be transferred to Maharashtra.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for CBI, submitted that the exercise being undertaken by the Mumbai Police cannot be termed as “investigation” under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).“Mumbai police has registered an accidental death report under Section 174 of CrPC. Investigation as per CrPC was going on in Bihar and there is no such Investigation in Mumbai,” he said.Section 174 of CrPC confers powers on police to enquire into suicide deaths and submit a report of the same to the District Magistrate. Mehta contended that it will not amount to an “investigation”, which can happen only under Section 156 of CrPC, which empowers police to probe into offences.“Investigation cannot be done under Section 174 CrPC. It can happen under Section 156 of CrPC, an FIR has to be registered under section 154 of CrPC,” Mehta said, advocating a CBI probe into the death.The Bihar government, through senior counsel Maninder Singh, echoed the same view, stating that only Bihar has registered an FIR in the case. “There is a complete lapse of investigation on part of Mumbai police. Bihar’s FIR is the only FIR in the matter. Allegation is against political class in Maharashtra which has stopped even registering of FIR,” Singh submitted.Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Maharashtra government, opposed this. Allowing Bihar Police to probe an incident which happened in Mumbai will be against the principles of federalism since law-and-order falls within the domain of a state where the cause of action arose, he said.“Murder of the CrPc is being attempted in this case where jurisdiction is a casualty. If this is allowed, it will be a fundamental assault on federalism. I have not seen so much sensationalism attached to a transfer petition. And in that, truth and law have become casualties,” Singhvi argued.The court reserved its verdict after a hearing which lasted for nearly two-and-a-half hours.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. The Mumbai Police found the cause of death as “asphyxia due to hanging”, and filed an accidental death report (ADR) but is yet to register an FIR in relation to the incident.Chakraborty, who lived with Rajput for a year till she shifted to her house on June 8, was also questioned by Mumbai Police.The investigation by Mumbai Police was ongoing when Rajput’s father, KK Singh, filed a police complaint at Rajeev Nagar police station in Patna on July 25 against Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide. His father also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s bank account and mentally harassed him. Patna police registered an FIR on July 25 based on Singh’s complaint for offences relating to abetment of suicide, cheating and criminal intimidation.Chakraborty moved the top court on July 29, challenging the jurisdiction of the Bihar Police in the matter, saying that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai.Meanwhile, CBI took over the probe on August 5 based on a request by Bihar Police.Senior counsel Vikas Singh, representing Rajput’s father, raised suspicions about the manner in which Rajput was found dead.“No one has seen my son hanging. When my daughter reached Rajput was lying on the bed. The mark on his neck it is a belt mark not a rope! If he was murdered it needs to be investigated,” Vikas Singh argued on Tuesday.He maintained that Bihar Police has jurisdiction to probe the matter alleging that Mumbai Police was not investigating the case.“I am from Patna and without my son I have no one to light my funeral pyre. This itself shows that Patna has jurisdiction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-verdict-in-rhea-chakraborty-s-transfer-plea/story-HJKISG5qGxHmPOUMesErcN.html
12-08-2020||India||Former Baghpat district BJP chief shot dead during morning walk||Two unidentified gunmen shot dead former Baghpat district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Sanjay Khokhar, on Tuesday morning when he was on his daily morning walk, the police said. Khokhar, who was shot in the head and chest, died on the spot near Tilwara village of Baghpat’s Chaprauli area.Khokhar used to go on a morning walk from his residence in Chaprauli to nearby Tilwara and visit his farm. He was on the way to his farm when the two assailants approached him and shot him dead before escaping. Hearing the gunshots, farmers working in nearby fields reached the spot and informed the police about the incident. Additional director general of police of the Meerut zone, Rajeev Sabharwal, said police teams had reached the scene of the crime and were gathering evidence to identify the killers.Rashtriya Lok Dal leader and former MP Jayant Chaudhary tweeted about the killing, over which he targeted the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh. He said an atmosphere of fear prevailed in the state, adding that the situation in Baghpat had worsened over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-baghpat-district-bjp-chief-shot-dead-during-morning-walk/story-77CIVhDZYKRTXdZoy808jM.html
12-08-2020||India||Centre gets 1.7 million suggestions on draft EIA||The Union environment ministry received around 1.7 million letters and emails with suggestions, comments, and objections to the controversial draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, till the Tuesday deadline for feedback, officials aware of the matter said. The EIA division of the ministry will study the issues raised and come out with a final notification, they added on condition of anonymity.The draft was released on March 23 as part of the process to overhaul environmental regulations for infrastructure projects. Environmental groups have opposed it citing its contentious clauses including one that allows regularisation of projects set up in violation of EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction before receiving environmental clearance . The draft also proposes a shortening of the time for public hearings, which offer people affected by projects the opportunity to understand and approve them. People were provided 60 days on March 23 to send their comments to the draft. The ministry later extended the deadline from May 22 to June 30 because of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 . The Delhi high court on June 30 extended the deadline further until August 11 (Tuesday), saying the ministry did not address the court’s query regarding “ambiguity” in its decision in May to extend the deadline. It said the first order inviting suggestions and objections to the draft was issued on March 23 and uploaded on the ministry’s website on April 11. The court added it was hence erroneous on the Centre’s part to issue another notification on May 8 amid the Covid-19 pandemic to extend the deadline till June 30 even when the statutory 60 days had not lapsed.Vikrant Tongad, an environment conservationist, moved the court saying the deadline be extended either till September 30 or until the restrictions remained in place in view of the pandemic.Environment secretary R P Gupta on Tuesday said it will take the ministry some time to consider the issues raised in the comments and suggestions. “Letters have gone to the [Union environment] minister [Prakash Javadekar], many have come to me and to other officials. Many are repetitive.”The ministry has also held meetings with several consultants, industry bodies, and companies whose comments are also being considered separately.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said the ministry on March 18 amended the Environment Protection Rules Clause 5 (3), which gives it 725 days to finalise the draft notification from the date it was first issued. “In 2006, this was 365 days and was amended to 545 in 2017. Given the number of reactions the ministry has received and the demand for a more democratic process, it will be important for the ministry to reconsider the issuance of a final notification based on this draft. The comments can be used to set up a revised process that can be built on the comments received and reach out to places where the news of the current amendments are yet to reach.”A group of 100 environmental groups and individuals said they have over the last week sent emails to 785 members of Parliament over the matter, calling upon them to take a stand against “the anti-environment and anti-people “draft and demand its immediate withdrawal. In a statement on Tuesday, the group said that as elected political representatives, the MPs are duty-bound to protect the interests of the people and the nation and its resources, which “this draft legislation is bound to adversely impact”. “We have called upon the ministers to write to the [Union environment ministry]...to demand withdrawal of the Draft EIA Notification 2020 and demand instead that strong environmental governance is put in place in consultation with the people, for protecting the ecology and natural resources...”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the draft is “not only disgraceful” but “ also dangerous”. “Not only does it have the potential to reverse many of the hard-fought gains that have been won over the years in the battle to protect our environment, it could potentially unleash widespread environmental destruction and mayhem across India.”#IndiaNotForSale and #LootoftheNation have trended on Twitter as people took to the social media platform to draw attention to concerns with the draft and to demand its withdrawal.Environment minister Javadekar has called the campaign against the draft premature. “Campaigning against a draft, which is not a final notification yet, is unnecessary and premature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gets-1-7mn-suggestions-on-draft-eia/story-sh7Mpbg6B5HwTynW8w5kDO.html
12-08-2020||India||Harassed in public, teen scholar dies in road accident||: A 19-year-old woman, who scored 98% in Class 12 board examinations in 2018 and was pursuing a graduate degree in the United States, died in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr after being harassed by two men on a motorcycle, her family alleged on Tuesday.Sudeeksha Bhati, a resident of Greater Noida’s Dadri, was on a motorcycle with her uncle on Monday when the two men on another bike began following them and performed stunts on the road, the family said. At one point, the men overtook them and applied the brakes suddenly, causing the young woman and her uncle to fall over, they said. Bhati suffered head injuries in the incident that took place around 9:30am. She died in a hospital later that day.The incident sparked outrage with former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condemning the incident and criticising the law and order situation in the state.“Two persons on a Royal Enfield bike tried to overtake us multiple times. I applied brakes and slowed down my bike. But they continued doing stunts on the road. They suddenly came in front of us and applied brakes immediately. Our bike collided against the Enfield...I fell on one side. Sudeeksha fell on her back, received critical injuries on her head and died,” Satyendra Bhati, her uncle, said.“I could not identify the suspects as I was so disturbed. I just noticed ‘Jaat’ written on the Enfield bike,” he said. The uncle added that he was the one driving the vehicle with Bhati on pillion.The Bulandshahr police were yet to register a case in the matter till Tuesday night though a three-member SIT, led by circle officer (city) Diksha Singh and also comprising two crime branch officials, was formed to probe the incident. The police and district administration contradicted the family’s version. Officials said Bhati’s minor brother was driving the motorcycle and that allegations of harassment did not come to light at the time of the incident. They said Bhati and her brother were not wearing helmets.Later, a video clip surfaced, purportedly showing the police recording the minor’s statement from the accident spot. Bulandshahr superintendent of police Atul Kumar Shrivastava said Bhati’s body was sent for a post-mortem examination and an investigation was underway. “The matter of harassment had not come to light at the time of accident. We are probing the matter from all angles,” he said.Bhati, a tea seller’s daughter who topped Bulandshahr district in humanities stream two years ago and won a Rs 3.8-crore scholarship, returned from the US in June in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, her family said. On August 20, she was set to return to Massachusetts, where she was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at Babson College.Jitendra Bhati, the victim’s father, termed the incident a murder. “The incident took place as they harassed our daughter. She had dreams to work for the society and empower girls. From August 5, she also started online classes for local children. My daughter was scheduled to return to USA on August 20, and hence she wanted to meet her close relatives,” he said.Subhash Singh, station house officer, Aurangabad, said a team visited Greater Noida to meet the woman’s family. “We will register a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code once the team returns with the complaint,” he said. The police were scanning CCTV footage from the area.The bike was driven by Bhati’s brother and the vehicle collided with another motorcycle due to traffic, said Ravindra Kumar, Bulandshar district magistrate. “Local police rushed the victim to CHC Aurangabad where she died. At the time of accident, her brother or any eyewitness had not shared information about harassment. We have launched a probe,” he said.Bhati was the eldest of six siblings and lived in Deri Skaner village in Dadri. Her father runs a tea stall while mother is a homemaker. In 2011, she got admission in a residential school for meritorious and economically underprivileged students in Bulandshahr, from where she completed her Class 12 exams with 98%. She scored well in both SAT and TOEFL — competitive exams used by foreign universities in English-speaking countries to admit students — and subsequently secured a berth in Babson College.“Sudiksha lost her life due to harassment which is shameful and condemnable. How will the daughters prosper? We demand the UP government to act against the criminals,” former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said: “The incident in Bulandshahr displays the absence of fear of law in UP, and an atmosphere of insecurity among women in the state. It seems the administration does not take incidents like harassment of women seriously. There is need for sweeping changes. There should be zero tolerance towards crime against women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassed-in-public-teen-scholar-dies-in-road-accident/story-3NOve0vFO1s9rneCUCT5DK.html
12-08-2020||India||Govt okays Rs 8.7k crore military buys||The defence ministry on Tuesday gave its go-ahead for the purchase of military equipment worth Rs 8,722 crore, including 106 locally-made basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF), to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign), a defence ministry spokesperson said.Basic trainers figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years.The ministry’s defence acquisition council (DAC) accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for buying 106 Hindustan Turbo Trainer-40 (HTT-40) aircraft from state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. “With HAL having successfully developed HTT-40 prototypes and certification process underway, the DAC approved procurement of 106 basic trainers to address the training requirements of the IAF,” the ministry said in a statement. IAF is expected to order 70 trainers initially, with the remaining 36 to be bought after the operationalisation of the HTT-40 fleet in the force.This is the first step in a long journey ahead, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“While it’s a thumbs-up for the design and development of the HTT-40, HAL has to rise to the occasion now and produce them to a time schedule that the IAF wants. Work ethics would require a change to do that,” Bahadur said.The HTT-40 aircraft has undergone a string of elaborate tests at HAL to demonstrate it is safe for rookie pilots and meets the IAF’s standards for trainer planes. HAL could begin the production of the trainers by early next year.Rookie pilots in IAF go through a three-stage training involving the Pilatus PC-7 MkII planes, Kiran trainers and finally the Hawk advanced jet trainers before they can fly fighter jets. As the Kirans are approaching the end of their service life, some Stage 2 training is being done on the PC-7.The defence ministry in July 2019 suspended business dealings with Swiss plane maker Pilatus Aircraft Limited for one year for violation of a pre-contract integrity pact in a Rs 2,900-crore contract for 75 basic trainers and also factoring in Indian investigations against the planemaker for alleged corruption and irregularities.The contract with Pilatus included a clause for follow-on purchase of 38 more planes.The DAC --- India’s apex procurement body --- also cleared the purchase of an upgraded version of the super-rapid gun mount (SRGM) which is fitted as the main gun on board warships, to improve the navy’s firepower, the statement said. This weapon will be supplied by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited. “The upgraded version of SRGM has enhanced capability to perform against fast manoeuvring targets like missiles,” the statement said.Other defence items cleared for purchase include tank ammunition – the 125 mm APFSDS (Armour Piercing Fin Stabilized Discarding Sabot). It will have 70% indigenous content. The statement said some of the other approvals given by the DAC will accelerate the purchase of AK-203 assault rifles and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) upgrades.India on Sunday announced that it will ban the import of 101 defence items over the next five years, a significant step towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector.These include artillery guns, light military transport aircraft, conventional submarines, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, light combat helicopter, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-okays-8-7k-cr-military-buys/story-NqV0lYA7yv1yWQXYKlubvN.html
12-08-2020||India||India, Nepal to discuss projects amid tensions||An India-Nepal body overseeing the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi is set to meet in Kathmandu next week, the first high-level contact between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row that erupted last year.The joint oversight mechanism, which was launched in 2016 and reviews progress in bilateral projects, is scheduled to hold a meeting on August 17, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The meeting between Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary, Shanker Das Bairagi, who jointly chair the mechanism, is being seen by some quarters in Kathmandu as a positive development after the border row took relations to a new low.“The mechanism will only focus on the implementation of India-funded projects in Nepal. However, it could help break the logjam in relations,” said a person.A second person described the scheduled meeting of the mechanism as “part of regular interaction between India and Nepal”. He added, “This oversight mechanism was set up in 2016 to review ongoing bilateral economic and development projects and meets on a periodic basis.”During its seventh meeting in July last year, the mechanism reviewed the implementation of projects such as cross-border rail links, petroleum pipelines, roads, bridges, integrated border check posts, energy, irrigation, and post-earthquake reconstruction.The border row erupted late last year after Nepal objected to the inclusion of the Kalapani region, which is claimed by Kathmandu, in a new map showing the union territory of Ladakh that was issued by India. The row was exacerbated in May, when India opened a new road to the Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet, as this area, too, is claimed by Nepal.Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh, and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory. Kathmandu also said New Delhi has not responded to several requests for talks on the border issue, though India said a meeting couldn’t be arranged because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told The Kathmandu Post on Tuesday: “We don’t have alternatives to talks...We can’t hold our entire ties hostage to the differences over the boundary issue.”Gyawali said Nepal is confident its partnership with India will move in a positive direction. “For the time being, the boundary issues can be isolated...Differences over one issue should not overshadow our entire bilateral relations...We believe in constructive engagement, and the upcoming meeting is just one positive step towards that end,” he added.In recent weeks, the two countries have also engaged in a war of words over the origins of historic figures such as Lord Ram and Gautam Buddha.Nepal on Sunday responded to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that Gautam Buddha was one of the two greatest Indians for people around the world by saying historical and archaeological evidence shows the founder of Buddhism was born in Nepalese territory. India clarified that Jaishankar had referred to the shared heritage of the two countries.Last month, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sparked a controversy with his remarks that the “real” Ayodhya is in Nepal and that Lord Ram was Nepalese. He also said Nepal had “become a victim of cultural encroachment” and its history was manipulated.Following protests in India, the Nepal government clarified Oli’s remarks were “not linked to any political subject” and there was “no intention...to hurt the feeling and sentiment of anyone”.Nischal Pandey, director of the Kathmandu-based Centre for South Asian Studies, was quoted by the Nepalese media as saying: “A weekly war of words between Indian and Nepali officials and subsequent issuance of clarifications does not bode well for bilateral ties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-to-discuss-projects-amid-tensions/story-LD4PtuiU4eZevcCXDxGbJK.html
12-08-2020||India||DGCA bans use of wide-body aircraft at Kozhikode airport for monsoon season||The aviation regulator has banned the use of wide-body body aircraft during the monsoon at Kerala’s Calicut airport, days after an Air India Express flight with 190 people crashed in heavy rain and broke into two after overshooting the table-top runway, killing both pilots and 16 passengers.As a matter of abundant caution we have decided to divert them to neighbouring airports during the monsoon season,” said Arun Kumar, the director general of civil aviation.The aviation regulator is also planning to conduct safety audits across airports in regions that receive high rainfall, he added.Wide-body aircraft like the Boeing 747 and Airbus A350 have a bigger fuel tank and can therefore travel longer distances in comparison with narrow-body planes like the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320.The Boeing 737 jet on a flight from Dubai, overshot and fell 50 metres off the end of the runway at the Calicut airport in treacherous conditions last Friday, killing 18, making it one of the deadliest commercial aviation disasters in the country in nearly 10 years.The crash occurred around 7.40pm and bore striking similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a table-top runway and crashed nose-first.So-called table-top airports have limited space at the ends of the runway, and several international airlines have stopped flying bigger aircraft into Kozhikode because of safety issues. Wide-body aircraft were permitted at this airport from 2019.Concerns were raised following the 2010 Air India Express crash in Mangalore that killed 158 people on board. That year, a court of enquiry report by former Indian Air Force chief Air Marshal BN Gokhale noted that table-top runways require extra skills and caution to navigate. The hazard of “undershooting” and “overshooting”, in particular, can lead to grave situations, the report said.Calicut airport is equipped with Runway End Safety Area (RESA) in line with the International Civil Aviation Organization’s guidelines on safety, aviation minister Hardeep Puri said on Monday.“ Engineered Material Arrestor System (EMAS) provides safety benefit if less than standard RESA length is available or at airports where RESA cannot be provided due to constraints. Provision of EMAS is not mandatory in a civil aerodrome as per ICAO guidelines,” Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-bans-use-of-wide-body-aircraft-at-kozhikode-airport-for-monsoon-season/story-p6WcBONZt0xVHqCLoJzkMJ.html
12-08-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: Relieved, Congress leaders credit Rahul Gandhi||Congress leaders on Tuesday rushed to give credit to Rahul Gandhi for ending the rebellion in the party in Rajasthan that threatened the survival of its government, and urged him to once again assume the reins of the organisation. The renewed bid to persuade Rahul Gandhi to accept the responsibility came a day after Sonia Gandhi completed one year as an interim Congress president on Monday. “The entire country witnessed as to how after 30 days now the political events in Rajasthan have come to a close. This was made possible on account of the vision and the belief of Rahul Gandhi in carrying all Congress leaders together,” the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, addressing a virtual news conference. “It was due to his farsightedness and nature of carrying along everybody that we were able to resolve the differences. He was also helped by the cooperation and assistance given by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra,” he said and went on to praise both Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The crisis ended soon after Pilot met Rahul Gandhi on Monday afternoon. As a way out and to assuage the sentiments of all sides, the party then decided to form a three-member committee to address the grievances of the rebel legislators, including Pilot. In the evening, Pilot and 17 other legislators supporting him met Ahmed Patel, Priyanka Gandhi and KC Venugopal to seek an assurance that the issues raised by them would be resolved amicably. Asked if Rahul Gandhi will take up the Congress president’s post now, Surjewala said not 99% but 100% of Congress leaders and workers want him to assume the responsibility once again. Referring to claims that Rahul Gandhi has refused to return as the party chief, Surjewala said, “I don’t think that anyone of us has recently spoken to him on the issue. When he resigned, he resigned on moral grounds and took moral responsibility (for the 2019 Lok Sabha election loss). What will happen in the future is not for me to comment upon. I am certain that good things will happen in future.” He added the decision will be taken by Rahul Gandhi, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and the party at the appropriate time. Senior Congress leader from Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, also appealed to Rahul Gandhi to once again assume the party chief’s role. “We are passing through an unprecedented crisis and Madam Sonia Gandhi has been struggling despite her health issues to rudder these tempestuous times,” Chennithala said in a letter to Rahul Gandhi. He alleged that the combine of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had “subverted” the basic principles of democracy, resulting in the fall of Congress governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. A similar attempt made in Rajasthan was, however, thwarted by Rahul Gandhi’s swift action, Chennithala said. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi also lauded Rahul Gandhi and his team for ending the stalemate in Rajasthan. “Today because of the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and the efforts of Priyanka Gandhi we have managed to keep one of our own, Sachin Pilot with us. This is the democratic spirit of our party where there is room for dissent and debate,” tweeted former union minister Jitin Prasada. In a related development, the party has informed the Election Commission (EC) that Sonia Gandhi will continue to hold the post of president till a new president is elected. In its letter, the party told the EC the process of electing a new president could not be initiated due to the coronavirus disease pandemic and the nationwide lockdown enforced for 68 days till May 31 to slow the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-crisis-relieved-congress-leaders-credit-rahul/story-3z9NGC83zgVNKZLPpPqg9L.html
12-08-2020||India||6 Cong legislators resign in Manipur||IMPHAL Six Congress members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) in Manipur submitted their resignations to the speaker on Tuesday, a day after skipping the session in which chief minister N Biren Singh of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government won a motion of confidence by voice vote. The resignations reduce the Congress’s strength in the House to 18 seats from the 28 it won in the 2017 assembly elections. Manipur has been the only state in northeast where the Congress had a sizeable number of legislators, its presence having diminished in the region because of rapid strides made by the BJP in recent years . Okram Henry Singh, one of the MLAs, confirmed the development. Other party legislators who submitted their resignations to speaker Yumnam Khemchand were Mohammed Abdul Nasir, O Lukhoi, P Brojen, Ngamthang Haqokip and Ginsuanhau, who uses only one name. The resignations cited the legislators’ lack of trust in the Congress and were submitted while the House was in session, Henry Singh said.Later on Tuesday, Speaker accepted five resignations except of P Brojen, against whom disqualification proceedings are pending under 10th schedule of the Constitution with the speaker. In the house with an effective strength of 53, only 16 of the 24 Congress MLAs were present on Monday, enabling the BJP-led government to sail through the trust motion 28-16, with the speaker not voting. Besides the six who resigned, the two others wrote to the assembly secretariat that they would not be attending as they had just returned from outside the state and were being tested for Covid-19. Their test results are yet to come in. These MLAs, Mohammed Fazur Rahim and Yamthong Haokip, could not be contacted because their mobile phones were switched off. CM Singh moved the confidence motion on Friday after the opposition Congress moved a no-confidence motion against the government over alleged failure of the government to institute a CBI inquiry into a drug peddling case involving a BJP leader. On his resignation, Henry Singh said: “Even though I’m born and brought up with the Congress, I’m compelled to resign as per the wishes of the people in my constituency.”Henry Singh, who was elected for the first time on a Congress ticket in the 2017 assembly elections, said the six legislators who quit the assembly will also be giving up their primary membership of the Congress by submitting their resignation letters to the state party president.Abdul Nasir said the MLAs resigned because of a lack of trust in the leadership of the Congress legislature party, which is headed by former chief minister O Ibobi Singh.“This is murder of democracy in and outside the house,” Ibobi Singh said. The inability of the Congress to form the government despite winning 28 seats in the house of 60 in the 2017 assembly elections and the party’s loss in the recent Rajya Sabha elections are also reasons for the resignations, Nasir said. The BJP won 21 seats and got support of smaller parties --- the National People’s Party (4), Nagaland People Front (4), Trinamool Congress (1), Lok Janshakti Party(1) and the lone independent MLA -- to form a government. The 60-member Manipur assembly was reduced to a strength of 53 after four members were disqualified under the anti-defection law and three BJP members resigned. With the latest resignations, the effective strength of the house has been reduced to 47.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cong-legislators-resign-in-manipur/story-8lDbEmG1YXY0cc6NsDnVNI.html
12-08-2020||India||Have no animosity, no ill will towards the CM: Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan’s former deputy CM Sachin Pilot spoke to HT about his revolt, why he went incommunicado along with 18 MLAs, his response to personal remarks by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, what he gained from the dissent, and the road ahead. Edited excerpts: What have the last 30 days been like for you?About three-four weeks ago, I was served a notice under sedition charges and as deputy chief minister and party president, I felt it was unwarranted. A lot of us were deeply hurt by that, and a few of our colleagues wanted to come to Delhi to tell the party organisation not just about the one issue, but also about many things we had been contemplating for long. Once that started, a lot of other developments happened, but I think ultimately the objective was to bring the grassroots feedback to the leadership. We were well within our rights to raise the issue within the party forum, and we said that we were raising the issue as Congressmen, as legislators. I don’t think anything we did was at all anti-party.You say it wasn’t anti-party, but a lot of Congress leaders who were supporting you later said that you could have done it without going incommunicado along with 18 MLAs.The minute we came to Delhi to air our views, the next day itself a lot of acrimonious action started in Jaipur -- FIRs, police cases. A lot of our colleagues felt they would there would be coercive action by the police and administration. I want to place on record that we were here in Delhi, wanting to place our views and wanting to be heard. I think the reactions that came out from Jaipur and the actions that followed, it didn’t give any confidence to the legislators that we are moving in the right direction. As far as the opposition party (Bharatiya Janata Party) is concerned, trying to take advantage of what is going on, they have done some politics. We had made very clear from the beginning that there was no question of leaving the party or joining any other party.Let’s go back to the sequence of events on July 10, when the crisis in the Congress’s Rajasthan unit started. Couldn’t you have spoken to the Gandhis then like you did yesterday?There are people in different hierarchies responsible for the communication within the party leadership in Delhi and Rajasthan. Those channels didn’t work out very well, as we know in hindsight. Because the actions were being taken very quickly in Jaipur, between the notices and court cases and suspensions, it came to pass that we had to do what we had to do. Because if we didn’t fight and stand up for what we believed in, we wouldn’t be here today. I’m very happy that the Congress president has now assured all of us that a timebound road map is being evolved to redress issues that were raised.When you were incommunicado, what was the objective in your mind?First of all, all of us were here in Delhi and were never incommunicado; we were talking to people, we were moving around. I met a lot of colleagues, and it was not as if anyone was bound anywhere. But yes, some of my colleagues felt apprehensive of the police. The kinds of things that were said while we were here making our grievances heard, it wasn’t charitable, to say the least.Let’s talk about that -- your former boss said that you are nothing but a good-looking face,that your qualifications were just that you spoke English, and otherwise you were a nikamma and nakaara (good for nothing). At that time, did you think that maybe you needed to look at another party?No, no, not for a moment. But I have to admit when I heard some of the language used against me, it did deeply hurt me. I felt I was wronged and aggrieved, and then to hear the things that I heard. To say the least, it wasn’t charitable and was unparliamentary. But two wrongs don’t make a right -- I’m not going to retort in the same tone and tenor. I chose not to respond. I swallowed that bitter pill and it was the best thing to do at the time.The Congress said that throughout that their door was open .What made you talk to them on Monday and not before?I know what everyone was saying, but the actions were totally opposite. A lot of our colleagues who were ministers were now police suspects. Those actions were also a major aspect of what went on in the past few weeks.Would you care to share the role Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi played in the entire episode? Was Priyanka in touch with you throughout?Priyanka did come last night when the MLAs were there, and had a detailed discussion with every single one of them. We appreciated her taking time out and, as a general secretary of the party, she’s played a role. I met Rahulji and Priyanka Gandhi yesterday in Mr Gandhi’s house and, as then party president, it was Rahul Gandhi who said to me that I should work as deputy CM. He chose Mr Gehlot as chief minister and he did lean on me to become deputy and continue as state unit president. But in the last 18 months, what has transpired... I had to share because it was important for the party to know.The CM said in the 18 months since the Rajasthan government was formed, he’s never spoken with you. Is that true?(Laughs) I didn’t say that, the CM has said that. But it gives you an insight of what the happenings were there. When I was party president for five years, I didn’t seem to have those disqualifications and negativities attached to me. Just in 18 months, they have come to the fore? Bringing a party back to power when we were down to 21 MLAs after elections were lost when Ashokji was CM. At that time, Rahul Gandhiji asked me to be state chief and showed faith in me. Even though I was younger than other leaders, it was my responsibility to take everyone along. There were differences even then but, as head of the family, I left no stone unturned to carry everyone under one umbrella. I think the same course applies for the head of the government. In the end, it is the CM who held on to the support and you couldn’t get the numbers together...It’s never a competition about who’s got more. Whoever the party makes CM will have the majority. The number of MLAs and leaders who had things to say were depending on me to be their voice. I did that. Thirty days later, you are no longer the deputy CM or Rajasthan Congress chief. Do you regret it?If you are taking a position just to have a house and a car, I don’t think it’s worth anyone’s time. As a political person, you are there to do a job, to do governance, to deliver development; and if you don’t have the space and the resources and the authority to do that, then mere positions don’t matter. I have said that whatever the party wants me to do, I am happy to do it, I have done it for more than 20 years and leadership can decide what my role can or cannot be.What will you tell the CM when you meet him on the 14th?I have nothing but kind words and warmth to offer him at a personal level. Professionally, our objectives should remain the same - to deliver to the expectations of the people of Rajasthan. I have no animosity, no ill will, no negative sentiment towards him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-no-animosity-no-ill-will-towards-the-cm-pilot/story-SCAN0iZp34RYL3PHYg1R4K.html
12-08-2020||India||Real battle is to save democracy in country: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot spoke to HT about the resolution of the political crisis in the state, how his 100 supporters did not break rank, the return of his former deputy Sachin Pilot to the party fold, and what lies ahead for his government. Edited excerpts: Now that the crisis in the state is over, are you relieved? The current situation in the country and also in states clearly indicates that democracy is under threat. See what happened in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Karnataka, and recently in Madhya Pradesh – democratically elected governments were ousted through money power. Everyone knows what is happening. We have won the first round, but there is a long battle ahead. Our battle is to save democracy and we will continue to fight this battle till we emerge victorious. There are reports that legislators supporting you are not happy with the way the party resolved the issue and welcomed Sachin Pilot back. Is that correct? The decision of the high command is final, and we all respect that. We thank the determination and grit of all our 100 legislators. The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and others tried everything to woo them, but they stood firm like a rock and not a single legislator broke ranks. I spoke to each one of them and pacified them. Their sentiments are attached with the Congress. I should also thank the people of Rajasthan for their support. They used to call our legislators and tell them that even if you have to stay together for months, do that, but ensure that the BJP does not succeed in its nefarious designs. It is unprecedented in the Indian history that so many legislators stayed together for such a long period. Their only aim and motive was to save the government. Will you still go ahead with the floor test now that you are comfortably placed? We will decide that once the assembly session starts. That is a call we will have to take. Are you ready to forgive the rebel Congress legislators who are back in the party fold now? We have to show large-heartedness when democracy is in danger. I believe in the concept of forgive and forget. The high command has taken a conscious and well thought out decision and all of us are with the high command. Some of your party leaders claim that it is not all over yet. They say there will be other attempts to destabilise your government. Are you prepared to counter any such move? I know it is a long battle but we are ready to face any challenge and defeat the BJP in carrying out its anti-democratic steps. The BJP had also shifted some of its legislators to Gujarat. Were your party colleagues in touch with some of them? The BJP was trying to break us and indulged in horse-trading, but it is also facing massive internal factional fights. They were scared that some of their legislators might break away due to factionalism. There were some in the BJP who did not want the party to topple the government because it has never been a tradition in Rajasthan. A few days ago, I wrote a two-page letter to BJP legislators stating that once some BJP members were trying to topple the Bhairon Singh Shekhawat government. I told them that I, as state Congress president at the time, wrote to Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao and Rajasthan governor Bali Ram Bhagat, saying that we are not part of the bid to topple Shekhawat’s government. I have always been against any move to oust a democratically elected government. So, I wrote to them to take that into consideration. The BJP also cancelled its meeting today as it is clearly on a back foot. Your party leaders are giving credit to Rahul Gandhi for resolving the crisis. What do you have to say? Both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi played an active role. It is laudable and shows their leadership qualities. The party has also formed a three-member committee to address the issue. I welcome that decision also. Sachin Pilot is saying that derogatory remarks were used against him by you -- you said he was good for nothing -- but he did not reciprocate? As I said earlier, it is time for everyone to move on and strengthen the party and the government in Rajasthan. Will you welcome Pilot back into your government, should the situation arise?A three-member committee is being formed by the Congress president. It will decide on this, along with the party high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-battle-is-to-save-democracy-in-country-gehlot/story-v5UcxWE2AbFqVRBy72JvrO.html
12-08-2020||India||Govt’s power boost for Andaman to make islands key hub of Indo Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched India’s first undersea optical fibre project this week, has stepped up his government’s efforts to give Andaman and Nicobar Islands its first big power project as part of a continuing massive effort to upgrade infrastructure in the archipelago of over 572 Islands in the Bay of Bengal.PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the 50 megawatt gas-based power plant at Hope Town in South Andaman during his visit to the island in December 2018. One tender to establish the plant has been issued and the bids will be opened on 28 August; bids to set up the gas infrastructure and supply of gas will be opened on 18 August.Senior officials said the different projects are part of the government’s overarching vision for the islands and use them as a springboard to open up new opportunities for India in South-East Asia. It was in this context, one official said, that PM Modi on Monday unveiled plans to build a transshipment port at Great Nicobar Island.PM Modi said this would give ships an alternative to similar ports in the region.Officials said New Delhi wants to pitch the proposed Rs 10,000 crore port to be built at Great Nicobar Island as an alternative to other ports in the neighbourhood including those in Sri Lanka and Indonesia’s Banda Aceh.“The idea is to turn Andaman into a major transportation hub that is at the heart of India’s Look East policy,” a second government official said. Already, plans are afoot to expand the runway at the Campbell bay airport.The proposed port lies at the mouth of the Strait of Malacca, the main shipping channel between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. This is one of the most important sea routes. More than 90 percent of crude oil volumes flowing through the South China Sea transits the Malacca Strait.The port is also located strategically near the proposed Kra Isthmus Canal, also known as the Thai Canal, that would connect the Gulf of Thailand with the Andaman Sea and shorten transit for oil shipments to Japan and China by 1,200 km.Against this background, officials said the need for a steady and clean power source is crucial for expansion of infrastructure. So far, diesel is the predominant source of the electricity mix of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The 50 MW plant will supplement the 20 MW solar power project commissioned by the Neyveli Lignite Corporation. This plant has been integrated with an 8 MWh battery energy storage system. A 5 MW solar plant set up by NTPC is already in operation.A power ministry official said the power distribution in the islands is already being privatized under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. The transaction advisor has already completed discussions with the union territory’s power department and the ministry of power in Delhi and are expected to complete the transaction documents by September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andaman-nicobar-to-get-the-power-boost-as-part-of-islands-infra-upgrade/story-yMtBOkBjGgCv7XyTtky6IJ.html
