13-08-2020||India||Diplomat Vikram Kumar Doraiswami appointed India’s next envoy to Bangladesh||Indian Foreign Service officer Vikram Kumar Doraiswami has been appointed as the next High Commissioner of India to Bangladesh, according to a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday. Currently, Doraiswami is an Additional Secretary in-charge of international organisations and summits at the headquarters of the External Affairs Ministry in New Delhi.He is expected to take up the assignment in Dhaka soon.Prior to his current assignment, Doraiswami has earlier served as the Indian ambassador to the Republic of Korea and later was also posted in Uzbekistan. He joined the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) — the top administrative services of the Indian government in 1992. Before joining government service, he used to work as a journalist.Vikram Kumar Doraiswami has a Masters degree in History from the Delhi University and can converse in Chinese and Urdu and also knows a smattering of French.Doraiswami succeeds Riva Ganguly Das as the Indian envoy in Dhaka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikram-kumar-doraiswami-made-next-high-commissioner-of-india-to-bangladesh/story-V2mG27FFEy4CbfNtyZFKMK.html
13-08-2020||India||25 yrs on, access to quality internet possible for only half the population||When the internet came to India on the eve of independence day in 1995, it promised mass connectivity. With connectivity, citizens in cities, towns and villages alike would be able to connect to worlds beyond their immediate vicinity; information and services, hitherto the monopoly of the rich and powerful would become accessible to all. As an 11-year old growing up in Kolkata, I too was gripped by the heady prospect of having the world at my fingertips. My mother took me to the British Council Library where I set up a Yahoo account and spent hours digging up random trivia sourced from Encarta 95. Over time, I had a dial-up modem installed at home using which I checked examination marks online, did some extra research for school and became a truly digital citizen. What was available to me in the 90s in a middle class Kolkata home has today permeated large sections of the country. But the quest to get the country online has not even reached the halfway mark. According to a report by the Internet & Mobile Association of India and Nielsen in 2019, 451 million users aged above 5 were active online in India, less than 50% of the population. Female users accounted for half of the total male users. Rural internet penetration was abysmally low at 27%. Even for those who are online, the quality of service requires significant improvement. It ought to be a matter of some regret to governments, internet evangelists and civil society that 25 years on, fundamental, first-order problems of internet access and quality remain. A dominant reason for this state of affairs is a misguided contemporary narrative around the internet that focuses primarily on privacy and state surveillance. Needless to say, privacy on the internet is an issue that affects every user, rich or poor. But the prioritisation of privacy and state surveillance in the narrative over fundamental questions of access and quality has meant that public and governmental focus has leapfrogged fundamental issues to second-generation ones. What this has unwittingly done is to decelerate the spread of internet in the country. The BharatNet project of the government, designed to connect all Gram Panchayats, has missed multiple targets to very little public criticism. As of January 2020, only 7.45% of the 150,000 Gram Panchayats meant to be connected in Phase 2 are service-ready. Jio has stepped into this breach promising to connect every village. Private telecom operators may indeed be the country’s best chance to get online. It’s a pity though that in the process, ensuring access to the internet is no longer treated as a duty of the state; it has become contingent on the choices made by private corporations.Apart from benefiting Indian corporations, the state surveillance-centric narrative has also let large foreign corporations off the hook. Vast amounts of data of Indians has already been collected without the concomitant payment of taxes in India. Of course, like the East India Company, which started building railroads to connect the country, Indians have benefited from foreign corporations as well.The promise of free internet at railway stations, the ability to post videos or have a service that curates a timeline of photos, do make lives better. But these short-term gains have come at the cost of our long-term sovereignty as these corporations are ultimately their own masters. If August 15,1995 was India’s tryst with internet destiny, August 15,2020 is the time for the internet ecosystem in India to redeem its pledge. A pledge to dedicate itself to the service of the people of India, the unconnected, the digitally illiterate, the poor, and to the still larger cause of humanity. The internet that will emerge from these efforts will undoubtedly be very different from what we see today—more local, less in English, fairer in terms of empowering individuals to control their digital lives, and freer, without individual and community data being colonised by states and private corporations. But each of these can only happen if we make getting every Indian online our first priority—to give millions of 11-year olds in cities, towns and villages the joy of having the world at their fingertips. So as the internet turns 25 in India, here is a thought to set the ball rolling on the next 25—Parliament should introduce Article 21B of the Constitution, making the right to access the internet a fundamental right of all citizens. Happy internet independence day to all. (Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. With inputs from Sumeysh Srivastava. Views are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-yrs-on-access-to-quality-internet-possible-for-only-half-the-population/story-0X6kvRGkH2a07tAw9l1c5M.html
13-08-2020||India||Varsities can open for final exams: Govt to SC||New Delhi: The Union government has given relaxations to colleges and universities across the country and allowed them to open for the conduct of final-year examinations, which will be held in accordance with an order issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the Union home ministry said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Thursday.The submission to the court comes at a time when at least two states — Delhi and Maharashtra — have cancelled final-term exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic despite a UGC order mandating the holding of such exams by September 30.“Taking into consideration the academic interest of a large number of students, it was decided to grant an exemption for the opening of educational institutions for the purposes of holding examinations/evaluation work for Final Term Examinations of the Universities /Institutions,” the MHA affidavit said.Schools and colleges have been closed since March-end. There are indications that the government has prepared standard operating procedures for the reopening of schools. But there are no immediate reopening plans after the current restrictions end on August 31. The guidelines for the ongoing “Unlock 3” phase say educational institutions will remain closed until at least the end of this month.“...the universities/institutions will be and are clearly intended to be exempted from the said restriction for the limited purpose of holding Final Term Examinations/evaluation work in terms of the UGC guidelines on examinations,” the affidavit said.On July 6, higher education regulator UGC said universities and colleges across India will have to hold their final-year or final-semester examinations — online, offline or by using a combination of both — by September 30. The same day, the home ministry, which releases guidelines on Covid-19 restrictions and relaxations for businesses and activities, said final-term exams will be held in line with UGC guidelines.The decision was met with resistance with a section of students demanding the scrapping of examinations in view of the pandemic. The issue reached the top court, where multiple petitioners also argued that many do not have access to high-speed internet and online exams will not be feasible for them. Petitioners have urged the court to consider scrapping online/offline tests, and instead direct UGC to declare results by July 31 based on students’ past performance or internal assessment. But UGC argues that degrees cannot be conferred without the examinations; that it alone is empowered to take a call on whether or not the exams can take place or should be cancelled; and that the decision to conduct exams is in the interest of a large number of students. The affidavit becomes important because it spells out the MHA’s stand on the issue and provides for limited relaxations to educational institutes. On July 31, the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah allowed the Centre and UGC to file their affidavits. The matter was taken up on August 10, when they sought permission to file their responses to additional petitions filed in matter. The court is expected to hear the case on Friday.Tanvi Dubey, an advocate for one of the petitioners, Yash Dubey, who has filed a writ petition against the July 6 UGC order, said, “We will oppose the exception granted by the MHA [home ministry] on the ground that it goes against the July 29 Unlock-3 Guidelines issued by the same Ministry which specifically provides for all schools, colleges to remain closed till August 31...”But professor Atul Khosla, founder and pro vice-chancellor of Himachal Pradesh-based Shoolini University, welcomed the home ministry’s stand in the court. “There is technology available to conduct such examinations and government institutions must wake up to the possibilities,” he said.Surajit Mazumdar, the secretary of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association, questioned UGC’s approach. “...what’s the purpose behind conducting only final year examination? There should be an explanation. If UGC thinks that examination is necessary part of the process to access the ability of students for giving them degrees then they should take the same decision for all students. If they can promote a first year student without any exam why can’t they promote students who have passed all the exams and reached to final year?”Rajesh Jha, a member of the Delhi University’s executive council (EC) and an associate professor of political science, said gatherings should be avoided and physical distancing maintained during the pandemic. “Even limited opening for exams will expose students to [health] risks, and the higher education system is not fully capable to conduct online exams across social, economic and digital divide,” he added.Hitesh Sharma, 20, a final-year student of BA (Hons) in political science at Delhi’s Rajdhani College and a resident of Jammu’s Kathua district, said: “Many countries have seen the adverse effect of reopening education institutions amid the pandemic. Who will take the responsibility of the safety of students?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varsities-can-open-for-final-exams-govt-to-sc/story-BOrMYljuhud7tm8QpMccJJ.html
13-08-2020||India||SC asks Centre to arrange funds for stalled Amrapali projects||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave the Centre a week to indicate how much funds it could provide for completion of real estate firm Amrapali’s stalled housing projects under the distress fund corpus of Rs 25,000 crore set up to revive their construction.A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and UU Lalit told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that if no positive response is given by Wednesday, the court will be forced to pass orders in the exercise of its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution. Article 142 empowers the Supreme Court to pass orders for complete justice in a case before it.The court has been monitoring the completion of the projects since July 2019 when it cancelled the firm’s registration under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act. The cancellation followed a forensic audit that found the firm’s directors were allegedly illegally diverting the homebuyers’ money. The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) was given the task to complete the pending projects.A committee comprising two forensic auditors and court-appointed receiver, senior advocate R Venkatramani, was formed to carry out auctioning of Amrapali properties and to examine possible sources of funding.Venkatramani on Thursday told the court that despite meeting the Union finance secretary, there was no progress on part of the Centre to arrange funds for the project. He is independently in talks with SBI Capital Ventures (SBICAP), which had agreed in principle to provide ₹995 crore out of the ₹25,000 crore fund for stressed real estate projects set up by the government.SBICAP, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, informed the court on Thursday that certain “sticky points” on the choice of projects and mode of pricing have delayed infusion of funds and sought a week to get back with a formal proposal.Upset over the delay in sourcing funds, the bench told Mehta, “You are not giving any fund in a Court-monitored project that we want to revive. We are trying to persuade everyone but nobody is doing anything. SBICAP is creating every kind of problem. Now they want to levy 12%interest (on the loan they would offer). SBICAP is negotiating like a private player. This is not the way they (SBICAP) should behave and are your (the Centre’s) hands tied.”The court asked Mehta to use his good offices and ensure fund is arranged. “When distress fund is created why is it not being used?”Venkatramani informed the court he was willing to talk with public sector banks, a consortium of which could finance the projects securing the payment against the inventory of unsold flats in various Amrapali projects. The bench allowed the receiver to proceed with the decision and present a plan by the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-arrange-funds-for-stalled-amrapali-projects/story-4l8gI66iN7pojfiliATRCK.html
13-08-2020||India||Former bishop of Jalandhar charged in nun rape case||The additional sessions court in Kottayam in Kerala on Thursday framed charges against former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal who has been accused by a nun of his congregation of raping her several times. The judge read out charges against him including rape, criminal intimidation, wrongful confinement and insulting the modesty of a woman but Mulakkal denied all charges. After formally framing charges the court posted the case for hearing on September 16 for the survivor’s examination.. Mulakkal, who surrendered before the court last week, was allowed to leave the state but was asked to appear before it as and when required. The court had cancelled his bail last month when he repeatedly failed to appear before it. Later he moved the High Court and Supreme Court which also refused to entertain his plea to stay the case following which he surrendered in the trial court in Kottayam which asked him not to leave the state still the charge sheet was read out. The case surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun complained to the police in Kottayam that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mulakkal denied it saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. A special investigation team (SIT) which probed the nun’s allegations, arrested him in September 2018. He was granted bail after spending 40 days in jail. He was removed from the post of the bishop later. The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year but he failed to appear before the court several times. The petitioner had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by Mulakkal’s followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bishop-of-jalandhar-charged-in-nun-rape-case/story-JkgYB4nS4LZNnbrzRE6vaP.html
13-08-2020||India||166 new coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad; 235 discharged||Gujarat’s Ahmedabad district recorded 166 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 28,517 on Thursday, the state Health Department said.With the death of four more Covid-19 patients during the same period, the toll in the district reached 1,648, said a release by the Health Department.Out of the 166 (rpt 166) new cases, 143 were reported from Ahmedabad city and 23 from rural parts of the district, said the release.As many as 235 patients undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the district also recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/166-new-coronavirus-cases-in-ahmedabad-235-discharged/story-c7KQF082Hn9CTnabaKaHaL.html
13-08-2020||India||TMC supporters heckle doctor, nurses in Covid-19 hospital in Bengal||A doctor and some nurses of a state-run designated Covid-19 hospital at Murshidabad in south Bengal were allegedly heckled by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress when the hospital authorities refused to admit a block-level TMC leader in the hospital who had tested negative for Covid-19. “It is a Covid-19 designated hospital. The TMC leader had tested negative even though he was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). The doctors refused to admit him without an examination. He died later in the night,” said a senior doctor of the hospital. Hospital authorities alleged that dozens of TMC supporters came to the hospital to admit Mafijuddin Mondal, the party’s block president from Khargram. As the doctors and nurses were attending other critical patients, the TMC supporters entered the Covid-19 ward and started looking for a bed where Mondal could be admitted. “When a doctor objected, the TMC supporters started heckling him and tore his shirt. Later, some nurses and other hospital staff were also heckled when they tried to intervene,” said a hospital staff. A senior police officer said that four people had been detained on the basis of a complaint lodged by the hospital authorities. “Khalilur Rahaman, the ruling party’s member of parliament from Jangipur was also present. It is not desirable from an MP. Mondal was referred to the hospital as a SARI patient which means he was Covid-19 negative. But his supporters demanded an ICU bed,” said Sharmila Mallik, Superintendent of the Matri Sadan hospital in Berhampore. Rahaman, however, refused to comment: “I don’t want to comment on this.” Till Thursday, at least 13 people have died in Murshidabad from the Covid-19 infection and eight other people of the district have died outside Murshidabad from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-supporters-heckle-doctor-nurses-in-covid-19-hospital-in-bengal/story-hgOxwEliK0GcW0JW2QqlEO.html
13-08-2020||India||Ahead of opening of religious places, Srinagar administration sensitises 3,000 spiritual heads||Ahead of the reopening of religious places on August 16 in Jammu and Kashmir, the administration in Srinagar, the worst affected district by Covid-19, has sensitised over 3,000 religious leaders including Imams to about adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place to contain the spread of the pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Chaudhary said that they had a meeting with around 3,000 religious heads of different institutions and the imams of mosques to discuss the SOP with them.“Last week there was good interaction with them and the state government has already notified SOPs what needs to be done. I hope our religious leaders will lead the people as per the expectations and take a message to the people, besides following the SOPs for religious institutions,” he said.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had re-imposed lockdown restrictions in Srinagar from July 13 and rest of the valley from July 27 following a surge in Covid-19 cases. On August 4, the government announced that all religious places and places of worship would reopen from August 16 but detailed Covid-19 SOPs will have to be followed that includes no large gatherings and no touching of statues.“We had already removed lockdown completely from June 13 following which there was a sharp spike in cases from 400 to 4,500 cases in a month or so which prompted us to go for a 10-day lockdown,” said Chaudhary.Srinagar is the worst affected district with a tally of 6,577 cases and 163 deaths. The active cases in the district fel to 2,036 after 311 recovered Thursday.“The recovered cases in Srinagar are double than active cases which is a positive development. Experts are saying that the positive cases will keep on getting reported. It won’t show a quick downfall,” the DC said but asked people to take precautions.“People need to adopt precautions like masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. Regarding the compact gatherings at religious institutions, the way religious institutions are prepared I am hopeful that they will adopt SOPs,” he said.He said that they have also discussed the SOPs with the trade and business community about the opening after August 16.“The SOPs like opening 50 per cent shops should be adhered to. If there is no crowding like last time then I think there is no need to go for another lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-opening-of-religious-places-srinagar-administration-sensitises-3-000-spiritual-heads/story-wxAsDAMC8TUFWyQgixUE9N.html
13-08-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 11,813 new Covid-19 patients, 413 die, tally now over 5.6 lakh||With a single-day spike of 11,813 coronavirus patients in the state, the Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra on Thursday mounted to 5,60,126, the health department said.The death of 413 patients in the last 24 hours took the toll due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the state to 19,063. Maharashtra happens to be the worst-hit state in the country, reporting a large number of patients, ever since the outbreak of the viral disease in the country in March.On Thursday, 9,115 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals across the state, with the number of active cases being 1,49,798. Nearly 3,90,958 people have so far recovered from the highly infectious disease in Maharashtra.ALSO READ | Record single-day spike of 66,999 cases takes India’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 2.4 millionDespite being accused of low testing, the Maharashtra government has tested samples of 29,76,090 people till date to detect the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state.At least 381 personnel of the Maharashtra Police also tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday and three others succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said. With the three new fatalities, the Covid-19 death toll in the state police force has touched 124.Till date about 11,773 police personnel have contracted the deadly infection in Maharashtra while discharging their duties. A total of 9,416 policemen have also recovered from the disease, while 2,233 are currently undergoing treatment, the official said.ALSO READ| Maharashtra govt refuses to reopen temples in view of Covid-19 pandemicIndia, however, on Thursday posted the highest-ever recoveries of 56,383 patients in a single day. With this, the total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 have touched nearly 17 lakh (16,95,982) today. The country’s case fatality rate has also improved to 1.96%, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s data showed.But with a record single-day increase of 66,999 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 23,96,637 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the disease surged to 16,95,982, pushing the recovery rate to 70.77 per cent in the country, according to Union health ministry data.India crossed the 20-lakh mark in terms of Covid-19 patients on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 2,68,45,688 samples were tested in the country till August 12, including 8,30,391 on Wednesday, the highest number of tests performed in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-11-813-new-covid-19-patients-413-people-die-tally-now-over-5-6-lakh/story-D5CnL2fI7cEoimo5Esj16O.html
13-08-2020||India||Determined to work for people of Rajasthan, tweets Sachin Pilot after meeting with CM Ashok Gehlot||Shortly after Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Thursday that his government will seek a trust vote in the House assembly which begins Friday, his former deputy Sachin Pilot took to Twitter to announce that the Congress party determined to act in the interest of the people of the state.“Took part in the meeting of the Legislative Party today with fellow MLAs including Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot ji, organization general secretary KC Venugopal ji, Incharge Avinash Pandey ji and state president Govind Singh Dotasara ji. We are determined to act in the interest of the people of Rajasthan and in accordance with the promises made,” Pilot tweeted in Hindi.The return of Pilot and 18 of his supporters has come as a huge boost for the Congress that had been convulsed by infighting for more than a month.Gehlot and Pilot came face-to-face at the Congress Legislature Party meet on Thursday, underscoring that grievances of the dissident MLAs will be addressed and that the episode should now be buried for good.Pilot, who returned to Jaipur on Tuesday, had earlier expressed his gratitude to all for supporting him during his tenure as the state unit head for six years, said people present at the CLP meeting.Boosted by the return of the 19 rebel MLAs, Gehlot also short-circuited the BJP’s no-confidence motion move by announcing that his government will seek a trust vote in the assembly. Under the rules, if the CM moves a confidence motion, it overrides the no-confidence motion moved by any other member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/determined-to-work-for-people-of-rajasthan-tweets-sachin-pilot-after-meeting-with-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-kDAQUArT0UWmPYRkz5U1aM.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Private trains’ fares to not be regulated, operators to decide’: Railways||Fares for private trains that are scheduled to begin operation by 2023 will not be regulated by any authority and will be decided by the private concessionaire only, the ministry of railways has clarified in a corrigendum issued on private train operations.The national transport has informed firms that have evinced interest in plying private trains along more than 100 key routes that the fares for the trains will be market driven and would not require any approval from a regulatory body.Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd are among the 23 firms that have evinced interest in running private trains.“As mentioned, fares are not proposed to be regulated and Private Train Operators (PTOs) will have the flexibility to determine the fares. To address the inflation impact, PTO(s) may consider increasing the tariffs/ fares. However, it may be noted that PTO(s) would be operating in a competitive environment, and PTO(s) ability to increase tariffs/ fares may be constrained,” the ministry said in the corrigendum document of its request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains.The document has also advised the national carrier to clarify to prospective bidders that the project would not be under oversight of a regulator. Railways also stated in infrastructure projects Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects economic risks are generally assumed by the private partner as a “business risk.” “As per the envisaged structure for the Project, PTO(s) will have necessary operational flexibility to manage traffic demand, including selecting the product offering, determining fares to attract traffic etc,” it added.A pre-bid meeting was held by the ministry of railways on Wednesday with the firms. The private firms raised several queries regarding flexibility in clusters, eligibility criteria, bidding process, procurement of trains, fares, operations and maintenance, officials aware of the development said.One of the queries raised by a firm said: “As stated in the clause, it is clear that the fare will be decided by the concessionaire, but it is not clarified whether such an arrived fare will go through an adoption/approval from any authoritative/regulatory body.” The ministry responded by stating that the “fare will be market-driven and no approval is contemplated.”Railways had earlier indicated that a regulatory authority would be set up to review fares for private trains. In 2017, the NDA government first approved the setting up of the Rail Development Authority (RDA), to make “Pricing of services commensurate with costs, suggest measures for enhancement of Non Fare Revenue, protection of consumer interests, by ensuring quality of service and cost optimization, promoting competition, efficiency and economy”, among other things.To be clear, railway board chairman VK Yadav has stated that the ministry is planning to set up a regulatory authority in the near future. A feasibility study mentioned in the corrigendum also stated there is a possibility of a rail regulatory body being set up in India in the future “to regulate various entities and their functions.” The feasibility study in the report had advised the ministry to consider clarifying that the project would not be under oversight of the proposed regulator. “This would provide clarity/certainty to interested bidders. However, if MoR desires to have this project under the oversight of a regulator in future, provisions to this effect should be included,“ it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-trains-fares-to-not-be-regulated-operators-to-decide-railways/story-fTIRWPmedHhBne8eax79HP.html
13-08-2020||India||Murder convict who tested positive for Covid-19 nabbed after 11-day manhunt in Bengal||A murder convict serving a life term who escaped from custody 11-days ago after testing positive for Covid-19 was arrested from a dense forest in Bengal’s Darjeeling district on Thursday after a massive manhunt, police said. Bhim Rai (53) was sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering his wife in 2011. He was released on parole from Jalpaiguri central jail on July 24. After he showed symptoms, residents of the remote Lodhama village insisted that he undergo a Covid-19 test. The result on July 31 said he tested positive.He fled while being taken to a Covid hospital on the evening of August 2. A massive search operation was carried out by the West Bengal police and its counter insurgency force (CIF) and the forest department. Police used sniffer dogs and sought assistance from local people. The search was conducted in a 15 sq km dense forest in the Senchal wildlife west range. On Thursday morning, Rai was first spotted by a taxi driver in the Jorebungalow police station area. He informed the police and local residents. Though Rai was spotted by local people many times during the day in and around the Rangaroon forest no one dared to catch him as he had tested positive. A police constable involved in the search operation said, “Every time local youths went near him Rai pelted stones and escaped. He was running faster than the local youths.” “How can a Covid-19 patient, who was on the run for 11 days, could remain so strong? We were taken aback,” he added. Mingma Lepcha, officer in-charge of Jorebungalow police station, said, “Rai was finally caught in the evening from the Rangaroon forest range.” Teams of CIF, police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) dog squads, forest personnel, civil volunteers and local people got involved in the manhunt. Abhi Tamang, a local resident who was among the three youths who first reached near Rai, said “He was running faster than us and was pelting stones. He told us to go home.” Some officials said a shortage of PPEs delayed the operation. Only a handful of people were wearing PPEs. Rai was sent to Darjeeling district hospital for checkup. Those who nabbed him would be tested too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-convict-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-nabbed-after-11-day-manhunt-in-bengal/story-qO296yqhg0x7rQdWlI2iOI.html
13-08-2020||India||Hyderabad reports dip in Covid cases, rural areas in Telangana see spike||Even as the Telangana government has scaled up testing for Covid-19 in the recent past, there has been a steady decline in the number of positive cases within Greater Hyderabad limits while the rural areas have been reporting a spike in the number of cases. Official figures released by the Telangana medical and health department indicate that there has been more or less a consistent fall in the number of positive cases in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. The city, which reported 535 out of the total number of 2,092 positive cases for Covid-19 across Telangana on August 5, has registered only 298 positive cases out of the total number of 1931 cases in the state on August 12. Except on Tuesday, when the figure went up to 479, during the entire week, there had been a steady fall in the number of positive cases in the city. According to director of state medical and health G Srinivasa Rao, there has been a gradual fall in the number of positive cases in Greater Hyderabad due to effective containment measures. “We are hoping that the disease will be contained to a large extent in the city,” he said. However, Rao admitted that there was an increase in the number of positive cases in the districts surrounding Hyderabad like Medchal and Ranga Reddy, and also other parts of Telangana. “We are analysing the factors for this growth and shall take effective control measures,” he said. The officials suspect that the increase in the number of cases in the rural areas could be due to migration of workers from Hyderabad back to their rural areas in the last few weeks. “Moreover, testing facilities for Covid-19 in the districts have also been stepped up. Earlier, people used to come to Hyderabad for testing. Hence, more cases were reported in Hyderabad earlier and now, districts are reporting an increase in the number,” another official of the health department said. On an average, around 23,000 tests are being conducted in the state every day. Yet, the number of positive cases is not very high compared to many other states. The recovery rate in Telangana is 72.93 per cent, as against the national average of 70.37 per cent, the official said. As of Wednesday night, Telangana had recorded a cumulative number of 86,475 positive cases, of which only 22,736 are active cases and the overall number of recoveries is 63,074. So far, 665 people died of Covid-19, with the overall mortality rate being 0.76 per cent while the countrywide figure is 1.97 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-reports-dip-in-covid-cases-rural-areas-in-telangana-see-spike/story-lE3li7jSpetyPnwnCEWo7I.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Surveillance state’: Congress on Kerala tapping phones of Covid patients||With police collecting call detail records (CDR) of Covid-19 patients in Kerala, the opposition and legal experts questioned the legality of the move, saying it was an infringement on the right to privacy. The government, on its part, said it is for better tracking and surveillance of patients and that it was experimented in many places earlier also.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in pandemic situations such drastic steps will be needed but police will ensure that these records are not misused. He also said it was part of a scientific method to contain the spread of virus. But the opposition said in the name of records the government was trampling rights. “The government has violated the Supreme Court directive that collection of CDRs will be permitted only in serious criminal cases. It is planning to convert Kerala into a surveillance state. It is a violation of rights,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. He said chances are the CDRs will be misused and patients will have to bear more stigma and taboo. The Congress said it will move the court if the order was not withdrawn. Kerala police chief Loknath Behera on Wednesday issued a circular which said the ADGP Intelligence and ADGP headquarters will get in touch with all service providers to get CDRs of Covid patients. After this, their route maps will be prepared. There are also reports that some service providers declined to share details. “The right to privacy of an individual has been defined in detail in KS Puttaswamy v Union of India. The decision to retrieve CDRs is against the right to privacy. The government can’t breach individual rights like this,” said Supreme Court lawyer MR Abhilash, adding that unless it was for a criminal investigation or a matter of serious national security issue CDRs can’t be retrieved. But the CM justified it saying it was done for the sake of public health and safety. “We have experimented this in the worst –affected areas like Kasaragod earlier. Strict instructions were given to the police not to misuse these details,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveillance-state-congress-on-kerala-tapping-phones-of-covid-patients/story-haTF6ttrq8FQCmZZsRiECM.html
13-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Assam announces new Unlock rules with relaxations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam announces new Unlock rules with relaxations on night curfew, travel from Aug 16The Assam government on Thursday issued a fresh set of Unlock guidelines with relaxations on night curfew and inter-district movement. Read moreDon’t read too much into it, says Pak army on Gen Bajwa’s Saudi missionPakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa will soon travel to Saudi Arabia, a senior military official said on Thursday, confirming the visit that is seen as an effort by the Imran Khan government to mend ties with the kingdom is on the cards.Read more‘Lies, half-truths’: India rebuts Pak charges on J&K, China’s media blanks it outA Chinese state-controlled tabloid close to the ruling Communist party has refused to carry the Indian embassy’s response to an interview of Pakistani Ambassador where the diplomat repeated Islamabad’s “lies and half-truths” about J&K. Read moreEngland vs Pakistan: 10 years and 259 days later, Fawad Alam plays a Test match againWhen Pakistan announced its playing XI for the second Test match against England at Southampton, it brought an end to an almost 11-year long wait for Fawad Alam to represent his country in the longest format of the game. Read moreAmazon Alexa bug could have exposed your voice history to hackersThe good news is that Amazon fixed the bug as soon as it was reported. This means Alexa users can continue using their devices without any fear. Read moreKriti Sanon on Sushant Singh Rajput case: ‘I pray CBI takes over so it’s investigated without any political agendas’Actor Kriti Sanon wants the Central Bureau of Investigation to take over investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Kriti shared an Instagram Story on Thursday, hoping that the CBI takeover would mean that the investigation will be done free of political influence and agendas. Read more11-year-old Nigerian boy, Anthony Mmesoma Madu, captivates the world with his balletGracefully spinning among a group of dancers clad in pink, 11-year-old Anthony Mmesoma Madu stands out in black leggings, a white turtleneck and poise beyond his years. Read moreWatch | Will banning Chinese apps affect 5G in India? Ravi Shankar Prasad answersUnion Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad spoke on whether the banning of Chinese apps will affect 5G in India. Speaking with Hindustan Editor-in-Chief Shashi Shekhar in an exclusive interview, Prasad said there is a need to examine 5G in India as it is still evolving. “We have decided to allot 5G spectrum on a trial basis,” Prasad said. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-announces-new-unlock-rules-with-relaxations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v9RPzPXLAAwGEik4VMKINM.html
13-08-2020||India||Kerala tragedy: To probe deadliest air disaster in a decade, team of 5 set up by AAIB||The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the regulatory body in charge of the investigation into the worst air disaster in India in a decade that has claimed 18 lives including two pilots, on Thursday appointed a team of five investigators to lead the probe.The director general of regulatory body AAIB has appointed Capt SS Chahar, former designated examiner on B737NG, as the Investigator- in-Charge, according to an order issued by AAIB on Thursday. HT has reviewed a copy of the order.The Investigator-in-Charge will complete the inquiry and submit the report to AAIB preferably within five months from the date of issue of this order, it stated.He will be assisted by Operations Expert Ved Prakash; Senior Aircraft Maintenance Engineer -B737 Mukul Bhardwaj; Gp. Capt. (Dr.) Y S Dahiya, Aviation Medicine Expert and Jasbir Singh Larhga, Deputy Director AAB.“The Investigator-in-Charge may take the assistance of other experts/agencies whenever required. The headquarters of the investigation will be at New Delhi,” the order said.“Whereas Boeing 737-800 aircraft VT-AXH, of M/s Air India Express Ltd, while operating a scheduled flight from Dubai International Airport, UAE, met with an accident on August 7, 2020 during landing at Kozhikode International Airport. And, whereas the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), India desires as per its mandate to investigate and determine the probable causes) and contributory factor(s) leading to the accident and make recommendations to avoid recurrence of such accident in future,” the order said.“Now, in exercise of the powers conferred by the Rule 11 (1) of the Aircraft (Accident and Incidents Investigation) Rules 2017, the Director General-AAIB, India hereby orders an investigation into the said accident to find out the probable causes.”The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had announced last week that the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder were recovered from the crash site. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit and along with the flight data recorder, which logs data such as airspeed, altitude and fuel flow, it can help in determining the cause of the crash.The Boeing 737 jet, on a Vande Bharat mission as flight AIX 1344 from Dubai that was bringing in Indians who were stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic, met with an accident while landing at the Kozhikode airport in treacherous conditions on August 7, breaking into two — making it one of the deadliest commercial aviation disasters in the country in nearly 10 years.The crash occurred around 7.40pm and bore striking similarity to the 2010 Mangalore airport crash when a plane, also an Air India Express Boeing 737, overshot a table-top runway and crashed nose-first.The aviation regulator has also banned the use of wide-body aircraft during the monsoon at Kerala’s Calicut airport and decided to divert them to neighbouring airports during the monsoon season. The aviation regulator is also planning to conduct safety audits across airports in regions that receive high rainfall, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tragedy-to-probe-deadliest-air-disaster-in-a-decade-team-of-5-set-up-by-aaib/story-tAPxbSCx0lVH6WYduCRoyH.html
13-08-2020||India||Can’t doubt centrality of Saudi, says Pak army ahead of Gen Bajwa’s Riyadh mission||Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa will soon travel to Saudi Arabia, a senior military official said on Thursday, confirming the visit that is seen as an effort by the Imran Khan government to mend ties with the kingdom is on the cards.Major General Babar Iftikhar, the spokesperson for Pakistan’s military, insisted that Gen Bajwa’s visit was a pre-planned tour linked to “military-to-military relations” between the two countries.“There is no need to read too much into it,” he told reporters at his briefing, describing relations between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia as “historic, important and good”. “Nobody can doubt the centrality of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to islamic world,” the military spokesperson said in response to a question. A Reuters report quoting military officials said the visit will take place this weekend but there was no independent confirmation from Riyadh.The visit is widely seen as an effort by Islamabad to repair ties with Saudi Arabia that has been upset at the Imran Khan government badgering Riyadh to convene a meeting of foreign ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Conference to target India over Kashmir.Foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi crossed the red line last week when he asked OIC to “stop dilly-dallying” and set a deadline for the Saudi-led grouping of 57 Islamic countries. “If you cannot convene it, then I’ll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir and support the oppressed Kashmiris,” Shah Mahmood Qureshi told a Pakistani news channel last week.The remark did not go down well with the Saudi leadership which had made Pakistan pay back $1 billion two weeks ago, forcing Islamabad to borrow from China instead. The Saudis are yet to respond to Pakistan’s request for a $3.2bn oil credit facility, part of a $6.2bn package announced in 2018. Analysts have said that the Pakistan military leadership enjoys better relations with the Saudi leadership than the country’s political leaders.Saudi Arabia is also asking for another $1bn back, putting pressure on Pakistan’s fragile foreign exchange reserves. But the bigger blow would be if the Saudi government starts to send back the approximately 2.5 million Pakistanis who live and work in the Kingdom.If need be, officials have privately said that the Pakistan Foreign Minister may be removed from his position in a bid to normalise relations with the Saudi leadership.The Pakistan foreign minister has twice postponed his press conference to explain his remarks in a bid to placate Saudi Arabia, the last on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-read-too-much-into-it-says-pak-army-on-gen-bajwa-s-saudi-mission/story-NakBXSpAJc2539VBunUN8H.html
13-08-2020||India||Decomposed bodies of school teacher and son found hanging in MP’s Ujjain||Bhopal: A 45-year-old government school teacher and his 14-year-old son’s decomposed bodies were found hanging from a ceiling fan in their home on Thursday morning in Ujjain district, police said. The deceased were residents of Birlagram of Nagda tehsil of Ujjain district.Nagda police station in-charge SC Sharma said, “A milkman on Thursday morning informed the neighbours that Kanhaiyalal was not taking milk for the past three days and also foul smell was emanating from his house.” “The neighbours informed the police. When police broke open the door of the house, Kanhaiyalal and Ayush were found hanging from a ceiling fan with the same rope. Their bodies had started decomposing. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination,” said Sharma. Police said the man had two sons and a daughter. A few days ago, his wife had left with a son and the daughter for her parent’s home in Kota district of Rajasthan . Police are investigating the matter. “Prima facie, it looks like a case of suicide but we will be able to say anything on the incident only after the post mortem report,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decomposed-bodies-of-school-teacher-and-son-found-hanging-in-mp-s-ujjain/story-MXifdLJ6PPn46u4kKGpAZN.html
13-08-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot counters BJP, says will seek trust vote. House meets tomorrow||Bolstered by the return of 19 rebel MLAs, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot countered the BJP’s no-confidence motion move by announcing that his government will seek a trust vote in the House assembly. The session begins tomorrow.Per rules, if the CM moves a confidence motion, it overrides the no-confidence motion moved by any other member. HT had reported on Wednesday that CM Gehlot is likely to seek a trust vote despite the rebel legislators returning to the Congress as the move will give a breather of six months to the party to set its house in order, people familiar with the development said.The party thinks that a floor test is the only way to send across a message of unity after a tumultuous month marked by an intense tussle that triggered political uncertainty in the western state.The decision to seek bring in the trust vote was announced by Gehlot at the Congress legislature party meeting chaired by him.“We would have proved the majority without the 19 dissident MLAs but it would not have made us happy. Apne toh apne hote hai,” the CM said at the meeting, further underscoring the spirit of “forgive and forget”mantra, which he reiterated again today aimed at highlighting his accommodative stance.At the meeting, all MLAs raised their hands to show unity on the CM’s call to stay united.Earlier, Sachin Pilot had led a rebellion against Gehlot, seeking a change in the party’s leadership in Rajasthan. At the CLP meeting held at his residence, Gehlot urged Congress MLAs to forget the acrimony of the past month and move on.After the meeting, KC Venugopal, general secretary, said: “Everything went on well. Now, the Congress is united. We will fight against the BJP’s bad politics. Tomorrow in Vidhan Sabha Congress party will stand united and will fight out.”With 72 MLAs, the BJP does not have the numbers to challenge the Gehlot government on the floor of the House. The BJP, while the Congress’ internal feud was on full public display did not push for any trust vote, seems to have had a change of heart as the rebels returned home. Senior BJP leader and former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje said that the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government won’t last long. The decision to move the no-confidence motion was taken in a BJP legislature party meeting in the afternoon.After the meeting, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria told reporters that the motion of no confidence will be moved in the assembly session beginning Friday. He said the proposal was being finalised. “Coronavirus cases are on the rise and the law and order situation is badly deteriorating. Attempts were made to link those, who were arrested by the SOG (Special Operations Group) over allegations of conspiring to topple the government, with BJP but the government failed in this. We will mention all these issues in the proposal,” Kataria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-counters-bjp-says-will-seek-trust-vote-house-meets-tomorrow/story-Ngnrmnf8uNMpK2xlObGNiO.html
13-08-2020||India||Three-day old baby in Tripura dies after swab taken for Covid-19 test, govt orders probe||The Tripura government on Thursday ordered a departmental inquiry into the death of a three-day old baby boy at a hospital who died soon allegedly after his swab was taken for Covid-19 test. The inquiry order came a day after the baby’s parents accused doctors of being responsible for the death claiming that the baby was healthy till collection of swab samples for Covid-19 test. The baby underwent the test as his mother is also Covid-19 positive.The baby was born at state-run Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) Hospital on August 10 and he died on Wednesday allegedly after his swab samples were collected. “A three-member team has been formed to inquire into the death of the baby. The team will submit its report in the next three days. We will know the details about the case after getting their report,” said director of Health Department Dr. Subhasish Debbarma. He added that he was not aware of the baby’s Covid-19 test reports but said that his mother had tested positive. According to the baby’s mother and other relatives, the baby started bleeding from the nose after swab samples were collected from his nose. They claimed that the doctors on duty assured them that he would be alright but he died after sometime. Additional chief secretary SK Rakesh told reporters that the baby’s death was not related to collection of swab samples. But authorities were waiting for the autopsy report to know the cause of death. Earlier on August 2, a two-day old baby girl, also a Covid-19 positive, had died. Till now, 44 Covid-19 patients have died in Tripura while two died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-day-old-baby-in-tripura-dies-after-swab-taken-for-covid-19-test-govt-orders-probe/story-MVJD7Ag84cBLok7nOY5jFI.html
13-08-2020||India||Assam announces new Unlock rules with relaxations on night curfew, travel from Aug 16||The Assam government on Thursday issued a fresh set of Unlock guidelines with relaxations on night curfew and inter-district movement. According to an order issued by chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the fresh guidelines will come into force from 5:00 am on August 16 and will remain valid till 9:30 pm of August 31. “All permitted activities mentioned in our earlier orders shall continue to be allowed between 5:00 am and 9:00 pm between Monday and Friday. Restriction of one side of the street is withdrawn,” said the order. Earlier movement of individuals was prohibited from 6:00 pm to 6:00 am, but now the timing has been changed from 9:30 pm to 5:00 pm allowing more time to open businesses and movement of people. Inter-district movement of passenger vehicles and people, which was earlier allowed only on Mondays and Tuesdays, will now be allowed between Monday and Friday with vehicles plying with 50% capacity. City buses and other modes of public transport have been allowed to operate subject to maintenance of social distancing and 50% capacity. Weekend lockdown prohibiting movement of individuals at all times will continue to remain in place on Saturdays and Sundays. However, in view of Independence Day celebrations movement of individuals will be allowed on August 15 (Saturday) between 6:00 am and 5:00 pm subject to maintenance of Covid-19 protocols including social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing of face masks at public places. Like earlier, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and all other similar places of public gathering will remain closed. All social, political, sports, academic, entertainment, religious functions and all other large congregations shall remain banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-announces-new-unlock-rules-with-relaxations-on-night-curfew-travel-from-aug-16/story-TRS94E3wuhLlR1yb3aikxN.html
13-08-2020||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Governor visit Idukki district as landslide toll rises to 55||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday visited the landslide spot in Rajamalai in Idukki district even as the death toll in Friday’s tragedy climbed to 55. The district administration said 15 people are still missing and rescue teams are still looking for them. Both of them later met survivors of the deceased and the Chief Minister assured them that the government will do everything possible to alleviate their suffering. He said houses will be built for them and the government will bear education expenses of tea plantation workers living under trying conditions in settlements. “We will build houses for them. The Kannan Devan Hill Plantation Limited, where they are working, has also promised to help,” said the CM adding the government will improve infrastructure in the area. But the Congress said his visit was a big letdown. “We thought he will announce some package for them. He did not even raise the relief amount,” said Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose. There was a controversy over the delay in the CM’ visit and opposition parties also questioned disparities in relief amount in two different tragedies that occurred on the same day-- while the state government had announced Rs 10 lakh relief to victims of the air crash in Kozhikode, the landslide victims were given Rs 5 lakh each. But the CM later clarified that it was the initial relief and a package would be announced later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-governor-visit-idukki-district-as-landslide-toll-rises-to-55/story-LXrZjbmfAv1ptBPyu4N1TN.html
13-08-2020||India||Large parts of country likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during next 2-3 days: IMD||Large parts of the country are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next two-three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The IMD said a low pressure area has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts. There is also a monsoon trough plus a convergence of southwesterly winds with moisture from Arabian Sea is likely to continue during the next two days, which will lead to heavy rains over several parts of the country. Fairly widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places are very likely over major parts of north India -- Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan -- during the next two days and decrease thereafter, the IMD said. “Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours,” the IMD said.Several parts of western India are also expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall. This includes Gujarat, Goa, Konkan, the ghat areas of central Maharashtra, and parts of central India during next 4-5 days, the IMD said. “Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Gujarat state during next 2-3 days and over ghat areas of central Maharashtra during next 24 hours,” the IMD said.Fairly widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana during next 2-3 days, the IMD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/large-parts-of-country-likely-to-receive-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-during-next-2-3-days-imd/story-LHLRbi036ZCngLwaQ5MChI.html
13-08-2020||India||Bombay HC grants bail to juvenile sentenced for raping a minor on grounds that his future might be ruined||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has granted bail to a juvenile, who was tried by a sessions court for raping a minor and had been remanded to the Borstal School in Nashik, on the grounds that his future might be ruined in company of hardened criminals if he were to be sent to a regular prison after he turned 21. “It would be appropriate to suspend the sentence passed by the trial court in light of the tender age of the appellant and looking at the aspect that he will turn 21 soon,” said Justice Shrikant Kulkarni while granting bail to the resident of Maharashtra’s Nandurbar district. “If he is allowed to be remanded to prison (after he turns 21), there is every possibility that he may mix with hardened criminals and his future may be ruined,” the judge added. Though a juvenile at the time of the incident, the Nandurbar resident was tried by a sessions court, instead of the juvenile justice board (JJB) as is the norm. On February 14, 2019, an additional sessions judge at Nandurbar had convicted him under section 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Act, 2012. The juvenile was sentenced to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for the offence under the POCSO Act, 2012, and to three years jail term for the IPC offence, and was remanded to the Borstal School in Nashik. He had filed an application seeking bail during pendency of his appeal against the conviction, apprehending that he would be shifted to a regular prison after he turns 21. His lawyer pointed out that the juvenile would turn 21 soon, and it was necessary to suspend his sentence and release him on bail because of his tender age.The lawyer expressed apprehension that the juvenile would come in contact with hardened criminals, if he were to be shifted to a regular jail after he ceased to be a juvenile. Justice Kulkarni accepted the argument and ordered the juvenile to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 15,000 and a surety of the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-bail-to-juvenile-sentenced-for-raping-a-minor-on-grounds-that-his-future-might-be-ruined/story-WqdVH3PPp4qukt1cUSGoTM.html
13-08-2020||India||SC declines stay on merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress in Rajasthan||The Supreme Court, on Thursday, declined to stay a September 2019 decision by Rajasthan assembly Speaker, CP Joshi allowing merger of six MLAs elected on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket with the Congress party.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said that the issue regarding the validity of the Speaker’s decision is pending before a single-judge bench of Rajasthan high court and declined to grant interim relief to petitioner BJP MLA Madan Dilawar who sought disqualification of the six BSP MLAs for defection.“We are not inclined to grant any interim relief,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said.The top court adjourned the case for Monday after senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker said that the agenda for the Rajasthan assembly will be decided at 10 am on Friday and also submitted that the opposition is free to move a no confidence motion.“They have not moved a no-confidence motion. They can do that anytime,” he said.Senior counsel Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, asked for a stay on the Speaker’s decision stating that if a no confidence emotion ensues, then BSP and Congress party will issue whips and there will be uncertainty on whose whip will hold good with respect to the six MLAs.“If the Speaker’s decision is later struck down by high court, then the six MLAs, in order to escape disqualification, can claim that the Speaker’s decision was in force at the time when they voted (against the BSP party whip),” Salve said.“Court cannot pass orders based on what may or may not happen in the house,” Sibal responded.Madan Dilawar had moved the Rajasthan high court on July 28 seeking disqualification of the six former BSP MLAS on the ground of defection under 10th Schedule of the Constitution.The six MLAs, Lakhan Singh, Rajender Singh Guda, Deepchand, Joginder Singh Avana, Sandeep Kumar and Wajib Ali were elected to the Rajasthan assembly in December 2018 on BSP ticket. They later submitted a joint application to the Speaker intimating him of their unanimous decision to merge with the Congress party on September 16, 2019. The request was approved by the Speaker on September 18, 2019.This was challenged by Dilawar who filed a plea before Speaker in March 2020 for disqualification of the six MLAs on the ground of defection. The 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India contains provisions relating to disqualification of lawmakers for defection. One of the grounds for disqualification as per paragraph 2 of the 10th Schedule is voluntarily giving up membership of the political party on whose ticket the lawmaker was elected.The Speaker rejected Dilawar’s plea on July 22 after which he approached the high court challenging the decision. A single-judge bench of the high court issued notice to the Speaker on July 30 but declined to stay the decision. A division bench of the high court also declined to grant stay instead requesting the single judge bench to hear and dispose of the matter within one day.Dilawar then approached Supreme Court seeking a stay on the Speaker’s order.“When the Rajasthan high court is hearing the matter, how can we pass an order,” justice Mishra asked Salve.The hearing of the case will continue before the Rajasthan high court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-stay-on-merger-of-six-bsp-mlas-with-congress-in-rajasthan/story-aI75dxAWvraPv8auDaln5N.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Forget what happened’: Sachin Pilot among audience, Ashok Gehlot hits reset||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, three days after the truce deal with the rebel faction was achieved, came face-to-face with his former deputy Sachin Pilot at the Congress Legislature Party meet on Thursday, underscoring that grievances of the dissident MLAs will be addressed and that the episode should now be buried for good. “We all should forget whatever happened,” people familiar with the developments at the Congress meet told HT, as pictures emerged of the two leaders smiling and shaking hands before the key meet began. The CM further said that he will be seeking a trust vote. However, the BJP, suspecting a short-lived truce, has already announced that it will be moving a no confidence motion against the Gehlot government. “We would have proved the majority without the 19 dissident MLAs but it would not have made us happy. Apne toh apne hote hai,” the CM said, further underscoring the spirit of “forgive and forget”mantra, which he reiterated again today aimed at highlighting his accommodative stance. At the meeting, all MLAs raised their hands to show unity on the CM’s call to stay united. Sachin Pilot, who returned to the state on Wednesday, expressed his gratitude to all for supporting him during his tenure as the state unit head for six years, said people present at the meeting. State party chief Govind singh Dotasra said like the Britishers, the BJP tried to divide and rule but their conspiracy failed.After the meeting, KC Venugopal, general secretary, said: “Everything went on well. Now, the Congress is united. We will fight against the BJP’s bad politics. Tomorrow in Vidhan Sabha Congress party will stand united and will fight out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-welcomes-back-sachin-pilot-18-rebel-mlas-says-should-forget-whatever-happened/story-iwTANOnsXc1HWTWAhpfdAK.html
13-08-2020||India||Last doctor standing: Covid-19 pandemic pushes Indian hospital to brink||Guards armed with rifles escort Dr. Kumar Gaurav as he makes the rounds at his hospital on the banks of the Ganges River.The guards are there to protect him from the relatives of patients, including those suffering from Covid-19. The relatives keep barging into the wards, even the ICU, to stroke and feed their loved ones, often without wearing even the flimsiest of masks as barriers against the novel coronavirus.“If we stop them, they get angry,” he says. “They want to give homemade meals to their patients, and some even want to massage their patients. And they are taking the infections from our ICUs to the other people in the society.”He stops to tell the wife of a patient in the ICU she must leave. She obeys, only to return after a few minutes from another entrance.It’s the monsoon season, and the humidity is reaching unbearable levels. But the few air conditioners in the hospital aren’t working, and some relatives use hand fans to keep their loved ones cool in wards dirty with garbage and discarded protective equipment.It wasn’t supposed to be like this for Kumar.Nine years ago, the 42-year-old psychiatrist moved his family back to his hometown for a quieter life and better pay after three years in the Indian capital, New Delhi. He accepted a job as a medical professor and consultant psychiatrist at the 900-bed Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, named after India’s first prime minister. Life was uneventful but rewarding, spent teaching classes and visiting his psychiatry patients.Now, with some doctors struck down by the coronavirus and others refusing to work, he has been named the top official at the hospital, despite being one of its most junior consultants – and suffering from diabetes and hypertension, two risk factors for severe Covid-19.But he says he felt compelled to volunteer for the job.“A lot of my colleagues refused,” he says. “I had to take up the responsibility.”In April, as the pandemic struck here in the eastern state of Bihar, the hospital was selected as one of just four Covid-dedicated hospitals for a population of 100 million people – at least in theory.In practice, Kumar says the nearest hospital with proper critical-care facilities is around 200 kilometers (120 miles) away. And with proper healthcare in the surrounding rural areas difficult to find, general patients have nowhere else to go but his hospital.In June, Kumar says, the district administration instructed the hospital to treat uninfected patients, too.“In an ideal world, there should not be any non-Covid patients in this hospital,” Kumar says.The healthcare system in Bhagalpur, like many other parts of Bihar, is on the verge of collapse, he says.Interviews with dozens of staff, patients and relatives at the hospital paint a picture of conditions that might shock those accustomed to images of hermetically sealed ICUs during the pandemic, with relatives not even allowed to touch their dying loved ones.They tell of a chronic shortage of manpower and resources such as blood and medicines. All 37 beds in the ICU are occupied; on the floor next to one of the beds, a relative sits on a brightly colored blanket he has brought from home, a water bottle by his side.Kumar says he feels powerless to prevent the lapses in isolation of the Covid patients.“We don’t know who is positive and who is negative,” the psychiatrist says. “We don’t know their status and we cannot wait for them to be tested. They just need the treatment. We are the most vulnerable population.”Spokesmen for India’s federal government and the Bihar government, as well as several bureaucrats and ministers responsible for healthcare at federal and state level, didn’t respond to detailed requests for comment. Pranav Kumar, the top bureaucrat in Bhagalpur district, also didn’t respond to a request for comment.TROUBLED STATEAs infections slow in many other countries, India is still reporting more than 50,000 cases per day. Its total of more than 2 million cases trails only the United States and Brazil, and cases show no signs of slowing. Since the pandemic struck India, more than 46,000 people have died.Although India’s major cities, such as New Delhi and Mumbai – the first to be hit by the virus – have registered a decline in cases, numbers in second-tier cities and rural areas continue to rise.Bihar is India’s third-most-populous state; if it were a country, it would be the 14th-most-populous in the world.The state has a rich history, including the site where the Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment beneath the shade of a Bodhi tree.But today, Bihar has a reputation as one of India’s problem-plagued states.Based on indicators including infant nutrition, Bihar’s level of development has more in common with sub-Saharan Africa than India’s prosperous southern states. Almost half of children under 5 in the state are stunted from malnutrition, with more than four in 10 underweight for their age, according to federal data.Bihar also has the highest population growth in India, and one of the worst education systems, scoring poorly on indicators including adult literacy, the percentage of children attending school and exam results.The healthcare system was overburdened even before the pandemic struck. Dr. Sunil Kumar, the Bihar secretary of the Indian Medical Association – the main healthcare union in India – said more than half the doctors’ posts in the state are unfilled. That’s because many doctors don’t want to serve in rural areas, according to Bihar’s top court, which urged the state government to do more to fill the roles in a ruling in May.There have been around 87,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the state and 465 deaths – relatively small compared to other states. Given the low testing levels in the state, the numbers may be conservative. Still, Bihar’s healthcare system is already close to breaking point, unlike places such as New Delhi, which has had many more cases but enjoys better resources.The state government’s response to the outbreak has prompted public interest litigation asking that India’s federal government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, take over management of the pandemic here.One case, filed by local businessman Aditya Jalan, says “incalculable” lives will be lost if action isn’t taken soon, especially with the pandemic spreading into less developed and more rural areas.His petition cites a “complete breakdown of the public health infrastructure in the state of Bihar, including the lack of Covid-19 hospitals, the lack of hospital beds, the insufficient testing, the unsanitary quarantine centres, the lack of enforcement of social distancing measures, the insufficient medical personnel, [and] the failure to provide PPE to front-line workers.”India’s Supreme Court is due to hear the case Friday.The state’s healthcare problems are particularly stark in rural Bihar, where government infrastructure is even more rudimentary. In Ismailpur, a village an hour’s drive from Bhagalpur, the ongoing annual floods have cut off the main road to the highway. The floodwaters have reached the doorstep of the dilapidated primary health centre there, which caters to more than 52,000 people.There are no beds or oxygen cylinders, and a dog and her litter rest on the discarded PPE kits in the corner of the coronavirus testing hall.“It’s a very backward area,” says one of the two doctors in the center, Dr. Rakesh Ranjan. “People are scared to even get tested. We have to sometimes take police to get people tested.”HOSPITAL CHAOSPsychiatrist Kumar’s hospital backs onto the Ganges River, the holiest in India and swollen by the summer monsoon. Next to water buffalos bathing on the banks, private ambulance operators wash their vehicles with clanking buckets.On the approach road to the hospital, there is a huge pothole, and vehicles carrying patients often get stuck there. Outside the main doors, relatives sit with the bodies of their loved ones waiting for private ambulances to take them for burial or cremation.The workers who push the trolleys carrying incoming patients to the general emergency wards don’t know the history of the new arrivals, most of whom haven’t been tested yet for the virus. Often wearing only gloves as protective gear, the workers wheel them inside, take their oxygen levels and leave them on trolleys in the corridor, where some people are treated until they can find a bed.In the corridor, an exhausted woman rests her head on a wall as her husband’s blood sample is collected while he lies on a stretcher next to her. Inside one of the emergency wards, a woman drags her husband from a stretcher to his bed as their relative holds an IV bottle.Kumar tries to be visible, touring the wards to motivate patients and staff. But it’s a game of constant mental arithmetic. Patients expect to be seen by a senior doctor, but it isn’t always possible.“If I stand in front of a Covid patient for two minutes, and I see 20 patients, I have exposure for 40 minutes,” he says.With so few doctors, that kind of exposure is a risk he can’t often afford to take.Complaints from junior doctors are constant. During one meeting about a lack of medicines, Kumar promises them he will convince the government that more resources are needed. He later admits it will be difficult. Kumar weeps as he describes his worst moment since he took over, when a friend of his father who needs blood transfusions at regular intervals asked for help.“I had to say no, as we don’t have enough blood in the bank. We just have just a minimum for emergencies,” he says. He finds such refusals painful. “I don’t know how to say no to a patient.”COMING HOMEBorn in Bhagalpur, Kumar moved to the northern city of Chandigarh for his medical training, where he met his wife, Mili Jaswal, a psychologist.After marrying, the young couple moved to New Delhi, where they adopted a street dog, Faith.Kumar worked in a private hospital but couldn’t handle the culture.“Their orientation is how much financially you can give back to them,” he says. “It’s difficult for a doctor to work [like] this.”And so in 2011, Kumar, Mili and Faith boarded a train back to Bihar.“Financial security was a big factor, and I had my family here,” Kumar says.His 6-year-old daughter, Iti Swara, was born a few years later. He dotes on her.He recently had his two-bedroom government bungalow painted pink inside and out at her request. But these days, the hugs he gives his daughter each morning before he goes to work have changed. Now he has fear on his mind, not love.Mili worries that the long hours and stress of Kumar’s work are taking him away from their daughter.“When he is home, she wants to speak to him, but he can’t,” she says. “She wants to share her thoughts and play with him, but he is not able to.”Kumar watched cases in the district slowly rise over a number of months, but the call to take over the running of the hospital last month came suddenly. The previous hospital superintendent had tested positive for the virus, and to Kumar’s surprise, he says some of the more senior doctors refused the post. Attempts to get comment from the doctors were unsuccessful, but lower-ranking doctors at the hospital confirmed Kumar’s account, and an official letter from the previous superintendent cited one of the refusals.He thought about his extended family, whom he stopped visiting as the virus began to spread through the district. Who would run the hospital if they were admitted, if not him?“For the people of Bhagalpur and nearby districts, it was my responsibility,” he says. “That is why I raised my hand.”A PATIENT WAITSFear of the virus – and anger at the lack of resources – also haunts the patients and their relatives.One Sunday in July, Parsada Sah, a gaunt, 67-year-old shopkeeper, tested positive for the coronavirus in a village 50 kilometers from Bhagalpur. Sah, along with his wife, Vimla Devi, and son Manoj, reached the hospital in an ambulance that afternoon.Manoj showed his father’s positive test to the doctor on duty. He says he was told there were no beds in COVID wards, and was asked to find himself a bed in an already overcrowded 20-bed general emergency ward.“We were told that this is the only place we can have for now, as there is no space,” Manoj says. “We pleaded with them a lot. They told me that everyone wants a bed.”Even though they know he’s infected, the family goes inside the ward to feed Sah.“The staff just puts the food on the bed; they don’t feed anyone,” Manoj says. “If the patient can’t eat himself, he has to get someone to help.”Kumar says their concerns are genuine.“We don’t have separate staff for taking patients to washrooms or feed them,” he says. “The problem is, we don’t have enough human resources, from bottom to top.”BEARING WEIGHTEventually, almost a day later, a bed is found for Sah in the isolation ward. When he is moved, Sameer, a 22-year-old medical attendant sent to help with the transfer, hurriedly changes into his plastic overalls. Instead of protective goggles, he uses a pair of cheap sunglasses.He gestures to his overalls.“We only get these once we are moving positive patients from the general ward to a COVID ward.” Otherwise, he says, “we are the first people to receive a patient as they enter the gate, but we don’t have any protection.”After collecting an oxygen tank for the transfer, and fiddling with the cylinder for a few minutes inside the ward, Sameer and his colleague discover that it’s faulty. They take a new one, but the rusted trolley they mount it on barely moves. It screeches as the men try to drag it through the hospital corridors.The tube attached to Sah’s oxygen mask strains as Sameer tries to keep pace with the stretcher, with the man’s wife and son trailing behind.Eventually, the wheels of the trolley stop turning altogether. So Sameer hoists the hulking canister onto his shoulders, and bears the weight himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-doctor-standing-covid-19-pandemic-pushes-indian-hospital-to-brink/story-xObKeIJTKF2vkXSc1W2xzO.html
13-08-2020||India||No objection if SC transfers Sushant Singh Rajput’s case to CBI: Rhea Chakraborty||Actor Rhea Chakraborty told the Supreme Court on Thursday that she has no objection if it transfers the investigation into the death of her boyfriend and fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation in exercise of its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution.However, such transfer at the behest of Bihar police is wholly without jurisdiction, she maintained in her written submissions filed before the top court. Article 142 is a special power vested in the Supreme Court empowering it to pass orders to do complete justice in a case before it.“The petitioner (Rhea Chakraborty) has no objection if the transfer of investigation to CBI is done in exercise of powers conferred upon this court (Supreme Court) under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. Otherwise, the present transfer from Bihar Police to CBI as is done is totally without jurisdiction and contrary to law,” she said in her submissions.On August 11, the Supreme Court had reserved its verdict in Chakraborty’s plea seeking transfer of the case registered against her in connection with Rajput’s death, from Patna to Mumbai.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. The Mumbai Police found the cause of death as “asphyxia due to hanging”, and filed an accidental death report (ADR) but is yet to register an FIR in relation to the incident.Rajput’s father, KK Singh approached the Bihar police on July 25 accusing Rhea for abetting his son’s suicide. Chakraborty was in a live-in relationship with Rajput for a year till she shifted to her house on June 8.Patna police registered an FIR on July 25 based on Singh’s complaint for offences relating to abetment of suicide, cheating and criminal intimidation.Chakraborty moved the top court on July 29 challenging the jurisdiction of the Bihar police in the matter saying that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai and power to look into the matter is with Mumbai police.Meanwhile, CBI took over the probe on August 5 based on a request by the Bihar police.“FIR was registered by Bihar police based on an incident which has no connection with Patna. I have apprehension of bias and fear that state interference led to Bihar police registering a case. Patna police has absolutely no jurisdiction to register a case. This case is being used for political gains,” senior counsel Shyam Divan submitted on behalf of Chakraborty during the hearing on August 11.The court, while reserving its verdict, had given parties liberty to submit written submissions by Thursday.Chakraborty, in her written submissions, continued to maintain that Bihar police has no powers to investigate the matter and the transfer of the case to CBI by Bihar police is in violation of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act (DSPE Act).As per Section 6 of DSPE Act, consent of state government is necessary for CBI to exercise powers and jurisdiction in a case and the proper state government in this case is the Maharashtra government, she submitted.“Thus, the consent by the State of Bihar under Section 6 is bad in law and was given merely to render the present Petition infructuous (pointless),” she submitted.The Bihar government has consistently opposed Chakraborty’s plea stating that it was acting well within its powers because the Mumbai police had not registered any FIR or conducted any probe into the matter.“There is a complete lapse of investigation on part of Mumbai police. Bihar’s FIR is the only FIR in the matter. Allegation is against political class in Maharashtra which has stopped even registering of FIR,” the Bihar government maintained.The CBI and Rajput’s father had also supported the Bihar government’s stance which the Maharashtra government strongly contested stating that the incident happened in Mumbai and jurisdiction to probe the matter is with the Mumbai police.Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Maharashtra government, had contended on August 11 that allowing Bihar police to probe an incident which happened in Mumbai will be in the teeth of principles of federalism as per which law and order falls within the domain of a state where the cause of action arose.“Murder of the CrPc is being attempted in this case where jurisdiction is a casualty. If this is allowed, it will be a fundamental assault on federalism. I have not seen so much sensationalism attached to a transfer petition. And in that, truth and law have become casualties,” Singhvi argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-objection-if-sc-transfers-sushant-singh-rajput-s-case-to-cbi-rhea-chakraborty/story-4Rw5vtH9ihtZSH673G8kTK.html
13-08-2020||India||Delhi sees dip in Covid-19 count with 956 new patients, 14 deaths||Delhi added 956 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a dip from its earlier tally the day before, taking the coronavirus count in the city to 1,49, 460, while the death toll from the viral infection climbed to 4,167, the state health department data indicated.Fourteen deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, according to the latest medical bulletin.Currently, there are about 10,975 active coronavirus patients in the national capital, while the number of tests conducted on Thursday stood at 15,356. The active cases tally on Thursday rose to 10,975, from 10,946 the previous day. A day earlier, on Wednesday, Delhi had reported 1,113 new Covid-19 cases with 14 patients succumbing to the viral disease. Consecutive dips in the number of new coronavirus cases reported in the national capital over the past week has led to hopes that the capital may have been able to flatten the coronavirus curve. Delhi had witnessed a huge surge in Covid-19 cases in the months of June and July.On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 till date.Logging a record single-day increase of 66,999 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 23,96,637 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the disease surged to 16,95,982, pushing the recovery rate to 70.77 per cent in the country, according to Union health ministry data.The death toll due to the infectious disease mounted to 47,033 with 942 people succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed.In a positive trend, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the country has declined to 1.96 per cent.There are 6,53,622 active Covid-19 cases in the country presently, which account for 27.27 per cent of the country’s total viral caseload.India crossed the 20-lakh mark in terms of Covid-19 patients on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 2,68,45,688 samples were tested in the country till August 12, including 8,30,391 on Wednesday, the highest number of tests performed in a day.Of the 942 fresh deaths, 344 were reported from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 112 from Karnataka, 93 from Andhra Pradesh, 54 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 39 from Punjab, 18 from Gujarat, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Delhi and 11 each from Telangana and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-dip-in-covid-19-count-with-956-new-patients-14-deaths/story-VA9H8YN73pPWOlINA7EYBN.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Lies, half-truths’: India rebuts Pak charges on J&K, China’s media blanks it out||A Chinese state-controlled tabloid close to the ruling Communist party has refused to carry the Indian embassy’s response to an interview of Pakistani Ambassador where the diplomat repeated Islamabad’s “lies and half-truths” about J&K.Tweeting about the nationalistic Global Times tabloid refusing to carry the response, the Indian embassy said: “The Global Times @globaltimesnews declined to carry the Indian Embassy’s response to this interview.”The tabloid, which is affiliated to the Communist Party of China’s mouthpiece, the People’s Daily, did not give a reason for not carrying the Indian response to the interview.The Indian embassy had approached the tabloid to share its response on Kashmir but was told the tabloid will not run it; after having asked – and having received – the key points in India’s response.The refusal to carry New Delhi’s version of a sensitive issue in state-controlled media is in contrast to Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong’s wide access to media in India – he has written for mainstream newspapers, including Hindustan Times, and has been interviewed by the Press Trust of India, India’s largest news agency, on the border tension.Beijing and Islamabad are all-weather strategic allies and have close military ties.After being refused, the Indian embassy on Thursday tweeted the response originally meant for the tabloid as a rejoinder to Pakistani envoy Moin ul Haque’s interview.It was published under the headline ““Urgent actions on Jammu, Kashmir needed” last week, two days after August 5, one year of the abrogation of J&K’s special status.Haque, incidentally, was slated to serve as high commissioner to India but never took up the post because of New Delhi-Islamabad’s fraught ties in the past one year.The two-page response called out the unsubstantiated allegations made by Haque and said Pakistan’s Kashmir policy is a “rapacious campaign of cross-border terrorism”.“India’s concerted efforts to bring peace, stability and progress to J&K stand in stark contrast to Pakistan’s strategy, which is little more than a blatant and rapacious campaign of cross-border terrorism aimed at debilitating the region,” the embassy said.“It’s unprovoked ceasefire violations, numbering close to 3000 in the first seven months of 2020 alone, provide support for terrorist infiltration along the India-Pakistan Line of Control (LOC),” the Indian response added.The Indian embassy response pointed out that terrorists recruited, trained and armed by Pakistan have disturbed peace and order in J&K, with over 450 incidents of terrorist orchestrated violence taking place since August 2019, leading to several civilian casualties.“And it is in fact Pakistan that has repeatedly effected administrative and demographic changes in territories that it has occupied illegally and forcibly in J&K and Ladakh.”Terming the claims made by Haque to the Chinese state-controlled media outlet as “lies and half-truths”, the embassy wrote in its response: “Perhaps Ambassador Haque could consider holding up a mirror to his own “regime” and reflect on Pakistan’s own actions in the region before making ludicrous characterisations of the Indian government’s actions.”Besides levelling allegations, Haque told Global Times that Islamabad “…expects the global community to play the role of honest broker in the dispute and take concrete actions to ameliorate the sufferings of the Kashmiri people. We could only hope that the growing international condemnation would dissuade India’s fascist religious-nationalist regime from their illegal acts,” he said.On August 5, Pakistani media based in Beijing had raised the issue of the removal of Article 370 at a regular Chinese foreign ministry briefing.“China closely follows the situation in the Kashmir region. Our position is consistent and clear. This issue is a dispute left over from history between Pakistan and India. That is an objective fact established by UN Charter, security council resolutions and bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India. Any unilateral change to the status quo is illegal and invalid. This issue should be properly resolved peacefully through dialogue and consultation between the parties concerned,” spokesperson, Wang Wenbin had said.Wang had added that peaceful coexistence serves the fundamental interests of both and the common aspiration of the international community.“China hopes that they (India and Pakistan) can properly handle the differences through dialogue, improve relations and jointly safeguard peace, stability and development of both countries and the wider region,” Wang said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-state-media-blanks-out-india-s-response-to-pak-charges-on-kashmir/story-MfKefbfTibB6gWD19e1UVO.html
13-08-2020||India||At least 224 inmates of Bihar’s Araria district jail test positive for Covid-19||At least 224 inmates of Bihar’s Araria district jail have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, as authorities concede that the viral outbreak has gone out of control. The prisoners were found to be infected after they underwent rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests for SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, within the jail premises over the past two days, the officials said. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Araria district jail houses 706 inmates, of whom 600 underwent RAD tests in the past two days. The jail authorities are worried over the mass viral infection of the inmates. “RAD tests were conducted on the inmates on Tuesday and Wednesday and 42 and 182 tested Covid-19 positive, respectively,” said Dr MP Singh, civil surgeon, Araria district. Jailor Pramod Das said that the contagion has led the prison authorities to make alternative arrangements for new inmates. New male and female prisoners are being sent to Purnea Central Jail and Dalsinghsarai Jail in Samastipur district, respectively, Das said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Araria district jail’s staff and the rest of the prisoners would also undergo Covid-19 tests and the prison premises would be sanitised, the jailor added. Araria district authorities are at their wits’ end over the spike in Covid-19 cases amid the healthcare infrastructure woes. A senior doctor posted at Araria Sadar Hospital said that the bid to tackle the viral outbreak “has gone out of hand” as “the district is staring at a tough time in the days of come”. The district has reported 1,374 Covid-19 cases until Wednesday, included 616 active ones. In Bihar’s Seemanchal, comprising four districts – Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria – over 10,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported to date, including 3,000 active ones. In Bihar, an estimated 40,000 inmates are lodged in eight central jails, 32 district jails and 18 sub-jails against a sanctioned capacity of 45,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-at-least-224-inmates-of-araria-district-jail-test-positive-for-covid/story-CmQrYspFkLlXSRMQkRhDsN.html
13-08-2020||India||Air India pilots’ unions write to Hardeep Puri again for meeting over pay cuts||Two pilots’ unions - Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) and the Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) – wrote to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday requesting him to convene an urgent meeting over flight safety and working conditions of pilots of Air India, Air India Express and Alliance Air.The letter flagged the pilots’ pay cuts and said that flight safety and the working conditions of the pilots of Air India group companies cannot be seen in isolation in the background of the crash of an Air India Express flight in Kozhikode on August 7.“Pending the findings of the official investigations, may we highlight the fact that flight safety and the working conditions of the pilots of Air India group companies cannot be seen in isolation. The recently imposed policies implemented by the Air India Board imposing steep, disproportionate and retrospective pay cuts specifically targeting pilots across Air India as well as Air India Express and Alliance Air are one such example,” the letter said. It is the third time since July 27 that the pilots have sought a meeting with Puri. The two unions cautioned that burdening frontline workers with massive pay cuts to safeguard the senior management was “undesirable”.“Our pilots are constantly facing the challenges of Covid- 19, monsoon weather, ill designed Flight Duty Time Limitations (FDTL), several extensions and dispensations given by the DGCA. Trying to burden the frontline workers with massive pay cuts to safeguard the salaries and perks of senior management add an extra undesirable dimension to the equation.”The unions had earlier written to Puri on July 27 and August 1 seeking a meeting to discuss pay cuts which they say are unfair and discriminatory.“Aviation policy makers are creating a caustic work environment without any reproach or consequence. It is paramount that the safety of the travelling public is not compromised. In this you are our singular hope,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-unions-write-to-hardeep-puri-again-for-meeting-over-pay-cuts/story-WWzX8nANnGKdw10LdJLlxN.html
13-08-2020||India||PM Modi launches country’s first taxpayers’ charter promised in the budget||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled country’s first charter of taxpayers’ rights and duties and evoked a national appeal ahead of 74th Independence Day by asking citizens to introspect the fact that only 15 million in a population of 1.3 billion Indians actually pay income-tax.PM said taxation reforms in last six years are centred on three concepts -- seamless, painless and faceless – that have reduced complexities, cut tax rates and decreased number of litigations. It made the system more transparent, better compliant and trusting taxpayers, which helped in raising the number of income-tax return filers by 25 million. Currently, there are about 70 million income-tax returns filers.“This is a big increase. But we cannot ignore the fact that this [growth] is minuscule in a country of 130 crore. In such a large country, out of 130 crore only 1.5 crore friends deposit income-tax,” he said while launching the ‘Transparent Taxation- Honouring the Honest’ platform through video conferencing on Thursday. According to the finance ministry officials, the gap between total number of return filers (70 million) and actual taxpayers (15 million) is mainly because most of the people file zero tax returns.Also read: What is ‘faceless’ tax assessment? All you need to knowHe asked citizens to introspect and appealed those who could afford to pay tax. “Our introspection is necessary for ‘Atmnirbhar Bharat’ [Self-reliant India]... It’s 15 August after two days, remember those martyrs who sacrificed for Independence, then you will realise -- yes, I should also contribute something,” he said in Hindi.Experts said the taxation system is still complicated and intimidating that dissuades people to voluntarily come under its net. “The system of giving targets of revenue collection to officers must change,” said Daksha Bakshi, head of international tax at law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas.“We are yet to see measures for more tax payers to come forward. Perhaps measures of how people are going to be scrutinised on the basis of various information reports and transactions related data that the department has gathered needs to be made public for people to understand and assess the risk they face if they did not voluntarily come forward. Those who come forward voluntarily need to be pardoned for past lapses and not be persecuted,” she said.Also read: ‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says reforms will change how we pay taxesPM Modi said there is a remarkable change in the approach of the income-tax department, which is increasingly becoming taxpayer-friendly and the platform – ‘Honouring the Honest’ -- is the testimony. “This platform consists of major reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers’ charters. The faceless assessment and the taxpayers’ charter have been implemented from today, while the facility for faceless appeal will be available to the people of the country from 25 September, which is the birth anniversary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay ji,” he said.While technology-driven faceless assessment system aims to end overreach by officials, the charter defines rights and responsibilities of taxpayers. According to the charter, the income-tax department is committed to provide prompt, courteous and professional assistance to the taxpayer. “The department shall treat every taxpayer as honest unless there is a reason to believe otherwise,” the charter said.According to the charter, the income-tax department shall collect correct amount of tax, respect privacy of the taxpayer, maintain confidentiality, reduce cost of compliance and publish standard for service delivery in a periodic manner. It also expects taxpayers to honestly disclose information, respond in time, pay taxes in a timely manner and keep themselves aware of compliance obligations.In her budget speech on February 1, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had mentined about a taxpayer’s charter as part of ‘ease of living’. “We wish to enshrine in the statutes a ‘taxpayer charter’ through this budget. Our government would like to reassure taxpayers that we remain committed to taking measures so that our citizens are free from harassment of any kind,” she had said.The faceless tax assessment system is, however, not new. It was first proposed by the Prime Minister in 2017 and received its mention in the first budget of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 5, 2019. The system was subsequently launched on October 7, 2019. Under the system random selection of tax cases are done through artificial Intelligence and machine learning, with a reduced discretion or no human interface from the income-tax department.The objective of the faceless assessment is to completely eliminate physical contact between the taxpayer and the taxman to make tax administration objective, transparent and corruption free. The system works under National Assessment Center (NeAC) headquartered in Delhi and eight Regional Assessment Centers (ReAC) located in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.PM Modi said, “Now, the tax system is turning faceless, but it promises fairness and fearlessness to the taxpayer.” This will end the era of “jaan pehchan” (familiarity) in getting tax scrutiny and notices settled. He said faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers’ charter are making the taxation system “people-centric and public friendly”, and the proposed faceless appeal aims at ease of compliance.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president Uday Kotak said, “A policy-driven governance based on digital interface minimises grey areas, eliminates discretion and promotes transparency and certainty. The government’s strong governance agenda instils confidence among Indian industry and will empower the taxpayer, provide a transparent system and honour honest taxpayers.”Experts want the government, particularly to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to focus on immediate issues such as refunds and timely disposal of pending matters. “These [the platform] are significant announcements from an Indian taxation perspective. However, having said this, it is expected that an overhauling of the tax department is also on the way and it is expected that the tax authorities would also ensure their deliveries within time,” SR Patnaik, partner and head of taxation at law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas said.Sudhir Kapadia, national tax leader at consultancy firm EY India said the launch of the platform will go a long way in ensuring ease of tax compliance’ for law abiding taxpayers. “As an immediate relief, it would be highly desirable if CBDT instructs release of all pending refunds to companies as quite a few companies are left with no choice but to consider approaching courts to expedite their refunds in these pandemic induced stressful business environment.”Bakshi hoped that the charter will be implemented in letter and spirit. “A lot needs to be done to streamline the issues faced by non- residents who invest in India and who are partnering for business in India. They need to have tax certainty. Almost every transaction of large amount ends up in litigation. If India wants to benefit from China plus one policy, taxation of non residents needs to undergo fundamental change,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-country-s-first-taxpayers-charter-promised-in-the-budget/story-2OrX12N5QLdRLIDhG9rC4M.html
13-08-2020||India||Maharashtra govt announces toll-tax waiver for people heading towards Konkan region for annual Ganesh Utsav||The Maharashtra government on Thursday announced a toll-tax waiver, akin to previous years, for the public heading towards the Konkan region during the annual Ganesh Utsav in their private vehicles. Minister for Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) Eknath Shinde announced that the toll-tax waiver would kick in two days prior to the Ganesh Utsav, which would be celebrated from August 22, and the relief would be in place two days after the 10-day festival ends. Shinde held a meeting via video-conference – owing to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak – with the minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai and other state officials to finalise the toll-tax waiver. Motorists will have to go to their local police station and register their details, including name, address, vehicle owners’ name, vehicle registration number, and the date of journey in a bid to avail of the toll-tax waiver that will be granted by the issuance of a sticker. Every year, thousands of people, who belong to Maharashtra’s Konkan region, visit their villages and towns in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts for the Ganpati festival. People heading to Konkan either use the Mumbai-Goa highway (National Highway-66) or go via the Mumbai Pune Expressway, or Pune-Kolhapur highway, which is a toll stretch. The total toll tax from Mumbai to Konkan is estimated to be between Rs 500 and Rs 600, depending on the type of vehicle. Shinde tweeted after the meeting that like previous years the state government has decided to waive off the toll tax. “In light of the Covid-19 outbreak, those travelling to Konkan will need to produce a Covid-19 negative report and an e-pass to travel,” he tweeted. The state government has also pressed into service more Maharashtra State Transport Road Corporation (MRSTC) buses to ferry people to Konkan during the festival. Passengers travelling via MRSTC buses will not need an e-pass, but will mandatorily need to undergo a Covid-19 test 48 hours prior to their journey.Only those whose Covid-19 test results come negative will be allowed to travel, as per the guidelines of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-announces-toll-tax-waiver-for-people-heading-towards-konkan-region-for-annual-ganesh-utsav/story-Md9VMEnBm3bQy5dPurMCgO.html
13-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Never disputed Ashok Gehlot’s leadership, says Vishvendra Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gehlot is our leader, have never disputed his leadership: Vishvendra SinghVishvendra Singh, the former Rajasthan minister for tourism and a part of the 18 dissident Congress leaders, who had backed sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in his bitter power struggle against CM Ashok Gehlot, spoke to HT about the recent political high drama in the desert state. Read moreAli Fazal revisits childhood memories of healing days, thanks late Robin Williams for helping himChildhood traumas play an effective part in shaping our personalities and while many grow up with rough edges, Bollywood star Ali Fazal was lucky enough to find his healing in late comedian Robin Williams’ works. Read more‘Not up for the job’: Kamala Harris slams Trump in first speech as VP nomineeDemocratic Party’s Vice Presidential nominee Kamala Harris launched a scathing attack on US President Donald Trump. Read moreNASA tweets beautiful pictures of Mars. They may make you gasp in wonderMars, the fourth planet from the sun, has always been a source of curiosity for people. For years, scientific explorations have helped people on Earth to know more about the Red Planet. Read moreVirat Kohli said this on my face: Pakistan bowler Mohammad Irfan narrates how he shocked India captain with pacePakistan have always been blessed with top quality fast bowlers. Starting from Imran Khan to the likes of Mohammad Abbas today, there have been a clutch of pacers who have made life difficult for batsmen all over the globe. Read moreToyota to open bookings for its Vitara Brezza-based Urban Cruiser by end AugustToyota Kirloskar Motor is moving into top gear to drive in its Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza-based Urban Cruiser in India and informed on Thursay that bookings for the sub-compact SUV will open by the end of August. Read moreIPL 2020: Kings XI Punjab batsman Karun Nair recovers from Covid-19 - ReportKarun Nair, the only Indian batsman apart from Virender Sehwag to score a triple century in Test cricket, has recovered from Covid-19 after having tested positive for the coronavirus some time back. Read moreRandhir Kapoor on Kareena Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan’s second pregnancy: ‘Had been saying for so long Taimur needs a brother or sister’Actor Kareena Kapoor Khan’s father, Randhir Kapoor, has expressed his happiness at the news of her pregnancy. Kareena and her husband, Saif Ali Khan, on Wednesday confirmed that they were expecting their second child. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-never-disputed-ashok-gehlot-s-leadership-says-vishvendra-singh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ApyuvlmB3yEQF6Hu14EGuO.html
13-08-2020||India||Karnataka ex-CM Siddaramaiah discharged after testing Covid-19 negative||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah who was admitted at a private hospital in Bengaluru after testing positive for the Covid-19 infection has been discharged after being cured, his office said in a statement on Thursday.The former CM has been discharged after reports of the second test also came out negative, it said.Siddaramaiah was admitted to hospital on August 3 for an urinary infection and subsequently he also tested positive for the coronavirus infection. On the advice of his doctors, he will quarantine at home for one more week, the statement indicated.ALSO READ | Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tests positive for Covid-19The 72-year-old leader of the opposition in the Karnataka assembly has thanked doctors and medical staff who took care of him at the Manipal Hospital for the last ten days.He has also expressed his gratitude to the people of the state and political leaders, who wished him a speedy recovery.Siddaramaiah’s son and Congress MLA from Varuna Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah had also tested positive for the viral disease on August 7.ALSO READ | Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa recovers from Covid-19, discharged from hospitalKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa who was also under treatment for Covid-19 at the same hospital was discharged on Monday after recovery. He is currently under self-quarantine at home and is yet to resume work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-cm-siddaramaiah-discharged-from-hospital-after-testing-covid-19-negative/story-nZno69vcIA7fCQ0RfQDg9H.html
13-08-2020||India||BJP MP to table private members bill on organ donation||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi said on Thursday he will introduce a private member’s bill proposing to make it compulsory for adults to be registered as organ donors to promote cadaver donation, though the measure won’t be coercive. People who don’t wish to donate organs will have the right to get themselves off the donors’ register under the Lok Sabha member’s “Donation and Transplantation of Human Organ Bill, 2020”. The bill is aimed at reducing deaths that occur because of a shortage of organ donors. It proposes to make it compulsory for all citizens above 18 years of age to be registered as organ donors unless an objection notice has been filed by a person. “I have come across many people, especially those who are not economically well off, who lost family members because they could not receive an organ donation. There are about 40 odd countries with registers for voluntary donation and we should look at something similar,” Gandhi said. In the proposed bill, which can only be taken up when Parliament resumes functioning for the monsoon session, Gandhi has pointed out India has a shortage of organ donors and there is a huge gap between demand and supply of organs. “There is a need for 200,000 kidneys, 50,000 hearts and 50,000 livers for transplantation every year. Lack of strong policies to make organ donation compulsory leads to the death of over 500,000 people every year in India,” he said. Stressing the voluntary nature of the proposed bill, he said people will have the liberty of taking their names off the register at any given time, and the process and data will be confidential. Gandhi said the measures proposed in the bill could save between 3.5 and 4.5 million lives annually. Apart from life-saving organs, there is a huge demand for corneas for the visually impaired. Citing data from the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, Gandhi said organ donation in India is largely from living donors and the rate of organ donation from deceased is very low at 0.8 per million population, as compared to more than 30% in other countries. According to the Organ Retrieval Banking Organisation, only 22,500 people have registered for organ donation after death since 2010, and the total number of transplantations for all organs by living donors was 27,259, whereas the figure for cadavers was 1,448. “There will be a need to run an awareness campaign across the country, from the gram panchayat level upwards, so that people who are uninformed or uneducated can understand the idea behind the organ donation register,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-to-table-private-members-bill-on-organ-donation/story-OirnIptHaiE3ZYomFtAyZL.html
13-08-2020||India||Congress revokes suspension of 2 Rajasthan MLAs from Sachin Pilot camp ahead of key meet||Hours after Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot reiterated his “forgive and forget” mantra on Thursday with the rebels back in party fold, the Congress revoked the suspension of two MLAs who were suspended on July 17 following allegations that they were involved in a conspiracy to topple the state government.MLAs Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh were part of the rebel camp supporting former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.The suspension followed the leak of audio tapes with conversations allegedly between Bhanwar Lal Sharma, Sanjay Jain, an intermediary, and Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, which hinted at a conspiracy to bring down the government. “After a consultative discussion, the suspension of @INCRajasthan MLA Sh. Bhanwarlal Sharma ji and Sh. @vishvendrabtp ji is hereby revoked,” tweeted Avinahs Pande, Rajasthan Congress in-charge, shortly before the key Congress Legislature Party meet.Congress party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had told the media in July that the two MLAs would remain suspended until the veracity of the clips was ascertained. The move to revoke suspension follows the truce secured by Sachin Pilot with the Congress high command, ending his month-long rebellion against Gehlot. Speaking to HT, Vishvendra Singh, the former Rajasthan minister for tourism, said that the only thing rebels MLAs worried about was “self respect”, adding that they never disputed CM Gehlot’s leadership.“Our leader is Mrs. Sonia Gandhi. At the Centre, it is also Rahul Gandhiji and Priyanka Gandhji. At the state level, it is Mr. Gehlot since he is the CM and the head of the family … we have never disputed his leadership, neither has Mr. Pilot joined issue over it. Else, Mr. Pilot would not have settled for the deputy CM’s portfolio. Whoever the high command chooses is our leader,” said Vishvendra Singh. In another addition to the Rajasthan drama, the BJP announced late afternoon that it will move a no-confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot government in the special assembly session starting tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-revokes-suspension-of-2-rajasthan-mlas-from-sachin-pilot-camp-ahead-of-crucial-party-meet/story-0ddYxVCOJNmbTQj4k2CZkL.html
13-08-2020||India||BJP to move no-confidence motion in Rajasthan Assembly; Vasundhara Raje says ‘this govt won’t last long’||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje said on Thursday that the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government won’t last long.“This government won’t last long,” she said a day before the special session of Rajasthan Assembly begins, and three days after the Congress announced a truce between Gehlot and the rebel faction led by Sachin Pilot.Also Read: Ashok Gehlot could call for floor test despite the return of Sachin Pilot campLeader of the Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria also echoed similar sentiments. “The break in the Congress will end in some decision,” said Kataria adding that his party will move a no confidence motion in the House tomorrow.Also Watch: Did Ashok Gehlot win in the end? Sachin Pilot answers | Rajasthan crisis The BJP had called a legislature party meeting in the state Assembly at 9.30 am on Friday.Gehlot, meanwhile, has been striking conciliatory tone, saying whatever was the “misunderstanding” in the Congress party should be “forgiven and forgotten” for moving forward.“We have to put all our energies in this fight to save democracy with the spirit of forgive and forget and move forward,” Gehlot tweeted.The Rajasthan chief minister claimed a “very dangerous” game to undermine the democracy is going on in the country.The struggle of the Congress is to save democracy under the leadership of the party president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, he said.Though the party announced the end to month-long crisis three days ago, both Gehlot and Pilot have not met face-to-face.The political crisis ended after the intervention of top leaders, especially Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who met Pilot earlier this week.Pilot had openly rebelled against Gehlot last month along with 18 other Congress MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan chief.Ahead of the Assembly session beginning Friday, the dissidents MLAs have reached Jaipur. The MLAs in the Gehlot camp were on Wednesday flown back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, where they were together at another hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-move-no-confidence-motion-in-rajasthan-assembly-vasundhara-raje-says-this-govt-won-t-last-long/story-zVMJ2O45zHru4l0FGZ3XYI.html
13-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC hearing on BSP MLAs merger to continue on Friday||The hearing in the Rajasthan high court on the merger of six BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress party remained inconclusive on Thursday and will continue on Friday. Two petitions were filed by the BSP and BJP legislator Madan Dilawar seeking disqualification of the six MLAs who merged with the Congress in September 2019. Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for the assembly Speaker said Kapil Sibal argued on behalf of the Speaker.“His contention was that the petitions were premature. Only the Speaker can decide a disqualification application. Only if he rejects it, the courts have the power of judicial review under article 226 of the Constitution,” said Kasliwal.He said that the matter is likely to be decided on Friday.“Arguments could not be completed today so the hearing has been posted to 10.20am on Friday. Kapil Sibal concluded his argument today. He relied upon the point that anybody can file a petition before the Speaker for seeking disqualification of a member of legislative assembly,” Ashish Sharma, counsel for Dilawar, said. He added that advocate Siddarth Luthra who represented one of the BSP MLAs started his argument when the court’s time was over. The court functions for half day on Thursday. “If the court tomorrow gives order in our favour then also whatever is done in the legislative assembly will be subject to outcome and the proceedings will have to be amended accordingly,” Sharma said.On July 29, the BSP had filed a petition seeking disqualification of six MLAs. On July 30, a similar petition was filed by Dilawar, which was tagged with that of the BSP. The six BSP members who had merged with the ruling party are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli), Joginder Awana (Nadbai) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati). A session of the Rajasthan assembly is beginning on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-hearing-on-bsp-mlas-merger-to-continue-on-friday/story-iYrIq9Ouc0v5b7fStL4YYM.html
13-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Maharashtra didn’t lodge FIR due to political pressure, Bihar govt tells SC||Maharashtra Police neither registered an FIR on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide nor did it extend any support to Patna Police for investigating the case on “account of political pressure”, the Bihar government told the Supreme Court on Thursday.The Bihar government and Rhea Chakraborty, against whom an FIR has been filed in Patna for allegedly abetting Rajput’s suicide, have filed their written submissions in the top court on the actress’ plea seeking transfer of the FIR to Mumbai.Chakraborty said that transfer of investigation to the CBI at the behest of Bihar Police was without the state’s jurisdiction in the case. Rajput, 34, was found dead at his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police has been probing the case.The Bihar government, in its submission filed through its lawyer Keshav Mohan, said: “It is apparent that it is on account of political pressure in the State of Maharashtra that neither the FIR has been registered by the Mumbai Police nor did they extend any cooperation to Bihar Police in discharging their obligation to conduct investigation expeditiously.” The submission, settled by senior advocate Mainder Singh, said that nothing further is called for in the present Transfer Petition of Rhea and it deserved to be rejected or disposed of.“In the facts and circumstances of the present case, it is humbly submitted that no impediment would deserve to be allowed to come in the way of CBI to undertake and complete the investigation expeditiously,” the Bihar government said.On the other hand, Rhea submitted that Bihar had no jurisdiction to either to lodge an FIR or to transfer it.“It is submitted that the investigations in Bihar are totally illegal and such illegal proceedings cannot be transferred to CBI in the present manner by way of illegal executive orders. The Petitioner has no objection if the transfer of investigation to CBI is done in exercise of powers conferred upon this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. “Otherwise, the present transfer from Bihar Police to CBI as is done is totally without jurisdiction and contrary to law”.The apex court had on August 11 reserved its order on Chakraborty’s plea and asked the parties concerned to file their written submissions by Thursday.Rhea dealt with the legal provisions and said her transfer plea was maintainable.“Even on a reading of the FIR, no part of the offence has taken place in Bihar. Even the FIR alleges that all acts have happened only in Mumbai and as such Patna (Bihar) has only been mentioned owing to the Complainant’s residence being at Patna,” she said.“A plain reading of the subject FIR is clearly indicative of the fact that no such consequence of such alleged act has ensued within the State of Bihar,” she said.The maximum that may be done in such instance, is for the FIR to be registered as a “Zero FIR” and the same may be forwarded to the Police Station having jurisdiction over the matter, she said.The transfer of probe to CBI at the behest of Bihar police is “wholly without jurisdiction”, she said.However, the Bihar government referred to legal provisions and said that it had the jurisdiction as some of the consequences of the offence were there under its jurisdiction.It said: “The Mumbai Police had only been carrying out inquest proceedings u/s 174 / 175 CrPC...The proceedings are only for the purpose of ascertaining the “cause of death.“The proceedings come to an end on ascertaining the ‘cause of death’ and in any case, when the post-mortem report is received. In the present case, on receipt of the post-mortem report by Mumbai Police on June 25, the proceedings...came to a close.” Admittedly, no FIR has been registered by the Mumbai Police and hence it has not been carrying out any legal “investigation” as envisaged in law after receiving the postmortem report, it said.“This court had made observations regarding the said IPS Officer of Bihar police being incapacitated in the name of “quarantine’ – in the hearing... The State of Bihar had expected that the said IPS Officer would get relieved from “quarantine” immediately...” it said.It is a matter of anguish and pain that it had taken a time of almost 3 days for Maharashtra, which decided to relieve him only in the evening on August 7, it said.Rhea had tweeted to the Union Home Minister requesting for investigation by the CBI, the state government said, adding that now the CBI would be filing the report after investigating the case.It termed Rhea’s plea was not maintainable.On August 11, the Bihar government had the Supreme Court that “political clout” has not allowed Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in the Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide cas, even as the Maharashtra government maintained Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter.The FIR in Patna has been registered against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-maharashtra-didn-t-lodge-fir-due-to-political-pressure-bihar-govt-tells-sc/story-mYOwnuUVnf80bZiNQgHyJK.html
13-08-2020||India||121 fresh cases take Tripura’s Covid-19 tally to 6,621; death toll mounts to 44||Tripura’s Covid-19 tally rose to 6,621 with 121 fresh cases, while the death toll climbed to 44 as one patient succumbed to the disease, a health department official said on Thursday.The fatality was reported from West Tripura district, he said.“A 40-year-old man from Lefunga, about 25 km from here, was admitted to the Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) a few days ago. He died of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The patient was also suffering from liver disease,” the official said.With 121 new patients, the number of active cases in Tripura now stands at 1,647, while 4,912 people have recovered from the disease, he said.Eighteen patients have migrated to other states.Two members of Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s family, who were diagnosed with the disease earlier this month, have recovered, the official said.The chief minister had on Wednesday completed the seven-day quarantine at his residence, he said.The state government had eased the lockdown restrictions outside the containment zones from Wednesday and urged people to maintain the social distancing norms to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/121-fresh-cases-take-tripura-s-covid-19-tally-to-6-621-death-toll-mounts-to-44/story-ctTv0u9mANVzMt29Eu9SON.html
13-08-2020||India||At Gehlot-Pilot photo-op ahead of Cong meet, a handshake and a side-hug||The Rajasthan unit of the Congress party is meeting at chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s residence in Jaipur on Thursday ahead of the 200-member state assembly session slated to begin tomorrow. According to party leaders, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and other dissidents MLAs are attending the crucial Congress Legislature Party meeting. A senior leader on condition of anonymity said that the there was no plan to call a CLP meet before the assembly session commenced, but looking at the changed political scenario with the return of dissident MLAs to the fold, the meeting was called on Thursday evening, hours before the assembly session is scheduled to begin on Friday. “Legislative assembly is beginning on August 14, I hope that during the session, we will be able to openly discuss the situation of coronavirus crisis in the state and the financial conditions created after the lockdown. I am sure, there will be support from the ruling as well as opposition sides in providing good governance and this will give new confidence to the people in the state” the Rajasthan chief minister had tweeted earlier.ALSO READ | CM Ashok Gehlot repeats ‘forgive and forget’ mantra, twice in 2 daysAfter nearly a month-long political turmoil, which seems to be heading towards a truce now, Gehlot on Wednesday said that it is natural for the MLAs to be upset, and the “friends” who had left have now come back.He also stressed that whatever was the “misunderstanding” in the Congress party, should be “forgiven and forgotten” if the leaders were to move forward. He repeated the mantra for the second time on Thursday in an attempt to bury the political crisis, which had threatened to topple his government in the state. Gehlot, had been locked in a bitter power struggle with his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot for several weeks now.“Whatever misunderstanding occurred in the party in the last one month, we need to forgive and forget in the interest of the country, the state, the people and in the interest of democracy,” Gehlot said in a tweet.ALSO READ | Rajasthan truce sealed, Ashok Gehlot talks ‘peace, brotherhood’ in partyThe Congress crisis in Rajasthan ended with the intervention of the party top brass, chief Sonia Gandhi, senior leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who met rebel leader Sachin Pilot earlier this week.Pilot had openly rebelled against Gehlot last month along with 18 other Congress MLAs. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s Rajasthan unit chief.Earlier, the Rajasthan chief minister had also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to poach Congress legislators, in a bid to destabilize his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jaipur-clp-meeting-to-held-at-cm-gehlot-s-residence-today-ahead-of-assembly-session/story-Ril8jTgjgoKPd1uEw3QmJN.html
13-08-2020||India||12 more Covid-19 cases recorded in Meghalaya, tally 1,191||Three Air Force personnel are among the 12 people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Meghalaya on Thursday, pushing the tally in the northeastern state to 1,191, an official said.Thirty people were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recoveries to 547, the official said.Of the 12 fresh cases, 11, including the three Air Force personnel, are from East Khasi Hills district, and one in North Garo Hills district, he said.Meghalaya currently has 638 active cases 436 in East Khasi Hills, including 158 personnel of various armed forces, 83 in Ri-Bhoi, 82 in West Garo Hills, 16 in West Jaintia Hills, six each in East Jaintia Hills and North Garo Hills, three each in West Khasi Hills and South Garo Hills, two in South West Garo Hills, and one in South West Khasi Hills.A total of 42,084 samples have been examined for Covid-19 till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-more-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-meghalaya-tally-1-191/story-ILdMJEBJYHyzIBz9Q6x6dN.html
13-08-2020||India||IAF chief flies MiG-21, reviews operational readiness on western front||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria on Thursday flew Mig-21 Bison during a visit to a fighter squadron at a frontline airbase in Western Air Command.“The IAF chief flew a MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft during the visit where he interacted with the aircrew and reviewed the operational preparedness,” IAF officials said.Officials said the flying by the IAF chief in a MiG-21 indicates the high operational readiness of the force amid the tension with China in Eastern Ladakh over territorial issues.Bhadauria also reviewed the operational preparedness of the base.The IAF chief met the aircrew, combat crew from the squadrons and units stationed at the frontline base.Bhadauria, a test pilot, has flown the under-development HTT-40 basic trainer aircraft and the LCA Tejas after taking over to show his support for indigenous defence hardware and has backed several important DRDO projects also.Last month, Bhadauria went to Ambala to receive the batch of first five Rafale combat aircraft arriving from France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-flies-mig-21-reviews-operational-readiness-on-western-front/story-SgxhNYQDNe7dfwRHtewuKO.html
13-08-2020||India||Kerala court frames charges against rape-accused ex-Bishop Franco Mulakkal||A court here on Thursday framed charges against former Bishop of Jalandhar Diocese, Franco Mulakkal, in the case relating to rape of a nun in Kerala. The Additional Sessions Court Judge read out to Mulakkal, who was present in the court, the charges under various sections of the IPC including the punishment for offence for rape as it commenced trial proceedings in the sensational case.The accused denied the charges against him.The case was posted for September 16 for the victim’s examination.He has been charged under various sections of IPC including 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 377 (Unnatural Sex), 376 (c)(a) Sexual intercourse by person in authority 376(2)(k) (indulging in sexual intercourse by exhorting authority), and 506 (criminal intimidation). Last week, the Bishop was granted bail by the court with stringent conditions and directed him to be present on the dates of hearing of the case. The Supreme Court had directed Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by the nun belonging to a congregation under Jalandhar diocese, saying there was no merit in his petition. Mulakkal, in his plea had challenged the July 7 Kerala High Court order, dismissing his discharge plea in the rape case filed by the nun. The High Court had asked the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by a trial court in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district. In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the bishop during the period between 2014 and 2016. The bishop was arrested by the Special Investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-frames-charges-against-rape-accused-ex-bishop-franco-mulakkal/story-qgBaK9JdY1pCLmthIauOQK.html
13-08-2020||India||C’garh: Man held with brown sugar worth Rs1.46 crore in Mahasamund||The police have busted an inter-state drug-peddling racket, seized brown sugar worth Rs 1.46 crore, recovered an automatic pistol, two magazines from an employee of the Lokayukta office in Chhattisgarh’s Mahasamund district, who has been arrested, the officials said on Thursday. The arms and ammunition were recovered from the arrested accused’s possession, they added. “The arrested accused, identified as Shankar Lal Vaishnav, is a Group-D employee, who was posted at Lokayukta office in Raipur. He was arrested from Ghodari chowk on NH (national highway)-53 on Wednesday evening,” said Prafull Thakur, superintendent of police (SP), Mahasamund. Vaishnav, a native of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, stays at Kashiram Nagar, Raipur, the police said. He has been booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and the Arms Act, 1959, the police said, Vaishnav was allegedly looking for customers to sell the contraband drugs in Mahasamund, when the police arrested him. “Vaishnav was found to be carrying 730 grams of brown sugar on him, when he was arrested,” the SP said. “The brown sugar is suspected to be smuggled from Pakistan via Rajasthan. Another person is likely to be involved in the drug-smuggling racket. Vaishnav, too, has confessed to his Pakistan links,” the SP added. Chhattisgarh Police authorities, who are interrogating Vaishnav, will hand him over to the state’s Anti-terrorist Squad (ATS) for further investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/c-garh-man-held-with-brown-sugar-worth-rs1-46-crore-in-mahasamund/story-KsVFyVozH3LVpQ8ZlxbehN.html
13-08-2020||India||India unveils economic aid package for Maldives, including $500 mn connectivity project and cargo service||India on Thursday unveiled a $500-million package to help the Maldives build a connectivity project linking its capital Male with three islands, and provided $250 million as budgetary support to help the Indian Ocean archipelago cope with the Covid-19 crisis. A new cargo ferry service will be launched between the two countries, and people familiar with developments said this will help India replace other countries to become the Maldives’ top trade partner. An air travel bubble between the two sides will become operational from August 18, and India also renewed quotas for supplying essential commodities to the Maldives during 2020-21. The measures were announced during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Maldives counterpart Abdulla Shahid. Responding to a request from the Maldives, Jaishankar announced India’s decision to back the Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) through a package comprising a grant of $100 million and a new line of credit for $400 million. India’s total financial commitment in the Maldives is more than $2 billion, with all loan and grant projects being announced after President Ibrahim Solih came to power in November 2018 and put in place his “India first” policy, the people cited above said. Thursday’s announcements to help the Maldives came against the backdrop of concerted efforts by India to boost economic aid and connectivity with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. Last month, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh, reflecting a renewed focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. This came close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics and the first shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked northeastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port. India also announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework last month, and Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion is being considered by New Delhi. India earlier provided $400 million through an extended currency swap arrangement to the Maldives to tide over a liquidity shortage. Jaishankar noted on Thursday that GMCP will be the largest civilian infrastructure project in the Maldives, connecting Male with the islands of Villingili, Gulhifahu, where a port is being built under an Indian line of credit, and Thilafushi, where a new industrial zone is coming up. Male and the islands will be linked by a bridge-and-causeway link spanning 6.7km, and the people said the project will easily overshadow the 1.39-km Maldives-China Friendship Bridge, currently the most visible infrastructure project in Male, and help in demonstrating India’s overarching presence in the region. “Once completed, this landmark project will streamline connectivity between the four islands, thereby boosting economic activity, generating employment and promoting holistic urban development in the Male region,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Jaishankar recalled Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement in the Majlis, or Maldivian parliament, in June last year to start a ferry service between the two sides and announced that a direct cargo ferry service will begin shortly to enhance trade and connectivity and boost the economic partnership. The cargo service will “provide predictability in supplies for importers in Maldives and exporters in India” and reduce logistics costs and times, he said. An air travel bubble between India and the Maldives to facilitate the movement of people from both sides for employment, tourism and medical emergencies will also be created, Jaishankar said. “In keeping with our special ties, Maldives is the first neighbouring country with which an air bubble is being operationalised. The air bubble symbolises India’s support to shore up tourism arrivals and revenues in the Maldives,” the statement said. While fulfilling India’s commitment under the bilateral Trade Agreement of 1981, Jaishankar said New Delhi will renew quotas for supplying essential commodities, such as potatoes, onions, rice, wheat, flour, sugar, dal, eggs, and river sand and stone aggregates, to the Maldives for 2020-21. The quotas will assure food security and the supply of essential construction items, and provide certainty and price stability for these goods in the Maldives. Jaishankar said an in-principle decision has also been made to extend urgent financial assistance to the Maldives through a soft loan arrangement. The modalities for this are being finalised by the two sides. Jaishankar and Shahid took stock of bilateral relations and “noted with satisfaction that the Covid-19 pandemic has not been able to slow down the pace of bilateral cooperation”, the statement said. Jaishankar assured the government of Solih that India “stood by its close maritime neighbour and friend in difficult times”. The Maldives has been the largest beneficiary of India’s Covid-19-related assistance among neighbours. When the pandemic disrupted supply chains, India supplied essential food and construction materials to the Maldives, including 580 tonnes of food items gifted in May. Shahid expressed appreciation for the steps taken by India to meet the development priorities of his government. He described GMCP as a new milestone in bilateral ties that will “anchor the economic and industrial transformation of the Maldives”. Solih tweeted: “A landmark moment in Maldives-India cooperation today as we receive Indian assistance of USD250 million as budget support and USD500 million for the Greater Malé Connectivity Project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unveils-economic-aid-package-for-maldives-including-500-mn-connectivity-project-and-cargo-service/story-akbiRnuSd4hSzdsRHFZt9H.html
13-08-2020||India||Two UP cops hurt in mob attack in UP’s Kaushambi during raid to nab thieves||A sub inspector and a constable were injured when a four-member Uttar Pradesh police team came under attack during a raid to arrest two thieves in Kachhua village of Kaushambi district late Wednesday night, police said Thursday.The villagers surrounded the police team and snatched the sub inspector’s service pistol along and his mobile phone. Police rushed heavy reinforcement to rescue the team and admitted the injured cops to the hospital, they said. “Around a dozen people including the kin of the thief have been taken into custody and the looted pistol has been recovered from them. An FIR has been lodged against the assailants,” said Kaushambi’s superintendent of police Abhinandan.He also refuted rumours of the sub inspector succumbing to injuries in the hospital on Thursday morning.“Action will also be taken against those who spread rumours of the sub inspector’s death in the attack,” Abhinandan said.According to reports, a police team under sub inspector KR Singh carried out a raid at Kachhua village to arrest notorious thief Pintu and his brother Tinku after their names duo had cropped up in many recent incidents of thefts in the area.The police team was reportedly surrounded by a group of villagers including women soon after it entered the village. KR Singh and constable Dilip Singh were assaulted with bricks and rods. The mob also snatched the sub inspector’s service pistol and mobile phone. Circle Officer Ramveer Singh rushed to the village with heavy force and rescued the cops.A massive combing operation was launched and a dozen people including Pintu, Tinku, their mother and a few other family members were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-up-cops-hurt-in-mob-attack-in-up-s-kaushambi-during-raid-to-nab-thieves/story-IpoxZGMEho6zHH5mRVcjmL.html
13-08-2020||India||US universities play significant role in promoting Indian culture, says envoy||US ambassador to India Ken Juster has said that US universities have been playing a significant role in promoting Indian languages, culture and traditions.Delivering his remarks while inaugurating the US-India Museum Curation Workshop, Juster said that US-India cultural engagement is an important part of the bilateral relations.“The role of US universities in promoting Indian culture has also been significant. Many top US universities have innovative academic research programs on India and South Asia. Some of the most prominent US universities that focus on South Asian Studies include the University of Chicago, Duke, Harvard, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Wisconsin and Yale. Other US universities, such as Columbia, George Washington, Stanford and the University of Washington have been at the forefront of supporting Indian and South Asian Art History,” he said.“For more than 60 years, the American Institute of Indian Studies has contributed significantly to the promotion of Indian studies and culture, both in the US and within India, by supporting academic research, the learning of Indian languages, and the exploration of Indian culture and traditions. The US Department of State has consistently provided funding to the institute to support language study and other academic exchanges,” he added.“India’s Ministry of Culture has provided substantial support to the Institute’s Center for Art and Archaeology to set up the first online museum of India -- the Virtual Museum of Images and Sounds -- which makes its considerable archives accessible to the general public and scholars alike,” the Ambassador said.He stated that the foundation of the US-India relationship is the people-to-people ties and shared interests in promoting stability and prosperity in the India-Pacific region and beyond.“We now look forward to a new generation of Indian and US museum professionals working together and sharing best practices to ensure that museums continue to inform, to educate, and to entertain, thereby connecting the past with the present, as well as looking to the future,” Juster said.He said that the US embassy supported the first “All-India Museum Summit,” which was organised by the American Institute of Indian Studies in July last year.“The summit brought together American museum experts, who engaged with over 150 leading museum professionals, curators, directors, and conservationists from across thirteen states of India and from Bhutan to brainstorm on innovative ideas for re-imagining museums for the 21st century,” he noted.Juster said that the workshop represents “another building block in the arc of US-India cultural relations”.Later, the US envoy took to his Twitter and shared his experience in addressing the workshop.“It was a pleasure to address the US-India Museum Curation Workshop and share ways to strengthen collaboration between Indian and American museum professionals,” he said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-universities-play-significant-role-in-promoting-indian-culture-says-envoy/story-sVn8wVU130GENlNWVb8dvN.html
13-08-2020||India||TMC leader dons PPE to take man with Covid-19 symptoms to hospital||Wearing PPE, a TMC leader in West Bengal’s Jhargram district carried a man having Covid-like symptoms on a bike to the hospital after his family failed to arrange an ambulance.Satyakam Patnaik, the president of the Trinamool Congress’ youth wing in Gopiballavpur, said on Wednesday that he got to know from his party’s workers that Amal Barik (43), a migrant worker who recently returned to his village, was having a high fever over the last five-six days.However, the family could not arrange for an ambulance or a vehicle to take him to the hospital. Also, no one was coming forward to help the family, suspecting him to be infected by the coronavirus.“After getting to know about it, I was only thinking that how can we let a person suffer like this. I asked two- three party workers to arrange a bike and rushed to a pharmacy and bought the PPE. Then I went to his house in Sijua village on Monday,” Patnaik said.“Barik’s wife and his two children were tense about his condition. His wife repeatedly pleaded to go to the hospital with him. However, I convinced her and took him to the Gopiballavpur Superspeciality Hospital on the bike,” he added.The doctors there examined Barik, prescribed some medicines and asked him to stay at home.Patnaik then took Barik to his home, about 3 km away from the hospital.A video of Patnaik, riding the bike wearing a PPE, and carrying Barik to the hospital has gone viral on social media.“I want to stand with the people amid this pandemic. I have ordered four more personal protective equipment (PPE), in case I need it again,” Patnaik said.Former Lok Sabha member from Jhargram and TMC spokesperson Uma Soren said the party’s youth workers are always ready to help the people.“In case of any need, people should reach out to us and we will be there with them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-wears-ppe-takes-man-with-covid-19-symptoms-to-hospital/story-4ZEH2xaIAULRuXzV9gzxIK.html
13-08-2020||India||Self-reliance in defence sector far more crucial than any other field: Rajnath Singh||Self-reliance in the defence sector is far more crucial than any other field, said defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday.Singh made the remark while attending the ‘Atmanirbhrata Saptah’ celebrations via video conference here at South Block. “We should not only be able to ensure the fulfilment of our national interests but also be able to help other people in times of need. Self-reliance in the defence sector is far more crucial than any other field. For the last six days, you have been doing the important work of modernisation of facilities, upgradation of facilities and construction of new infrastructure, continuously moving towards ‘self-reliance’,” Singh said while addressing the participants via video conferencing.“Security is its first priority for the development of any nation. It is known to all of us that the nations, which are able to protect themselves, they have been able to build their strong image at the global level. We cannot depend on foreign governments, foreign suppliers and foreign defence products to meet our defence needs. It is not compatible with the objectives and feelings of a strong and ‘self-reliant India’,” Singh added.Defence minister lauded the efforts of defence public sector undertakings (PSUs) and Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to make India self-reliant.“The impressive list of new indigenous products, which have been launched today, I believe that defence undertakings and OFB will be the prime drivers of the ‘Self-Reliance Campaign’ and will contribute significantly to national security. I am happy to see the recently launched products, of which four products each by OFB and BEML, two by BEL and one each by HAL, BDL, MDL, GRSE and GSL were developed,” he said.“The products and facilities will help not only in defence but also for the betterment of civil society. The Electric Dump Truck launched by BEML and the Super Giant Mining Excavator are both designed and manufactured indigenously. It will also cater to the needs of Electric Dump Truck Mining Industries,” he added.As part of ‘Atmanirbhrata Saptah’ celebrations, various defence PSUs and OFB are also organising a series of webinars covering all relevant topics, including various stakeholders like industry experts, vendors and academia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliance-in-defence-sector-is-far-more-crucial-than-any-other-field-rajnath-singh/story-UtBWXtjeMTtQJjnXiDCc7K.html
13-08-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Assam state zoo welcomes Simba, Sultan and his sister||Assam State Zoo-cum-Botanical Garden in Guwahati has welcomed a lion and two tiger cubs that were born a week apart in May amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, but the news has been made public only now after the new-borns were found to be in good spirits. “The lion cub, a male, was born in early May and the two tiger cubs, a male, and a female, were born a week later,” said Tejas Mariswamy, divisional forest officer (DFO), Assam State Zoo. “The news of the births was not disclosed, earlier as we wanted to keep a tab on their health parameters before making it public. Now, all three cubs are in good spirits,” he added. Established in 1957 and spread over 175 hectares in the middle of Guwahati in the Hengrabari reserve forest, Assam state zoo, which has 1,040 wild animals and birds of 112 species, is the biggest zoological park in the north-east region. “The lion cub, which was born to Vicky and Rani, has been named Simba after the character in the movie Walt Disney musical drama, The Lion King. The tiger cubs were born to Dhanush and Kazi,” said Mariswamy. “The male tiger cub is named Sultan. However, we are yet to decide on Sultan’s sister’s name. We are looking for a name that children could relate to. All suggestions from the public are welcome,” he added. Though the zoo is a big attraction among the public in Guwahati and others across the north-east, it has been closed since March due to the viral outbreak. “We have been kept busy, even though the zoo is off-limits for the public. A male golden langur, a rare species, was also born during the lockdown period,” said Mariswamy. There is no immediate plan to reopen the zoo anytime soon, despite the fact that lockdown restrictions have been largely eased across the most-populous and Covid-19 worst-hit state in the north-east.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-assam-state-zoo-welcomes-simba-sultan-and-his-sister/story-mMECfJY4xhFx5yGAfiH1YN.html
13-08-2020||India||CM Ashok Gehlot repeats ‘forgive and forget’ mantra, twice in 2 days||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who now faces the arduous task to welcoming his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot, channelled the “forget and forgive” spirit on Thursday - for the second time in as many days - adding it is time to “move forward” and put a lid on the unsavoury rebellion in the state unit that threatened the survival of his government.Sachin Pilot, who secured a truce deal with Congress high command that also promised a panel to look into his grievances, is expected to meet CM Gehlot at a Congress Legislature Party meeting scheduled later today. “The struggle of Congress party is to SaveDemocracy under leadership of Smt SoniaGandhi ji & RahulGandhi ji. Whatever misunderstanding occurred in the party in last one month, we need to forgive & forget in the interest of country, state, ppl & in the interest of democracy. We have to put all our energies in this fight to save democracy with the spirit of forgive & forget and move forward,” tweeted CM Gehlot today. The tweet does indicate a softening of stance, as the CM had used particularly harsh words against his deputy, calling Pilot “nikkamma, nakkara” as the feud between the two intensified over the period of one month. On the other hand, Sachin Pilot only raised questions on the CM’s working style, and never got personal. Directly accused by the CM of being hand-in-glove with the BJP to topple his government, Pilot underscored that he is with the Congress and such statements are being made to tarnish his image. Pilot, who returned to Jaipur on Tuesday after ending his month-long rebellion, said he has not demanded any post from the party. Asked to comment on the jibes used by the CM, Pilot, in an interview to HT, said he was “deeply hurt by some of the language used against me”. On his meeting with CM, the 42-year-old leader said has nothing but only kind words to offer, adding there is no animosity, no ill-will, no negative sentiment towards CM Gehlot.On Wednesday, Gehlot said the resentment among the Congress lawmakers is natural about the rehabilitation of the 19 dissident party legislators, but he managed to placate the legislators as he explained to them that it was a bid to save democracy in the desert state. He asked them to forgive, forget and move on.Gehlot impressed upon the legislators that sometimes politicians have to take the rough with the smooth in the interests of the public and democracy.“Forget and forgive and move on in the interest of the country, the state, the people of the state and democracy. Democracy in under threat. This was a fight to save democracy, in which our MLAS gave their support,” Gehlot had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-ashok-gehlot-repeats-forgive-and-forget-mantra-twice-in-2-days/story-aohZDtS282nx22F0UdP2IO.html
13-08-2020||India||What is ‘faceless’ tax assessment? All you need to know||While launching a new tax scheme on Thursday to honour and encourage honest taxpayers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the platform for “Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest” offers big reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers charter. PM Modi said that the new tax reforms will change the way taxes have being paid in the country.“Faceless assessment and taxpayers charter come in force from today, whereas faceless appeal service will be available from September 25,” the prime minister said, adding that “faceless teams across India” will be checking IT returns and will redress grievances.The Income Tax department will adopt a ‘taxpayer charter’ which outlines the rights and responsibilities of both tax officers and taxpayers.Also Watch | ‘Tax system should be seamless, painless & faceless’: PM Modi  Also read: PM Modi unveils new tax reforms, will make taxpayers feel fearlessWhat is ‘Faceless Assessment & Faceless Appeal’ and how will you benefit?Find out here 👇🏼#HonoringTheHonest pic.twitter.com/K7fg2wyFjUShortly after the PM’s address on the occasion, Minister of State (MoS), Finance, Anurag Singh Thakur took to Twitter simplifying the ‘Faceless Assessment & Faceless Appeal’.Faceless appealsUnder the system, appeals will be randomly allotted to any officer in the country. The identity of the officer deciding the appeal will remain unknown. “These teams will be chosen randomly and can come from any city,” the prime minister said on Thursday. “Till now, all tax-related matters in a city are dealt with by the Income Tax department of that city. Now with the help of technology, scrutiny will be done by a randomly chosen IT officer anywhere in the country,” the PM added.Also read: ‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says reforms will change how we pay taxesUnder the system, the taxpayer will not be required to visit the income tax office or the officer and the appellate decision will be team-based and reviewed.Exceptions include serious frauds, major tax evasions, Black Money Act, Benami property. Faceless assessmentThe scheme aims to eliminate the interface between the taxpayer and the income tax department.Under the system, the selection of a taxpayer is possible only through systems using analytics and AI. The system abolishes territorial jurisdiction. A taxpayer may belong to a particular city but the assessment order the review and the finalisation will take place in different cities. Cases will be automatically allotted on a random basis. There will be no need for the taxpayer to visit the income tax office or the officer. The appellate decision will be team-based and reviewed.Any assessment, other than the exceptions outside the faceless scheme, will be invalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-tax-reforms-simplifying-faceless-assessment-and-appeals-benefits-to-taxpayers/story-MX4yfgK9m4fHopetw3AV1K.html
13-08-2020||India||67 Indian bank accounts under scanner over embezzlement fraud in Brazil frozen by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) informed the Delhi high court on Thursday that it froze 67 bank accounts of various Indian businessmen and companies in India on the request of Brazil, where a provincial governor is under investigation for embezzling funds.The ED has informed the court that it acted on mutual legal agreement between both countries but it hasn’t filed any case in the matter.The agency was responding to a plea filed by advocate Vijay Aggarwal on behalf of company Hamilton Housewares, whose account was frozen by the ED last month along with other individuals/companies.Hamilton Housewares Pvt Ltd deals in plastics, thermo steel, thermoware, ceramic ware and glassware under the brand name “Milton”. The company’s accounts was ordered to be frozen by the ED on July 13. The order further said that no withdrawals will be allowed without the permission of the agency.Aggarwal argued before the high court that the business of the company has been affected due to ED’s action and it is not able to perform its day-to-day business, both as regards to payments to be made and the orders to be performed.He further argued that the action has been taken when it is not even known whether a scheduled offence has been registered or not and that ED has not supplied to the company “reasons to believe” to freeze the bank account.The ED said that the action has been taken on request of Brazil and India is under obligation to act as there is a reciprocal agreement between the two countries. Brazilian authorities had requested India to freeze these 67 accounts in which funds linked to a provincial governor have been transferred.The agency claimed that Brazil provincial governor (whose name has been withheld by the ED) was involved in embezzlement of funds to over 50 countries, including India.Apart from Hamilton Housewares, accounts of eight more companies, namely JK Tyre, KP Sanghvi & Sons, Nancy Crafts Pvt Ltd, Bharat Fashion and Apparels, Eastman Industries Ltd, Orbit Exports Ltd, Shrenuj & Co and RSWM Ltd were frozen by the ED last month in Brazil probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/67-indian-bank-accounts-under-scanner-over-embezzlement-fraud-in-brazil-frozen-by-ed/story-tYzhpGVBWJWnGechqAzBeI.html
13-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi says reforms will change how we pay taxes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says reforms will change how we pay taxesPrime Minister Narendra Modi launched a new tax scheme on Thursday in a bid to honour and encourage honest taxpayers of the country. The platform for “Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest” was launched by PM Modi via video-conferencing. Read MoreMahant Nritya Gopaldas tests Covid-19 positive, shared stage with PM in AyodhyaShri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust chairperson Mahant Nritya Gopaldas has tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19. Read MoreFormer President Pranab Mukherjee in coma, vital parameters stable: HospitalFormer President Pranab Mukherjee is in a comatose state, but his vital parameters are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Thursday morning. Mukherjee’s condition remains unchanged and he continues to be on ventilatory support, it further said. Read MorePooja Bhatt defends Sadak 2 against backlash as she calls ‘lovers, haters two sides of same coin’Pooja Bhatt and Soni Razdan have reacted to the backlash against Sadak 2, directed by Mahesh Bhatt. The film’s trailer has received 4.5 million ‘dislikes’ on YouTube. Read MoreIPL 2020: CSK captain MS Dhoni undergoes Covid-19 test for upcoming seasonChennai Super Kings (CSK) captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni underwent a Covid-19 test on Wednesday for the upcoming season and his test report is expected to come up today. Read MoreMilan fashion week: Luxury brands to return to the runway in SeptemberAfter the coronavirus pushed many fashion houses to make online-only presentations in July, more than half of participating Milan fashion houses are making plans to present in-person previews for Spring-Summer 2021. Read MoreCovid -19 : Was 150 million Aarogya users’ data compromised?Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far and the recovery rate. She also speaks on procurement of vaccines, Aarogya Setu app’s vulnerability, masks and more. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-says-reforms-will-change-how-we-pay-taxes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MjUN1rkht8l9kMfkJd5m9K.html
13-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre distributes 30 million N95 masks, 12 million PPEs to states||From importing most of its personal protection equipment (PPE) requirements at the start of Covid-19 outbreak in January, India has moved to indigenously manufacture most of the 12.8 million PPE kits and 30 million N95 masks been distributed among states for healthcare workers. The Union health ministry said in a statement on Thursday that its main role for containing Covid-19 has been in strengthening health infrastructure to fight the pandemic and its effective management. “Along with augmenting Covid-19 facilities, the Union Government has been providing medical supplies free of cost to the State/UT governments to supplement their efforts. Most of the products supplied by Government of India were not being manufactured in the country in the beginning. The rising global demand due to the pandemic resulted in their scarce availability in the foreign markets,” it said. Also read| Covid-19: Crucial test in Mumbai slums brings focus on debate around herd immunityWith the combined efforts of the ministries of health, textiles and pharmaceuticals, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, the Defence Research and Development Organisation and others, domestic industry was encouraged and facilitated to make and supply essential equipment such as PPE kits, N95 masks, and ventilators. “Since March 11, 2020, the Union Government has distributed more than 3.04 crore N95 masks and more than 1.28 crore PPE kits to States/UTs/Central Institutions, free of cost…In addition, 22533 ‘Make in India’ ventilators have been delivered to various States/UTs/Central Institutions. The Centre is also ensuring their installation and commissioning,” the statement said. At least 108 million hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets were distributed as the anti-malaria drug is being given as a prophylactic to prevent infections, and also for treating early cases of Covid-19 that are mildly or pre-symptomatic. “From a handful of companies initially, the country now has at least about 50-odd domestic manufacturers who are into producing these essential supplies; and we are so comfortable placed in terms of meeting country’s demands that the supplies can now also be exported to other countries. Some automobile manufacturers have also shared their production lines in this hour of need to manufacture ventilators to manage seriously ill Covid-19 patients,” a senior health ministry official in the know of things said on condition of anonymity. Also read: Record single-day spike of 66,999 cases takes India’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 2.4 millionThe government is implementing stringent quality standards to ensure no substandard material makes its way into the market. “There are strict quality standards in place for medical items that need to be complied with. Products that do not meet the quality standards will not be accepted for procurement,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-distributes-30-million-n95-masks-12-million-ppes-to-states/story-SioiEMl0LYi0OqhCmq2ohO.html
13-08-2020||India||Ram Temple trust head who shared stage with PM in Ayodhya tests positive for Covid||Lucknow: Mahant Nritya Gopal Das (84), the chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, who tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Thursday morning in Mathura, where he had gone to preside over Krishna Janmashtami celebrations, has been shifted to Medanta Multi Super Speciality Hospital in Gurugram, Haryana; Sarvagya Ram Mishra, district magistrate (DM), Mathura, said. Das, who is also the chairman of Krishna Janmabhoomi Nyas, was staying at the Sitaram temple in Mathura. On Thursday morning, he was found to be suffering from breathlessness and a fever following which DM Mishra and Dr Sanjeev Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Mathura, reached the shrine to attend to him. “The Mahant tested Covid-19 positive following a rapid antigen detection (RAD) test. An advanced life-support-equipped ambulance was organised to shift him to Medanta Multi Speciality Hospital. In Mathura, he was attended to by CMO Dr Yadav and a team of doctors. Later, Mathura city magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh and the circle officer accompanied him to the hospital. The ambulance left Mathura for Gurugram at around 12:45 pm,” DM Mishra said.Earlier on Thursday morning, Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (ACS), (home), Uttar Pradesh (UP), informed media persons that Mahant Das has contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. “Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has tested Covid-19 positive. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has sought details of his health condition. The CM has spoken to DM Mathura and his followers,” said Awasthi. “The CM has also spoken to Dr. Naresh Trehan of Medanta Multi Super Speciality Hospital and requested for the Mahant’s immediate medical attention. He has also directed DM, Mathura, to provide support to ensure the best possible medical treatment for the Mahant,” he added. “Mahantji had not been keeping good health for the past five years, but he appeared to be in fine fettle, while attending the Janamasthmi celebrations on Wednesday evening. We came to know about his ill health on Thursday morning,” said Kapil Sharma, secretary, Shri Krishna Janambhoomi Seva Sansthan, Mathura. On August 5, Das had attended the bhoomi pujan for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He had also shared the stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and had addressed the gathering on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-trust-head-tests-covid-positive/story-YpQlUI6ax4PsDL1x2FbLyL.html
13-08-2020||India||SC allows Prashant Bhushan, Arun Shourie, N Ram to withdraw plea on contempt law||Union minister Arun Shourie, activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist N Ram withdrew their petition before the Supreme Court on Thursday challenging the law criminalising contempt of court.Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, who represented the petitioners, sought the permission of the court to withdraw the petition citing pendency of similar cases against Prashant Bhushan before the top court. “The issue is important. But since there are cases pending before your lordship entangled with this matter, we will approach at a later stage,” Rajeev Dhavan told a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra.The Supreme Court agreed but on the condition that the petitioners will not approach the Supreme Court at a later stage raising the same issue. The bench said that they could move the High Court later. Dhavan agreed and the court allowed him to withdraw the case.Ram, Bhushan and Shourie had challenged section 2(1)(c) of Contempt of Courts Act which criminalises publication of any matter that could scandalise or lower authority of courts. They contended that the provision is violative of freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution. The listing of the case had caused a major controversy because of pendency of two criminal contempt cases against one of the petitioners, Prashant Bhushan before a bench of Justice Arun Mishra. The petition by Ram, Shourie and Bhushan was, however, initially listed before a bench of justice DY Chandrachud.The Supreme Court then sought an explanation from registry officials on the ground that the fresh petition should have also been posted before Justice Arun Mishra since the three petitioners had sought a stay on proceedings against Bhushan in other contempt cases. Eventually, the matter was deleted from the bench of Justice Chandrachud and posted before Justice Arun Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-prashant-bhushan-arun-shourie-n-ram-to-withdraw-plea-on-contempt-law/story-GMs6TftDA4iYO6iUMvNhRN.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Fundamental reforms were needed in Indian tax system’: Top quotes from PM Modi’s announcement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled a new tax reform which aims at bringing transparency and honours the honest taxpayers.Aptly called ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring The Honest’, the platform is among a series of laws introduced by the government to simplify tax filing and help the taxpayers.PM Modi said the reform will instill a sense of fearlessness among the honest taxpayers who play an important role in national development.Here are the top quotes from PM Modi’s announcement:• This platform has big reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers charter. Faceless assessment & taxpayers charter come in force from today, whereas faceless appeal service will be available from September 25.• There was a time when there used to be a lot of talk about reforms. Sometimes decisions were taken out of compulsion or pressure and were called reforms. Due to this, the desired results could not be achieved. Now this thinking & approach, both have changed.• In the past 6 years, India has witnessed the evolution of a new governance model in tax administration. We have decreased - complexity, taxes, litigation, and increased - transparency, tax compliance, and trust on the taxpayer.• Our effort is that our tax system should be seamless, painless, faceless. This is yet another step towards our resolve to provide “minimum government, maximum governance”.• India among nations with lowest corporate tax.• Fundamental reforms were needed in Indian tax system. For us reform means it should be based on policy and be holistic.• Tax return scrutiny has been cut to one-fourth to 0.26 per cent of all returns filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fundamental-reforms-were-needed-in-indian-tax-system-top-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-announcement/story-y2APDVsFHSwTj7RIL0groO.html
13-08-2020||India||Highlights: PM Modi launches Transparent Taxation platform; says complexity decreased, transparency increased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a platform to honour and appreciate the honest taxpayers of the country. While addressing the launch of 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring The Honest' platform via video conferencing , the Prime Minister highlighted that the new platform would change the manner in which taxes have been paid in India.Here are the highlights from the Prime Minister’s address: 1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring The Honest' platform will introduce reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers charter. Faceless assessment and taxpayers charter will come into force from today whereas faceless appeal reform will be available from Sept 25. 2. PM Modi said honest taxpayers play a crucial role in national development. Prime Minister Modi during his virtual address highlighted that the honest taxpayers play a crucial role in national development. He mentioned that when the life of an honest taxpayer is simplified, he progresses which leads to progress of the nation too. 3.“In the earlier days, there used to be a lot of talk about reforms. Sometimes decisions were decisions were taken out of compulsion or pressure and were called reforms. Due to this, the desired results could not be achieved. Now both the thinking and approach have changed,” Prime Minister Modi said.4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his virtual address pointed out that in the last six years, the country has witnessed the evolution of a new governance model in tax administration. Complexity, tax, litigation decreased whereas transparency, tax compliance and trust on the taxpayer increased, he said. 5. “Out of all the tax returns in the year 2012-13, scrutiny of 0.94 per cent was done. In the year 2018-19, this figure has come down to 0.26 per cent. The scrutiny of cases has reduced by almost one fourth,” Prime Minister Modi said6. PM Modi said that India has one of the countries with the lowest corporate tax rates. In 2019, corporate tax rates went down from 30% to 22% and rates were further reduced to 15% for new manufacturing units. 7. Urging people to pay taxes due to them, the Prime Minister said that while it is the responsibility of tax officials to deal with taxpayers with dignity, people should also consider paying taxes as their responsibility. 8. PM Modi also pointed out that the number of taxpayers have increased by 2.5 crore after so many reforms, but this number is minimal in this country of 130 crore people. (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-modi-s-transparent-taxation-platform-will-reform-how-new-india-pays-its-taxes/story-vxTR2lFZ5Y1KVWmcXJKEOJ.html
13-08-2020||India||BJP boosts membership drive in poll-bound Bengal as TMC welcomes deserters||The Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday gave a fresh boost to its membership drive using new slogans and photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media while the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) focused on the return of turncoats who switched over to the saffron camp in the rural belts. Fifteen BJP leaders, including Union ministers of state (MoS) Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, several Lok Sabha members and national joint-general secretary Shivprakash, who is in charge of West Bengal, tweeted on Wednesday, highlighting different issues and asking people to join the BJP. The flurry of activity did not appear to be a routine one, political observers said. Following TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s July 21 call to deserters to return home, the TMC, in the last two weeks, managed to ensure defections in some pockets where the BJP has risen significantly since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which it won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. Also read: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee gets 2nd office as precaution amid Covid concernsThe BJP grew exponentially in north Bengal and won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019 while the Congress, despite its limited presence, bagged one seat. The BJP has also grown in the western districts of Purulia, Bankura and Midnapore where its popularity among tribal people, who comprise a big chunk of voters, pose a challenge to the TMC before the crucial 2021 assembly polls. The TMC lost the Purulia Lok Sabha seat to the BJP in 2019. The panchayat polls in Purulia were also marked by violence in 2018. The TMC also lost the Midnapore and Bishnupur (in Bankura district) Lok Sabha seats. The TMC on Wednesday announced that in Purulia district, the BJP’s former president and vice president of the Baghmundi unit joined the ruling party. Baghmundi is a tribal area. On August 9, Baliram Ekka, who unsuccessfully contested the Mal assembly seat for the BJP in north Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district, returned to the TMC along with his followers. “I was unhappy with the BJP ever since I joined it. Didi (Mamata Banerjee) did a lot for the welfare of local tea garden workers. I decided to return,” Ekka said. On the same day, Jaidev Purkait, a former CPI (M) leader from Canning in the South 24 Parganas district, joined the TMC along with some booth-level workers of the BJP. On August 3, Sandip Ekka, a BJP leader from Kalchini in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district joined the TMC along with the heads of six gram panchayats and eight BJP office-bearers. On July 31, Biswarup Ghosh, president of BJP’s Berhampore town unit in Murshidabad district and two local leaders from South Dinajpur district in north Bengal joined the TMC. The TMC announced these defections on social media, giving credit to the “able leadership” of the chief minister. The BJP state leadership says it is not giving any importance to these incidents. “TMC is desperate to project before the media that erosion has started in the BJP before the elections. The fact is that none of these people are heavyweight leaders. Moreover, if 50 people are returning to the TMC, 500 are joining the BJP to replace them. Our numbers are growing by leaps and bounds,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP national secretary. “None of these people returned to the TMC willingly. They faced threats and intimidation,” Sinha added. TMC veteran and minister of state (MoS) for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy alleged that the BJP central leadership’s “stepfather-like attitude” towards people of West Bengal disillusioned the turncoats. “Those who came back could not tolerate the BJP’s culture anymore. The defections have nothing to do with the coming elections. They would have left the BJP even if there was no election,” said Roy. Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay observed that the TMC has used the Covid-19 lockdown to engineer the exodus since the BJP leaders cannot work on the ground. “During a pandemic, a state’s ruling party will always enjoy some advantage. It is easier for TMC leaders and workers to work on the field. BJP leaders should be working at the grassroots level to stop this exodus but their movement is restricted,” said Bandopadhyay. TMC leaders said Banerjee is especially keen on getting youths and tribal people back from the BJP camp. On 9 August, chief minister Banerjee tweeted, “Today is #InternationalAdivasiDay. #Bengal Govt launched Jai Johar scheme to help our brothers & sisters belonging to scheduled tribes. We have also given recognition to Ol Chiki script & Santhali language as medium. We are committed to welfare of all sections of society.Jai Johar.” On Wednesday, she tweeted, “Today is #InternationalYouthDay. #GoWB is committed to empowering the youth. A new scheme ‘Karma Sathi Prakalpa’ was launched by #Bengal Govt. One lakh unemployed youth will be provided soft loans and subsidies to make them self-reliant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-boosts-membership-drive-in-poll-bound-bengal-as-tmc-welcomes-deserters/story-CY9TBZVJrk26RXM4aKEX4L.html
13-08-2020||India||PM Modi unveils new tax reforms, will make taxpayers feel fearless||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a platform to honour the honest taxpayers of the country. He said that it will be a new milestone in the structural reforms initiated by the government.“The ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring The Honest’ platform will bring in faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers’ charter. Faceless assessment & taxpayers charter come in force from today, whereas faceless appeal service will be available from September 25,” PM Modi said in his video conference address.“In the last six years, put focus has been banking the unbanked and securing the unsecured. Today, a new journey begins - honouring the honest,” he added.The prime minister said that the new reform will instill a sense of fearlessness among the honest taxpayers who play an important role in national development.“It strengthens our resolve of minimum government, maximum governance,” PM Modi said adding, “The emphasis is on making every rule-law, policy people-centric and public friendly. This is the use of the new governance model and the country is getting its results.”With the launch of this platform, the government has taken another step to make the lives of the taxpayers easier. Over the years, the income tax department has carried out several major reforms, including reduction in the corporate tax. The department had also abolished the dividend tax.It has also been focussing on simplification of direct tax laws and increasing transparency in communication.Similarly, to increase the ease of compliance for taxpayers, the IT department has moved forward with the prefilling of income tax returns to make compliance more convenient for individual taxpayers. Compliance norms for startups have also been simplified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-unveils-new-tax-reforms-says-it-will-make-taxpayers-feel-fearless/story-4FAuUT8y6PmvsctG7fgPfK.html
13-08-2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust chairperson Mahant Nritya Gopaldas tests Covid-19 positive, shared stage with PM in Ayodhya||Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust chairperson Mahant Nritya Gopaldas has tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.In a statement, the Uttar Pradesh government said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath took details of Mahant Gopaldas’ health status. The chief minister also spoke to the district magistrate of Mathura and to Dr Trehan of Medanta and requested for immediate medical attention for Mahantji at the hospital.“Mahant Nitya Gopaldasji’s condition is stable. He is being shifted to Medanta Hospital,” said Mathura district magistrate SR Mishra.Adityanath has directed the district magistrate to provide all possible support for providing best possible medical attention.Mahant Nritya Gopaldas was present at the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 and had shared stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He had said after the ceremony that the long wait for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya ended with the bhoomi pujan.In his address after the ground-breaking ceremony at Ram Janmabhoomi on Wednesday, the Mahant mentioned the speedy construction of the temple several times. He repeated this to Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the latter came to take his leave after the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-janmbhoomi-trust-chairperson-mahant-nritya-gopaldas-tests-covid-19-positive/story-fPwS8Rp5dHZ8EUP0U9pzGM.html
13-08-2020||India||‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says new reforms will change how we pay taxes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a new tax scheme on Thursday in a bid to honour and encourage honest taxpayers of the country. The platform for “Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest” was launched by PM Modi via video-conferencing. While addressing the event, the prime minister said that the new tax reforms will change the way taxes have being paid so far in the country. The prime minister said that the platform offers big reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers charter.  This platform has big reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers charter. Faceless assessment & taxpayers charter come in force from today, whereas faceless appeal service will be available from September 25: Prime Minister Narendra Narendra Modi https://t.co/ln10I7zbxk pic.twitter.com/VkqZCs6AUE“Faceless assessment and taxpayers charter come in force from today, whereas faceless appeal service will be available from September 25,” he added. PM Modi said that “faceless teams across India” will be checking IT returns and redress grievances. Also read: PM Modi unveils new tax reforms, says it will make taxpayers feel fearless“These teams will be chosen randomly and can come from any city,” the prime minister added. On the occasion, PM Modi lauded the country’s honest taxpayers and said they play a vital role in the nation-building process.  Taxpayers charter is also a big step in the country's development journey: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at launch of the platform for "Transparent Taxation – Honoring The Honest pic.twitter.com/MPSNiotDeB“When the life of an honest taxpayer of the country becomes easy, he moves forward, then the country also develops and moves forward,” he saidFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the prime minister’s vision is to empower the taxpayer and to provide a transparent system to honour honest taxpayers. “To realise this vision, the CBDT has given a framework and put in place this system,” Sitharaman said at the launch of the platform. A release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office said, “the focus of the tax reforms has been on reduction in tax rates and on simplification of direct tax laws. Several initiatives have been taken by the CBDT for bringing in efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the IT Department”.The launch of the platform for “ Transparent Taxation – Honoring the Honest “ by the Prime Minister will further carry forward the journey of direct tax reforms, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/painless-seamless-faceless-pm-modi-says-reforms-to-change-how-we-pay-taxes/story-aKOOBqfWvplgkK5Ic1RKFM.html
13-08-2020||India||Marching in mask: Full dress rehearsal of 74th Independence Day celebrations takes place amid Covid-19||With the 74th Independence Day just around the corner, various parts of the country, including the iconic Red Fort in the national capital, witnessed the full dress rehearsal of the event on Thursday. Although Covid-19 has been a dampener for most events and occasions this year, the spirits of the participating personnel in the full dress rehearsal events across the country soared high and in full enthusiasm for the event that is to take place on August 15.  #WATCH Full dress rehearsal at Red Fort today for 74th Independence Day celebrations pic.twitter.com/dNEXobRsueIn Delhi, the rehearsal took place amid the downpour. Visuals from the Red Fort exhibited personnel in mask, observing social distancing while marching in line to the tune of the band. In an Independence Day advisory issued last month, the government had pressed for the use of technology “in a best possible manner for the celebration befitting the occasion,” also directing to avoid large gatherings and congregation of people in large numbers. Jammu: Full dress rehearsal was held at Mini Stadium Parade Ground today for Independence Day celebrations pic.twitter.com/kCcRH8A4Gg“Performance of Police/Military bands may be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the Independence movement; and recorded versions thereof may be displayed through large screens/digital media, during public functions and on social media,” the release noted.This year’s Independence Day celebrations in the national capital shall consist of the ceremony at the Red Fort which will include the presentation of a Guard of Honour by the Armed Forces and the Delhi Police to the Prime Minister. Bhopal: Full dress rehearsal held at Motilal Nehru Stadium Parade Ground today for 74th Independence Day celebrations #MadhyaPradesh pic.twitter.com/14az0XsRngThe unfurling of the National Flag will take place as usual accompanied by the playing of the National Anthem and firing of 21-gun salute. The Prime Minister’s speech shall be followed by the singing of the National Anthem and the release of tricoloured balloons towards the end. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marching-in-mask-full-dress-rehearsal-of-74th-independence-day-celebrations-takes-place-amid-covid-19/story-YJOc8KfWiRecarDI3sIEfI.html
13-08-2020||India||Write names of drugs and dosages in capital letters, Odisha HC advises doctors||Bhubaneswar: Orissa high court (HC) has advised doctors working in the state’s government-run hospitals and private healthcare facilities to write the name of drugs in capital letters or in a legible manner that will help in easily deciphering them, their doses, strength, and also the frequency of use. HC made the observation while disposing of a bail application of Krushna Pada Mandal, who is accused in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, case. Justice SK Panigrahi observed that the physician community at large must walk an extra mile and make conscious efforts to write prescriptions in good handwriting, preferably in capital letters. “While there could be some good justifications for sloppy handwriting (by doctors) due to heavy work pressure, long working hours, writer’s cramp and due to adverse the patient-doctor ratio in the country at large and also in Odisha, the medical professionals should protect themselves by exercising this basic care and caution from the looming threat of allegations of medical negligence. Perhaps, the capital letters could ensure proper visibility to the prescriptions and will remove the guesswork and related inconveniences. The digital era could also throw open several options to make prescriptions and the diagnosis more patient-friendly,” Justice Panigrahi said while granting bail to the accused in the NDPS case. Mandal, who is lodged in a jail in Berhampur, had filed a bail application seeking release to take care of his wife, who is suffering from gynecological, cardio-vascular and haematological complications. Mandal had applied for an interim bail to get her treated, as she lives alone in Berhampur town in Ganjam district. However, during the verification of the medical documents of Mandal’s wife, the court found the handwriting of a doctor’s prescription to be illegible. “The documents were far beyond the comprehension of any common man or even for the court. Such illegible handwriting in medical records has the propensity to have adverse medico-legal implications,” the order said. HC also referred to the circular, issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) in September 2016, which had said every physician should prescribe drugs with generic names and preferably in capital letters and ordered the chief secretary of Odisha to examine the feasibility of issuing appropriate circulars to implement the Council’s circular. “The objective of such notification is that writing names of medicine in capital letters ensures that doctors, who have poor running handwriting, can compensate for their deficiency by writing in capital letters. Appropriate steps may be taken to create awareness among the medical professionals, involved in medico-legal cases, to record their observations and comments in a legible manner,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/write-names-of-drugs-and-dosages-in-capital-letters-orissa-hc-advises-doctors/story-eoKHgfYGnZO74WBuhuQnfI.html
13-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Crucial test in Mumbai slums brings focus on debate around herd immunity||As Mumbai’s civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, gets ready to conduct the second round of serological survey, experts are divided over whether the residents of the city’s slums are approaching herd immunity for coronavirus disease, Covid-19. In the first sero survey conducted in July, BMC found that a total of 57% individuals from the city’s slums and 16% from other residential areas in three wards were exposed to Sars-CoV-2 and recovered silently owing to the antibodies produced. Individuals in both these groups were asymptomatic. In the second survey, authorities will check if the presence of antibodies has declined or increased in the same set of people that were part of the first survey.According to experts, the march of an infectious disease such as Covid-19 can be halted only when there is a large enough proportion of the population that is immune to it – a threshold known as herd immunity. Besides a vaccine, the only way people become immune is if they have had the disease and recovered.Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of National Institute of Epidemiology, believes that Mumbai’s slums may have acquired herd immunity. “Mumbai’s slums may have reached herd immunity,” said Muliyil according to a Bloomberg report quoted in a CNN article. “If people in Mumbai want a safe place to avoid infection, they should probably go there.”However, some other scientists are more cautious. The CNN article quoted David Dowdy, an associate professor in epidemiology at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, as saying it was possible that the researchers had used a test that created false positives.The article also quoted Om Shrivastav, a Mumbai-based infectious diseases expert, as saying that with less than eight months into the virus’ existence in society, it was too early to make any “decisive and conclusive statements”India’s health ministry has also said that herd immunity is “far away” for the Indian population. “In a country with the size of the population like India, herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or option. It can only be an outcome, and that too at a very high cost as it means lakhs of people would have to be infected, get hospitalised and many would die in the process,” Rajesh Bhushan, the officer on special duty, health ministry, said last month.David Dowdy, too, says that millions of people will die in the process of developing herd immunity in a population.“We could very rapidly develop a population immunity to the coronavirus simply by exposing every single person in the population to the disease ... it’s just that millions and millions of people are going to die in the process,” Dowdy was quoted as saying in the CNN article. Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 1,132 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 126,356. Mumbai also recorded 50 new fatalities, pushing the toll to 6,943, while also crossing the 1 lakh mark in recoveries on Wednesday. Now, the city has 19,047 active cases.India saw its Covid-19 tally jump by 66,999 new cases - highest single-day spike - on Thursday which pushed the number of cases to nearly 2.4 million.The country recorded 942 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll due to the disease to 47,033.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/57-mumbai-slums-residents-found-covid-19-positive-experts-divided-on-herd-immunity/story-IzFXUx8mYapbIUeiuDrDXO.html
13-08-2020||India||Aim to speed up J-K’s development without discrimination: L-G Sinha||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha on Wednesday said that the government’s aim is to give pace to the development of Jammu and Kashmir without any discrimination.Sinha was speaking at a function organised by the administration to honour representatives of local bodies of Jammu and Kashmir for their good work in governance and also Covid-19 warriors for their efforts in handling the pandemic.“The development of Jammu and Kashmir should be lent pace without any discrimination and this is one of our commitments. This has been reiterated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our aim is not to do politics but it is to integrate the soul of Jammu and Kashmir with the country,” Sinha said.Stating that democracy has strengthened in Jammu and Kashmir, he said: “I expect that the Central government would take a decision regarding the three-tier Panchayati Raj structure soon. Transparency in governance is expected. Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee talked of ‘jamhooriyat, insaniyat and Kashmiriyat. The entire country is looking at Jammu and Kashmir with hope,” he said.The Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir appealed to the local body representative to buckle up in their duty to address the challenges arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.“I appeal to you to raise awareness about Covid-19 among people to ward off this crisis. Our belief is that the welfare of the poor is much more important than following any religion of the world,” he said.He recited a couplet of poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz, urging people to commit themselves to their duties and progress forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-speed-up-j-k-s-development-without-discrimination-l-g-sinha/story-LxkFiPVxs2gQoplEe9pmeP.html
13-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee is alive, haemodynamically stable: Son, daughter refute rumours||Dismissing “speculation” and “fake news” regarding the health of Pranab Mukherjee, his son Abhijit Mukherjee on Thursday said that the former President is still alive and “haemodynamically” stable. He alleged that fake news is being circulated by reputed journalists on social media regarding his father’s death. “My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable ! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News,” Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted.  My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable ! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News .Former President’s daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee also refuted the rumours about his father. “Rumours about my father is false. Request, esp’ly to media, NOT to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital,” Sharmistha tweeted.  Rumours about my father is false. Request, esp’ly to media, NOT to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital🙏Meanwhile, Army Research & Referral Hospital also clarified that the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. “He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a statement. Earlier on Wednesday, the Army Hospital, where the former President has been admitted stated that his health condition continued to remain critical after undergoing emergency surgery for a brain clot and was on a ventilator currently. It said that he is hemodynamically stable. On August 10, Mukherjee underwent life-saving emergency surgery for brain clot on August 10 has not shown any improvement and his health status had worsened.Taking to Twitter, the 84-year-old said on Monday that he had also tested positive for the novel coronavirus.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” Mukherjee tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-is-alive-haemodynamically-stable-son-daughter-refute-rumours/story-nLYObTPlxT9x2H7L3KZk1L.html
13-08-2020||India||Record single-day spike of 66,999 cases takes India’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 2.4 million||India saw its Covid-19 tally jump by 66,999 new cases - highest single-day spike - on Thursday which pushed the number of cases to nearly 2.4 million.The country recorded 942 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll due to the disease to 47,033.The number of active cases in the country are 6,53,622 while 16,95,982 patients (or more than double the number of active cases) have been discharged so far, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday morning.There were 60,963 cases and 834 deaths between Tuesday and Wednesday morning.There have been 6,33,650 cases in the 12 days (till Wednesday) and at least 58,000 cases on an average over the past week every day - the highest in the world. India is ranked third in terms of the number of cases. The country had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.However, in further relief, the case fatality rate has declined to 1.98 per cent, according to the government. The health ministry added that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have crossed the 16 lakh-mark and recovery rate has reached another high of 70.38 per cent,” it further added.Focus on improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, use of non-invasive, improved and coordinated services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have resulted in seamless efficient patient management of Covid-19 patients, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-single-day-spike-of-66-999-cases-takes-india-s-covid-19-tally-to-nearly-2-4-million/story-rl8exHub58164hDzTwyDiK.html
13-08-2020||India||Former President Pranab Mukherjee in coma, vital parametres stable: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee is in a comatose state, but his vital parametres are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Thursday morning.Mukherjee’s condition remains unchanged and he continues to be on ventilatory support, it further said.The former President was admitted to the R&R hospital after suffering a fall at his house earlier on Monday. He underwent a brain surgery after a clot was discovered.His son Abhijit tweeted on Thursday asked people to stop circulating fake news about Mukherjee’s health. “Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News,” he said. My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable ! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News .Mukherjee’s daughter Shamistha also said that rumours should not be spread about the former President. Rumours about my father is false. Request, esp’ly to media, NOT to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital🙏On Wednesday, she had shared a prayer on Twitter. “Last year 8August was 1 of d happiest day 4 me as my dad received Bharat Ratna.Exactly a year later on 10Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best 4 him & give me strength 2 accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all 4 their concerns,” Sharmistha had tweeted.Mukherjee, 84, had said on Monday on Twitter that he tested positive for Covid-19.“On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” Mukherjee had tweeted.Mukherjee, who was the India’s president between 2012 and 2017, had been keeping his public interactions at a minimal level after the coronavirus pandemic swept cross the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-in-coma-vital-parametres-stable-hospital/story-pSj0So5JyiaH4tpiLtAa0N.html
13-08-2020||India||PM Modi launches Transparent Taxation platform||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a platform to honour the honest taxpayers of the country. The unveiling took place at 11 am today via video conferencing.The “Transparent Taxation - Honoring The Honest” platform will initiate major tax reforms aimed at bringing transparency in income tax systems and empowering taxpayers, according to the government.Also Read: PM Modi unveils new tax reforms, says it will make taxpayers feel fearlessThis is considered to be another step which will make the lives of the taxpayers easier. Over the years, the income tax department has carried out several major reforms, including reduction in the corporate tax. The department had also abolished the dividend tax.Also Watch | ‘Tax system should be seamless, painless & faceless’: PM Modi It has also been focussing on simplification of direct tax laws and increasing transparency in communication. A major step in this regard was the introduction of Document Identification Number (DIN) wherein every communication of the department would carry a computer generated unique document identification number.Also Read: ‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says reforms will change how we pay taxesSimilarly, to increase the ease of compliance for taxpayers, the IT department has moved forward with the prefilling of income tax returns to make compliance more convenient for individual taxpayers. Compliance norms for startups have also been simplified.The Direct Tax Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020, was also introduced to settle tax disputes.Further, the Income Tax department has undertaken several measures to promote digital transactions and electronic modes of payment. The department is committed to take the initiatives forward and has also made efforts to ease compliances for taxpayers during Covid-19 time by extending statutory timeliness for filing returns as also releasing refunds expeditiously to increase liquidity in the hands of taxpayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-another-major-direct-tax-reform-to-benefit-taxpayers/story-73xMCi0PqGYFzWmMxYM1MP.html
13-08-2020||India||Flash floods, landslides and swelling rivers: Heavy rainfall batters Uttarakhand||Parts of Uttarakhand have been lashed by heavy rainfall and as a result, the water level in various rivers have gone up. According to the India Meteorological Department, the state is very likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in the coming 2-3 days. Besides the IMD, various other agencies have sounded an alert for flash floods, torrential rainfall in the state for Thursday and the coming 2-3 days.The State Disaster Management Center on Wednesday had warned about the possibility of heavy and very heavy rains in the state on Thursday. All District Magistrates have been directed to take precautionary measures in order to avoid any untoward incidents.  Also read: Overnight, early morning rains in Delhi bring relief; more expectedउत्तराखंड: चमोली ज़िले में भारी बारिश से नदियों का जलस्तर बढ़ गया है, भूस्खलन से बद्रीनाथ नेशनल हाईवे पर वाहनों की आवाजाही रूक गई। चमोली की ज़िलाधिकारी स्वाति एस. भदौरिया ने बताया, "भारी बारिश से कई सड़कें बंद हो गई थीं, ज़्यादातर जगह पर सड़कों को खुलवाया जा चुका है।"(12.8) pic.twitter.com/i29qcBT28pCentral Water Commission Official Flood Forecast in a tweet said, “Flash flood guidance for next 24 hours in parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Eastern region of Rajasthan, Western region of Madhya Pradesh as given by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).”Heavy and incessant rainfall in the state, coupled with landslides, led to the temporary closure of the Gangotri National Highway. The key highway has been closed for nearly 30 hours now. A local resident said livelihoods have been impacted due to the closure of the highway. Even areas near the China border are disconnected after the heavy rainfall.Districts across the state have been affected by torrential rainfall, landslides while rivers are in spate. River Ganga was flowing 10-cm above the warning level and its water level continues to rise.The water level of Henwal river, a tributary of the Ganga, has also risen and families living close to it have been moved to safer places, SHO, Muni ki Reti police station, Kishor Saklani said.The water level of Sharda Barrage in the Banbasa area of the Champawat district is constantly rising due to the rise in the level of Sharda river following incessant rainfall in the state, a barrage management official said on Wednesday.“We’re monitoring the rising water levels. It can affect two districts of the Uttrakhand and 10 districts of Uttar Pradesh. People are being informed about the situation,” said an official.States like Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are also predicted to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coming 2-3 days. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flash-floods-landslides-and-swelling-rivers-heavy-rainfall-batters-uttarakhand/story-6SM7FrgeTojjdpBsfyqhwN.html
13-08-2020||India||Flood situation deteriorates in Bihar, nearly 5.5 lakh evacuated; slight improvement in Assam||The flood situation in Bihar deteriorated on Wednesday after 2.16 lakh more people were affected by the calamity. The number of those affected has now reached 77.18 lakh in 16 districts.The number of people who died in flood related incidents in the state remained at 24, a Disaster Management Department bulletin said.Twenty teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 13 of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have evacuated 5.47 lakh people from inundated areas in Bihar so far, it further said.Several rivers such as the Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan and the Khiroi are flowing above the danger level at several places in the state.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office at Patna has forecast light to moderate rain in the catchment areas of all rivers on Thursday while heavy rain is likely at a few places in the catchment areas of the Gandak.Meanwhile, in Assam, the situation improved slightly on Wednesday. Apart from Dhemaji, Baksa and Morigaon districts, water has receded in other parts of the state.At present, 14,205 people are suffering due to the deluge in these three districts while 7,009 hectares cropland is affected, according to the daily flood bulletin of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).Dhemaji is the worst-hit district with 12,908 people affected, followed by Baksa where 1,000 people are suffering, and Morigaon with 297 people hit by the calamity.The landslides triggered by heavy rain led to the deaths of 136 people across Assam.In Kerala, the death toll in the landslide in Idukki district rose to 55 on Wednesday as three more bodies were retrieved from under the debris.Sixteen districts in Uttar Pradesh are also affected by floods. The Sharda river in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Palliakalan and the Saryu at Barabanki’s Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia’s Turtipar are flowing above the danger mark, state Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyel said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to ensure sanitisation and hygiene in relief camps set up in the deluge-hit areas.The IMD has forecast rain and thundershowers at a few places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-deteriorates-in-bihar-nearly-5-5-lakh-evacuated-slight-improvement-in-assam/story-58uTryaL3zyI5q2AQ7T1fL.html
13-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Logistics, tourism, hospitality generated most jobs in the aftermath of Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Logistics, tourism generated most jobs in Covid-19 aftermathLogistics, followed by tourism and hospitality, construction, information technology and telecom, have emerged as the top five employment-generating sectors in India in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease, according to an assessment by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC). Read moreHarassment charges left out of FIR in UP scholar’s death caseTwo days after 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati was killed in an accident, the Bulandshahr police on Wednesday registered an FIR against two unknown persons for rash driving and death due to negligence, but did not include harassment in the list of charges though her family alleged that she was being followed by two people on a motorcycle at the time of the accident. Read moreHeavy overnight, early morning rains in Delhi bring relief from sultry weatherHeavy overnight and early morning rains in Delhi brought the much-needed relief from humid weather on Thursday with the weather bureau predicting ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ in the national capital during the day. Read moreMan arrested in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly raping women, claimed to solve problems through his ‘magical powers’A 35-year-old man was arrested by the police in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday for allegedly raping three women and molesting two minor girls in Narsinghpur district, 241 kilometres south east of state capital Bhopal. The man claims to possess magical powers and used to lure women by assuring them thay he would solve all their problems, the police said. Read moreIslamic State threat in west Syria growing, warns US CommanderElements of the Islamic State group are working to rebuild in western Syria, where the US has little visibility or presence, the top US commander for the Middle East warned on Wednesday. In the region west of the Euphrates River where the Syrian regime is in control, “conditions are as bad or worse” than they were leading up to the rise of the Islamic State, said Gen. Frank McKenzie. Read moreFerrari sets record for most expensive car ever sold onlineIn an auction that ended Aug. 7, Gooding & Co. sold a 1966 Ferrari 275 GTB the color of a white sand beach for $3.08 million. Even more unbelievable: It was done online. The uniquely engineered, 1-of-40 coupe commanded the most expensive sum ever paid for a car sold on the Internet. Read moreWhatsApp has stopped developing this long-awaited featureIf you’ve been following WhatsApp updates, you probably heard of a feature called ‘Vacation Mode’ being tested. This feature has been in development since 2018 for WhatsApp’s Android and iOS apps. It lets you mute archived chats so that they remain hidden as they’re supposed to. Read more‘I feel his presence is not so important’: Chopra believes India can manage without MS Dhoni at 2021 World CupFormer India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has been away from cricket for over a year now. MS Dhoni’s last game for India was the World Cup semifinal against New Zealand last year. The India wicketkeeper-batsman will return to cricket when the Indian Premier League kicks off in September. Read moreSridevi birth anniversary: 5 iconic looks of India’s first female superstar whose style rocked three film industriesAn indomitable sartorial elegance is what describes India’s first female superstar, Sridevi’s best since her grace and tremendous charisma continue to be unmatched. Her iconic looks onscreen still makes fashionistas take a leaf out of her book every now and then, and we don’t blame them. Read moreWatch| ‘Swadeshi doesn’t necessarily mean boycotting all foreign products’: Mohan Bhagwat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-logistics-tourism-hospitality-generated-most-jobs-in-the-aftermath-of-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Tz3DComFhzzZvWxBm50L2J.html
13-08-2020||India||Man arrested in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly raping women, claimed to solve problems through his ‘magical powers’||A 35-year-old man was arrested by the police in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday for allegedly raping three women and molesting two minor girls in Narsinghpur district, 241 kilometres south east of state capital Bhopal.The man claims to possess magical powers and used to lure women by assuring them thay he would solve all their problems, the police said.The accused Dharmendra Das alias Dharmendra Dubey is already in jail. He was arrested recently by the police in a different case. Now, the rape and molestation charges have also been added against him.The accused is married and even has a child. He has also created a small temple in his house where people from different places used to meet him to seek his help to get their problems solved, according to the police. On getting a tip-off that the accused sexually exploited women on the ground of his so-called magical powers a police team raided the man’s residence last week. During the raid, two kilogrammes of marijuana was seized from the man’s possession and he was sent to jail after being booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, said sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP) Mohanti Maravi. “Three women including two bachelors approached Suatala police station on Wednesday that they were raped by the man who trapped them in the name of magical powers and offered solution to their problems. Two sisters, both minors, have also lodged an FIR that they were molested by the man. As many as four FIRs, including three relating to rape and one relating to molestation of the two sisters, were lodged,” said Maravi.The SDoP added that the police have launched an investigation. “During initial investigation it has come to light that the man has been committing crimes for the past at least five years.”Superintendent of Police, Narsinghpur district, Ajay Singh said, “There may be more complainants who may approach police in the coming days regarding the crimes committed by the accused. Police are trying to know if there are more victims of this man. Some objectionable videos and photos have also been seized from his residence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-in-madhya-pradesh-for-allegedly-raping-women-claimed-to-solve-problems-through-his-magical-powers/story-THhvK37cvDjv6tvyg6XpTK.html
13-08-2020||India||Odisha: 9 Urban Health Centres begin Covid testing, 7 more to start today||In order to encourage people to step forward in large numbers for Covid-19 testing, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) in association with the Health and Family Welfare Department has started rapid antigen testing of local citizens at nine local urban health centres.Of the nine local health-care facilities, six are Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) and three are Urban Community Health Centres (UCHCs)While the UPHCs include Niladri Vihar, Pokhariput, Saheed Nagar, Unit III, Unit-VIII and Unit IX, Covid-19 tests were carried out at the UCHCs at Dumduma, Patia and Unit IV on Wednesday. A total of 107 tests were done at the nine centres. It is learnt that seven urban health centres will be added for the testing from Thursday. The seven new centres are -- UPHC IRC Village, Ghatikia, Kalpana Square, Brahmeshwar Patna, Kapilaprasad, Chandrasekharpur and Municipality Hospital in Old Town (UCHC).Covid-19 testing at the UCHCs and UPHCs is necessitated to augment the testing facilities as the civic body has taken up the fight against the pandemic with the active support of the community.While the testing centres (UCHC and UPHC) are open from 8 am to 2 pm, the tests are being carried out free of cost by the civic authorities. BMC has appealed citizens to come to their nearest urban health centres (UPHC/UCHC) and get the testing done free of cost for Covid-19.According to the Health and Family Welfare Department, the city has 22 UPHCs and four UPHCs . While on August 6 and 7 BMC conducted 2,010 and 2,285 tests respectively, during last several days, the testing number has surpassed 1,700 to 1,800 range on an average. Three types of tests -- Swab tests (RT-PCR), Antigen and TrueNaat are done every day at various centres across the city. Over 75,000 tests were conducted in the city till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-9-urban-health-centres-begin-covid-testing-7-more-to-start-today/story-ZQAVqbLwcua2gSseQ1vAwN.html
13-08-2020||India||Subjected to cruelty, 30 cows and calves found dead in two different incidents||As many as 30 cows and calves allegedly subjected to cruelty were found dead at two different places in the past 24 hours in Madhya Pradesh, said police. Around 24 cows and calves were being carried in a container truck on a national highway when it was intercepted at Hoshangabad, 70 kilometres south of Bhopal, on Tuesday night. In the other incident, six cows, locked in a room for more than 3 days, were found dead in a village in Shivpuri district, 312 kilometres north of Bhopal, on Tuesday evening, according to police. The container truck was on its way from Nagpur side when it stopped at Sulia fatak in Hoshangabad city on Tuesday night. When some local people saw a huge quantity of urine mixed with cow dung flowing out of the container, they informed the police about the same. When a police team reached there, the truck driver fled leaving behind the truck, according to the police. Also read: Locked in a room, six cows starve to death in Madhya PradeshThe police team found two registration numbers fixed on the truck- one in the front and the other on the rear side belonging to Haryana and Maharashtra. The police personnel opened the container to find that there were at least 63 cows and calves divided in two compartments of the container. Twenty four of the cows and calves were found dead while the remaining were rescued and were sent to the local Krishi Upaj Mandi. Hoshangabad city police station in-charge SS Chouhan said, “An FIR under MP Cow Progeny Slaughter Prevention Act and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been lodged against unidentified persons. The truck has two registration numbers plates. We are also looking into this. An investigation is going on.” In Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh, another case was registered under these two laws against seven residents of Gochoni village when six cows were found dead, locked in a room in an abandoned building at the village on Tuesday evening. The cows died of suffocation and starvation. The accused include Asharam Lodhi, Brijesh Lodhi, Nathuram Lodhi and four others who are absconding, said the police. Shivpuri collector Anugraha P ordered an inquiry in the matter. Shivpuri superintendent of police (SP), Rajesh Chandel said, “On late Tuesday evening, a watchman (chowkidar) of Gochoni village informed the police at Himmatpur outpost about a foul smell emanating from a room in an abandoned building in the village. When the police personnel reached the place and broke open the room, as many as 12 cows were found in unconscious state. The room had no ventilation.” “The police team called a team of veterinary doctors and they informed the team that six cows had died. The remaining six were moved to a veterinary hospital,” he added. “In the investigation, it was found that the accused had locked the cows on Sunday to protect their crops from the animals. They didn’t even provide any food or water to the cows which resulted in the death of the six cows,” he added. “The police are investigating the matter and trying to nab the accused,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subjected-to-cruelty-30-cows-and-calves-found-dead-in-two-different-incidents/story-73JWP1wmVtc2B937oRiTnM.html
13-08-2020||India||Swadeshi doesn’t necessarily mean boycotting all foreign products: Bhagwat||Swadeshi does not necessarily mean boycotting every foreign product, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Wednesday and asserted that only those technologies or materials may be imported which the country lacks traditionally or are not available locally.Talking about the relevance of being self-reliant and swadeshi in the wake of COVID-19, he suggested that the pandemic has made it clear that globalisation did not yield desired results and one economic model cannot be applicable everywhere.Mutual cooperation among self-reliant countries while considering the world as one family and not one market, seems to be the economic model required for post-COVID world, Bhagwat said while speaking at a virtual book launch event.Also Read: Will ‘Boycott China’ strategy really help?Backing the BJP-led NDA government’s pitch for a self-reliant India, the RSS chief said swadeshi means to promote and give preference to indigenous products or technologies and not necessarily boycott all foreign items.He made it clear that only those materials or technologies should be imported which are not available locally or India lacks traditionally and these should be modified in an Indian manner.Citing a few examples when traditionally available products and technologies were overlooked for imported ones, Bhagwat emphasised on the need for change in mindset and not considering domestic items as inferior.Noting that even after independence, policy making in India was influenced by the west and other foreign countries, Bhagwat said as a result many locally available products and technologies were overlooked in favour of foreign items.Describing the recently-announced National Education Policy as a “step in the right direction” to make India self-reliant, he said such policies will help India realise the potential of its people and of traditional wisdom.The concept of swadeshi which talks about promoting local products and restricting inflow of foreign investment and items, features prominently in RSS ideology. Its affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch has been at the forefront of a campaign to boycott Chinese products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-rashtriya-swayamsevak-sangh-rss-bjp-make-in-india-rajnath-singh-swadeshi-does-not-necessarily-mean-boycotting-all-foreign-products-bhagwat/story-IRsvY8oH41T9kQyQHsdCNP.html
13-08-2020||India||With announcement, Kamala Harris’ India views now in focus||With the Democratic Party criticising the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the situation in Kashmir and the communal violence in New Delhi earlier this year, India’s foreign policy mandarins will be keeping a close eye on presumptive vice presidential candidate Kamala Harris’ views on these issues.Harris, who has roots in India on her mother’s side and in Jamaica on her father’s side, is the first woman of Indian and African descent to run for the post of vice president. Like most other key leaders of both the Democratic and Republican parties, she has batted for stronger India-US relations.As her maternal uncle Gopalan Balachandran pointed out on Wednesday, Harris hasn’t let her Indian roots come in the way of criticising India on human rights issues. She was, he said, “more worried about the broader implications” and “the philosophy behind” such issues.During her unsuccessful campaign to become the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate last year, Harris had said that the US was watching the situation in Kashmir after the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status and that she would strive to lead while upholding the values the US is known for, including speaking out against “human rights abuses”.Asked about the possible role the US could play following last year’s lockdown in Kashmir and the human rights situation there, she replied: “It is about reminding people that they are not alone, that we are all watching.” After external affairs minister S Jaishankar declined to attend a meeting last year with the House Foreign Affairs Committee because of the presence of Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who had moved a resolution in the House of Representatives on the situation in Kashmir, Harris extended strong support to the lawmaker who, like her, has roots in Tamil Nadu. Harris tweeted: “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill. I stand with @RepJayapal, and I’m glad her colleagues in the House did too.” Harris has also been critical of US President Donald Trump’s handling of China, with which India is currently locked in border standoff. Before she called off her campaign for the presidential candidacy last year, Harris had said “China’s abysmal human rights record must feature prominently in our policy toward the country”. “We can’t ignore China’s mass detention of more than a million Uighur Muslims in ‘re-education camps’ in the Xinjiang region, or its widespread abuse of surveillance for political and religious repression,” she had said. “We can’t ignore Beijing’s failure to respect the rights and autonomy of Hong Kong’s people and the Hong Kong government’s excessive use of force against peaceful protestors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-announcement-kamala-harris-india-views-now-in-focus/story-0l91o7ASFd907JjcmBBxIN.html
13-08-2020||India||Shah Faesal reached out to NSA before he quit party; open to IAS return||Bureaucrat-turned-politician Shah Faesal, who left the party he himself founded, quit only after making contact with top officials in the Union government. Faesal had a talk with National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval before informing his party colleagues in the Jammu & Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM) that he was leaving, HT has learnt.Faesal, 37, who hits the headlines in 2009, when he became the first person from Kashmir to top the Indian Administrative Services exam, acknowledged that he has been in touch with officials in New Delhi, although he declined to specify details.“There has been a lot of speculation about the conversations I’m having with people in the government. I have been a member of IAS, and it’s nothing strange if I’m meeting people in the government,” he said. “I have to live and work here and this is perfectly normal,” he added. The NSA was not available for comment.Faesal suggested that he is not opposed to rejoining the service, and there is talk that he could be reinstated.Faesal, who once promised to be the voice of Kashmir’s young people has come a long way. His views, too, have changed. “I think we need to understand that in 1949 national consensus was about incorporating Article 370 and the 2019 national consensus is about scrapping it. We have to understand the mood of the nation and come to terms with the reality.”Early in 2019, Faesal announced his resignation from the IAS and became a vocal critic of the government. Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its special status in August last year, and at the time, he tweeted: “Kashmir will need a long, sustained non-violent political mass movement for the restoration of political rights. Abolition of Art 370 has finished the mainstream. Constitutionalists are gone. So you can either be a stooge or a separatist now. No shades of grey.”He has now deleted all his tweets. Asked to explain the stooge-and-separatist comment , he said: “I was talking about the political grey zone in which electoral politics operated. I said that once the grey zone is over now people will call you stooge or separatist. [And] I said I’m neither of the two.”He added: “I’m a proud citizen of this country who wants to make a difference in the lives of people. I don’t recognise these labels at all.”In a signed article for this paper in January last year, Faesal enunciated the reasons he quit the IAS. He said then that Kashmir was in a crisis and that as an insider, he had decided to ring the alarm bell.After being in touch with top officials in the government, Faesal now says he accepts the new reality. “We are face to face with a new political reality in Kashmir. Since August 5, the facts on the ground have changed. I want to articulate my understanding of the situation without the need to be politically correct. Kashmir has suffered a lot in the past. I don’t want to bank on the old illusions, take Kashmiris down a garden path, and build my career on that. I’m quitting with all humility and telling people that I can’t promise something that I can’t deliver.”He now seems hopeful that the legislative route will provide answers. “In a democracy, this consensus is dynamic and we should not lose hope. The same Parliament has provided answers in the past and I’m sure the same Parliament will provide answers in the future also,” he said.Faesal’s resignation from the IAS is still pending and he may be reinstated, though the timeline for that is not clear. “The rules can be tweaked to accommodate him,” an official said.Faesal is not averse to returning to the bureaucratic fold. “I am not averse to working with the government. Public administration is my domain of expertise. That’s where I belong,” he said.Officials in Delhi and Srinagar who asked not to be named said he could be rejoining soon, and could also be reinstated in an advisory role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-faesal-reached-out-to-nsa-before-he-quit-party-open-to-ias-return/story-gzjuYwwztB5lNTg8tu141O.html
13-08-2020||India||ISI, JeM planned Pulwama strike, trained attacker: NIA||Islamabad was involved in planning, training the perpetrators and executing the February 2019 Pulwama attack that left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel dead and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war, said two officials aware of the details of the charge sheet the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has readied in the case.The charge sheet, which is expected to be filed at the end of this month, concludes Pakistan’s spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and its proxy, Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), planned and executed the state-sponsored attack, for which highly-trained terrorists were sent to India. It says Pakistan used Adil Ahmad Dar, a local resident who rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, as a suicide bomber to project the attack as a result of a home-grown militancy against “India’s occupation of Kashmir”, one of the officers cited above said.“However, strong technical, documentary and material evidence have been collected apart from experts’ reports and evidence shared by foreign agencies, which prove that the Pakistani government was directly involved in the attack, aimed to create unrest in India,” said the officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Maulana Masood Azhar, who founded JeM in 2000 after he was freed from an Indian prison in exchange for 155 passengers of a hijacked aircraft, and his younger brother, Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, have been named as primary accused in the charge sheet. Seven alleged JeM operatives arrested from Kashmir since February, Shakir Bashir Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Mohammad Iqbal Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, Insha Jan, Tariq Ahmad Shah, and Bilal Ahmed Kuchey, have been named for “conducting reconnaissance, providing logistics and assisting in planning the attack”.The names of Pakistani terrorist Mohammad Umar Farooq, who was sent to India to execute the attack, Kamran, JeM’s area commander, Mudassir Khan, and Adil Ahmad Dar also figure in charge sheet but not as accused as they have been killed. Farooq, Kamran, and Mudassir Khan were killed in March 2019 in separate exchanges of fire with security forces.A second officer said the Union home ministry has given the go-ahead to file the charge sheet against Azhar and others under anti-terror laws.Azhar was among those India designated as individual terrorists in 2019. The move came following an amendment to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which allows the government to designate individuals as terrorists. The US has similar laws for such designations and the 2019 move opened an added avenue for joint action against terrorists.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has denied his country’s role in the Pulwama attack and even offered to prosecute the culprits if India provided evidence. Islamabad has not, however, taken any substantive action against global terrorists operating from its soil, including Azhar even as it has been under pressure from the international community.Pakistan has been on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)’s “grey list” of “monitored jurisdictions” since June 2018 for failing to counter-terror financing, especially by groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, JeM, Taliban, al-Qaeda and Haqqani Network. A FATF plenary meeting in February warned Pakistan that it had failed to meet all deadlines for a 27-point action plan, and gave the country four more months to implement it.HT in March reported the Pulwama attack was originally set to be carried out in the first week of February 2019. But weather conditions forced a suspension of the security convoy movements. The ISI and JeM had to wait until next the CRPF convoy travelled along the Jammu-Srinagar highway.NIA’s probe has concluded the explosive material for the attack was collected over a period of time from mining blocks and locations used by cement factories for blasting rocks in Khrew (Pulwama), Khunmoh (Srinagar), Tral, Awantipora, and Lethpora.The NIA charge sheet also details the email, text, and social media communications of key players in the bombing, including Azhar’s brother, the second official cited above said. The Pulwama attack threatened to spark a full-blown conflict between India and Pakistan. JeM claimed responsibility for the attack and prompted India to carry out an airstrike on a terror camp in Pakistan’s Balakot. Pakistan retaliated a day later and triggered a brief dogfight involving warplanes of the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isi-jem-planned-pulwama-strike-trained-attacker-nia/story-iOgoXjVhpbF6FdNwNSslAP.html
13-08-2020||India||VD Savarkar features prominently in tourism ministry webinar||The tourism ministry, as part of its ongoing intiative Dekho Apna Desh hosted a webinar on Wednesday that chronicled the life of freedom fighters such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar and Batukeshwar Dutt while they were imprisoned in the Kaala Paani prison or Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar islands . Dekho Apna Desh is the ministry’s flagship initiative in which series of webinars highlighting the country’s main tourism attractions are conducted. The ministry has conducted over 40 webinars till date, five of which have been specially organised around the theme of Independence Day, 15 August. According to the officials, the topics of the webinars are chosen to highlight the unique features of any given location. “One can not have a conversation about Tourism in Andaman and Nicobar Islands without mentioning the Cellular Jail,” said a ministry official. In the webinar on Kaala Paani or Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands where the British met out cruelest treatment to political prisoners, is right-wing icon Savarkar who features most prominently. “Savarkar was arrested by the British on the suspicion of being involved in a protest organised by his elder brother against the Indian Council Act, or the Minto Morley Reforms,” the ministry states in the webinar. According to historian Ramachandra Guha, while Savarkar’s views on Hindutva are ‘reprehensible’, one cannot forget that he was ‘a heroic and brave freedom fighter’. “It is not easy to find a historical figure who is either completely good or completely bad,” said Guha. Other freedom fighters to find mention include Bhagat Singh’s accomplice Battukeshwar Dutt, Barindra Kumar Ghosh and Subhash Chandra Bose, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vd-savarkar-features-prominently-in-tourism-ministry-webinar/story-jFP536zakZUTZIaCS0Aq7K.html
13-08-2020||India||Union minister Shripad Naik tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister of State for defence Shripad Naik has tested positive for Covid-19, he revealed in a post on Twitter. “I underwent Covid-19 test today and it has turned out asymptomatically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation. Those who have come in contact with me in the last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions,” Naik said in a post via Twitter. Barely two days ago, the minister had felicitated kar sevaks who had participated in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya at a function at Priol in Ponda tehsil of Goa. The function was organised by the Priol BJP Mandal at Madananteshwar Temple in Savoi-Verem Karsevak’s from Priol constituency who had participated in the Ram Janmabhoomi agitation in Ayodhya in 1990 and 1992. On the same day at another event the minister had launched a booklet and devotional CD ahead of the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The minister was also involved in examining flood affected areas in North Goa, a constituency he represents as a Lok Sabha MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-shripad-naik-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-zdrNQaU31D2ryD2cnru4hL.html
13-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Russia’s announcement on August 11 – important enough for President Vladimir Putin to make it himself – that it has approved a coronavirus disease vaccine (the world’s first) may encourage other countries engaged in similar research, the US and India included, to think of doing the same. This writer has one word of advice for them: DON’T.Russia’s move, more political gamesmanship than scientific achievement, is, at best, stupid and an example of science being led by politics, and, at worst, downright unethical – because an untested vaccine could do untold harm. The vaccine, developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, has not undergone Phase 3 trials – and is probably the world’s first vaccine to be launched without these trials. In all, it has so far been tested on 76 people – and the results of those tests, usually published and reviewed, have not been. Sure, the vaccine’s registration (it happened on Tuesday) mentions that the people who received one or two shots of the vaccine produced antibodies that act against the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s spike protein, but the production of an immune reaction is different from immunity – one reason why extensive Phase 3 trials are carried out. Indeed, the six vaccine candidates in Phase 3 or combined Phase 2-3 trials all produced similar immune reactions.On Tuesday, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, said that it would help conduct Phase 3 trials in countries including Saudi Arabia, Brazil, and India, and also start mass production “in partnership with local sovereign wealth funds” in India, South Korea, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Cuba. It added that at least 20 countries have shown interest in buying the vaccine, called Sputnik V, perhaps a deliberate play on the Sputnik 1, which showed the world (especially the US) that Russia was ahead in the space race. (The word has passed into popular lingo as the Sputnik moment -- when a country realises it is far behind another country in an area of science).The problem is that vaccine development is not a race, although it is being treated as one by at least some countries, including the US, where the Trump administration has pumped billions of dollars into Operation Warp Speed to hasten the development of a vaccine. Nor should it be considered a Sputnik moment, although, unfortunately, some leaders are likely to see it as one.The science behind Sputnik 5 is straightforward. It is an adenoviral vector vaccine (like the ones being tested by Oxford-AstraZeneca and CanSino Biologics, and the one being developed by Johnson & Johnson). These are essentially genetically engineered viruses that cause the common cold (CanSino is using a human cold virus; Oxford, one that causes cold in chimpanzees), and they work by transporting a gene from Sars-CoV-2 into the body using this virus, and making it believe that it has been infected, thereby provoking an immune reaction. The technology is decades old, but, in an indication of just how long it takes for a new vaccine technology to be developed, the first adenovirus vector vaccine for any disease (Ebola in this case) was approved only in June. Until then, it was promising, if unproven, technology. This columnist has previously written that data and science should guide every country’s response to Covid-19 and all aspects of managing the disease. Vaccine development and testing is a unique marriage of both data and science. Unfortunately, Russia is an old hand at politicising both, although other countries have also mastered this.The best thing that can happen, from the saving-the-world-now point of view is for the Russian vaccine to actually work (although scientists believe the chances of that are remote). The worst thing that can happen, from the perspective of science, scientific thinking, and scientific process, is, again, for the Russian vaccine to actually work.That will encourage more countries to short-circuit the process – and that way lies the road to perdition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-FggJom6rWNn1vZIWSNgq9L.html
13-08-2020||India||Sharad Pawar backs Mumbai cops in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was irked with his grandnephew Parth for demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and publicly ridiculed him. Parth is the son of his nephew and state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Describing Parth as “immature”, Pawar said he doesn’t give importance to what the latter says. Significantly, Pawar said that he is not opposed to CBI probe, which has been demanded by BJP leaders. CBI has filed a case against Rhea Chakraborty and her family after the Centre approved its probe. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. He allegedly died by suicide. Responding to media queries on Wednesday, Pawar said farmers also die by suicide but media does not take note of that. “The suicide by the actor is unfortunate, but the way it is being discussed in the media is surprising. In my district, 20 farmers have died by suicide but no media has taken note of it,” he said.Pawar said he has been watching the Mumbai Police for five decades and is confident that they would handle the probe well. “Maharashtra and Mumbai Police are capable and I have 100% faith in them. If someone still wants a probe by CBI or any other agency, then there is no reason to oppose it,” he said, taking a cautious stand.On July 27, Parth had met state home minister Anil Deshmukh and demanded a CBI investigation in the actor’s death. Parth’s demand was contrary to the stand taken by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government, in which NCP is one of the partners along with the Shiv Sena and the Congress. The state government has been in favour of a probe by the Mumbai Police. Pawar’s statement has sparked speculations about differences within his clan which had seen an open revolt by Ajit and a few other NCP MLAs last November..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-backs-mumbai-cops-in-sushant-case/story-eskwR06kUvSRHHKucOstsI.html
13-08-2020||India||Programme for micro-enterprises: No set targets, flagship scheme losing steam||A flagship programme of the Union government to help set up new micro-enterprises is crippled by structural issues and high rate of non-performing assets (NPA), its latest review has underlined.Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), under which banks offer subsidies worth up to Rs 25 lakh to start new micro-enterprises, is run by the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) ministry with the help of the Union finance ministry.The programme is available for any individual above 18, who have passed at least class 8 examination. While only new projects are considered for sanction of loans under PMEGP, self-help groups that have not availed benefits under any other public scheme, societies, production co-operative societies, and charitable trusts are also eligible. It allows entrepreneurs to set up factories or units by depositing a small part (margin money) of the total project cost with banks, which would fund the units. After a factory runs successfully for three years, the bank would return a lion’s share of the margin money.From 2015-16 to 2019-20, public sector banks sanctioned 2,07,639 accounts and assistance of Rs 10,169 crore was allotted, according to official data. Out of these, 82,398 accounts in the manufacturing sector were given Rs 5,139 crore and 1,25,241 accounts in service sector got the assistance of Rs 5,030 crore.But at a recent official meeting on audit, MSME secretary AK Sharma and Pankaj Jain, additional secretary (banking) said out of the allotment, Rs 1,537 crore has turned out to be NPA. The officials also pointed out that more than 15% NPA in the MSME business is much higher than the global average of 11% for the sector.Officials observed that a deficiency in skills, lack of market study, low demand and stiff competition were the key reasons for such a large number of NPAs.Out of the 1,537 NPA firms, 738.14 are in manufacturing and 799.39 are in the services sector, which is otherwise a robust area in the Indian economy.Officials also pointed out that while normally all central schemes are given definite annual targets, this scheme was not driven by any such target. As both the states and the banks worked without the aim of completing the annual target of disbursement of loans, the programme lost the drive.It has been also observed that earlier the banks had set up a long-drawn process to fund projects and most of the projects took a long time to get approvals.To revive the project, the government is now planning to introduce a single window, online clearance for entrepreneurs so that they can get the money easily. The Centre also plans to conduct an intensive training programme to help potential entrepreneurs focus on the right market and right products, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/programme-for-micro-enterprises-no-set-targets-flagship-scheme-losing-steam/story-SMAJCtQthA1SamzUHIhIqO.html
13-08-2020||India||Two HAL-built light combat copters deployed in Ladakh||: Two light combat helicopters (LCH), produced by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), have been deployed in the Ladakh sector to support the Indian Air Force (IAF) at short notice amid the border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), HAL said in a statement on Wednesday.“It is the lightest attack helicopter in the world designed and developed by HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of Indian armed forces reflecting the crucial role of HAL in Atma Nirbhar Bharat [self-reliant India campaign],” said HAL chairman R Madhavan. LCHs figure on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems, and ammunition over the next five years.HAL, the state-run plane maker, is expecting an order for 15 LCHs by the year-end--10 for IAF and five for the army. IAF and the army together need 160 LCHs.The deployment of the twin-engine LCH in the Ladakh sector is symbolic in nature and an acknowledgment of the potential that the platform holds but it is yet to be fully weaponised to meet the air force’s requirements, people familiar with the LCH programme said.“The LCH holds a lot of promise but is not really capable of carrying out missions in its current configuration. It lacks anti-armour and air-to-air weapons. That is work in progress,” an official said on condition of anonymity. The LCH is equipped with 70mm rockets and a chin-mounted cannon.“The LCH may not be carrying its full weapons load as of today but when the weapon integration is complete, it will prove its worth,” said Air Marshal KK Nohwar (retd), director-general, Centre for Air Power Studies.During a visit to the Ladakh sector last week, IAF vice chief Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora flew in one of the two LCHs from the Daulat Beg Oldie airbase near the contested LAC.Arora took off from a high-altitude location to a forward area for a simulated attack on a high altitude target, the HAL statement said. “This was followed by a landing at one of the most treacherous helipads in the region. The LCH successfully demonstrated its quick deployment prowess to forward locations in extreme temperatures,” the statement said.LCH is a potent platform because of its state-of-the-art systems and highly accurate weapons (it will eventually carry) that are capable of hitting any type of target by day or night, it added. The two LCHs deployed in Ladakh are prototypes and the ones that will be supplied to the IAF will come with the desired weapons capability, said an HAL official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.On the upcoming order for 15 LCHs, the HAL said, “Technical evaluation and the price negotiations have been concluded and the order is expected shortly. However, as a proactive measure, HAL has launched limited series production in anticipation of orders at its Bengaluru facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-hal-built-light-combat-copters-deployed-in-ladakh/story-wzFLsVsr7tQZOUZn4lvInN.html
13-08-2020||India||Logistics, tourism generated most jobs in Covid-19 aftermath||Logistics, followed by tourism and hospitality, construction, information technology and telecom, have emerged as the top five employment-generating sectors in India in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease, according to an assessment by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC).The five most popular job roles that have emerged on the basis of demand are courier delivery executive, housekeeping attendant, customer care executive, warehouse associate and machine operator, the NSCDC assessment shows. The assessment, based on the data collated on ASEEM, or the Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping portal that was launched earlier in July, shows that between July 15 and August 7, about 64,689 jobs were offered to skilled workers who were either jobless or left without a job because of the economic slowdown and businesses shutting down after the coronavirus outbreak.The pandemic and the ensuing 68-day lockdown triggered job losses across sectors and prompted an exodus of workers, mainly dage-wage earners, from the cities to their homes in the countryside of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha.  While a little over 6,000 people had already joined work in different sectors, the NSDC is collating data on whether the remaining jobs that were offered have been taken up.ASEEM was launched as a platform for assessment and hiring of the available skilled workforce and to bridge the gap between demand and supply of workforce.According to a person aware of the details, based on the postings on ASEEM, jobs were offered in over 14 states that include Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Telegana and Jharkhand.“In many states people have already taken up the jobs, while others are yet to take up the offers. That data is also being collated,” said the person, requesting anonymity.The highest number of openings were in the logistics sector, which includes services such as courier delivery, warehouse executives and packers.Jobs in the logistics industry are most in demand with over 83,736 applicants seeking work in the sector, followed by tourism and hospitality, which attracted 42,310 applicants, telecom (28,088), banking and financial services (8,871) and healthcare (8,273).These five sectors put together contributed 76.1% of total jobs posted on the ASEEM portal, said the person quoted above.“Services industry is in demand with courier delivery executive, housekeeping attendant, customer care executive, warehouse associate and food and beverages steward making for the top five job roles. All of these job roles combined makes for 48.7% of total jobs posted in the current scenario,” the person cited above said.States which had the most number of candidates registering for jobs were Uttar Pradesh with 13.7% of the total applications made till July 30, followed by Haryana (7.1%), Tamil Nadu (6.6%), Maharashtra (6.2%) and West Bengal (4.7%)Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey said the ministry was using ASEEM to prepare a database of skilled workers, which will offer details oft their skills.“Our youth will be able to play an important role in accelerating the development journey of India.To accelerate the self-reliant India and Skill India Mission of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to connect the youth in the country with new employment opportunities; this portal will surely give impetus to our continuous efforts to bridge the supply and demand,” Pandey said.Last week, a delegation of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh met Union ministers including Pandey who are part of the Group of Ministers (GOM) on employment and skill development chaired by minister of social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot and urged the union government to draft schemes to protect existing jobs in sectors such as agriculture and handlooms. The BMS also demanded avenues for employment by designing migrant worker-centric plans that take into account specific sectors such as construction workers, street vendors and hospitality workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/logistics-tourism-generated-most-jobs-in-covid-aftermath/story-4PLytLGTwISNQyULxvyGuN.html
13-08-2020||India||Highest single day recoveries; rate improves to 70%||India recorded its highest single-day coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries, in excess of 56,000, taking the overall recovery rate to 70%, which one expert said was the result of the knowledge and experience gained by health professionals in the battle against the virus.“The record highest single-day recoveries at 56,110 registered in the last 24 hours are the result of the successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients based on holistic Standard of Care approach,” the ministry said in a statement.India’s Covid-19 average daily recoveries have been constantly increasing, with the first week of July recording 15,000 daily average recovered cases, which leapt to at least 50,000 in the first week of August. Previous highest single day recoveries were recorded on August 10, when 54,859 patients had recovered. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, the total recoveries have crossed the 1.6 million mark to reach 1,639,599.“The actual case load of the country is the active cases (643,948) which is only 27.64% of the total positive cases. They are under active medical supervision. With a consistent and sustained increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has reached nearly 10 lakh (1 million),” the statement said.Doctors treating Covid-19 patients say fewer patients are dying of the disease because of the lessons learnt and experience gained in clinically managing cases.“We have more drugs and support therapies as compared to what we had a few months ago. There is better knowledge of what works and what does not to improve the condition of a Covid-19 patient,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant in department of medicine at Moolchand Hospital.Apart from improved clinical skills, focus on providing timely ambulance service for ferrying patients needing hospitalization so that the treatment starts on time, especially in remote areas has also been instrumental in increased recovery rate and reduced mortality rate.The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has also been low when compared to the global average. It is currently 1.98%.“The target before us is to ensure case fatality rate drops to below 1%, and the government is making all possible efforts to make sure this happens fast. Early detection of cases, timely referral is the key and we are coordinating with states and union territories to ensure all gaps are plugged to be able to achieve this target,” said a senior health ministry official who requested anonymity.India’s testing capacity is also steadily increasing, and on Tuesday, a record number of single-day tests-- 7,33,449-- were conducted in 1,421 labs approved to perform Covid-19 testing across the country, including both public (944) and private (477) laboratories. The country has conducted at least 26 million cumulative Covid-19 tests since January 22 this year.“Efforts are being made to achieve the target of performing at least one million tests by month end in a single day,” said an official from the Indian Council of Medical Research that is spearheading India’s Covid-19 testing initiative.“More labs are being added on a daily basis and it has been a calibrated approach wherein those areas where testing facilities were lacking were given top priority to establish new or upgrade smaller labs to start Covid-19 testing facility there,” the official added, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-recoveries-rate-improves-to-70/story-o1WmE2PXt8PNMojAMZZmVJ.html
13-08-2020||India||Harassment charges left out of FIR in UP scholar’s death case||Two days after 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati was killed in an accident, the Bulandshahr police on Wednesday registered an FIR against two unknown persons for rash driving and death due to negligence, but did not include harassment in the list of charges though her family alleged that she was being followed by two people on a motorcycle at the time of the accident.The death of Bhati, a tea seller’s daughter who shot into limelight in 2018 by scoring 98% in her Class 12 board examinations and was pursuing a graduate degree in the prestigious Babson College in the United States, has sparked outrage in the county, and senior leaders across parties have criticised it as another example of the poor law-and-order situation in Uttar Pradesh.“The Bulandshahr police have been taking the case lightly. They have not registered the case under relevant sections of harassment. We are very pained over the death of our beloved daughter. The local police and administration are turning this murder and harassment to accidental death. We will harm ourselves if the justice is not delivered,” Sudeeksha’s father Jitendra Bhati said.In his complaint, Jitendra Bhati wrote that, on August 10, Sudeeksha left her home in Dadri with her uncle Satyendra and cousin for Bulandshahr at around 8am. “When they reached Chirora village, Syana Road in Bulandshahr, two persons riding a black Royal Enfield motorcycle overtook Sudeeksha’s motorcycle twice, and suddenly and deliberately applied brakes. My brother Satyendra lost balance of his motorcycle and hit another motorcycle. Sudeeksha fell on the road and was critically injured in the head. She was sent to a hospital where doctors declared her dead. My daughter was a bright student and she studied in US. I urge you to take strict action against the accused and deliver justice,” he wrote in the complaint in Hindi, on the basis of which the FIR was filed.A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304 A (death due to negligence), and three other sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. The senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahr, Santosh Kumar Singh on Wednesday said Circle Officer Diksha Singh will lead the special team of two inspectors and a station house officer (SHO) that will investigate the case. “We don’t have the complete registration number of the motorcycle. We are trying to scan all Royal Enfield motorcycles in the area with available portion of the number. We are seeking help of the regional transport office,” he said. The SSP said that the accident took place at 8:50am. “We have found an eyewitness Hemant Sharma who told the police that the Bullet-borne youths applied emergency brake to protect themselves from a milk tanker coming from the opposite side. Sudeeksha’s brother, who was driving the motorbike, lost control over and the vehicle into the Bullet motorcycle ahead,” he said. The police contended that the victim’s cousin, in his initial statement, did not talk about harassment. The SSP refuted the family’s claim that Sudeeksha’s uncle Satyendra was driving the bike. “We analysed Satyendra’s mobile number and found that he was in Dadri area at 9.17am while the accident took place at 8.50am. Two hours later, at 10.49am, he reached Bulandshahr, and we have his route map,” he said, adding that the investigation so far does not lead to a harassment case.Satyendra Bhati on Tuesday detailed the alleged harassment. “Two persons on a Royal Enfield bike tried to overtake us multiple times. I applied brakes and slowed down my bike. But they continued doing stunts on the road. They suddenly came in front of us and applied brakes immediately. Our bike collided against the Enfield...I fell on one side. Sudeeksha fell on her back, received critical injuries on her head and died,” he said.Sudeeksha, who topped Bulandshahr district in the humanities stream two years ago and won a Rs 3.8-crore scholarship, returned from the US in June in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. On August 20, she was set to return to Massachusetts, where she was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at Babson College.Local political leaders, who flocked to Bhati’s house in solidarity, demanded the criminal’s arrests and asked for Rs 1 crore compensation to the victim’s family, and an academic institution to be opened in the name of Sudeeksha. Atul Pradhan of the Samajwadi Party (SP) said he does not believe the SIT probe will be fair. “The top officials in Bulandshahr police have already said this is not a case of harassment. How will a DSP rank official heading SIT go against their boss. We demand a judicial probe into the matter,” Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassment-charges-left-out-of-fir-in-up-scholar-s-death-case/story-1e7NMGZXVdSXqq2RJ6DKsK.html
13-08-2020||India||NEP will help children learn effectively, 2023 our target for textbooks: NCERT chief||The new National Education Policy (NEP), with its focus on imparting a strong foundation to students, can go a long way in ensuring lesser dropouts, National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) director Hrushikesh Senapaty has said. In an interview, Senapaty also spoke about NCERT’s future plans. Edited excerpts:How do you view NEP 2020?There is more focus on the multi-disciplinary approach. Another significant thing is the foundation...from the beginning, we can prepare our children. Like the literacy, numeracy mission, the government is focusing on this. It will help our children to learn effectively. Our foundation is often not strong and children, when they go to higher classes, drop out. If you are careful in the beginning, there will be no drop-outs. That will bring a significant change in the educational scenario. This will be a game-changer. There is also a focus on vocational education.You are required to set up a new national curriculum framework. Will you set up a committee for this?It is in the process. A committee will be constituted. We have already sent the file to the [education] ministry. The ministry will finalise the names for the steering committee. We may notify, but it will be approved by the ministry. [Education] minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is NCERT president.NEP focuses on multilingualism, including the mother tongue. How will NCERT work towards this?Normally, as per the previous practice, we bring textbooks in Hindi, English, and Urdu. These books are then translated into different languages by the state governments. In Hindi-speaking states, there is no problem but in other regions, they are translated. It is not binding on states that they should use but most of them do. As per the new policy, the local flavour should also be there.Will NCERT develop the curriculum but also rely on states to impart local flavour?Definitely. The curriculum framework will be common. We will come out with a curriculum based on a process approved by the CABE [Central Advisory Board of Education that has] all state education ministers as members. The common core, constitutional values, and other things will all be there. But we should also take into account the local things particularly in social sciences so that the children of a particular area know about local history, local geography, etc.What are the new subjects students will be studying in schools?We are working on it. We will come out with a working paper on what are the emerging areas that should be included in our curriculum. The policy has also given some directions. Coding, other emerging areas, will be there. The policy mentions areas like computational thinking.Have you set a timeline for bringing in new textbooks? We have already prepared a timeline. We will try to complete the NCF before March 2021 because that will help us to develop syllabus and monitoring committees. One set of books will be ready by April 2022 and another by April 2023. So 2023 is our target so that we come out with all the new textbooks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-will-help-children-learn-effectively-2023-our-target-for-textbooks-ncert-chief/story-EXxT7cd1UqjO7Avjx0MBuO.html
13-08-2020||India||Clause 6 of Assam Accord will be enforced, says govt||The Assam government on Wednesday reiterated it is committed to the implementation of the 1985 Assam Accord’s Clause 6, which pledges safeguards for the preservation and promotion of Assamese identity and heritage.The assurance came a day after All Assam Students Union (AASU) made public a high-level committee’s confidential report on the implementation of the accord. The report seeks reservation for Assamese in parliament, state assembly, local bodies, and regulation of entry of people from other states into Assam. AASU, whose three members were part of the committee, said they were forced to release the report because of the government’s inaction on it.“We have resolved to implement Clause 6 and are on track. By releasing the report, AASU has created complications. The committee’s report will be tabled in assembly at a future date and it will define and ratify definition of the Assamese people,” said Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “It is only after the assembly passes a resolution, the matter will go to the Centre and implementation process of Clause 6 will begin.”AASU’s chief advisor, Samujjal Bhattacharya, on Tuesday said the report was submitted over five months back, and with the government remaining quiet on its contents and implementation, the group decided to make it public . “There is no clarity as well on whether the Assam government has handed it over to the Centre yet.”Sarma referred to AASU’s unhappiness over the inaction and pointed out that the committee’s report says the recommendations are to be implemented within two years after careful scrutiny by a panel headed by a retired Supreme Court judge as it involves constitutional provisions.“Since our government is at the end of our tenure and the assembly elections are due in a few months, it might be better if the new elected assembly takes up the issue of ratifying definition of Assamese people.”The tripartite accord involving AASU, the state government and the Centre was signed in 1985 after a six-year agitation against illegal immigrants.The justice (Retd) Biplab Kumar Sarma-led 13-member committee submitted the report to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in February. None of the three AASU members in the committee were present when the report was submitted. AASU was upset that the report was not handed over directly to Union home ministry.The report proposes January 1951 as the cut-off date for any Indian citizen residing in Assam to be defined as an Assamese for the purpose of implementing Clause 6. The report also seeks quotas in government jobs, talks about issues related to land and land rights, linguistic, cultural and social rights, and protection of the state’s resources and biodiversity.Clarity on who can be called an Assamese was one of the committee’s main tasks as the accord did not clearly define this.The passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December triggered protests in Assam amid concerns that it could encourage a fresh wave of infiltration from Bangladesh and threaten the livelihoods of indigenous people. CAA seeks to fast-track citizenship to non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan.The protests against the law in Assam came amidst fears that it could dilute the 1985 accord, under which the government agreed to identify and deport all refugees and migrants who have entered the northeastern state after March 25, 1971. The CAA extends the deadline until December 31, 2014.Implementation of Clause 6 remained on the backburner for over three decades till the Centre formed a panel in January last year to suggest how to do it. All members of the panel resigned in protest against the CAA.A new 13-member committee was constituted in July last year. It was given a month’s extension after its six-month tenure expired in January.“The committee’s report was submitted towards the end of February and the lockdown prompted by COVID-19 pandemic started the next month. AASU should realise that though Clause 6 is an issue, but COVID is a larger issue and priorities of the government changed because of that,” said Noni Gopal Mahanta, professor of political science at Gauhati University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clause-6-of-assam-accord-will-be-enforced-says-govt/story-HpAL4LCVVvN9DLXIdIx3RP.html
13-08-2020||India||Aarogya Setu vulnerable? Drama over data firm’s contention||A cyber security firm said on Wednesday that it stumbled upon large parts of the government’s contact tracing app Aarogya Setu’s code and back-end components that could jeopardise the privacy of 150 million users after a government website appeared to have inadvertently uploaded log-in credentials used by the developers, triggering a war of words with the government before both sides retracted their claims. On Wednesday afternoon, threat intelligence firm Shadow Map said in a blog post published on its website that it found the log-in credentials used by developers of Aarogya Setu sitting, possibly by accident, on a government website, allowing them to gain access to large parts of the code and other software infrastructure that, if accessed by hackers, could expose location, contact, and health data of the users. The blog post refers to events that happened in late June, and added that the issue was fixed a day after Shadow Map pointed it out to the relevant authorities. In a widely circulated statement on Wednesday evening, the government called the claims “malicious, nefarious and unsubstantiated” and assured users that no data has been compromised due to the alleged vulnerabilities. It also said it would pursue legal action against the company. Shortly after, Shadow Map took down the blog post, and the government retracted its statement. “We assure users no data was compromised and we will look into this incident in entirety and take action as per the law,” said Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov, the government agency spearheading the project. Singh added that the statement was being retracted since the blog had been pulled down. Aarogya Setu is a mobile phone-based contact-tracing application meant to identify people with Covid-19, but has been criticised by privacy experts for collecting excessive amounts of data, while cyber security analysts have also flagged endemic issues in India’s cyber hygiene that could expose such data to malicious actors, including state-backed hackers. In the now-retracted blog post , Shadow Map gave what appeared to be details with screenshots of how it found “the source code for the Aarogya Setu platform including its back-end infrastructure being exposed on the public internet”, citing in particular the discovery of log-in credentials used by the developers on GitHub. GitHub is a code-sharing platform that is often used by programmers to work on software they are building.The discovery was part of internal research to scan government websites for publicly accessible data, the researchers said, adding: “On the 23rd of June, while analysing the data from this GOV.in scan, we noticed that one of the Aarogya Setu servers had been recently updated and one of its developers had accidentally published their Git folder into the public webroot, along with the plain-text user name and password details for the official Aarogya Setu GitHub account.” This, the researchers went on to say, allowed them to access the code stored on GitHub, which in turn gave previously undisclosed details about how the platform is designed, including the role of private operators, and access to “authentication keys” that could potentially enable access to user data. “A malicious user that gets access to GitHub or their cloud platforms could easily introduce malware into the app that would then be served to all 150 million users,” Yash Kadakia, founder of Shadow Map, told HT over phone in the afternoon. To these claims, Singh said the disclosures “were very unethical and unprofessional act of a firm that was involved in security audit of the app”. In the statement issued by the ministry of electronics and IT, before it was retracted, the government accused Security Brigade – the parent company of Shadow Map -- of violating its terms of engagement on the Aarogya Setu project. “Security Brigade, a CERT-In empanelled agency, was one of the reviewers of Aarogya Setu code and confidential information relating to the code was shared with the firm. In all such reviews and audits, the expectation is that they will conduct the review professionally and will maintain confidentiality. Now publishing an article on issues that they came to know as part of the code review violates the basic principles of ethics and propriety,” it said.Security Brigade rejected the allegation and reiterated the information was based on code accessed as a result of the leak of the GitHub credentials on a government website.“Aarogya Setu reached out to six organisations and shared their Android source code for review prior to their press conference announcing the bug bounty program. Of course, this Android source code was then made publicly available for all on Github and has absolutely nothing to do with the article we have published. The code we discovered and responsibly reported to NIC was related to other internal components which have not yet been made public. These were accidentally exposed due to their security lapses in the Aarogya Setu infrastructure,” Shadow Map’s parent company Security Brigade said in response to the government’s statement.In the blog post, Shadow Map cited the data available on GitHub and the source code showed “several private organisations are heavily involved in the development and management of the Aarogya Setu platform”. This, they said, raised concerns around how much access individuals or private organisations had to the massive amounts of personal data.All of these details, the researchers added in the blog post as well as their subsequent statement, were “responsibly shared with senior members of the NIC, CERT and key stakeholders from the Aarogya Setu team”. They added: “However, we did not receive any acknowledgement or response from them. The issue was silently fixed the next day.”Other cybersecurity and technology policy experts said the findings reported by Shadow Map, if true, were worrying. “The initial error, exposing the Github credentials, is a very big mistake from the Aarogya Setu devs (developers),” said Baptiste Robert, a programmer who has previously reported vulnerabilities in the Aarogya Setu app as well as government websites that leaked sensitive user data. Robert said a particular technical aspect of the purported finding would be significant if true. This was in reference to Shadow Map finding an “authentication key” that could enable access to the database of Aarogya Setu. “This is pretty huge because with this key, they can read/write the content of the database.”Shadow Map in its blog post said it did not use the key to access the database and a spokesperson said the company was not aware if any hackers had carried out such a breach. “To my understanding, Shadow Map indicated that through private keys hardcoded in repositories, it is possible to generate access tokens that can in turn be used to read, write, update and delete data stored in the Firebase (the service hosting the database). This is extremely worrying, as this would open up the possibility of malicious actors being able to tamper with the app’s data, which clearly includes sensitive personal information (such as phone numbers, travel history, information about personal health) of millions of people using the app,” said Gunjan Chawla, programme manager, technology and national security at National Law University, Delhi’s Centre for Communication Governance.She added that if true, the incident also reflects poorly on cyber hygiene practices in India. “It is meaningless to encrypt databases if the decryption key is visible to any person viewing the source code. Other than passive profiling of citizens by adversarial countries, a malicious actor could even simply change a high risk case to a low risk, or vice versa to sabotage government attempts at containing the pandemic. Given these risks, it is surprising the app is not being treated as Critical Information Infrastructure,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-vulnerable-drama-over-data-firm-s-contention/story-um9orvMYJxUDgPsNCCg4pN.html
13-08-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot could call for floor test despite the return of Sachin Pilot camp||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is likely to opt for a floor test in the upcoming assembly session despite a truce announced by 19 dissident Congress legislators, whose rebellion threatened the government’s stability over the past month, at least three party leaders aware of the development said on Wednesday.Even though the 19 MLAs, including now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, have returned to the Congress fold, the party thinks that a floor test is the only way to send across a message of unity after a tumultuous month marked by an intense tussle that triggered political uncertainty in the western state.It will also give some time to Gehlot to put his house in order since a floor test cannot be repeated during a session, one of the leaders cited above said. He said the practice is that if a government survives a trust vote, nothing is likely to change in the next six months.“The rule is that once you move a motion in a particular session, you cannot bring in that subject again in the same session. You can do so in the next session,” constitutional expert PDT Achary explained.In an interview with HT, published on Wednesday, chief minister Gehlot did not rule out a floor test, saying a decision will be taken once the assembly session begins on August 14.“No doubt, a floor test is the only solution and we can go for it any opportune time. We will prove our majority on the floor of the House,” the first Congress leader said, requesting anonymity.“We will get a breather...to address all the issues raised by party leaders and legislators from both sides,” he added, referring to the Gehlot and Pilot camps.A three-member All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel formed to look into grievances of Pilot and the rebel legislators is likely to submit its report by then.The Rajasthan crisis appeared to have come to an end after a meeting between Pilot and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday. Later that night, the party announced the setting up of the panel to look into issues raised by the 42-year-old Pilot and the 18 rebel legislators, who questioned Gehlot’s style of functioning. Three independents MLAs, too, backed Pilot.With Pilot’s return, the Congress alone has 107 legislators in the 200-member assembly, where the simple majority is 101. It also appears to have the support of all 13 independents, with the three from the Pilot camp pledging their support to Gehlot, and of five MLAs from different parties. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats.A second Congress functionary, who is monitoring the developments in Rajasthan, said the government can move the trust vote any time in the assembly. The leader, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the strategy for the session will be finalised on Thursday.A third Congress leader said a floor test was important to prove a point. “The entire political crisis was witnessed by the public. A message is needed to be sent that the government is safe and promises made will be fulfilled,” he said. He reiterated the Congress’s allegations that the BJP was trying to destabilise the state government.The BJP said taking a call on a floor test was an “internal issue” of the Congress. “The BJP neither asked and nor will ask for floor test. Let them do whatever they want to do,” BJP legislator and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the Congress did not want to take any risk. “The ruling party is still keeping an eye on the rebels...They would also want to convey to the rebels that they aren’t dependent on them,” Bareth said.Despite the truce, there are indications of resentment among a section in the Congress.Legislators backing Gehlot displayed their anger at a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Jaisalmer over the return of Pilot and his supporters.A large section of legislators were vocal against Pilot, and questioned how the Congress could take the dissidents back after their rebellion threatened the government, a party leader present in the meeting said.On Wednesday, Gehlot said it was natural for legislators backing him to be upset. “The way this episode happened, they had to stay in hotels. But I told them that in the interest of the country, state, its people and for saving democracy, sometimes we have to bear,” he said.The MLAs supporting Gehlot, meanwhile, returned to a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur on Wednesday. On July 13, they were taken there. And on July 31, they were shifted to a resort in Jaisalmer.They are expected to stay at Fairmont Hotel near Jaipur till the session begins. The rebel lawmakers — all of them have returned to the state — did not visit the hotel on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-could-call-for-floor-test-despite-the-return-of-pilot-camp/story-66AuJ4uslMaruNUY49XA5I.html
13-08-2020||India||Physical hearings in top court likely next week||The Supreme Court may start holding physical hearings in at least two or three of its 15 courts as early as next week, as demanded by the Bar association, even as the top court wants additional safety measures before it starts doing so.The move comes almost five months after the court stopped physical hearings on account of the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the Coronavirus disease, and almost two -and-half months after the lockdown was removed, although some restrictions continue. A seven-judge committee evaluating the court’s opening told leaders of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA) on Tuesday that at least three courts may start holding physical hearings on a trial basis. This will be in addition to the virtual court hearings already in place, they said. Members of the bar are keen on an opening, even a phased one, from next week, but a final word on the matter is awaited: the judges committee is expected to submit its report to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) in a day or two for passing necessary directions. The meeting between the seven-judge committee and the bar leaders was held on Tuesday through videoconferencing. The lawyers were represented by SCBA President Dushyant Dave and SCAORA President Shivaji Jadhav. In a statement issued on Wednesday, SCBA President Dave wrote about the meeting. “We suggested that for the time being only four or five Courts may restart physically while continuing and expanding/improving the virtual courts hearings.” Speaking to HT, SCAORA President and senior advocate Shivaji Jadhav said: “The committee presided by Justice NV Ramana is seriously considering starting at least two-three physical courts from the next week and in the meantime, the registry has been asked to take necessary steps to prepare the courts for physical functioning.” The registry is expected to put up glass partition between the judges and lawyers and install other facilities to sanitize entry points, he added.Since the national lockdown began on March 25, the top court has been shut but limited hearing of urgent cases is taking place through videoconferencing platform VIDYO. Over a period of time, more courts have become functional through videoconferencing. The SC Registry even provides videoconferencing Rooms for lawyers at the new Supreme Court block adjacent to the old court complex. This facility can be availed by lawyers and litigants even at the seven district courts in the Capital. Both the Delhi high court and district courts in the Capital are currently holding hearings through videoconferencing and it is expected that they will follow the Supreme Court’s lead when it comes to restarting physical hearings. The seven judges on the committee are : Justice Ramana, justices Arun Mishra, RF Nariman, UU Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and LN Rao. The committee shared its concerns with the bar leaders informing them about the medical advice received by them from experts who said physical court hearings could wait for another two weeks.Speaking to HT, Dave said consistency is needed: “ How can the experts who are advising the government to lift the lockdown tell the Supreme Court to remain closed. It is unfortunate that justice is suffering, lawyers and their clerks are suffering.” Both Dave and Jadhav were of the view that all necessary measures must be taken to ensure health and well-being of the judges, registry staff and lawyers but that physical court hearing should begin from August 18. Two weeks ago, the seven-judge committee held its first meeting with SCBA and SCAORA to study the feasibility of opening courts. This followed representations received from lawyer bodies. Meanwhile, a section of lawyers have shot off a representation to SCBA and SCAORA openly dissenting with the idea of opening courts. This representation, signed by 24 lawyers has insisted on continuation of virtual court hearings. “Even If physical court hearings begin, only those matters will be listed which are old, regular matters from the Final Hearing List published before the lockdown,” Jadhav said.If the courts reopen for physical hearing, it will come against the backdrop of a general improvement of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, with more tests, a lower positivity rate, and fewer people seeking hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-hearings-in-top-court-likely-next-week/story-hUJmhOOiiyndpsz873JfTI.html
13-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee ’s condition critical, remains on ventilator support||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to be critical and he remains on ventilator support at the Army (R&R) Hospital, authorities announced on Wednesday. “Shri. Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition continues to remain critical. Presently he is haemodynamically stable and on a ventilator,” a statement from the hospital said.Mukherjee was admitted on Monday for a brain surgery to remove a clot. “Last year 8 August was one of the happiest days for me as my dad received Bharat Ratna. Exactly a year later on 10 Aug he fell critically ill. May God do whatever is best for him & give me strength to accept both joys & sorrows of life with equanimity. I sincerely thank all for their concerns,” his daughter Sharmistha, a Congress leader, tweeted on Wednesday. The 84-year-old former president announced on Twitter on Monday that he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while undergoing a routine check-up. Mukherjee, who was the India’s president between 2012 and 2017 and awarded the Bharat Ratna last year, kept his public interactions at a minimum after the pandemic hit India earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-s-condition-critical-remains-on-ventilator-support/story-obe9JBk4R18ko8gX12ioBJ.html
13-08-2020||India||Vaccine procurement to be done centrally: Govt panel||An expert panel tasked with drafting a roadmap for procuring, financing and distributing a potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine for mass immunisation decided on Wednesday that all procurement will be done centrally and that each consignment will be tracked realtime until delivery to ensure it reaches those who need it most.The first meeting of the panel, headed by Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul, also discussed the maintenance of a cold chain during distribution and storage to ensure vaccine viability, inventory, resource mobilisation, and ensuring equitable access.Details of the first meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 were released on Wednesday by the Union health ministry, which also announced the setting up a state-of-the-art digital infrastructure to track last-mile delivery of the vaccine and stock position on a realtime basis.  “The Committee also advised all the States not to chart separate pathways of procurement. The expert group deliberated on conceptualization and implementation mechanisms for creation of a digital infrastructure for inventory management and delivery mechanism of the vaccine including tracking of vaccination process with particular focus on last-mile delivery,” the health ministry said in a statement.The members decided that India would support its key neighbours and development partner countries for Covid-19 vaccines. It will leverage domestic vaccine manufacturing capacity and engage with international entities for early delivery of a vaccine not only within the country, but also in low and middle income countries as and when it is ready for mass use.Unlike other countries India hasn’t yet struck pre-approval deals with vaccine makers (the US and the UK have deals with multiple ones) . It is, however, a member of the Covax platform of Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, WHO and CEPI, and is eligible to receive vaccines covering 20% of its population through this mechanism by the end of 2021. It is also widely believed that at some point, the government will sign a deal with the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, which will be making several of the Covid-19 vaccines under licence. “There is going to be intense global competition for Covid-19 vaccine procurement, so it’s not a bad time to start planning; even though we can’t be sure which vaccine candidate will win or probably none would. It’s like a game of chess, and you need to plan a lot even though you can’t be sure how the game will eventually play out. Having said that, you do need to get your logistics in place,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Russia on Tuesday launched a Covid-19 vaccine called Sputnik, described by President Vladimir Putin as the world’s first. According to WHO, there are six vaccine candidates in Phase 3 or Phase2-3 combined trials around the world and roughly another 120 in various stages of clinical testing. The expert group has referred the matter of selection of the right vaccine candidate for use in the country to the Standing Technical Sub-Committee of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). NTAGI is an advisory committee comprising multidisciplinary groups of experts advising the government on vaccine and immunization policy based on available evidence.The expert group has sought inputs on vaccine candidates, both indigenously and internationally manufactured, from NTAGI. “…They discussed on broad parameters guiding the selection of Covid-19 vaccine candidates for the country and sought inputs from NTAGI. The group delved on the procurement mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccine, including both indigenous and international manufactured, along with guiding principles for prioritization of population groups for vaccination,” the ministry’s statement added.The Covid-19 vaccine can be delivered using any of the already existing delivery platforms as India already has a robust national immunisation programme running, offering protection against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases. The committee also considered other issues related to logistics such as cold-chain infrastructure , and how to address equitable access to the vaccine.“Issues related to vaccine safety and surveillance were taken up and strategy for community involvement through transparent information and awareness creation were discussed,” said the ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-procurement-to-be-done-centrally-govt-panel/story-LTqYpptXM5P29oZSH8Ac4M.html
13-08-2020||India||India blocks Pak’s scheme for Kashmiris, says medical degrees in PoK not recognised||India will not recognise degrees awarded by medical colleges in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, the Medical Council of India has declared in a public notice, a move designed to firmly, even if partially, block Prime Minister Imran Khan’s scholarship scheme for 1,600 students from Kashmiris every year.The MCI announcement comes months after the Jammu and Kashmir high court asked the MCI and external affairs ministry to review its stand to see if students who study medicine in these territories could be allowed to practice.The trigger for the court’s December 2019 order was a petition from a young Kashmiri woman who had studied medicine in PoK but was disallowed from sitting for the exam meant for people who studied abroad. This exercise was still in motion when the Pakistan government, in February, announced the scheme to extend generous scholarships for 1,600 Kashmiri students.Security agencies red-flagged the Imran Khan government’s outreach to Kashmiri students soon after. Pakistan had been offering cheaper education options to Kashmiri students for years, mostly on the recommendation of Kashmiri separatist leaders. There had been several instances where Kashmiris had gone to Pakistan and its occupied territories through legal channels to study but returned via the Line of Control after being trained at terror camps.Those who did stick to studies returned more radicalised than they were when they left, said a counter-terror operative.Monday’s MCI order deals with one part of what security agencies described as a big challenge.“This is to inform all concerned that entire territories of UT of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh are an integral part of India. Pakistan is in illegal and forcible occupation of a part of the territory. Accordingly, any medical institution in Pakistan occupied Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh (POJKL) requires permission/recognition under the Indian Medical Council Act 1956. Such permission has not been granted to any medical college in PoJKL. Therefore, any qualification obtained from medical colleges within these illegally occupied areas of India shall not entitle a person for grant of registration under Indian Medical Council Act 1956 to practice modern medicine in India,” the MCI said.This implied that students who pass out from professional colleges in PoK cannot sit for the exam meant for foreigners because the occupied territories are an integral part of India.Security officials told Hindustan Times that the MCI order only deals with one part of the challenge. It does not deal with students who receive their degrees from universities in Pakistan. “Unless this is stopped, it would remain a key area of concern,” one of them said.But there has been no consensus at the meetings that have been held to discuss the security concerns from PM Khan’s scholarship offer. An official said there were questions around the powers of the government to bar citizens from studying in certain institutions in the absence of enabling legal provisions.“This is still work in progress,” he said, adding that security agencies were working out a plan that would withstand legal scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blocks-pak-s-scheme-for-kashmiris-says-medical-degrees-in-pok-not-recognised/story-22Hq1cUsFQHERKKAJhCgPP.html
13-08-2020||India||Centre zeroes in on three firms for new Parliament||The government has narrowed the list of choices for building a new Parliament complex to three Mumbai-based construction companies -- Larsen & Toubro Limited, Tata Projects Limited and Shapoorji Pallonji & Company Private Limited -- after disqualifying four other entities that bid for the contract, bringing it a step closer to tendering out the project.The three bidders have qualified for the submission of financial bids. According to documents reviewed by HT, Mumbai-based construction and civil engineering company ITD Cementation India Limited, Hyderabad-headquartered NCC Limited , PSP Projects Limited of Ahmedabad, and Uttar Pradesh state government’s UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited were disqualified from the project by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD).CPWD invited pre-qualification bids in a two-bid system to construct the triangular shaped building on a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, adjacent to the current Parliament building. Seven companies evinced interest in the construction of the new parliament building as part of the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project, HT reported on July 15.“The bid documents as submitted by the agencies on-line were processed and scrutinized as per initial eligibility criteria as laid down in the subject pre-qualification document. After obtaining clarifications from bidders and their clients as mentioned in their bid documents, evaluation has been done for all the bidders wherever feasible on the basis as prescribed in the said pre-qualification document,” a circular issued by CPWD on Tuesday.The bid document estimated the cost of the project at roughly Rs 889 crore. It laid out strict eligibility criteria based on a firm’s past work — such as having constructed an assembly hall with a minimum capacity of 1,000 people and a building with a basement — as well as ongoing projects, average monthly turnover, and net worth, among other factors.Construction of the new Parliament building, which will comprise halls with a bigger seating capacity for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, offices for members of Parliament, as well as a courtyard, dining facilities and a lounge for lawmakers, is likely to begin after Parliament’s winter session and is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. CPWD has specified that the existing Parliament building shall continue to function during the execution of this project.Bidders had to specify similar work completed in the past seven years, ongoing projects, as well as tentative plans to meet their manpower requirement, source of construction materials, and establishment of facilities such as those meant for fabrication.Based on an evaluation, CPWD disqualified four companies for reasons including non-fulfilment of the criteria mentioned in the bid document.“Out of total seven works submitted by the agency, the criteria for satisfactory completion of similar work of required magnitude as per minimum eligibility criteria prescribed in…bid document is not fulfilled,” it noted as the reason for disqualification of ITD Cementation.On PSP Projects, CPWD said: “the agency has submitted details of only one work, which has not been completed and is still in progress. Thus, the agency has not satisfactorily completed similar work of required magnitude as per minimum eligibility criteria.”The proposed work is of very prestigious nature and is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the highest standards of quality and workmanship, the bid document said. The bid document also specified that 50% of the workers will need to be skilled for work of stone masonry, carving, fresco, furniture, and adequate health and safety measures would need to be taken in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.“…agencies are to be qualified on the basis of individual marks secured in various parameters including aggregate total. Further minimum eligibility criteria require satisfactory completion of similar work of required magnitude in one agreement… the agency has also failed to secure minimum qualifying marks i.e. 24 marks under criteria of ‘Quality after inspection of work carried out by the nominated Joint Committee,” CPWD said in the case of UP Rajkiya Nirman NigamOn NCC Limited, CPWD remarked that it “ failed to secure minimum qualifying marks i.e. 12 in criteria of Time Over Run’ in any of the work and also failed to secure aggregate qualifying marks i.e. 75.”The new Parliament complex will be among the first projects to be finalised and tendered out as part of the Central Vista redevelopment, which includes plans to turn North and South Block, situated opposite each other on Raisina Hill and which house top central government ministries, into a museum and the construction of new administrative offices with an underground metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-zeroes-in-on-three-firms-for-new-parliament/story-Wksh7KSZlMrLa6YfhUD9zM.html
