14-08-2020||India||Kerala CM, 7 ministers in quarantine after 23 officials test Covid +ve||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and seven of his ministers went into quarantine on Friday after 23 state government officials who were part of the rescue operation at a plane crash site in Kozhikode tested positive for coronavirus. In a brief statement, the CM’s office said he will be going in self-quarantine and won’t be able to unfurl the Tricolour on Independence Day and it will be done by the state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran. The CM and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had visited Kozhikode in north Kerala with a big team a day after the air tragedy that claimed 18 lives, including two pilots. The decision came after Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan and police superintendent U Abdul Kareem tested positive, along with 21 other officials who supervised the rescue work with local people after the Air India Express evacuation plane from Dubai skidded and crashed last Friday. Seven ministers, including health minister KK Shailaja and state director general of police (DGP) Loknath Behera, have put themselves into quarantine. District officials were at the crash site for many hours and led the rescue operations with the aid of local people. In fact they were in quarantine after two injured in the crash tested positive. “Some symptoms were there since yesterday and later it was confirmed positive. This is part of our job. I am relieved we could limit the death toll to 18,” said collector K Gopalakrishnan, who reached the spot in 20 minutes and took command of the rescue work. Though the airport is known after Kozhikode, it is in Malappuram district, at least 25 kms away from Kozhikode city. Earlier the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) had also asked its personnel who took part in the rescue operation to go in quarantine. Kondotty, where the airport is situated, was a containment zone but youngsters came out in large numbers which was later lauded by many, including Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Air India. Local people are also in quarantine and their test results are yet to come. Meanwhile, the state reported 1569 new cases and 10 deaths. Death toll went up to 140 and total cases stood at 41, 246. State health minister KK Shailaja said cases are likely to peak by next month and experts have warned daily cases will go up to 15,000. Kerala was the first state to report a virus case in the country in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-7-ministers-in-quarantine-after-23-officials-test-covid-ve/story-EnyH3Vl3okYYxaoin0TjkM.html
14-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in central India||The monsoon is likely to be very active over northwest and central India over the next two weeks with high chances of extremely heavy rains (over 20 cm) in parts of Gujarat and eastern Rajasthan, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. Unlike in July, the monsoon has been active in the first half of this month with the country receiving 13% excess rain from August 6 to 12.IMD said 12% of 685 districts have got large excess rains (60% excess or more), 17% have recorded excess rains (20 to 59% excess), while 42% are in normal (19% deficient to 19% excess) and 26% in deficient (20 to 59% deficient) and 3% in large deficient category (more than 60% deficiency) since the monsoon season began on June 1.Above normal monsoon rains are expected in August and September because of several consecutive low-pressure areas forming over the Bay of Bengal. But chances of flooding and extremely heavy rain are high in Gujarat and Rajasthan over the weekend and coming week. All districts of Gujarat recorded large excess rains except Gandhinagar on Thursday. Many districts of eastern Rajasthan have also recorded large excess rains.The low-pressure area over north coastal Odisha is likely to move west-northwestwards to north Madhya Pradesh during the next 2-3 days. Another low-pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal on August 19. “Monsoon trough likely to shift southwards and remain active. The convergence of strong southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterlies from the Bay of Bengal at lower levels very likely over northwest and central India. Southwest monsoon is very likely to be in an inactive phase with above-normal rainfall activity over central India, northern parts of south Peninsular India and most parts of plains of northwest India,” an IMD statement said.Heavy to very heavy rain was likely in Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, Ghat areas of central Maharashtra, eastern Rajasthan and parts of central India. Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Gujarat and eastern Rajasthan during the next 2-3 days.“The Madden Julian Oscillation (an eastward spread of large regions of enhanced and suppressed tropical rainfall, mainly observed over the Indian and Pacific Ocean, according to UK Met Office) which was over the western Indian Ocean has started moving towards the Pacific,” said D S Pai, senior scientist, IMD. “This was helped with formation of low-pressure areas over western Pacific, the remnants of which are forming low-pressure areas over Bay of Bengal leading to several low-pressure areas forming that can intensify monsoon rain over India. The sea surface temperatures over the Bay of Bengal are also above average.”In July, there were no low-pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal and hence the monsoon was subdued over the core monsoon region (parts of east and central India). Pai said monsoon rains are likely to be above average both in August and September.The monsoon trough is likely to remain active and positioned near to its normal position during most days of the week between August 20 and 26. “Rainfall activity is very likely to be normal to above normal over most parts of the country, except Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar, where it is likely to be below normal. Thus the currently above normal rainfall activity for the country will continue to remain above normal for the next two weeks. It may lead to inundation of low-lying areas on some occasions over central parts of the country,” IMD said.“Due to formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the monsoon trough being near its normal position, we can expect very heavy rains in Gujarat and Rajasthan in the next 2 to 3 days and very active monsoon conditions over the country in the next two weeks,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Monsoon rains are presently 2% excess over the country with 22% excess over the south peninsula, 19% deficient over northwest India, 8% surplus over east and northeast India.Very light rain is expected around Red Fort on Saturday morning and may coincide with the Independence Day function, said Delhi’s Regional Meteorological Centre.Delhi recorded heavy rain on Thursday with around 83.8 mm recorded at the Safdarjung weather station. “The monsoon trough is slightly south of its normal position passing along Jaipur, Gwalior, Sidhi, Daltonganj, Jamshedpur to the Bay of Bengal. There is high moisture incursion towards northwest India both from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. So we are expecting light rain in the capital on the Independence Day,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-central-india/story-LbvIseZABF3251Z4o7cu4H.html
14-08-2020||India||How Ashok Gehlot managed the crisis||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot won a vote of confidence in the assembly on Friday with the ruling Congress party hoping political uncertainties that erupted in the state in mid-July was over for now.As the crisis — triggered by the rebellion by now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and doused by a truce call earlier this week — unfolded, Gehlot had his task cut out. He had to fight a two-pronged battle — on the internal and the external fronts. In the end, the outcome was in his favour.While central Congress leaders credit former party president Rahul Gandhi with breaking the ice — he met Pilot on Monday before an announcement on the breakthrough — Gehlot monitored the efforts on the ground to rescue his government.A challenge for him was to keep the over 100 legislators loyal to him (including those representing allies) together. Hence, they were first taken to the Fairmont Hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur on July 13, a move aimed to ensure there are no defections in the ranks. Then, the MLAs were shifted to a resort in Jailsamer on July 31. They returned to Jaipur only on Thursday, a day before the commencement of the assembly session and after the truce declaration.His first moral victory came soon after the rebellion began. On July 12, three rebel MLAs of the Congress — Chetan Dudi, Danish Abrar and Rohit Bohra — came back the party fold after Gehlot spoke to them through Bohra’s father Pradyman Singh, a senior Congress leader.And then, Gehlot identified three independents — Kushveer Singh, Suresh Tak and Om Prakash Hudla — in the Pilot camp who the chief minister thought could return. Gehlot, through his emissaries, got in touch with them, but they expressed their inability to do so.“This gave him confidence that the government was safe,” a second senior Congress functionary said, requesting anonymity.Till the end of the tussle and before the peace deal, Pilot had the support of 18 Congress dissidents and the three independents.Gehlot also attacked the BJP’s high command, accusing it of trying to topple the government — a charge repeatedly denied by the opposition party. He remained soft on the state BJP leadership, trying to project what he called differences in the opposition party.Congress leaders said Gehlot steered the party’s legal strategy from issuing show-cause notices to the 19 rebel Congress MLAs to drafting requests to state governor Kalraj Mishra for an assembly session without mentioning the trust vote on the agenda.When the governor insisted on a 21-day notice to convene a session, it turned out to be a blessing in disguise for Gehlot. “He agreed for 21 days once he got reports that the rebel camp was getting jittery over the prolonged crisis,” said the second Congress party leader, privy to the developments.A third Congress leader, on the condition of anonymity, pointed out that another challenge for Gehlot was to keep the morale of his camp high as the crisis dragged on. For that, he would every day visit the legislators supporting him at the resort on the outskirts f Jaipur, and later frequent the Jaisalmer resort.“He gave a pep talk to legislators almost every day and appreciated their patience in dealing with the crisis. He would stay with them till 2.30-3.00am and urge them to ensure that the BJP’s designs do not succeed,” added the third leader.Gehlot also wrote a letter to all legislators, including those from the BJP, reminding them how he, as the Rajasthan Congress president in 1996, prevented an attempt to topple the government of then chief minister Bhairon Singh Shekhawat of the BJP.And in the final phases of the crisis, when the Congress leadership brokered a truce with Pilot and his supporters, the CM sent out a peace message and asked the legislators backing him to bury the hatchet and unite again.Before going for the floor test, Gehlot shook hands and hugged Pilot at a Congress meeting at the chief minister’s residence in a show of unity, in an indication that he had left behind the bitterness of the past month involving his personal attacks on the rebel camp.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the resolution of the month-long crisis has bolstered Gehlot and underscored his political acumen.“Gehlot made it appear that it was another attempt of the central BJP leadership to overthrow another Congress-ruled state. Except his comments against Pilot, Gehlot’s strategy was flawless, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-gehlot-managed-the-crisis/story-NYNQizS5w8qn0WdZDxfs0H.html
14-08-2020||India||I will be the shield, club, and spear: Sachin Pilot||Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot made two interventions during a discussion on the confidence motion moved by the ruling Congress party in the Rajasthan assembly on Friday, responding to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who named him in connection with the recent political crisis triggered by his rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.His first intervention was during the address by Rajendra Rathore, the deputy leader of opposition and a BJP leader who asked why a notice was issued by the Rajasthan Police’s special operations group (SOG) to Pilot and why he rebelled against the party. The 42-year-old former deputy chief minister rose from his seat and said: “They are taking my name repeatedly. Prior to my seat being changed, I was safe and part of the government. Then I thought why our speaker and chief whip [Mahesh Joshi] have given me a seat here? I thought for two minutes and then saw that this is a border.” “On one side is the ruling party and on the other is the opposition. Who is sent to the border? The strongest warrior is sent,” Pilot added.On Friday, Pilot, who was dismissed as the deputy chief minister on July 14 after his rebellion, sat in the second row — near the opposition benches — in the House. In the last session in March, he sat next to the chief minister in the front row. The new seating arrangement prompted jibes by the Opposition.The SOG notice that Rathore raked up asked Pilot to record his statement regarding an alleged attempt to topple the Congress government and triggered the revolt that had been in the offing for months. Though the Congress said a similar notice was sent to Gehlot, leaders close to Pilot called it a “joke”; for it is the chief minister who is in charge of the home department that oversees the police force. Pilot’s camp said the notice was yet another move to “humiliate” him and “undermine” his authority.Pilot, who announced a truce earlier this week after a dialogue with the Congress high command in Delhi, also said: “Having completed all the talks (to resolve issues that triggered his rebellion), we have come to the assembly today. It may rain fire at this frontline, but we all and I will be the shield, club and spear and will protect (the party).”The Tonk legislator rose again during the address of leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, who said the Congress should laud Pilot for its achievements in The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in the state. Pilot was the rural development minister from December 2018, when the Congress formed the government, till he lost his portfolios on July 14. “It would be better if you argued on the merits and demerits of the confidence motion,” Pilot told Kataria. He said many things have been said during the discussion on the trust vote. “Over time, everything will be revealed,” Pilot added.“Whatever I or my colleagues had to say or do, we went before a doctor and after treatment, all of us, all 107 of us, are united in the House,” Pilot said amid the thumping of the desk by Congress leaders. He was apparently referring to his Monday meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi that doused his rebellion. Later that night, the party announced the setting up of the panel to look into issues raised by the Pilot and the 18 rebel legislators who backed him and questioned Gehlot’s style of functioning. After the assembly was adjourned till August 21, Pilot said outside the assembly that the BJP should not worry about what was happening in the Congress. “We don’t speak about dagger drawn among the BJP leaders,” he said.During the crisis, a section of the Congress alleged that he was working in coordination with the BJP, though Pilot publicly clarified that he will not join the opposition party.“I have full confidence that the road map (by the Congress high command) will be revealed in a time-bound manner and all our concerns will be dealt with in a satisfactory way,” he said. Pilot said the state government will complete its term and work to fulfil the expectations of the people. “We will work together to face challenges related to coronavirus, economic issues, farmers and youth in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-be-the-shield-club-and-spear-pilot/story-n570ZenNrREPvVi8RnufyO.html
14-08-2020||India||NSG snipers, SWAT commandos, kite catchers at Red Fort for I-Day security||Multilayered security arrangements and a mandatory adherence to social distancing norms are in place for the 74th Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort.A security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be placed around the Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation.“The Delhi Police has made multilayered arrangements in connection with the Independence Day celebrations. Necessary coordination has been made with other agencies like the NSG, SPG and ITBP.Also read | ‘Nation is indebted to corona warriors’: President Kovind on the eve of 74th Independence Day“All the agencies will work in close coordination with each other to cater to all kinds of threat inputs. SWAT teams and ‘Parakram’ vans have been strategically stationed,” Anil Mittal, Additional PRO Delhi Police, said.There will be heavy security deployment along the route taken by the prime minister to reach Red Fort.Over 300 cameras have been installed for security and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock, police said.There will be around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort and they will stand in adherence with social distancing norms, they said.Meanwhile, medical booths have been set up at various locations--one booth near the rampart, one at Madhavdas Park and two booths at 15 August Park--to cater to any attendee with symptoms related to Covid-19 during the entry.Also read | Woman Indian Army officer to assist PM in unfurling flag on 74th Independence DayAmbulances would also be stationed at these locations.Thermal screening at all entry points for the invitees has been planned. A thorough sanitisation of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is being carried out on a regular basis, officials said.All invitees have been requested to wear protective masks. An adequate number of masks are also being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. Similarly, availability of hand sanitisers at pre-defined locations has been done, they said.The security in and around railways stations has also been intensified.“Security personnel have been deployed at railways stations and along the tracks. There will be no movement of trains from 6.45 am to 8.45 am on Independence Day on particular tracks near the Red Fort due to VVIP movement,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh had said.The guest list also has been pruned and about 4,000 plus invites have been issued to officials, diplomats, members of public and media.The Delhi Police has also advised the invitees to refrain from attending the event if they experienced any Covid-19 symptom in the last two weeks and did not go for a test. Social distancing will be maintained between any two guests seated during the event.The security personnel involved in frisking the invitees would be donning personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, a Delhi Police official said. Over 350 Delhi Police personnel, who will be part of the guard of honour, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. These personnel of the force of all ranks -- from constable to deputy commissioner of police -- have been quarantined at a newly built police colony in Delhi Cantonment, police said.Police personnel have also been asked to keep an eye on the sky to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the areas around the Red Fort. Police have also been carrying out anti-sabotage checks, visiting hotels in the vicinity in search of suspicious elements, they had said.“Deployment of security personnel is being made both in plainclothes and uniform. Facial Recognition System has also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification. All the necessary guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic will be enforced,” Mittal said.The Delhi Traffic Police had also issued an advisory for the Independence Day function to ensure safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city.Eight roads -- Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover -- will be closed for general public from 4 am to 10 am.“Apart from securing the main venue at the Red Fort, adequate security arrangements for ‘At Home’ function at Rashtrapati Bhawan have also been made. A city-wide alert is being exercised by all district deputy commissioners of police,” Mittal said.Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, micro light aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or activities like para-jumping from aircraft, among others, are prohibited over the jurisdiction of the national capital up to August 15, police had said.The Red Fort has already been closed for public ahead of the Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsg-snipers-swat-commandos-kite-catchers-at-red-fort-for-i-day-security/story-agPO3EyLDiBMFbO1gTQ5XM.html
14-08-2020||India||India criticises Pakistan for hosting events on Kashmir with Mahathir, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar||India on Friday criticised Pakistan for giving a platform to former UN-designated terrorist Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and former Malaysian premier Mahathir Mohamad to speak on the Kashmir issue through events organised by that country’s missions. Hekmatyar, who now heads the hardline Hizb-e Islami party, participated in a webinar on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir hosted last week by the Pakistani ambassador to Afghanistan and said India should “learn a lesson from the Afghan jehad” and the only solution to the Kashmir issue is to give Kashmiris the right to self-determination. Mahathir spoke at an event organised in Kuala Lumpur by the Pakistani mission last week to mark the first anniversary of the revocation of Kashmir’s special status and criticised India’s actions. During his last stint as Malaysia’s premier, his comments on the situation in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act had taken bilateral ties to a new low. Asked about Hekmatyar’s presence in the webinar organised by Pakistan, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have seen the media reports of the participation of the former UN-designated terrorist in an event organised by the government of Pakistan. “This is nothing new. Pakistan not only harbours terror outfits but also encourages them. We hope that such participation in public events by a former UN-designated terrorist would not go unnoticed.” In 2017, the UN removed Hekmatyar from its list of designated terrorists after he signed a peace deal with the Afghan government. In response to a separate question on Mahathir’s presence at the Pakistan government event, Srivastava said: “You are aware of the outlook and position of Mahathir Mohamad on this issue. As a saying goes, you are known by the company you keep.” On the Afghan peace process and the Afghan government’s decision to release 400 Taliban prisoners, Srivastava said, “We have taken note of the development. As far as India is concerned, we strongly support the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan. We also support the intra-Afghan negotiations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-criticises-pakistan-for-hosting-events-on-kashmir-with-mahathir-gulbuddin-hekmatyar/story-Y5CDqTyOb3X1BMGorkDW3O.html
14-08-2020||India||India an unprecedented story of success, but challenges remain||When India became Independent, there was joy. A long freedom struggle and the sacrifice of millions, over decades, finally led to self-rule — and what a remarkable journey it was , under the leadership of the Mahatma, for in striving for its own freedom, India showed the world the path of non-violent resistance. Indians would, finally, have the sovereign right to decide their own destiny — its Independence also inspired freedom struggles, especially in Africa, inaugurating an era of decolonisation across the world. But along with the joy, there was a clear recognition that Independence came with tremendous challenges and responsibilities. For one, the task of maintaining national unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity — in the wake of Partition — became even more critical. Foreign observers were sceptical about India’s ability to remain free and united, especially given its diversity and internal lack of political and administrative coherence.But it was not just the challenge of remaining sovereign. The vision of the freedom movement did not confine itself to merely displacing a set of foreign rulers and replacing them with a set of domestic elites. The movement was not nativist, but democratic in character. Sovereignty was to reside with the people. Those who governed would do so with the consent of the people. And that is why nurturing representative democracy, creating a set of democratic institutions in a society with deep inequalities, and ensuring that freedom for the nation translated into freedom for citizens was the cornerstone of the Indian project. This, then, was the second challenge. But what was the objective of unity, sovereignty and democracy? Given India’s deprivation, the overwhelming poverty, the inequalities that permeated every sphere, Independence had to mean socioeconomic justice. Political rights had to be accompanied with social and economic rights. And the State had to shape society and battle social ills. The quest for prosperity and justice constituted the third challenge. But all of this hinged on a fourth challenge. Given India‘s breathtaking diversity, its entrenched caste hierarchies, and also its deep intercommunity divisions, especially Hindu-Muslim tensions, social harmony, peace and the accommodation of all groups was central to moving India forward. Would India be united and sovereign, democratic and free, just and equitable, harmonious and diverse? This was the fundamental challenge presented by India’s Independence. And 73 years later, the Indian project must be judged on this metric.The national unity projectFor India, territorial integrity was sacrosanct. This is true for all nation-states, but in India’s case, the wounds of the past and Partition led to even greater determination. The territory that was India’s, through bonds of civilisation, history, geography, law and culture, would not be allowed to fragment. India faced repeated challenges to its integrity — be it through Pakistan’s incursion into Kashmir in 1948 itself, the Chinese offensive in 1962, Pakistan’s attempts to marry external aggression with a sponsored internal rebellion in 1965, its patronage to terror for the last three decades and its silent conspiracy in Kargil in 1999, secessionist movements in various parts of the country, or China’s current aggression in Ladakh.These territorial challenges — including the current one — have constituted a threat. But each time, India fought back. It may not, today, have all the areas it considers its own (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin being the most prominent ones), but the fact that India has remained united, that no secessionist movement has succeeded, that Indian citizens in every corner feel integrated with the national project, is an extraordinary achievement. But along with unity, there was sovereignty. India was wounded by foreign invasions. And its leadership was clear that it would not entertain any external intervention in its internal decision making process. This post-colonial psychological imprint has been so strong that not only did it refuse to join any Cold War bloc by remaining non-aligned, but even today, speaks of strategic autonomy, self-reliance, and not entering any alliance system. To be sure, in an interconnected, globalised world, there is give and take; absolute sovereignty is a myth. But for most part, India has preserved its right to take its own decisions. 73 years later, it is clear that India has the intent and capacity and track record to resist any attempts to redraw the map of the subcontinent. But as geopolitics shifts, it must be ready for challenges to its unity and sovereignty, directly and indirectly. The democratic projectTo institutionalise the principle that the people were sovereign, India instituted — and has successfully implemented — the principles of democracy. Periodic elections have allowed citizens to choose their representatives. Independent institutions — the Election Commission, an independent judiciary, a free press — have ensured that there is a check on executive power. There is a federal structure with clearly defined division of powers between the Centre and states. A vibrant, noisy public sphere has allowed reasoned discussions to take place to chart the path forward, with democratic participation. Protests and social movements have given a voice to the weak and marginalised. Ideological battles have taken place within a peaceful framework. And India is stable because it is a democracy. This democracy, with the assertion of marginalised communities and the spread of technology, has become deeper. Yet, there are, today, legitimate questions about the quality of Indian democracy. Elections remain a true people’s festival where citizens exercise their franchise and choose among competing ideologies, parties and leaders. But some other elements of democracy have suffered. There is the rise of illiberalism. Political parties have become personal fiefdoms. Nepotism is rife. There is an intersection between crime, money and politics. There is an overcentralisation of power in select leaders. The federal compact is under strain. Institutions have become weaker, thus curtailing their ability to keep a critical watch on executive excesses. Free speech is often threatened under the garb of community sentiment. Individual liberties are often undermined. And parties resort to the most crude, violent, polarising techniques to mobilise voters in their quest for power. Make no mistake. The Indian democratic project is a success. No other post-colonial democracy, with India’s level of economic backwardness and social diversity, has sustained an almost uninterrupted democratic run (barring the Emergency interregnum). But just like unity and sovereignty, democracy is not a one-time achievement. It requires constant vigilance, perhaps more so today than earlier. The justice projectLong before India became Independent, India’s leaders were clear that this independence had to translate into substantial outcomes for citizens at large. The hope was that when India became free, it could finally address issues of structural inequality and backwardness, and citizens would enjoy the right to live with dignity, study, work, and access public services. Through a range of instruments — a mixed economy and somewhat insular approach in the early decades and a more liberalised and globalised economic policy orientation from 1991 — India adapted itself to meet these goals. More Indians today have access to basic nutritional intake, education, and work, than ever before. And this is an achievement to be proud of. But the Indian justice story hinges on growth and inclusion. In recent years, both have suffered. India was seeing a slowdown before the pandemic, and Covid-19 is now set to lead to a severe contraction in the economy. This will have a direct impact on jobs, incomes, and the quality of life.Inclusion remains a partial story, too, though the failure on this front must be shared by all governments. State institutions — be it public health system or government schools — have not lived up to the mark, thus depriving the most marginalised of critical services. Welfare programmes have helped, from the right to employment to income transfer to farmers. But they have not been a substitute for the fact that India remains deeply unequal; that a large segment of the population works in the unorganised sector with no benefits; that work is irregular; and meeting basic needs remains a struggle for many. The fact that India is a young country, with a productive population, but limited opportunities, can become a serious destabilising factor.This quest for socioeconomic justice, achievable only through both high growth and more effective inclusion frameworks, remains a challenge.The harmony project But, in a way, the most crucial challenge for India was to ensure internal social unity. To achieve this, the drafters of the Constitution and successive political regimes adopted a range of techniques. The State did not turn into a theocracy, like Pakistan. India’s Muslims would be equal citizens, with equal rights. To address the structural inequities of the caste system, untouchability was abolished, discrimination on the basis of caste was declared illegal, and the State took affirmative action measures to create a level playing field.The fact that this diverse land has remained united is a testament to the vision of the founders. India’s Hindus and Muslims have together coexisted, from villages and towns scattered across the country to political parties. To be sure, there have been riots — some devastating — but they have not upset the larger social equilibrium. In terms of caste, too, more members of backward communities and Dalits have broken free of their chains than ever before in Indian history — through education, representation, reservation, welfare, and their own remarkable endeavour. Yet, the story remains incomplete — and to some extent disturbing. There has been a turn towards majoritarianism in Indian politics. Minorities — particularly Muslims — have a sense of being excluded from power structures, with their lifestyle, food habits, cultural symbols becoming objects of suspicion. Arguably, Hindu-Muslim division is at its deepest today than at any point in the last seven decades, with the State itself seen as taking one side. Caste, too, remains a fundamental reality, with the political assertion of the marginalised not translating into their economic empowerment. Intercaste marriages may have increased but are still not the norm; atrocities against Dalits are only reported to be rising according to official data; and social divisions persist. Citizens may coexist, but if they belong to different religions and castes, especially in smaller towns and villages, they coexist by living separately, not the ideal recipe for harmony. And so, 73 years later, India is a story of success, yet a story of unfulfilled potential. It is a story of democracy which has beaten all odds, yet it is also a story of an incomplete democracy which has miles to go. It is a story of unity, yet a story of unity that is increasingly under threat due to external and internal factors. It is a story of a dream of a just society, yet a story where this quest for justice has hit some barriers. It is a story of remarkable achievement, yet a story of setbacks. It is a story of freedom, but also a story of how all citizens are not yet equally free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-an-unprecedented-story-of-success-but-challenges-remain/story-yKSQrsgKd3ivixEJJjLMvM.html
14-08-2020||India||Manipur: Congress seeks special session for repeat trust vote alleging violation of rules||Alleging “procedural lapses” in the no confidence motion won by Manipur’s BJP-led government on August 10 through a voice vote, opposition Congress on Friday requested Governor Najma Heptullah to convene a special session of the state assembly for another trust vote. In a memorandum submitted to the Governor, former chief minister and leader of opposition, Okram Ibobi Singh, said the rulings of Speaker Y Khemchand Singh during the voting on August 10 are “arbitrary and illegal” and violated Rules 311 and 360 of Rules and Procedure of Conduct of Business in Manipur assembly as well as Supreme Court orders. “The decision of the Speaker to use ‘voice vote’ in deciding an important motion on vote of confidence is contrary to the clear orders of Supreme Court to adopt division, raise of hands and counting the members physically to ascertain the exact number of MLAs voting for or against the motion,” the memorandum said. The N Biren Singh government was declared to have won the trust vote through a voice vote after 28 members of the ruling coalition expressed confidence in the government against 16 from the opposition side (8 Congress MLAs remained absent). “Voice vote, which is based on vocal assent of members, does not convey the exact number of MLAs supporting or opposing the motion, and hence it is unreliable in important motions like confidence motion,” the memorandum said. “By disallowing division of the House by the Speaker, the purpose of ascertaining if any member of Congress MLA voted against the whip/direction issued by the party whip was defeated,” it added. Congress alleged that Speaker Singh committed “serious procedural lapses” by not following the laid down provisions of the rules of conduct of business in the Manipur assembly as well as directions of the Supreme Court. A voice vote despite objections by the opposition also violated provisions of 10th Schedule of Constitution, the memorandum said. “You are requested to summon a special session of the assembly under Article 174 of the Constitution to consider, debate and vote on the ‘motion of confidence’ in the council of ministers headed by N Biren Singh afresh as the (earlier) voting was inconclusive,” said the memorandum. The 60-member Manipur assembly’s strength was reduced to 53 after 4 members were disqualified under anti-defection law and 3 BJP MLAs resigned. On the day of the trust vote on August 10, six Congress MLAs submitted their resignations to the Speaker. Resignations of five of them were accepted reducing the total strength of the assembly to 48 at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-congress-seeks-special-session-for-another-trust-vote-against-bjp-led-coalition/story-olyZyVRc24fdQHh51Abn2I.html
14-08-2020||India||You have so much to be proud of: Netanyahu to India||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday congratulated his Indian counterpart and a “very good friend” Narendra Modi and the people of India on the eve of the country’s Independence Day, saying “you have so much to be proud of”.“Wishing my very good friend@PMOIndia@narendramodi and all the people of #IncredibleIndia a joyful #IndiaIndependenceDay You have so much to be proud of,” the Israeli Prime Minister tweeted a day ahead of India’s Independence Day and just before the onset of Sabbath when official work generally comes to a standstill in this Jewish country. Wishing my very good friend @PMOIndia @narendramodi and all the people of #IncredibleIndia a joyful #IndiaIndependenceDay . You have so much to be proud of.स्वतंत्रता दिवस की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं🇮🇱🤝🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/OaW7tHgKrHThe Sabbath is Judaism’s day of rest and the seventh day of the week.“Swatantra Diwas ki haardik shubhkamnayen”, he added in Hindi.The tweet also carried a photo of Modi and Netanyahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-have-so-much-to-be-proud-of-netanyahu-to-india/story-2WBNLe60lJiuEF0FWS5DNN.html
14-08-2020||India||Monitoring panel can’t act against residential properties flouting laws: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court said on Friday that the Monitoring Committee spearheading set up in 2006 to check illegal use of some properties does not have the power to act against residential properties that may be flouting laws, and ordered 11 homes sealed in Vasant Kunj and Rajokri areas to be unsealed and handed back to owners in three days. The SC-appointed Monitoring Committee has been spearheading the capital’s crackdown against the use of residential properties for commercial purposes, a move that has seen sealing of illegal business establishments in prominent neighbourhoods such as Defence Colony. But, the court said, it cannot take action against residential properties, the prerogative for acting against which falls under different mechanisms.The panel has anti-pollution crusader and retired bureaucrat Bhure Lal, former advisor to Election Commissioner KJ Rao, and SP Jhingon. “The Monitoring Committee is not authorised to take action concerning the residential premises situated on the private land. If there is unauthorized construction or in case of deviation, the requisite provisions are under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act,” said the bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. The Court reiterated that the committee formed under its order of February 16, 2006 had the authority to seal commercial units operating in residential areas and upon encroachment on public land. This power will not extend to unauthorised constructions carried out in private land over which the municipal authorities alone will have the authority under law. This is the first time the committee’s power was questioned since it was formed on February 16, 2006. The decision came after the committee ordered sealing of 11 properties in Pocket D-3, Vasant Kunj and some properties in Rajokari area on a letter from the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Mehrauli on February 22, 2019 complaining about unauthorised construction. The committee filed a report (Report No 149) before the Court on April 4, 2019 for approval. The bench quashed the committee’s report and other reports submitted in connection with the said report and ordered the properties to be de-sealed and possession restored to owners within three days. The court added a rider that its decision is “not at all to belittle the yeoman service done by the Monitoring Committee for protection of Delhi.” Advocate Nalin Kohli who opposed the action of the Monitoring Committee before the court spoke to HT and said that this order became necessary as the committee was expanding its powers. Kohli said, “The Committee has become an authority unto themselves. They shut down several farmhouses in Mehrauli area and this judgment will certainly be a relief to several persons whose properties were sealed despite the construction being for residential purpose and not commercial.” The Delhi government and the Centre were on the same page in this case; opposing the Committee’s action. The Court examined orders passed by it since 2006 and concurred with their submissions. Giving a 70-page judgment, Justice Mishra, who authored the decision, said: “It would not be appropriate for the Monitoring Committee to usurp statutory powers and act beyond authority conferred upon it by the Court. The Monitoring Committee could not have sealed the residential premises, which were not misused for the commercial purpose as done vide Report no 149 nor it could have directed the demolition of those residential properties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-panel-can-t-act-against-residential-properties-flouting-laws-supreme-court/story-D7HdhmaeSktWOe7vFtvpcO.html
14-08-2020||India||FM Sitharaman meets I-T officers, thanks them on faceless assessment launch||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday met officers of the income tax department and thanked them for their efforts towards starting faceless assessment, sources said. The minister exhorted them to work with the same zeal and dedication to make faceless appeal system an equal success, the sources added. Also read | What is ‘faceless’ tax assessment? All you need to knowWhile faceless scrutiny assessment has already been launched by the income tax department, faceless appeal would be launched from September 25. Also read | ‘Painless, seamless, faceless’: PM Modi says new reforms will change how we pay taxesSources said during the meeting, Sitharaman told the officers that the department’s responsibility has increased further with the new faceless approach to taxation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the platform ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring The Honest’ and unveiled a Taxpayers’ Charter defining the commitment of the tax department and the expectation from taxpayers. Sitharaman, sources said, has told the tax officers to serve taxpayers with much higher standards to meet the commitments outlined in the Taxpayers’ Charter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-sitharaman-meets-i-t-officers-thanks-them-on-faceless-assessment-launch/story-OevZrDwaP4gEsuHKpZogjI.html
14-08-2020||India||Ahead of I-Day, large cache of arms and ammunition recovered in Assam||Ahead of Independence Day celebrations in the state, Assam Police have recovered a large cache of arms and ammunition from several places in Udalguri district. “Based on a source’s information, Guwahati Police conducted a search operation along with Udalguri Police at several places in Udalguri district and recovered huge numbers of arms, ammunition and explosives on Thursday night,” said a Assam Police release issued on Friday. “These are suspected to belong to the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) organization. Further investigation is on,” it added. The recovered items include two AK-47 rifles, five AK-56 rifles, two M-16 rifles, seven 9mm pistols, 12 grenades, over 1250 rounds of ammunition, 1 air gun and around 20 kilogram of explosives. In January this year, four factions of NDFB, the All Bodo Students Union and United Bodo People’s Organisation, who had been seeking a separate Bodoland state for decades, gave up their demand and signed a peace accord with the Centre. Following the signing of the accord, over 3,000 NDFB cadres had laid down arms at two separate programmes. In March, two months after signing the peace accord, all four NDFB factions disbanded itself. But the recovery of a large cache of arms and ammunition suggests that the NDFB factions may not have handed over all their arms after signing the peace deal, said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-i-day-large-cache-of-arms-and-ammunition-recovered-in-assam/story-cD8VGxsHjjyvH6VLvfL2pI.html
14-08-2020||India||President’s speech ‘encapsulate spirit’ of 130 crore Indians, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described the speech delivered by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday as “insightful” and added that it encapsulated the spirit of 130 crore Indians.“Insightful speech by Rashtrapati Ji. His remarks encapsulate the spirit of 130 crore Indians and highlight the path ahead to build a strong, prosperous and united nation,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday evening soon after President Kovind’s speech.President Kovind had earlier hailed the government’s response to coronavirus outbreak, praised medical staff at the forefront of India’s fight against the pandemic, paid tribute to Indian soldiers who died fighting Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley, denounced China’s expansionist agenda, praised the new national education policy and welcomed the beginning of construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya.“Only ten days ago, construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi began, in Ayodhya. It was indeed a moment of pride for all. People of the country maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system. The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony. I congratulate all fellow citizens for their commendable conduct,” President Kovind had said.Also Read: China’s ‘expansionist’ designs and India’s growing global ‘clout’ tops President Kovind’s address to the nationPresident Kovind had also expressed confidence in the Indian government’s policy of self reliance achieved through self sufficiency without distancing itself from the world and a humanist approach to global crises such as coronavirus pandemic, which was demonstrated in India helping out countries with medicines and other requirements in line with its traditional value of Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam (meaning the world is one family).“It has been the tradition of India that we do not just live for ourselves, but work for the well-being of the entire world. India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity,” Kovind said.President Kovind also said that the pandemic had taught human beings some crucial lessons in the year 2020. He said that the virus has demolished the illusion that human beings are the master of nature and served a timely reminder for humanity to correct its course and live in harmony with nature.Also Read: Full text of President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to nation on eve of Independence DayThe second lesson taught by Coronavirus, he said, was in the recognition of the fact that artificial divisions created by the human society are not recognised by nature and therefore there is a need to rise above all man-made differences, prejudices, and barriers using compassion and mutual help as basic values.And finally, he said, the pandemic had presented a case for augmenting the health infrastructure, which has played a seminal role in the fight against Covid-19 by helping the poor cope with the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-s-speech-encapsulate-spirit-of-130-crore-indians-says-pm-narendra-modi/story-U7MG0ieosS2dJuA7sQTehI.html
14-08-2020||India||Flood water enters fresh areas of Assam; over 29,000 affected in 4 districts||Flood water entered fresh areas of Assam on Friday, raising the number of affected people to over 29,000 in four districts while two more persons lost their lives in incidents related to the calamity, an official bulletin said.The water has been receding for the past few days and only over 11,000 people were affected by the deluge in just two districts - Dhemaji and Baksa - on Thursday.Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) in its bulletin said that Lakhimpur and Biswanath districts are also inundated now, and the number of people hit by the calamity increased to 29,603.Two persons lost their lives at Naoboicha in Lakhimpur district taking the toll in this year’s flood and landslide to 138 across the state. While 112 people died in flood-related incidents, 26 were killed in landslides.With 23,591 people are reeling under the impact of the flood, Lakhimpur is now the worst-hit district. The number of affected people in Dhemaji is 5,662, followed by 300 in Baksa and 50 in Biswanath, ASDMA said.Altogether 56 villages in the four districts are under water.The Brahmaputra is flowing above the danger level at Neamatighat in Jorhat district, while its tributaries - Jia Bharali and Beki are flowing above the red mark at two other places.Embankments, roads, bridges, culverts and other infrastructure were damaged and erosion has been reported in Lakhimpur, Udalguri, Majuli and Baksa districts, ASDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-water-enters-fresh-areas-of-assam-over-29-000-affected-in-4-districts/story-GSheottFtg79b6drX8ZPTJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Beirut blast: India sends 58 tonnes of emergency aid to Lebanon||India on Friday sent 58 tonnes of emergency humanitarian aid to Lebanon in an air force plane to assist the people affected by the explosions in Beirut on August 4. The external affairs ministry said a separate consignment of personal protective equipment (PPE), including surgical gloves and surgical gowns, is being sent to Lebanon following a spike in Covid-19 cases. This will reach Beirut in the coming days, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.India stands in solidarity with #LebanonToday C-17 of @IAF_MCC delivered 58 MT of humanitarian aid from India to the people of Lebanon to assist relief efforts in wake of the tragic #BeirutBlast. Read @IndiaInLebanon’s press release https://t.co/vd4HQaAXtO for more. pic.twitter.com/GeJi8myRCQThe emergency humanitarian aid was despatched on Friday morning in a C-17 heavy lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in response to an assessment of requirements by Lebanese authorities. “In response to the massive explosion in Beirut on August 4, we had offered our assistance to Lebanon and sought from them an assessment of their requirement. Based on this, an Indian Air Force C-17 aircraft was deployed to deliver 58 MT of emergency humanitarian aid on behalf of the government of India to Lebanon,” Srivastava said. “The aircraft landed in Beirut a few hours back and the aid has been handed over by our ambassador to senior officials of the Lebanese armed forces, which is coordinating all the relief efforts.” The aid sent by India includes emergency medical supplies, wheat flour, sugar, pulses, and relief materials such as blankets, dignity kits and sleeping mats, which are required by the large number of people left homeless by the explosion. “India demonstrates solidarity with the people of Lebanon in the aftermath of the tragic explosions in Beirut. 58 MT of emergency humanitarian aid, including crucial medical and food supplies, is on its way to Beirut in IAF C17 aircraft,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted. Nearly 3,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored at Beirut’s port blew up on August 4, virtually wiping out the city’s commercial hub and damaging many parts of the Lebanese capital. The blasts killed more than 170 people, injured another 6,000 and left nearly 300,000 homeless. The total damage has been estimated at $10 billion to $15 billion. A preliminary assessment by the World Bank showed some 50,000 residential units were damaged and 80 per cent of residential buildings and infrastructure were affected by the explosions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beirut-blast-india-sends-58-tonnes-of-emergency-aid-to-lebanon/story-kJXtb1HTXosaxC4IrVfNVM.html
14-08-2020||India||Capable of giving befitting response to any aggression, says President||Exactly two months after the fierce clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley, President Ram Nath Kovind sent out a clear warning on Friday that India is “capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” as he addressed the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day. Kovind slammed the neighbour’s “misadventure of expansion” when the world needs to come together to fight against Covid, “the greatest challenge before humanity. The bloody conflict in the Galwan valley on June 15 left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Since then, the two sides are locked in discussions to de-escalate the situation but China has so far refused to move back from some critical areas. As many as five rounds of top-level military talks between the two sides have failed to break the deadlock as serious differences appeared over the Finger Area near Pangong Lake and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory. “The world now realises what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” Kovind said. Paying respect to the Indian soldiers who lost their lives defending the borders, Kovind said: “Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley.” He also added, “Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression,” expressing pride in Indian armed forces, paramilitary forces and police personnel “who protect the borders, and ensure our internal security.” Kovind also added that India has been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the Covid pandemic and its timely and “super-human efforts” contained the Covid and saved many lives back home. He also saw the construction of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple as a “moment of pride for all”.As India gears up to an unprecedented subdued celebration of Independence Day, Kovind termed covid warriors as national heroes, said the pandemic has taught “tough lessons” of life and “demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature.” He appealed to the humanity to “correct its course and live in harmony with nature” and said the crisis offered opportunities for economic revival. Even as the Modi government’s handling of the covid situation has come under immense criticism in the political circle, the President said that the Centre, “while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time” and added that it requires “super-human efforts for a country so vast and diverse with high population density” to meet these challenges. Kovind said India’s committed efforts that “succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives” is worth emulating by the wider world. The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny, said Kovind as he saw more importance in ‘human-centric collaboration’ than ‘economy-centric inclusion’. He also appealed to rise above all man-made differences, strengthen virtue in conduct, expand public health infrastructure and accelerate developments in science and technology—a reminder on how India built covid-related medical items such as ventilators or PPE kits almost from a scratch and now is able to even export to other countries. “Coronavirus does not recognise any artificial divisions created by human society. This reinforces the belief that we need to rise above all man-made differences, prejudices, and barriers. Compassion and mutual help have been adopted as basic values by the people in India. We need to further strengthen this virtue in our conduct. Only then can we create a better future for all of us,” Kovind said. Kovind’s speech, just 10 days after the bhumi pujan of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, dubbed the event as “a moment of pride for all” as he mentioned how people maintained “restraint and patience” for a long time and reposed “unflinching trust in the judicial system”. “The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony,” he said on Thursday. In the backdrop of the pandemic that altered lives and played havoc with global economy, the President narrated all welfare interventions such as ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’ to help the poor and daily wage-earners—the worst-hit people in the pandemic—and enabled millions to earn their livelihood, and mitigate the impact of job-loss. He also spoke about the largest free foodgrain distribution programme to help about 80 crore people every month while ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ brought back more than 10 lakh Indians through the Indian Railways. “In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic. The overwhelming support India got at the elections for the non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council is a testimony to the goodwill we enjoy internationally,” said Kovind. As India embarked on a new Atmanirbhar policy, to boost its internal economic potentials, Kovind sent a message that India’s tradition has always been not to live for ourselves, “but work for the well-being of the entire world”. “India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity,” the President said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capable-of-giving-befitting-response-to-any-aggression-says-president/story-41YnSWez4dBhpbd1Ao0UPP.html
14-08-2020||India||Face of Centre’s coronavirus briefings, Lav Agarwal tests Covid-19 positive||Senior government bureaucrat and the face of televised briefings on coronavirus containment efforts by the Union health ministry, Lav Agarwal, has tested positive for the disease on Friday, according to a tweet posted by the Joint Secretary himself.“Dear All, just to inform that I have tested positive for Covid 19 and initiating home isolation as per guidelines,” Agarwal tweeted.He also requested all his friends and colleagues to self monitor their health status in line with the standard process.“Requesting all my friends, colleagues for self monitoring. Contact tracing will be done by Health team. Hoping to see everyone soon,” said Agarwal ending his tweet.Agarwal has also been part of Central teams inspecting the efficacy of containment efforts in states and areas with high viral case load incidents. Agarwal is the latest in a long line of high ranking officials who have contracted the disease in the line of duty. Earlier today, Union home minister Amit Shah announced that he had been cured of the disease after testing negative for the virus on Friday. Shah, discharged today from Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, will however remain in home isolation for a few days.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe also thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of the hospital, where he was admitted after he declared his coronavirus positive status on August 2. In Kerala, at least 23 officials including Malappuram collector and superintendent of police tested positive for the disease after their involvement in operations to rescue passengers of Kerala air crash last Friday at Kozhikode. One of the passengers who died in the crash and two others who received injuries had tested positive for the disease two days after the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-of-centre-s-coronavirus-briefings-lav-agarwal-tests-covid-19-positive/story-8R7bdFtKjr9TvWKi6irXdP.html
14-08-2020||India||‘If anyone dares…’: Rajnath Singh amid Ladakh border stand-off||In the midst of border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said the country reposed full faith in its soldiers and no one could grab even an inch of India’s territory while they guard the country’s frontiers. In a radio address to soldiers on the eve of Independence Day, Singh said, “If anyone dares to do this, then they will have to face dire consequences as they have in the past.” The comments come amid heightened tensions in the Ladakh sector where both Indian and Chinese armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and advanced weaponry in their forward and depth areas. He said, “Whatever we do in the realm of national security is for self-defense and not for attacking others. If the enemy country ever attacks us, then like every time we will give them a befitting reply.” Military talks with China on disengagement have hit a roadblock due to serious differences between the two armies. He said history was witness to the fact that India had neither attacked any country nor grabbed anyone’s territory. “But this doesn’t mean we will allow anyone to hurt our self-respect.” Singh also paid tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in a brutal skirmish with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in Galwan Valley on June 15. “The country can never forget their bravery and supreme sacrifice. I want to assure their families that they are not alone and the entire country stands with them,” the minister said. The PLA lost an unspecified number of soldiers in the clash that has dealt a severe blow to the bilateral relationship and created a huge trust deficit between the two armies. Singh said the government was taking the necessary steps to meet the operational requirements of the soldiers and keep their morale high. Recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the creation of the post of chief of defence staff in his 2019 Independence Day speech, Singh said the CDS has ensured better coordination between the three services. Talking about the Indian Air Force’s new Rafales, the minister said the jets had begun arriving and their induction marked the beginning of a new era in the country’s military history. Five of the 36 Rafale jets ordered from France reached their home base in Ambala on July 29. Singh said the IAF’s latest Sukhoi-30 squadron based in Thanjavur would give India “strategic depth” in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-anyone-dares-rajnath-singh-amid-ladakh-border-stand-off/story-WQeZbIb7tMoE6xUHUpw4UJ.html
14-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Woman Indian Army officer to assist PM in unfurling flag on 74th Independence Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Woman Indian Army officer to assist PM in unfurling flag on 74th Independence DayA woman army officer will assist Prime Minister Narendra Modi in unfurling the national flag during the 74th Independence Day function at the Red Fort, said a curtain raiser issued by the defence ministry on Friday. Read moreGalwan clash, coronavirus and Ram temple: President Kovind addresses India on 74th Independence dayFrom paying tributes to the soldiers who lost their lives in Galwan clash with China to counting four lessons coronavirus pandemic has taught the humans, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday covered a range of pertinent topics in his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. Read moreBacked by ISI, Haqqani Network is making a game-changing move in AfghanistanThe Pakistani deep state is pushing the Haqqani Network to increase its stake in so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) to retain its leverage on Afghanistan irrespective of the on-going peace process and maintain plausible deniability in future terror attacks in Af-Pak region, according to senior counter-terrorism officials. Read moreKhuda Haafiz movie review: Vidyut Jammwal will find you and he will kill you in this entertaining but flawed thrillerThe woman-rescue trope has been a staple in cinema. Princesses and brides have forever gone missing and valiant men have scaled mountains and seas in search of them, battling villains and befriending golden-hearted strangers on their way. Read moreInstagram kept deleted photos, messages on its servers for more than a yearWhile we expect that something we have deleted on Instagram to be deleted forever, a bug made it otherwise. Security researcher Saugat Pokharel requested a copy of photos and direct messages from Instagram and he was sent data that he had deleted more than a year ago. Read morePrincepal can make it to the top level, says NBA G League chiefThough he is likely to figure only in 12 exhibition matches outside the competition’s traditional structure as part of a one-year development programme, Shareef Abdur-Rahim, president of National Basketball Association’s (NBA) G League, feels Indian basketball player Princepal Singh has taken the right decision by joining the Select Team managed by the league itself. Read moreViral dosa-making video with Mindy Kaling, saree photos: Indians scramble to find Kamala Harris’ Chennai connectThe moment US Senator Kamala Harris was chosen as the vice-presidential candidate for Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden, she has been making waves in the news, globally and in India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-woman-indian-army-officer-to-assist-pm-in-unfurling-flag-on-74th-independence-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GYwQMqoI6N8zbrx2996LON.html
14-08-2020||India||Woman Indian Army officer to assist PM in unfurling flag on 74th Independence Day||A woman army officer will assist Prime Minister Narendra Modi in unfurling the national flag during the 74th Independence Day function at the Red Fort, said a curtain raiser issued by the defence ministry on Friday. The flag officer Major Shweta Pandey is an EME (electronics and mechanical engineers) officer from the Indian Army’s 505 base workshop. Women officers have carried out such roles in the past and even led marching contingents during the Republic Day parade.Major Shweta Pandey had earlier this year carried the Tricolour and led an Indian military contingent at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow in June, The event was also attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh. Major Pandey, a resident of Lucknow, was commissioned into service in March 2012 from officers training academy, Chennai. Her Father Mr Raj Ratan Pandey served as additional director,finance, in UP government and her mother Mrs Amita Pandey is a Sanskrit and Hindi professor.Major Shweta is B Tech in computer science with 1st division and honours. She has won over 75 medals and 250 certificates in various National and international events such as speeches, debates, extempore,etc during her school and college days. In the academy, she won the Garhwal Rifles medal for topping in tactics.The unfurling of the flag will synchronise with a 21-gun salute fired by gunners of the 2233 Field Battery (ceremonial), ministry said. The PM will deliver his address to the nation after unfurling the flag. Before that defence minister Rajnath Singh and defence secretary Ajay Kumar will receive the PM at 7.18 am in front of Lahore Gate of Red Fort. The defence secretary will introduce Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, General Officer Commanding, Delhi Area, to the PM. Mishra will then conduct him to the saluting base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present a general salute to the PM who will then inspect the Guard of Honour. The Guard of Honour contingent for the PM will consist of one officer and 24 men each from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police, the ministry statement said. After inspecting the Guard of Honour, the PM will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort where he will be greeted by Rajnath Singh and the top military brass. The GOC Delhi area will then conduct the PM to the dais on the rampart to unfurl the national flag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-indian-army-officer-to-assist-pm-in-unfurling-flag-on-74th-independence-day/story-K8t1AERXFH6G3q8ujYMt7N.html
14-08-2020||India||President on ‘tough lessons of life’ taught by Covid in address to nation||India has been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the Covid-19 pandemic and its timely and “super-human efforts” contained the virus and saved many lives back home, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Thursday as he addressed the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. At the same time, he indirectly slammed China for their “misadventure of expansion”, warned that the country is capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” and saw the construction of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple as a “moment of pride for all”.As India gears up to an unprecedented subdued celebration of Independence Day, Kovind touted covid warriors as national heroes, said the pandemic has taught “tough lessons” of life and “demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature.” He appealed to humanity to “correct its course and live in harmony with nature” and said the crisis offered opportunities for economic revival. Even as the Modi government’s handling of the Covid situation has come under immense criticism in the political circle, the President said that the Centre, “while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time” and added that it requires “super-human efforts for a country so vast and diverse with high population density” to meet these challenges. Kovind said India’s committed efforts that “succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives” is worth emulating by the wider world.The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny, said Kovind as he saw more importance in ‘human-centric collaboration’ than ‘economy-centric inclusion’. He also appealed to rise above all man-made differences, strengthen virtue in conduct, expand public health infrastructure and accelerate developments in science and technology—a reminder on how India built covid-related medical items such as ventilators or PPE kits almost from a scratch and now is able to even export to other countries. “Coronavirus does not recognize any artificial divisions created by human society. This reinforces the belief that we need to rise above all man-made differences, prejudices, and barriers. Compassion and mutual help have been adopted as basic values by the people in India. We need to further strengthen this virtue in our conduct. Only then can we create a better future for all of us,” Kovind said. Without naming China, Kovind spoke about how “some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion”, referring to the Galwan valley clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. He said the world community “needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity”- coronavirus.Kovind, the supreme commander of the Indian armed forces, described the martyrs as “worthy sons of Bharat Mata” and cautioned that “their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression.” Kovind’s speech, just 10 days after the bhumi pujan of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, dubbed the event as “a moment of pride for all” as he mentioned how people maintained “restraint and patience” for a long time and reposed “unflinching trust in the judicial system”. “The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony,” said the President. In the backdrop of the pandemic that altered lives and played havoc with global economy, the President narrated all welfare interventions such as ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’ to help the poor and daily wage-earners—the worst-hit people in the pandemic—and enabled millions to earn their livelihood, and mitigate the impact of job-loss. He also spoke about the largest free foodgrain distribution programme to help about 80 crore people every month while ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ brought back more than 10 lakh Indians through the Indian Railways. “In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic. The overwhelming support India got at the elections for the non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council is a testimony to the goodwill we enjoy internationally,” said Kovind. As India embarked on a new Atmanirbhar policy to boost its internal economic potential, Kovind sent a message that India’s tradition has always been not to live for ourselves, “but work for the well-being of the entire world”. “India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity,” the President said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-on-tough-lessons-of-life-taught-by-covid-in-address-to-nation/story-I9CWV3QGWCW8OVYQtIXMsI.html
14-08-2020||India||Galwan clash, coronavirus and Ram temple: President Kovind addresses India on 74th Independence day||From paying tributes to the soldiers who lost their lives in Galwan clash with China to counting four lessons coronavirus pandemic has taught the humans, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday covered a range of pertinent topics in his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. While India believes in peace, President Kovind said, it is also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression as he said “some in our neighbourhood” tried to carry out “misadventure of expansion”.Here are the top 10 quotes from President Kovind’s address to the nation:• The nation is indebted to doctors, nurses and other health workers who have been continuously on the forefront of our fight against this virus. Unfortunately, many of them have lost their lives battling the pandemic. They are our national heroes: President Kovind• The celebrations of Independence Day this year will be rather restrained. The reason is obvious. The whole world confronts a deadly virus which has disrupted all activities and taken a huge toll. It has altered the world we lived in before the pandemic: President Kovind• The poor and daily wage-earners are the worst hit by the pandemic. In order to support them through this phase of crisis, virus containment-efforts have been supplemented by welfare interventions.The needy are being given free food grains, so that no family goes hungry. The largest free food distribution programme in the world has been extended till the end of November 2020 to provide succour to about 80 crore people every month: President Kovind• India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity: President Kovind• While the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion. Our brave soldiers laid down their lives defending our borders. Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley. Every Indian feels grateful to their family members: President Kovind• I believe that in the fight against Covid-19, life and livelihood, both are essential. We have looked at the current crisis as an opportunity to initiate reforms to revitalise the economy for the benefit of all, specially farmers and small entrepreneurs: President Kovind• We have learnt some tough lessons in the year 2020. The invisible virus has demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature. I believe, it is still not too late for humanity to correct its course and live in harmony with nature: President Kovind• The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny. In my view, ‘human-centric collaboration’ is more important than ‘economy-centric inclusion’, in the present context. The greater this change, the better it will be for the humanity: President Kovind• The 21st century should be remembered as the century when humanity put aside differences and collaborated to save the planet. Coronavirus does not recognize any artificial divisions created by human society. This reinforces the belief that we need to rise above all man-made differences, prejudices, and barriers: President Kovind• Only ten days ago, construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi began, in Ayodhya. It was indeed a moment of pride for all. People of the country maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system: President Kovind||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-clash-coronavirus-and-ram-temple-president-kovind-addresses-india-on-74th-independence-day/story-RSTZ4BeB6mknswkaulezvN.html
14-08-2020||India||Full text of President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to nation on eve of Independence Day||President Kovind in his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day paid tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives in Galwan clash with China and complimented the COVID warriors and said the nation is indebted to doctors, nurses and other health workers who have been continuously on the forefront of the country’s fight against this virus.Here is the full text of President Kovind’s speech:My Dear Fellow Citizens,Namaskaar!1. It gives me great pleasure to greet all the people of India, living in the country and abroad, on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. August 15 fills us with the excitement of unfurling the tricolour, taking part in celebrations and listening to patriotic songs. On this day, the youth of India should feel the special pride of being citizens of a free nation. We gratefully remember our freedom fighters and martyrs whose sacrifices have enabled us to live in an independent nation.2. The ethos of our freedom struggle forms the foundation of modern India. Our visionary leaders brought together a diversity of world views to forge a common national spirit. They were committed to the cause of liberating Bharat Mata from oppressive foreign rule and securing the future of her children. Their thoughts and actions shaped the identity of India as a modern nation.3. We are fortunate that Mahatma Gandhi became the guiding light of our freedom movement. As much a saint as a political leader, he was a phenomenon that could have happened only in India. Troubled by social strife, economic problems, and climate change, the world seeks relief in Gandhiji’s teachings. His quest for equality and justice is the mantra for our Republic. I am glad to see the younger generations re-discover Gandhiji.Dear Fellow Citizens,4. The celebrations of Independence Day this year will be rather restrained. The reason is obvious. The whole world confronts a deadly virus which has disrupted all activities and taken a huge toll. It has altered the world we lived in before the pandemic.5. It is very reassuring to note that, the central government, while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time. For a country so vast and diverse with high population density, meeting this challenge requires super-human efforts. All state governments took measures in accordance with local circumstances. People also supported whole-heartedly. With our committed efforts, we have succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives. This is worth emulating by the wider world.6. The nation is indebted to doctors, nurses and other health workers who have been continuously on the forefront of our fight against this virus. Unfortunately, many of them have lost their lives battling the pandemic. They are our national heroes. All Corona Warriors deserve high praise. They go much beyond their call of duty to save lives and ensure essential services. These doctors, health workers, members of Disaster Management Teams, police personnel, sanitation workers, delivery staff, transportation, railway and aviation personnel, providers of various services, government employees, social service organisations and generous citizens have been scripting inspiring stories of courage and selfless service. When cities and towns go quiet and roads are deserted, they work tirelessly to ensure that people are not deprived of health care and relief, water and electricity, transport and communication facilities, milk and vegetables, food and groceries, medicine and other essentials. They risk their own lives to save our life and livelihood.7. Amid this crisis, Cyclone Amphan hit us in West Bengal and Odisha. Concerted response of Disaster Management Teams, Central and State agencies and alert citizens helped minimize loss of life. Floods have been disrupting lives of our people in the North-East and eastern states. Amid such onslaughts of disasters, it is gratifying to see all sections of society coming together to help those in distress.Dear Fellow Citizens,8. The poor and daily wage-earners are the worst hit by the pandemic. In order to support them through this phase of crisis, virus containment-efforts have been supplemented by welfare interventions. By introducing ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’, the government has enabled crores of people to earn their livelihood, and mitigate the impact of job-loss, dislocation and disruption caused by the pandemic. The Government continues to extend its helping hand through a number of initiatives, supported whole-heartedly by the corporate sector, civil society and citizens.9. The needy are being given free food grains, so that no family goes hungry. The largest free food distribution programme in the world has been extended till the end of November 2020 to provide succour to about 80 crore people every month. In order to ensure that migratory ration card holders get ration anywhere in the country, all states are being brought under the coverage of ‘One Nation - One Ration Card’ scheme.10. Committed to taking care of our people stranded anywhere in the world, the Government has brought back more than 10 lakh Indians under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. Indian Railways has been operating train services, in these challenging circumstances, to facilitate travel and transportation of people and goods.11. Confident of our strengths, we reached out to help other countries in their fight against COVID-19. In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic. The overwhelming support India got at the elections for the non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council is a testimony to the goodwill we enjoy internationally.12. It has been the tradition of India that we do not just live for ourselves, but work for the well-being of the entire world. India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity.Dear Fellow Citizens,13. The world now realizes what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; ‘Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam’. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion. Our brave soldiers laid down their lives defending our borders. Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley. Every Indian feels grateful to their family members. Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression. We are proud of the members of our Armed Forces, paramilitary forces and police personnel who protect the borders, and ensure our internal security.14. I believe that in the fight against COVID-19, life and livelihood, both are essential. We have looked at the current crisis as an opportunity to initiate reforms to revitalise the economy for the benefit of all, specially farmers and small entrepreneurs. Landmark reforms have been introduced in agriculture sector. Now, farmers can have barrier-free trade and get the best price for their produce anywhere in the country. The Essential Commodities Act has been amended to remove certain regulatory restrictions on farmers. This will help raise farmers’ income.Dear Fellow Citizens,15. We have learnt some tough lessons in the year 2020. The invisible virus has demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature. I believe, it is still not too late for humanity to correct its course and live in harmony with nature. The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny. In my view, ‘human-centric collaboration’ is more important than ‘economy-centric inclusion’, in the present context. The greater this change, the better it will be for the humanity. The twenty-first century should be remembered as the century when humanity put aside differences and collaborated to save the planet.16. The second lesson is that we are all equal before Mother Nature and we primarily depend on our fellow residents for survival and growth. Coronavirus does not recognize any artificial divisions created by human society. This reinforces the belief that we need to rise above all man-made differences, prejudices, and barriers. Compassion and mutual help have been adopted as basic values by the people in India. We need to further strengthen this virtue in our conduct. Only then can we create a better future for all of us.17. The third lesson is about augmenting health infrastructure. Public hospitals and laboratories have been leading the fight against Covid-19. Public health services have helped the poor cope with the pandemic. In view of this, public health infrastructure needs to be expanded and strengthened.18. The fourth lesson relates to science and technology. The pandemic has highlighted the need to accelerate developments in science and technology. During the lockdown and subsequent unlocking, information and communication technology has emerged as an effective tool for governance, education, business, office work and social connect. It has helped meet the twin objectives of saving lives and resumption of activities.19. Offices of the Government of India and of the state governments have been extensively using virtual interface to discharge their functions. The judiciary has been conducting virtual court proceedings to deliver justice. In Rashtrapati Bhavan also, we have used technology to conduct virtual conferences and carry out many activities. IT and communication tools have promoted e-learning and distance education. Work-from-home has become the norm in many sectors. Technology has enabled certain establishments in government and private sectors to work overtime to keep the wheels of the economy running. Thus, we have learnt the lesson that adoption of science and technology, in harmony with nature, will help sustain our survival and growth.20. These lessons will prove useful to humanity. The younger generation has learnt the lessons well, and I believe that the future of India is safe in their hands. These are difficult times for all of us, more so for our youth. The closure of our educational institutions would have caused anxiety among our girls and boys, casting a shadow over their dreams and aspirations for the time being. However, I would like them to remember that these difficult times won’t last and they should not give up working for their dreams. The past is full of inspiring examples of exciting reconstruction of societies, economies and countries after such devastations. I am sure that our country and youth have a bright future.21. With a view to providing futuristic education to our children and youth, the Central Government has decided to implement the National Education Policy. I am confident that with the implementation of this policy, a new quality education system will be developed and this will transform the future challenges into opportunities, paving the way for a New India. Our youth will be able to freely choose their subjects according to their interests and talents. They would have an opportunity to realise their potential. Our future generations will not only be able to get employment on the strength of such abilities but will also create employment opportunities for others.22. The ‘National Education Policy’ spells a long term vision with far-reaching impact. It will strengthen the culture of ‘Inclusion’, ‘Innovation’ and ‘Institution’ in the sphere of education. Imparting education in the mother tongue has been given emphasis in order to help young minds grow spontaneously. This will strengthen Indian languages as well as the unity of the country. Youth empowerment is essential for building a strong nation. The ‘National Education Policy’ is a right step in this direction.My Dear Fellow Citizens,23. Only ten days ago, construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi began, in Ayodhya. It was indeed a moment of pride for all. People of the country maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system. The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos ​​of peace, non-violence, love and harmony. I congratulate all fellow citizens for their commendable conduct.Dear Fellow Citizens,24. When India won freedom, many predicted that our experiment with democracy will not last long. They saw our ancient traditions and rich diversity as hurdles in democratization of our polity. But we have always nurtured them as our strengths that make the largest democracy in the world so vibrant. India has to continue playing its leading role for the betterment of humanity.25. The patience and wisdom being demonstrated by all of you in coping with the pandemic has been appreciated all over the world. I am confident that you will continue to maintain caution and act responsibly.26. We have a lot to offer to the global community, especially for intellectual and spiritual enrichment and promotion of world-peace. With this spirit, I offer a prayer for the well-being of one and all:सर्वे भवन्तु सुखिनः,सर्वे सन्तु निरामयाः।सर्वे भद्राणि पश्यन्तु, मा कश्चिद् दु:खभाग् भवेत्॥It means:May all be happy,May all be free from illness,May all see what is auspicious,May no one come to grief.The message of this prayer for universal well-being is India’s unique gift to humanity.27. I once again congratulate you on the eve of 74th Independence Day. I wish you good health and a bright future.Thank you,Jai Hind!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-text-of-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-address-to-nation-on-eve-of-independence-day/story-HLKfDY5YsgOuUhMluuV62J.html
14-08-2020||India||China’s ‘expansionist’ designs and India’s growing global ‘clout’ tops President Kovind’s address to the nation||President Ram Nath Kovind indirectly hit out at China’s ‘expansionist’ designs, praised India’s response to coronavirus pandemic as an example before the rest of the world, cited the ground breaking ceremony at Ayodhya for building of the Ram Temple as example of India’s unity in diversity and hailed the new education policy as instrument of change in the country during his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day.The President also took note of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha earlier this year.“It is reassuring to note that the Central government, while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time. For a country so vast and diverse with high population density, meeting this challenge requires super human efforts. All state governments took measures in accordance with local circumstances. People also supported wholeheartedly. With our committed attitude we have succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives. This is worth emulating by the wider world,” he said lauding India’s collective response to the global pandemic.He went on to praise the essential service providers led by the medical professionals.“The nation is indebted to doctors, nurses and other health workers who have been continuously on the forefront of the fight against this virus. Unfortunately many of them have lost lives battling the pandemic. They are our national heroes,” he added.President Kovind also highlighted that India had generated enormous goodwill by reaching out confidently to other countries that needed help.“In responding to calls from countries for supplies of medicine, India has again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront involving regional and global strategies to the pandemic,” President Kovind said, adding that the whole world was recognizing the Indian value of considering the world as one family.He went on to cite the overwhelming vote in favour of India’s candidature for the non-permanent seat at the United Nations Security council to reinforce his point about India’s global standing.President Kovind also mentioned Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana announced by PM Narendra Modi as a measure that helped the poor mitigate the impact of the disease. He also took note of the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded in foreign countries.He also stressed on the government’s policy of self reliance to say, “India’s self reliance means self sufficiency without alienating or distancing from the world. The world now realizes what our sages had said long ago, the global community is but one family, Vasudaib Kutumbkam.”On the Galwan Valley clashes with China, he said, “Some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion, our brave soldiers laid down their lives defending our borders, those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley,” he said.Speaking on another important event this year, President Kovind said that the beginning of the construction of the Ayodhya Ram Temple was a “moment of pride” for all.“Only ten days ago, construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi began, in Ayodhya. It was indeed a moment of pride for all. People of the country maintained restraint and patience for a long time and reposed unflinching trust in the judicial system,” he said.He also lauded the newly introduced National Education Policy (NEP) as the means to provide futuristic education children and youth while will transform future challenges into opportunities paving the way for a “new India”.“I am confident that with the implementation of this policy, a new quality education system will be developed and this will transform the future challenges into opportunities, paving the way for a New India. The ‘National Education Policy’ spells a long term vision with far-reaching impact. It will strengthen the culture of ‘Inclusion’, ‘Innovation’ and ‘Institution’ in the sphere of education,” he said.President’s address on the eve of the 74th Independence Day comes in a year marked by the coronavirus outbreak and its impact on the economy and other spheres of life.Even the I-Day on Saturday will be celebrated under restrictions placed on the number of visitors at the iconic Red Fort and observance of special safety protocols during the curtailed programme to keep the highly contagious disease at bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-expansionist-designs-and-india-s-growing-global-clout-tops-president-kovind-s-address-to-the-nation/story-aIXlw7se2iQnCu0poZw0CN.html
14-08-2020||India||President pays tributes to Galwan bravehearts, hits out at ‘expansionist’ China||President Ram Nath Kovind, on the eve of the country’s 74th Independence Day, paid tributes to 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in a violent faceoff with the Chinese army along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh in June. Without naming China, Kovind spoke about how “some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion” while the world community was busy fighting against the greatest challenge before humanity -coronavirus. Kovind, the supreme commander of the Indian armed forces, described the martyrs as “worthy sons of Bharat Mata” and cautioned that “their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression.” Also read | ‘Nation is indebted to corona warriors’: President Kovind on the eve of 74th Independence DayIn July, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ladakh, he too, without referring to China directly, said that the “age of expansionism” was over and countries across the world were now witnessing the era of development.Asserting that all of Ladakh was India’s pride and that people of Ladakh were patriots, and claiming that India had, for centuries, given a strong response to “aggressors” and had emerged stronger after each attack, Modi said that “enemies” had seen both the “fire and fury” of Indian soldiers.Earlier this evening, India called on China to work with it to complete the stalled process of disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as the future of bilateral ties depends on the situation along the border.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava outlined India’s position on the need to complete the disengagement process “at the earliest” against the backdrop of reports of China’s reluctance to vacate positions in territory that India considers to be on its side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pays-tributes-to-galwan-bravehearts-hits-out-at-expansionist-china/story-ag9ZbhODkPw6RYQMpzSmVN.html
14-08-2020||India||Govt announces 1 Kirti Chakra, 9 Shaurya Chakras for bravehearts||A Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police constable, a Special Forces officer and an Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot are among the 84 security personnel, whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of the 74th Independence Day, according to a government release issued on Friday. While head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas of J&K Police (JKP) has been posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra -- India’s second-highest peacetime gallantry award -- for his outstanding bravery, nine security personnel has been conferred on the Shaurya Chakra for their valour. Shaurya Chakra is the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award. The Shaurya Chakra awardees are Lieutenant Colonel Krishan Singh Rawat; Major Anil Urs; Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey; Wing Commandeer Vishak Nair, JKP’s deputy inspector-general (DIG) Amit Kumar; Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) sub-inspector Mahaveer Prasad Godara (posthumous); CISF head constable Eranna Nayaka (posthumous); CISF constable Mahendra Kumar Paswan (posthumous); and CISF constable Satish Prasad Kushwaha (posthumous). The other honours awarded are five Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 60 Sena Medals (Gallantry), four Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and five Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry). Lieutenant Colonel Rawat, 1 Para (Special Forces), has been awarded Shaurya Chakra for an operation near the Line of Control (LoC), J&K. Rawat and his team waited in ambush for 36 hours before they engaged a group of terrorist infiltrators. Four terrorists were killed in the operation. The citation praises his resolute leadership and conspicuous gallantry. Major Urs had also led an operation along the LoC in which five terrorist infiltrators were killed. The citation says that he displayed “raw courage, marksmanship, and rare combat leadership, while ensuring the safety of his team”. During a counter-terrorism operation in J&K, Havildar Dubey had killed a Category A++ terrorist from a close range. “His courageous action prevented the escape of the terrorists and eventually resulted in the elimination of all four terrorists,” says the citation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-1-kirti-chakra-9-shaurya-chakras-for-bravehearts/story-90b8jW45TOVChhVpFgbPCM.html
14-08-2020||India||‘Nation is indebted to corona warriors’: President Kovind on the eve of 74th Independence Day||President Ram Nath Kovind has said that Mahatma Gandhi’s teaching is the principle guiding our republic and added that it was an occasion to remember the sacrifices of the freedom fighters. President Kovind also congratulated the countrymen on the occasion during his speech on the eve of 74th Independence Day. “The day is for our youth to feel the pride associated with India’s independence,” Kovind said.The president also said that the country was in debt to corona warriors who have risked and even given their lives to protect others. He added that India’s fight against the pandemic was an example for the rest of the world.“By extending a helping hand towards other countries fight coronavirus has illustrated that India is always ready to help others,” President Kovind said, adding that the whole world was recognizing the Indian value of considering the world as one family. Watch: President Kovind on Ram Temple, Covid battle, China, NEP & the way ahead President’s address on the eve of the 74th Independence Day comes in a year marked by the coronavirus outbreak and its impact on the economy and other spheres of life. Even the I-Day on Saturday will be celebrated under restrictions placed on the number of visitors at the iconic Red Fort and observance of special safety protocols during the curtailed programme to keep the highly contagious disease at bay.Before the coronavirus gripped India after detection of the first case in Kerala on January 30, the country witnessed deadly riots in Delhi in late February over the Citizens Amendment Act leading to 53 deaths. Later in May, tensions spiked with China over its military’s transgressions along the disputed Line of Actual Control with India which peaked on June 15 when clashes between personnel of the two armed forced led to deaths of 20 Indian soldiers including a Colonel ranked officer and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers. Earlier this month, the foundation stone laying ceremony for a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya was held. President Kovind was elected in year 2017 and this was his fourth address to the nation on the eve of the Independence DayThe invitees have been requested to wear masks. Besides this, an adequate number of suitable masks have been kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. Similarly, hand sanitizers will be made available at pre-defined locations. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees. Thermal screening of guests at all entry points has been planned, whereas medical booths have been set up at various locations across the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-speech-on-the-eve-of-independence-day/story-QjfTf4KisgXNrrFW14ApgP.html
14-08-2020||India||India urges China to complete stalled disengagement process along LAC||India on Friday called on China to work jointly for “complete disengagement and de-escalation” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the disputed frontier. The external affairs ministry emphasised the need to complete the disengagement process “at the earliest” shortly after Indian envoy Vikram Misri met a senior general of China’s Central Military Commission (CMC) in Beijing to brief him on New Delhi’s views on the situation along the border in eastern Ladakh. Misri’s meeting with Maj Gen Ci Guowei, director of CMC’s office of international military cooperation, came two days after the envoy met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee’s foreign affairs commission. The meetings are part of India’s outreach to the Chinese leadership to resolve the standoff. President Xi Jinping heads CMC, which is responsible for administration of the armed forces. Misri briefed Maj Gen Ci on “India’s stance vis-à-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT (union territory)” the Indian embassy tweeted without giving details. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing that several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and corps commanders had discussed the implementation of the disengagement process and “further steps to ensure it is completed at the earliest”. More meetings are likely “in the near future”, he said. “We therefore expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas as agreed by the Special Representatives,” Srivastava said. “This is also necessary and essential in the context of overall development of our bilateral relationship. As external affairs minister [S Jaishankar] had noted in a recent interview, the state of the border and the future of our ties cannot be separated,” he added. Srivastava said completing the disengagement as soon as possible will require the two sides to work together as well as “mutually agreed reciprocal actions” – a nod to the process having virtually stalled because of China’s reluctance to vacate positions in territory that India considers to be on its side of the LAC. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides,” he said. The process of thinning out tens of thousands of troops deployed by both sides has run into problems at some friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, people familiar with developments said. Srivastava noted both sides had made “some progress” after reaching agreement on the broad principles of disengagement, but more needs to be done. He said “translating these principles on ground is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. He added, “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions.” Engagements through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement are in line with the agreement of the Special Representatives on the border issue – National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign minister Wang Yi – that “early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”, Srivastava said. The Indian envoy’s two meetings in Beijing this week followed several rounds of diplomatic and military negotiations held since June. They also came against the backdrop of experts suggesting political intervention at the highest level is required to end the impasse. The Indian embassy hasn’t shared details of the two meetings, or, for that matter, why they were held as the Communist party hierarchy and the Chinese government are aware of India’s stance on the border. The Chinese side too has been silent on the meetings At the top of the hierarchies of CPC and the government is President Xi, who is general secretary of CPC and chair of CMC. Chinese troops are said to have pulled back from Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties, and some friction points, but the troop withdrawal hasn’t moved forward in the Finger Areas of Pangong Lake, Gogra and Depsang. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the Indian envoy’s meetings in Beijing reflected a fresh effort by the leadership in New Delhi to push forward the disengagement after discussions at the diplomatic and military levels failed to yield results. “Between the bad and worse options available to India, the best way out is political intervention at the highest level. However, if the Chinese side doesn’t show any inclination to disengage even after this, that is a signal with significant implications and it could further jeopardise the entire relationship,” he said. “India has very little manoeuvring room left as domestic opinion is completely anti-China. It is now a game of who blinks first,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-urges-china-to-complete-stalled-disengagement-process-along-lac/story-MnkBzXzjt5T5KVqe7blenN.html
14-08-2020||India||Watch: President Kovind’s address to the nation on eve of 74th Independence Day||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday addressed the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day. Addressing the country, President Kovind said that the celebrations of Independence Day this year will be rather restrained. “The reason is obvious. The whole world confronts a deadly virus which has disrupted all activities and taken a huge toll. It has altered the world we lived in before the pandemic,” President Kovind said.  Here are the key statements from the President’s address to the nation:• It gives me great pleasure to greet all the people of India, living in the country and abroad, on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. Youth of India should feel special pride of being citizens of a free nation: President Kovind• We are fortunate that Mahatma Gandhi became the guiding light of our freedom movement. His quest for equality and justice is the mantra for our Republic. I am glad to see the younger generations re-discover Gandhiji: President Kovind• On the strength of these extraordinary efforts, in our vast country with densely populated and diverse circumstances, this challenge is being faced. State governments acted according to local circumstances. The public gave full support: President Kovind• The hardest hit of this epidemic has been on the poor and daily livelihood earners. In this era of crisis, along with efforts to prevent them, several public welfare measures have been taken: President Kovind• The government has given livelihood to crores of people by launching ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’, to reduce the pain of losing jobs due to the epidemic, moving from one place to another and disrupting life: President Kovind• Free grain is being given to needy people so that no family has to starve. Every month, around 80 crore people are being guaranteed ration through this campaign: President Kovind• Committed to helping our people trapped in trouble anywhere in the world, more than a million Indians have been brought back home by the government, under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’: President Kovind• Protecting the borders, our brave soldiers laid down their lives. Those sons of Mother India, live for national pride and die for that. The entire nation pays tribute to the sacrifices of Galvan Valley. Every Indian has a feeling of gratitude towards his family members: President Kovind• India’s self-reliance means being able to be self-sufficient, not alienating or creating distance from the world. It also means that India will also be involved in the global market system and will retain its special identity: President Kovind• We all learned many important lessons in the year 2020. An invisible virus has broken the myth that nature is subject to humans. I believe that humanity still has the opportunity to adopt a lifestyle based on harmony with nature, by holding the right path: President Kovind• Like climate change, this epidemic has also raised the consciousness that the destiny of each member of the world community is interlinked. My belief is that ‘human-centered collaboration’ is more important in the present context than ‘meaning-centered inclusion’: President Kovind• I believe that in the fight against Covid-19, it is necessary to focus on protecting both life and livelihood. We have seen the current crisis as an opportunity to revive the economy by bringing proper reforms in the interest of everyone, especially the farmers and small entrepreneurs: President KovindThis year’s Independence Day will take amid the unprecedented crisis brought about the Covid-19 pandemic. In an advisory issued by the Union home ministry last month, the government pressed for the “best possible use of technology” during this year’s Independence Day celebrations to avoid gathering in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-streaming-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-address-to-the-nation-on-eve-of-independence-day/story-twHDiFgm6nVBihEnwBBRhP.html
14-08-2020||India||Fresh effort to revive a turtle species considered ‘extinct in wild’||A new home was found on Friday for 25 hatchlings of the endangered black softshell turtle, or, as they are biologically called Nissonia nigricans, a species listed as extinct in the wild by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), in a bid to boost their population in the wilderness. The month-old hatchlings were shifted from the pond at Nagshankar temple in Assam’s Sonitpur district to a facility run by Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA) in Biswanath district, where they will be reared for nearly a year before their release into the wild. “Earlier, there have been attempts at taking hatchlings straight from the pond and releasing them directly into the wild. But since they were very small, chances of their survival were rather slim,” said Shailendra Singh, TSA, chief, India. “Friday’s relocation is the first time that individuals of the species have been transferred from the temple pond to a specialised turtle facility in Assam’s Biswanath district for their conservation,” he added. The black softshell turtle is native to major rivers and their tributaries in India and neighbouring Bangladesh. The majority of this species’ population, however, lives in sacred temple ponds. The Nagshankar temple pond, which has around 250-300 such turtles, has one of the biggest captive population of the species. Though the IUCN list mentions the species as extinct in the wild, in the past 10-15 years few black softshell turtles have been spotted in the Brahmaputra river basin in Assam. Unfortunately, the turtles’ presence was not documented. “We collected the turtle eggs in April and incubated them artificially in the Nagshankar temple premises. The hatchlings were born in July. We will raise them until they weigh around 1 kilogram (kg), which should take about one year. This will reduce the possibility of predation and increase their survival chances in the wild,” said Parimal Ray, project coordinator, TSA. The organisation has been working with Nagshankar temple authorities and other temple management committees in Assam since 2013 by looking after the upkeep of the ponds and their turtle population. Simultaneously, TSA has been working on a strategy to rebuild the turtle’s wild population in the Brahmaputra river basin. “This is an encouraging initiative, as the numbers of the species seen in the wild are low and not meticulously documented. Rearing them in a facility until they are a bit bigger will increase their chances of survival in the wild,” said Mukut Chandra Das, divisional forest officer (DFO), Biswanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-effort-to-revive-a-turtle-species-considered-extinct-in-wild/story-vlZplKwuSPF1DjUOaXpNnI.html
14-08-2020||India||‘8 people have died by suicide in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon in one week’: Police||Eight people have allegedly died by suicide in separate incidents in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region in the last week, police said.A man and a woman allegedly killed themselves in Dineshpur area of US Nagar district by consuming pesticide. They were found dead on Thursday morning, said police. “We rushed to spot after getting information and took the bodies of the man and the woman into our possession and sent them for the postmortem. Both were reportedly in a relationship and had eloped from their respective houses over six months ago. They were brought back by their respective relatives,” said Dinesh Fartyal, in charge, Dineshpur police station.Fartyal said the villagers spotted the bodies on Thursday morning. “The man was 22-years-old while the woman was 23. The man was unmarried while the woman had got married three years ago and had a daughter. She was staying with her husband who works in Delhi. Some days ago she had come to her parental house due to some dispute with her husband. She was put under quarantine in Pantnagar and from there she had gone back to her parental house. It is likely they started to meet again,” he said.“On Thursday, the duo consumed pesticide according to the villagers. We are yet to receive the postmortem report to ascertain the exact cause of their death,” he said.In another incident, a 17-year-old youth allegedly killed himself in Nanital on Thursday. Satyendra Gangola, sub-inspector at Mallital police station in Nainital said the teen had entered the bathroom of his house after a fight with his parents and there he killed himself. On Wednesday, two private hospital employees including a staff nurse, allegedly died by suicide in US Nagar. Kailash Bhatt, in charge, police station, Rudrapur said the 23-year-old staff nurse was working at a private hospital on Kichha road. She killed herself on Wednesday. The nurse hailed from Haldwani area of Nainital and used to stay in a room of the hospital itself. Bhatt said she left behind a suicide note wherein she alleged a staff member of the same hospital for beating her and prompting her to take the extreme step. “We are looking into that matter and waiting for a complaint from her relatives”, he said.In another incident, a 22 year old man who was an employee at a private hospital in Kelakhera area of US Nagar, allegedly took his life on late Tuesday night. His body was found on Wednesday morning by a staff who then informed the local police On Sunday, a prisoner lodged in the central jail in Sitarganj area of US Nagar district in Uttarakhand allegedly killed himself inside the toilet of the jail. The 51-year-old jail inmate, who hailed from a village under Nanakmatta police station in US Nagar, was serving life imprisonment in the Central jail in a murder case that took place in 1994. He was convicted for the murder in 2004, the police said. Last Friday, a 25-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman, who were reportedly in a relationship, were found dead in Nanaksagar dam in US Nagar district. The couple hailed from Bareilly area of Uttar Pradesh and had gone missing from their home since August 3. They had come to Nanakmatta town of US Nagar on Thursday where they stayed in a hotel before being found floating in the dam, the police said, adding prima facie it was a case of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-people-have-died-by-suicide-in-uttarakhand-s-kumaon-in-one-week-police/story-cTg0ilOcrNahUT14H6uUwL.html
14-08-2020||India||Amit Shah discharged after testing negative for Covid-19, to stay in home isolation||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday confirmed that he has tested negative for coronvirus disease (Covid-19) infection and will follow home isolation on the advice of doctors. “Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and at the moment I express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing me well. Will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” Shah tweeted. आज मेरी कोरोना टेस्ट रिपोर्ट नेगेटिव आई है।मैं ईश्वर का धन्यवाद करता हूँ और इस समय जिन लोगों ने मेरे स्वास्थ्यलाभ के लिए शुभकामनाएं देकर मेरा और मेरे परिजनों को ढाढस बंधाया उन सभी का ह्रदय से आभार व्यक्त करता हूँ।डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर अभी कुछ और दिनों तक होम आइसोलेशन में रहूँगा।The union home minister had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month after showing initial symptoms of the viral infection. “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted on August 2 after testing positive for the disease.He also thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon, where he was admitted, for giving him treatment and in helping him fight the coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah/story-T73ZiAfsmsBVbZsbK7jUyN.html
14-08-2020||India||After Bhadohi MLA’s arrest in property grabbing case, his MLC wife goes missing||Member of Legislative Council Ramlali Mishra, wife of Nishad Party MLA Vijay Mishra who has been arrested from Agar district of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, went missing under mysterious circumstances from George Town area of Allahabad, the police said on Friday. The police said her gunner gave this information on late Thursday evening. MLA Vijay Mishra has been arrested in connection with a case of threatening, grabbing property, and harassing a person.Mishra represents Uttar Pradesh’s Gyanpur (Bhadohi) assembly constituency. His wife, Ramlali, is an MLC from Mirzapur-Sonbhadra seat. She was elected an MLC as a Samajwadi Party candidate but the party expelled her in February 2017 for supporting her husband.On August 8, one Krishna Mohan Tiwari, a resident of Bhadohi, registered a case against the Nishad Party MLA, his MLC wife and son Vishnu Mishra. Tiwari alleged that they threatened him and his entire family to life, harassed him and forcibly grabbed his contract firm. Ramlali is also named in the case. Also read: Bhadohi MLA arrested in property grabbing case from Madhya Pradesh’s Agar districtA senior police officer said that MLC’s gunner Inshwar Chand informed on late Thursday evening that Ramlali Mishra has gone missing. The cop informed Mirzapur SP Dr Dharmvir Singh about the matter and asked the gunner to lodge a complaint at George Town police station.Singh said that the matter is being probed. Senior officials have been apprised of the matter and Superintendent of Police, Bhadohi has also been informed.When contacted, Bhadohi SP Rambadan said that Ramlali is also named in a case and that she had been hiding at an unknown location to avoid an arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bhadohi-mla-s-arrest-in-property-grabbing-case-his-mlc-wife-goes-missing/story-NsrOwRwj72CKa4ayecxPsI.html
14-08-2020||India||Wanted UP MLA Vijay Mishra arrested from Madhya Pradesh district||Vijay Mishra, a Nishad Party member of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) legislative assembly (MLA) from Gyanpur in Bhadohi district, was arrested from Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Agar district in the Malwa region on Friday, a day after he had released a video, expressing fear that the UP Police could eliminate him because of his Brahmin identity. “Mishra, the four-time MLA from Bhadohi’s Gyanpur constituency, has been arrested in MP in a case related to alleged grabbing of property and issuing death threat to the family of Krishna Mohan Tiwari. He has been booked under sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 347 (wrongful confinement), 387 (putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 449 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code),” said Rambadan Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Bhadohi. “The MLA had been arrested following the complaint filed by Tiwari,” SP Singh said. “A team has been sent to MP to bring the MLA back to Bhadohi. Mishra’s wife Ramlali and his son Vishnu, who are also named in the complaint, will be arrested soon,” he said On August 8, Tiwari had lodged a case against Mishra; Ramlali, the Mirzapur-Sonbhadra member of the UP legislative council (MLC); and son Vishnu, alleging that they had threatened him and had forcibly grabbed his property. On Thursday, Mishra, who had quit the Samajwadi Party (SP) before the 2017 assembly election after he was denied a party ticket and had contested and won the poll on a Nishad Party ticket from Gyanpur constituency for the fourth time, had released a video. In the video, he had alleged that the UP Police was harassing him and his family since he is a Brahmin and a four-time MLA. He alleged that police could eliminate him in an encounter. In the video, the MLA claimed, “My wife and son have been framed in a fake case. Since I am a Brahmin and a four-time MLA from Gyanpur, I am being harassed. All this is being done to ensure that a mafia from Chandauli or Varanasi or Ballia could contest the election from Bhadohi. I may be murdered.” The police, however, rejected his allegations. In a video statement, the SP said, “The allegations are false and a gimmick to divert attention from his criminal acts and to create confusion in the minds of the public. He has been charged in as many as 73 cases. The allegations levelled by him are false and baseless.” Mishra has been assigned a personal armed guard for his security, despite dozens of cases against him, the SP added.Meanwhile, Ramlali has gone missing under mysterious circumstances from Prayagraj’s George Town area since Thursday late evening, police said hours after the arrest of Mishra. Police said her personal armed guard Ishwar Chand gave the information that she has gone missing. Dr. Dharmvir Singh, SP, Mirzapur, asked Chand to file a missing complaint at George Town police station. SP Bhadohi said she deliberately went missing to evade arrest, but efforts are on to nab her soon. Ramlali, who was elected as an MLC from Mirzapur-Sonbhadra seat on an SP ticket, was expelled from the party in February 2017 for supporting her husband in the UP assembly election. A Bhadohi court has also rejected her interim bail application. Additional District Judge PN Srivastava rejected her bail plea and directed her to approach the Allahabad special MLA/Member of Parliament (MP) court. Ramlali’s daughter Rima Mishra had moved the interim bail application for her and Vishnu. Dinesh Pandey, the UP government counsel, said the court has stayed the arrest of Vishnu until the hearing of his interim bail application is over. The court will hear his bail plea next on August 20. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wanted-up-mla-vijay-mishra-arrested-from-mp-district/story-xYKplhnlB6DG8BBN4TXccJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Military talks with China hit roadblock as Indian Army plays hardball, say top officials||Military talks with China on reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) have hit a roadblock, with the Indian Army playing hardball with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in its attempts to restore status quo ante of early April in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army has also asserted that the sanctity of the LAC is non-negotiable, top government officials said on Friday on condition of anonymity. Five rounds of top-level military talks have failed to break the deadlock due to serious differences between the two sides in the Finger Area near Pangong Lake and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory. Also read | A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explained“Talks are stuck in a stalemate because of the India Army’s insistence that the PLA must withdraw to positions held by it as of April 2020, and the Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some areas,” said one of the officials cited above. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. “The Indian Army has clearly told the PLA that shifting of the LAC in any area is not acceptable. This was most recently conveyed on August 2, when corps commanders from the two sides met. There is no question of us budging,” said a second official. There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require politico-diplomatic intervention. Also read: PLA still at LAC, India plans new ways to counter China’s wolf-warrior diplomacy“The PLA is facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s strong response. It will ultimately have to look for a face-saving exit strategy. We have made preparations for a long haul,” said a third official. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. On August 10, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat informed a committee of lawmakers that de-escalation in Ladakh could be a long-drawn process but the Indian military is prepared for this and has made all arrangement for the long haul through the harsh winter. “Our posturing is unambiguous – status quo ante has to be restored and we will not accept any shifting of the LAC. The ball is in China’s court now. Achieving our goal will take time and we will have to be patient,” said Lt Gen (retired) Vinod Bhatia, a former director general of military operations. The August 2 military negotiations between corps commanders came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. Sun’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger Area. Before PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. Also read | ‘Lies, half-truths’: India rebuts Pak charges on J&K, China’s media blanks it outThe new positions held by PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8 km apart. During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains a concern, with Beijing yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-talks-with-china-hit-roadblock-as-indian-army-plays-hardball-say-top-officials/story-VwfgQ11txXNRg4JFYH29YO.html
14-08-2020||India||Three army personnel conferred Shaurya Chakra for fighting terrorists in JK||Three armed forces personnel have been conferred with the prestigious Shaurya Chakra on the Independence Day for showing exemplary courage while fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. Lieutenant Colonel Krishan Singh Rawat of Parachute Regiment (Special Forces), Major Anil URS of 4 Maratha Light Infantry and Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey of Rajput Regiment 44 battalion of the Rashtriya Rifles have been named for the third highest peacetime gallantry award.Lt Colonel KS Rawat, Sena Medal, was team leader of a mission oriented team deployed along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir for conduct of counter-infiltration and terrorist operations.Major Anil is a company commander deployed along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey was also posted in Jammu and Kashmir.Lt. Colonel Rawat was awarded the gallantry medal for leading his team into a 36 hour ambush of terrorists attempting to infiltrate. He gave specific positions for two terrorists resulting in their successful elimination. He also guided his team to safety from the retaliatory fire by the enemy and later located the remaining terrorists, eliminating two of them and grievously injuring others. Major Anil laid an ambush based on intelligence inputs of terrorists’ movement across the LOC and their plans to cross the LC to attack Indian military personnel. He led his team efficiently to bring down five terrorists despite receiving heavy fire from enemy troops. He is awarded the gallantry medal for “extraordinary leadership, nerves of steel and spirit of service before self.Havildar Alok is awarded for “display” of raw courage in preventing terrorists from breaking a security cordon laid by his team and killing one dreaded terrorist belonging to the A++ category while blocking others from escaping, enabling his team to further tighten the cordon and eliminate all other terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-colonel-ks-rawat-among-3-shaurya-chakra-awardees-for-independence-day/story-kXqGD008QyhFgwCMAl3cUP.html
14-08-2020||India||‘From pharmacists to woodcutter’: Corona warriors to grace I-Day event at Rashtrapati Bhavan||A nursing officer, who organized ICU care for patients in the most difficult working conditions, a laboratory technician who conducted RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test in most high-risk areas, and a Delhi Police head constable who distributed food packets among poor people and migrant workers are among the 26 corona warriors who will sit in a special enclosure at the ‘At Home’ function at Rashtrapati Bhavan on the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday afternoon. Their presence, just as their work, would be special as they would be among the selected batch of people who have been invited to the event amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The AIIMS, country’s apex medical institute, will be presented by four professionals, while three medical professionals will represent the Safdarjung Hospital. Out of the 26 special guests, eight are women, according to the list of invitees available with HT.Also read: Ahead of Independence Day, President Kovind to address nation today at 7 pmA total of about 100 guests, including the corona warriors, are expected to attend the programme which will start with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind. Refreshment including traditional delicacies such as samosas, dhokla, along with tea, would be served by a limited number of waiters who have been tested negative for Covid-19. All guest tables would be named after rivers of India and each guest would be ushered into his or her assigned place.  From senior and junior doctors to nursing officers, technicians, pharmacists, Asha workers to security guards, sanitation workers and house-keeping staff — a wide range of people involved in India’s prolonged battle against Covid-19 will be honoured at the event. The list also includes three Delhi cops and a woodcutter from Nigambodh Ghat. Also read: I-Day 2020 - Defence ministry’s special arrangements at Red FortWhile all 26 Covid-19 warriors have shown exemplary work in their line of duty, head constable Manish Kumar, posted in Community Policing Cell in Dwarka, established a community kitchen to feed 800 needy people daily. He provided dry ration kits to workers who lost their jobs during the lockdown and also helped in installing hands-free sanitiser machines. Kumar distributed 4,400 washable cotton gloves and more than 1,375 litres of sanitizers to police personnel. He also arranged for refreshments, face shields and gloves to police patrols and pickets and was engaged in the regular announcement of guidelines to the public. Also a poet, Kumar, distributed milk food for the newborns and arranged for water, food and fresh fruits for the migrant workers. Nursing officer Asha Shabarwal of GTB hospital worked hard to organise ICU care for patients. Kriti Sharma, a laboratory technician, is credited with “outstanding work by conducting RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test in most high-risk areas during Covid-19.” Pharmacist Vinod Rohilla arranged for drugs and other items even late in the night without hesitation, in spite of his grandmother being hospitalized. Amar Singh, a woodcutter in Nigambodh Ghat, helped people at the cremation ground in maintaining social distancing and was always “alert when bodies arrived at cremation ground”. He ensured that fewer people were present at the time of performing rituals, wearing PPE kits so that infection could not spread to others. Dr Rahul Tyagi and Dr Ankesh Gupta, senior and junior residents, nursing officer Rekha Kumari and Naresh Kumar, an OT Technician, have been selected from AIIMS to attend the prestigious function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-warriors-among-100-others-invited-to-independence-day-at-home-event-at-rashtrapati-bhavan/story-3tpEvcJoUMCDWMUKiVVG3J.html
14-08-2020||India||Industry forgets you if you reject too many projects: Pawan Shankar||After a seven-year sabbatical, actor Pawan Shankar is back to pursue his inner calling — acting! “I have learnt it the hard way. In a quest to do something different when an actor says no to a lot of projects for some time the industry tends to forget you. Whereas, if one accepts then it can open new doors for you so I have decided to give it a shot this time,” said the UPite on his comeback. Pawan was last seen playing lead in a TV show ‘Kya Hua Tera Wada’ opposite Mona Singh way back in 2013 and now in 2020 he is back on screen. He will be seen playing antagonist in the upcoming film ‘Bhuj: The Pride of India.’ “I got busy expanding my business. I organised some 250 fashion exhibitions and 50 education expos. My business engagements made my passion for acting take a back seat. Last year in October, I had a discussion with my son and decided to make a comeback. It was during the lockdown that I thought to rework on my craft and fitness,” he said over phone. Within a week of his comeback he bagged a role in a TV daily ‘Guddan Tumse Na Payega,’ which continued for three months. This was followed by ‘Bhuj…’ which he shot till mid-March this year. “Getting an impactful negative role on TV as well as playing antagonist in a feature film gave me the kind of comeback I was always looking for. I am happy to share screen with likes of Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt, Sonakshi Sinha and Sharad Kelkar. In the film I play ISI chief,” said Pawan who also done a short film ‘You & Me.’ Talking more about his projects, the ‘Kasam Se’ actor shared that he was in talks for a few more TV shows, “I think for the time being it’s safe to take up TV shows than films. I am in talks for shows and in final stage of confirming one of them. Budgets have gone down in a big way but that is how it is. We have gone back by six-seven years in terms of remuneration. The rise of OTT has brought small and big actors both on same level. Also we are living in an era where films, TV and web all mediums are available on our mobile phones so too much work is happening but content is and will be the king always.” Other than reading Pawan went back to his childhood love — table tennis during the lockdown. He has been a sub-junior national champion and UP champion in junior. “I picked up playing table tennis again. My son’s trainer, who is coach of Indian national TT champion, started training me as well. And it’s doing well for my fitness. The phase may have been bad for my business but gave me back my game and acting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/industry-forgets-you-if-you-reject-too-many-projects-pawan-shankar/story-aUnycd9ljTK2il9URBsHTI.html
14-08-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan govt wins trust vote in assembly||A month after rebellion from 19 dissident legislators of his party threatened the survival of his government, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot sailed through the trust vote in the state assembly on Friday.The vote took place a day after Sachin Pilot attended the Congress Legislature Party meeting at CM Gehlot’s house and declared that he is determined to act in the “interest of the people of Rajasthan and in accordance with the promises made”. The win in the House will allow CM Gehlot six months’ time to build and repair ties with the rebels who have come home. “The vote of confidence which was brought by the government has been passed with a very good majority today in the Rajasthan assembly. Despite various attempts by the opposition, the result is in favour of the government,” said Sachin Pilot after the voting.The leader added that this should put a full stop to all suspicions about the numerical strength of the government. “A roadmap has been prepared for all the issues that were being raised. I have complete faith, that roadmap will be announced timely,” said Pilot, referring to the truce deal he secured with the Congress high command before he returned to the state. Rajasthan parliamentary affair minister Shanti Dhariwal moved a motion of confidence in the assembly. Initiating the debate on the motion, Dhariwal blamed the Centre for trying to “topple” the governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Goa, using money and power, but said a similar attempt in Rajasthan would not succeed.Referring to Akbar, he said the Mughal emperor had to taste defeat in Mewar of Rajasthan during his quest to expand his empire. Similarly, BJP’s attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government were defeated, he added.Ahead of the trust vote, CM Gehlot had said it would be “a victory of truth”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-led-rajasthan-govt-wins-trust-vote-in-assembly/story-qABNrTktJvGB8xPnFWwEaN.html
14-08-2020||India||Tripura officer selects I-Day performers online to avoid overcrowding during Covid-19||An administrative officer in a Tripura district selected performers for this year’s Independence Day celebrations, to be held on Saturday, via online in a bid to avoid overcrowding because of the prevailing raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Chandni Chandran, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kanchanpur, in Tripura’s North District invited entries online – between August 6 and 13 -- for solo music and dance contests. The winners of the competition have been invited to perform in the sub-divisional-level Independence Day celebrations programme on Saturday. The participants have been divided into three distinct age categories such as 5-10, 11-15, and 16 and above for the solo music and dance competition on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day celebrations programme. “The participants were asked to perform a dance on any patriotic song or sing any patriotic song on a social media platform and share online with me along with their name and age-group. We selected winners from each group and invited them to perform at the sub-divisional-level Independence Day celebrations programme on Saturday,” said Chandran. The SDM authorities have selected nine winners – three and six for solo music and dance category, respectively – from among 40 participants. “The winners will also be honoured with trophies and certificates. ASHA (accredited social health activist) workers, and paramedical staff, who are in the frontline battling the Covid-19 pandemic, will also be feted on the occasion,” the SDM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-officer-selects-i-day-performers-online-to-avoid-overcrowding-during-covid-19/story-HzgiWlBvxeU0l2yxbScVvI.html
14-08-2020||India||India conducts record high of 848,728 Covid-19 tests in 24 hours||India has conducted a record high of 848,728 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours taking the cumulative number of tests to 2,76,94,416, Ministry of Health stated on Friday. India is relentlessly trying to up its testing game. On Wednesday, an excess of over 800,000 samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were tested, inching closer to the target of conducting a million tests a day.Nearly 27 million tests have been conducted across the country since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with a single lab at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Virology in Pune. A record high of 8,48,728 #COVID19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. This has taken the cumulative tests to 2,76,94,416: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/n8JsE3AGmbAt present, over 1,400 labs are equipped and functional to carry out Covid-19 testing across India. As many as 947 of those are in the public sector while 486 are private.Besides this, the government says that the Covid-19 recovery rate in the country continues to improve. Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that there has not been a single day when the recovery rate did not get better than the previous day.Also read: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate improving with each day, says health minister“Remember the press conference when I said the recovery rate was 9 percent. Since then, there had not been a single day when the day’s recovery rate was not better than the previous day’s. Also, fatalities have been decreasing with each passing day,” he said. With 17,515,55 recoveries till date, India’s Covid-19 recovery rate is over 70 percent while the death rate stands at 1.95 percent. India’s total Covid-19 count stands at 24,61,191 which includes 6,61,595 active cases and over 48,000 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-record-high-of-848-728-covid-19-tests-in-24-hours/story-VwF3GzDFUNoFlkERlNYNZN.html
14-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh launches portal for ‘Opportunities for Make In India in Defence’||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday launched a portal for ‘Opportunities For Make In India In Defence’ via video conferencing facility as part of ‘Atmanirbharta Saptah’. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also attended the valedictory session.“During the last seven days, several organisations made a number of launches, discussed and signed different types of MOUs, which help the country in realising the dream of self-dependence,” he said.Singh lauded the Bihar’s Development Production unit and said, “ The Defence Production unit of Bihar launched an indigenous portal which will attract vendors on the stop shop online market. This unique initiative will help in the manufacturing of defence items, components and spares.”The platform will also support Indian industries in the defence sector in bringing transparency and also fulfilling the dream of self-reliant India.Last Sunday, the government had come out with a list of 101 items that cannot be purchased from outside.“I am happy to announce that for the first time we have come out with the list of 101 items, which we will not import, we call this list as a negative list, “ he had said.“In the coming days, we will include more items so that we can save imports worth crores of rupees. Our defence PSUs and ordnance factories are working in this direction. These industries are the backbone of our forces,” the minister further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-launches-portal-for-opportunities-for-make-in-india-in-defence/story-IbtaAtdjitpGb0AKF3eBGO.html
14-08-2020||India||Twenty three Kerala officials including Malappuram collector, SP test Covid-19 positive, CM in quarantine||A week after the Kerala plane crash, in which 18 passengers including two pilots lost their lives, two senior officials of Malappuram district, collector and police superintendent, have tested positive for coronavirus along with 21 other officials including Malappuram sub collector. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and director general of police (DGP) Loknath Behra, who visited the accident spot along with Kerala Governor the next day, have been quarantined. Malappuram collector and SP have been in quarantine ever since one of the dead and two injured passengers tested positive two days after the tragedy. Both the officers were at the crash site for many hours and led the rescue operations from the front with the aid of local people who saved many lives due to their timely intervention. “Some symptoms were there since yesterday and later it was confirmed positive. This is part of our job. I am relieved we could limit the death toll to 18,” said collector K Gopalakrishnan who reached the spot in 20 minutes and took command of the rescue work. Though the airport is known after Kozhikode, it is in Malappuram district, at least 25 kms away from Kozhikode city. The SP Abdul Kareem was tested positive on Thursday. Also Read: Kerala likely to witness 10,000 to 20,000 cases per day during Aug-Sept: Health MinEarlier the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) had also asked its personnel who took part in the rescue operation to go in quarantine. Kondotty, where the airport is situated, was a containment zone when the accident took place but youngsters came out immediately for rescue work which was later lauded by many including Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Air India. Also Read: Kerala tragedy: To probe deadliest air disaster in a decade, team of 5 set up by AAIBThe civil aviation minister, who visited the accident site on Saturday had announced Rs 10 lakh interim relief to the families of the deceased and requested all to refrain from making speculations over the cause of the crash. Many theories are floating around like excess rubber deposits on the runway, water stagnation and aqua-planning and overshooting may have resulted in the crash. Meanwhile, many passengers other than the 15 seriously hurt, have been discharged from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plane-crash-rescue-malappuram-collector-sp-test-covid-19-positive/story-SINlZ8n88XADbcnCAeaKPM.html
14-08-2020||India||Nagaland Lokayukta sanctions prosecution of 2 retired IAS officers; chargesheet filed||Nagaland Lokayukta Justice Uma Nath Singh has granted prosecution sanction against two retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in the north-eastern state for allegedly issuing work order for a project without technical approval and hurriedly releasing funds within only four days even though there was no urgency in the disbursement of the government money. The Lokayukta had granted prosecution sanction on August 4 against former agriculture production commissioner and chairman of Small Farmers Agri-business Consortium-Nagaland (SFAC-N) and the former managing director (MD) of SFAC-N, as per Section 26 of Nagaland Lokayukta Act, 2017. According to a release issued by the state’s information and public relations (IPR) department, the charge sheet against the two unnamed officers was submitted to the district and session judge & special judge, Nagaland, Lokayukta, on Thursday to proceed with the formal trial. A case was registered with the Lokayukta in October 2018 against the officers for issuing work order for a project related to post-harvest management of horticulture crops in Dimapur, Peren, Phek, Mokokchung, Wokha, and Phek districts in Nagaland to a contractor without any technical approval. “The total amount of the project was Rs 717.90 lakh and an amount of Rs 241.30 lakh was released as the first installment. The payment was released to the contractor within four days after the work order was issued, when there was no urgency or justification for it,” the release stated. It added that the project was implemented in private lands instead of the horticulture department’s own land. Based on the charges established against the officials and the contractor, a charge sheet was submitted to the Lokayukta for grant of prosecution sanction against the two retired IAS officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-lokayukta-sanctions-prosecution-of-2-retired-ias-officers-chargesheet-filed/story-jZAwI9XcTmwe1vPxPFCSeP.html
14-08-2020||India||Ahead of Independence Day, President Kovind to address nation shortly||President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day on Friday at 7 pm, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement. The address will be broadcast on the national network of All India Radio (AIR) and on various Doordarshan channels in Hindi, followed by the English version, it said. “AIR will broadcast regional language versions at 2130 hrs on its respective regional networks,” it added. This year’s Independence Day will take amid the unprecedented crisis brought about the Covid-19 pandemic. In an advisory issued by the Union home ministry last month, the government pressed for the “best possible use of technology” during this year’s Independence Day celebrations to avoid gathering in large numbers. Also read: I-Day 2020 - Defence ministry’s special arrangements at Red Fort“The events organized could be web-cast in order to reach out people at large, who are not able to participate,” the release issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs stated.“Performance of Police/Military bands may be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the Independence movement; and recorded versions thereof may be displayed through large screens/digital media, during public functions and on social media,” it stated.Special arrangements have been made at the iconic Red Fort in the national capital to mark the 74th Independence Day. While admission to the event will be granted only to those invited, special seating arrangements and safety protocols will be in place to ensure safety amid the Covid-19 crisis. Also read: Fewer guests, police in PPE at Red Fort for August 15 celebrationsThe invitees have been requested to wear masks. Besides this, an adequate number of suitable masks have been kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. Similarly, hand sanitizers will be made available at pre-defined locations. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees. Thermal screening of guests at all entry points has been planned, whereas medical booths have been set up at various locations across the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-independence-day-2020-president-kovind-to-address-nation-today-at-7-pm/story-lSaH8zhcbFhVzUHApPYC0N.html
14-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM raises objection over draft EIA notification, writes to union environment min||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has taken an exception to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change’s (MoEFCC) draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, and pointed out that the document in its current form has ignored the sensitivity required for ecological conservation and also to achieve sustainable development goals. Baghel has drawn Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar’s attention to the gaping holes in the draft EIA notification, 2020. He made an impassioned plea that the key environmental policy guideline should be in consonance with the rights of the tribals and rural bodies in a state such as Chhattisgarh. Also read: Centre gets 1.7 million suggestions on draft EIA“Bastar, Surguja, Koria, and Kavardha have been included in the ‘Scheduled Area’ under Article 244 (1) of the Constitution (Fifth Schedule), which provides protection to these areas against such laws that are derogatory to the land rights of indigenous population of Chhattisgarh. At the outset, an executive action by way of a ‘notification’ cannot override the statutory protection granted under FRA (Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers [Recognition of Forest Rights] Act, 2006) and PESA (Panchayats [Extension to Scheduled Areas] Act, 1996). The EIA notification, 2020, should be in consonance with the rights of the tribals and panchayats,” the CM stated in his letter to Javadekar. Baghel cited that the section 4 of the PESA Act empowers a gram sabha/panchayat to prevent alienation of land and to approve plans and projects. It is also mandatory to consult with a gram sabha/panchayat before acquiring land for a developmental project and rehabilitating the local population affected by the commercial venture. He pointed out that the draft EIA notification, 2020, glossed over the mandate and did not make it mandatory for the project proponent to get any such approval from a rural body that grossly undermined the rights and interests of panchayats in Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs)-dominated areas of Chhattisgarh. Baghel raised the issue of extending exemption to large number of projects from public hearing as per the policy draft, which, he argued, would adversely affect the rights of the forest-dwellers to conserve, manage and protect forests in line with section 3 of the FRA, 2006, which deals with the right to minor forest produce (MFP), a key source of sustenance for the SC and ST population of Chhattisgarh. He also expressed concern over the dilution of panchayats’ power under section 5 of the FRA, 2006 that deals with protection of wildlife, forests, bio-diversity, adjoining catchment areas, water resources and ecological-sensitive zones. Also read| Draft EIA objections: Aaditya Thackeray says ‘voice of people and mother nature must be heard’“The draft EIA notification, 2020, states that levelling of the land without any tree felling and geo-technical investigations does not require prior green clearance. Levelling of project sites may have impact on landscapes, mountains slopes causing soil erosion and can trigger landslides. Geotechnical investigation for roads, hydropower projects and other ventures, which involve heavy construction activities, may have serious impact on the environment,” the CM stated. The draft EIA notification, 2020, grants wide discretion to the executive to define certain terms like “projects involving other strategic considerations” (clause 5, sub-clause 7) without providing guidelines or broad contours to determine its scope. The notification leaves it to the executive’s wisdom to decide its scope and ambit, where there is ample room for subjectivity and arbitrariness that cannot be wished away, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-raises-objection-over-draft-eia-notification-writes-to-union-environment-min/story-X13XA2WJNtwwIZtoi1KSbM.html
14-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate improving with each day, says health minister||Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has stated that the Covid-19 recovery rate is improving in the country with each day.Speaking at the inauguration of a blood donation camp at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the national capital he also expressed hope that the war against the pandemic will be won soon.“Remember the press conference when I said the recovery rate was 9 per cent. Since then, there had not been a single day when the day’s recovery rate was not better than the previous day’s. Also, fatalities have also been decreasing with each passing day,” he said.Speaking on the increase in the number of tests, he added, “Yesterday, we tested over 8 lakh patients, which was huge compared to April when we tested 6,000 patients. Our Covid warriors are fighting very hard to control the pandemic. Am sure in the next two months the situation will be far better.” Meanwhile, a total of 64,553 new coronavirus cases were reported on Friday morning in the country. As many as 1,007 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said.With this, the country’s Covid-19 count rose to 24,61,191, which include including 6,61,595 active cases, 17,51,556 discharged/migrated and 48,040 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-improving-with-each-day-says-health-minister/story-UhPHkGoqfUjHob9WCxlsjO.html
14-08-2020||India||BJP tasks Fadnavis with big responsibility for Bihar Assembly polls||BJP has been given a big responsibility to former Maharashtra Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for Bihar Assembly polls and he is going to play a “crucial” role in the election. The senior leader also participated in a core committee meeting of the Bihar BJP through a video conference from Mumbai on Thursday. On the condition of anonymity, a top BJP leader from Bihar told ANI that Fadnavis is going to play a crucial role in the Bihar Assembly election and he is associated with Bihar BJP on purpose.However, sources in BJP said that his role in the Bihar Assembly election has not been decided yet. “What will be his role in Assembly elections has still not been decided. Yesterday Fadnavis participated in Bihar BJP core committee meeting virtually from Mumbai. There are 14 members of the Bihar BJP core committee including Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal, and Union Minister for State (MoS) for Home Nityanand Rai, Bihar BJP in-charge Bhupendra Yadav,” BJP sources told ANI.BJP sources said the Central leadership has directed the state leadership that Fadnavis should be given every information related to Bihar election preparation.He will participate in every important meeting related to Bihar polls, they said. Assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November and the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29. The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-tasks-fadnavis-with-big-responsibility-for-bihar-assembly-polls/story-aodpG2cCNQHojySP5FphbI.html
14-08-2020||India||Karnataka to decide on banning SDPI, confiscating properties of Bengaluru rioters||A Karnataka minister has said that the next cabinet meeting of the state government on August 20 will take a decision on confiscating properties of those involved in Bengaluru communal violence on August 11 and on imposing a ban on Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for its alleged involvement in the riots.The Social Democratic Party of India, a political party linked to Islamist Popular Front of India, is under the lens of state investigating agencies for organizing the riots in Bengaluru that led to deaths of two people and vandalisation of public and private properties in the city’s Pulakeshinagar assembly constituency. Congress MLA Srinivas Murthy’s house was also attacked, looted and set on fire by the mob upset over a derogatory Facebook post by Murthy’s nephew.“SDPI is a silly organisation. We’re thinking of banning it. Two decisions will be taken shortly. First, properties of those involved in violence (in Bengaluru) will be confiscated. Secondly: banning SDPI. These two matters will be discussed in cabinet meet on Aug 20,” Karnataka minister for rural development and panchayati raj KS Eshwarappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: SDPI role under scanner: Minister Earlier state deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan had also said that the government was considering banning SDPI, four of whose members have been arrested in connection with the violence.Home minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that SDPI’s role in the violence was emerging through the scrutiny of video footage of the riots.“As per the information gathered so far and video footage [available], most importantly the role of SDPI is coming to light. We are collecting more information regarding it, we are investigating deeply in this regard,” Bommai said.Senior district level functionaries of SDPI have been arrested and are being questioned by the probe teams.Watch: Bengaluru violence: Tejasvi Surya on Congress-SDPI link; says ‘make rioters pay’“Already, several SDPI office bearers have been arrested. Muzammil Pasha, the SDPI district secretary is the main [accused]. Firoz, Afraz Pasha and Shaik Adil, all of them are from SDPI, have also been arrested. Their role is completely being investigated,” Bommai added.SDPI, however, has denied any connection to the violence and instead accused the police of failing to bring the situation under control.The total number of arrests in the riots cases have gone up to 206 with the arrest of sixty more people, said Sandeep Patil, Bengaluru joint commissioner of police (crime).Among those who were arrested include Kaleem Pasha, the husband of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) corporator from Nagwara ward - Irshad Begum.Four teams have been formed to investigate the August 11 Bengaluru violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-decide-on-banning-sdpi-confiscating-properties-of-bengaluru-rioters/story-eqblpK6xYP8fLZDR24S87K.html
14-08-2020||India||‘Will be shield, club, spear for party’: Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan assembly||Sachin Pilot - who reunited with chief minister Ashok Gehlot yesterday, completing the truce he secured with the party high command in Delhi - entered the Rajasthan assembly on Friday. Putting behind the acrimony of the past month, when he rebelled questioning the working style of Ashok Gehlot, who called his former deputy “nikkamma, nakkara”, Pilot was firm in his defence of the state government.“Having completed all the talks, we have come to the assembly today. It may rain fire at this frontline, but we all and I will be the shield, club and spear and will protect,” said Pilot in Hindi as he rose up to speak. The 42-year-old leader, who was the deputy CM when he last sat in the House, found himself on the opposite end of the House, a far distance from his earlier seat next to the CM. This prompted jibes and jeers from the opposition BJP.“I was safe on the seat I used to sit on earlier. Then I thought why have I been allotted a different seat. I saw that this is the border - ruling party on one side, opposition on other. Who is sent to the border? The strongest warrior,” said Pilot, downplaying the change in seating plan. The Tonk MLA said all of them are present in the assembly and stand united. “Whatever I or my colleagues had to say or do, we have done before a doctor and after treatment, all of us, all 107 of them, are united in the House,” said Pilot, amid thumping of the desk by Congress leaders. The Congress promised to look into his grievances and formed a three-member panel to give a formal shape to his request and its seriousness to resolve the issue. In a House of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the support of independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members. The BJP, despite lacking the numerical strength, has decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Gehlot government. The CM, in a counter move, has sought a trust vote, which will buy his six months’ time to put his own in order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-shield-club-spear-for-party-sachin-pilot-in-rajasthan-assembly/story-CWK5SCifjZQK3u5JKkZAgL.html
14-08-2020||India||Kerala likely to witness 10,000 to 20,000 cases per day during Aug-Sept: Health Min||Kerala is likely to witness a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the months of August and September with daily infections expected to touch between 10,000 to 20,000, State health minister K K Shailaja said. “Experts have opined that during the months of August and September we may witness a surge in Covid-19 cases. We may report between 10,000 to 20,000 cases per day,” she said in a video campaign urging the youth to join the “Covid Brigade” to halt the pandemic spread.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNoting that the death rate graph will start rising if the positive cases shoot up, the Minister said it should be stopped.“We must also understand that the death toll will increase with the rise in the number of cases. So, we need to put a hold on the rise in cases. For that the people must cooperate. They should strictly follow the health protocol of wearing masks, handwashing and social distancing in order to break the chain of virus from spreading,” Shailaja said.India’s first Covid-19 case was reported from the southern state on January 30 when a woman medical student tested positive on her return to the state from Wuhan in China, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus.The second and third cases in the country were also Wuhan returnees.On May 5, the state had 500 cases, which doubled to 1000 by May 27.On July 4, Kerala reported 5000 cases, by July 16 the state breached the 10,000 mark and by July 28, over 20,000 cases were reported.On Thursday, Kerala recorded 1,564 cases, taking the total infection tally to 39,708. Three deaths were also reported yesterday, taking the toll to 129.Appealing to the youth to join the ‘Covid Brigade,’ which will become a model to the world, she said thousands of health workers and other personnel are fighting the pandemic. There is a need for more volunteers -- both medical and non medical -- to come forward and join the war against the disease. Practitioners of modern medicine as well as ayurveda, homeo, dental along with lab technicians, pharmacists and nurses can join the brigade.“People from non-medical fields like MSW, MHA, MBA holders, are required for the fight and they should also register for joining our Covid Brigade. All those who wish to volunteer should register for joining. This historic move will be a model to the world,” she pointed out.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on July 23, announced the formation of the ‘Covid Brigade’ consisting of doctors, nurses, para medical staff and volunteers to man the First Line Treatment Centres (FLTC).“More people are needed to strengthen Covid defensive operations in view of the rising numbers of cases. We have worked out an integrated action plan,” Vijayan had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-likely-to-witness-10-000-to-20-000-cases-per-day-during-aug-sept-health-min/story-MTosXag7tR1qqLB2EtbCSP.html
14-08-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects bail plea of Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra, Ajay Chandra||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to grant bail to Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra.A division bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said that the two brothers have not complied with the October 2017 order of the Supreme Court as per which Rs 750 crore was to be deposited with the registry of the court by December 31, 2017, to be eligible for bail.The two brothers had claimed in their fresh bail application that they had deposited more than Rs 770 crore. The court, however, noted that the deposit was made after the deadline.Further, a part of the amount deposited by the two came from monetisation of assets of Unitech and from tax refunds.The court, therefore, refused to release them on bail while also making it clear that any modification of October 2017 order can be made only by a three-judge bench since the 2017 order was passed by a bench of three judges.Sanjay Chandra was granted interim bail on July 7 for one month taking into account the fact that both his parents were infected with the coronavirus disease. With the period of interim bail having expired, the apex court asked Chandra to surrender before the authorities by Monday.He was arrested by the Economic Offices Wing of the Delhi police in March 2017. Investigating authorities have maintained that prima facie probe indicated that money which has been realised from the flat buyers has been siphoned off.A forensic audit report submitted before the Supreme Court by Grant and Thornton in December 2019 revealed that an amount of Rs 14,270 crore was collected by Unitech from 29,800 homebuyers. Out of that amount, Rs 13,364 crores was traced to the bank statements. Almost 90 per cent of the money was received between 2006 to 2014, the report said. The report also said that the money trail analysis revealed that out of the collections from the homebuyers amounting to Rs 13,364.55 crore, approximately Rs 5,063.05 crore, or 40 per cent, was potentially not utilised by the Unitech group towards the construction/execution of the 74 identified projects.The court had in January this year accepted the central government’s proposal to replace the board of directors of Unitech with nominee directors. It ordered supersession of the board of directors of Unitech in order to facilitate the takeover of management by the directors constituted in terms of the proposal submitted by the Union government. The new board is headed by retired IAS officer Yudhvir Singh Malik.In October 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered that Chandras will be entitled to bail upon deposit of Rs 750 crore with the court registry.However, since the condition was not complied with, they continued to remain in jail. The top court had in, January 2019, rejected their bail plea for the same reason.“At this stage, the admitted facts before the court indicate that the order for the deposit of Rs 750 crore has not been complied with. The prayer for enlargement on bail is misconceived because the petitioners have been admitted to bail, subject to the condition of deposit which is not fulfilled,” the court had said in its 2019 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-unitech-promoters-sanjay-chandra-ajay-chandra/story-oZgfm2WScyTigdKPa2ZtOJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Heavy rains in Jaipur bring city to standstill||Jaipur was lashed by heavy rainfall on Friday morning, crippling Rajasthan’s capital city’s traffic, as photographs of waterlogged roads, and submerged vehicles in rainwater went viral on social media amid the downpour. The vehicular movement has come to a grinding halt in many parts of Jaipur, which is under up to three feet in water. The authorities at Jaipur centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Jaipur, Ajmer, Nagaur and Sikar districts have received intense spells of shower since Friday morning amid forecast of another round of downpour. The centre has issued four alerts until 1 pm on Friday. The forecast stated: “Thunderstorms with light to moderate rains are likely to occur at a few places in Jaipur, Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk, Nagaur, Alwar, Dausa, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli, Kota, Baran and Bhilwara districts and their adjoining areas.” It added, “In Jaipur city, light to moderate rains occurred in most parts accompanied by thunderstorms, along with one or two spells of heavy intensity of rains at isolated places.” Jaipur recorded 80.6 millimetres (mm) of rainfall between 8:30 am and 11:30 am on Friday. “Moderate rainfall at many places accompanied by heavy (64.5 – 115.5 mm) to very heavy rainfall (115.6 – 204.4 mm) at a few places is likely to continue in Jaipur city over the next three hours,” the report said. The report warned that rains would result in localised flooding of settlements and roads, low-lying areas, underpasses, short-term disruption to civic services, increased travel time, slippery roads, and the closure of roads across low-water bridges. According to the morning rainfall bulletin issued by the state water resources department on Friday, Shabad in Baran district recorded the highest rainfall at 127mm, followed by Dausa (124 mm). “Very heavy rainfall (115.6 to 204.4mm) was recorded at three weather stations,” the report added. Data showed that the onset of monsoon occurred over Rajasthan on June 24. Jaisamand in Udaipur district has received the cumulative maximum rainfall since June 1 at 859 mm. While the single-day maximum rainfall was recorded on June 20 at Raipur in Jhalawar district at 173 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-in-jaipur-bring-city-to-standstill/story-7porMxduRzH9T3S1iB1SJJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Bhadohi MLA arrested in property grabbing case from Madhya Pradesh’s Agar district||MLA Vijay Mishra, who represents Gyanpur (Bhadohi) assembly constituency in Bhadohi, has been arrested in Agar district of Madhya Pradesh at the request of Bhadohi police, said Superintendent of Police Rambadan Singh.Mishra has been arrested in a case of threatening a person and his family to life, grabbing his contract firm forcibly and harassing him. He contested the assembly election on Nishad Party ticket and won. He is a four-time MLA.“At my request, Agar SP has arrested MLA Mishra in a property grabbing case. The case was registered by Krishna Mohan Tiwari,” Bhadohi SP said. On August 8, Krishna Mohan Tiwari lodged a case against MLA Vijay Mishra, his wife Mirzapur-Sonbhadra MLC Ramlali Mishra and their son Vishnu Mishra alleging that they want to grab their property.Also read: Govt announces Police Medals, J&K tops gallantry listOn Thursday, Mishra released a video alleging that police is harassing him and his family since he is a Brahmin and four-time MLA from Gyanpur Bhadohi. He alleged that the police may carry out his encounter. The police have rejected his allegation, calling them baseless.In the video, the MLA claimed, “My wife Ramlali, and son Vishnu Mishra have been framed in a fake case. Since I am a brahmin and a four-time MLA from Bhadohi, I am being harassed. All this is done so that a mafia from Chandauli or Banaras, or a son from Ballia may contest election from Bhadohi. I may be murdered.”In a video statement, superintendent of police Rambadan Singh said, “On August 13, MLA Vijay Mishra released a video based on false facts intending to divert attention from his criminal acts and to create confusion in public. As many as 73 cases are registered against him. The allegations levelled by him are false and baseless.”The SP further added that a gunner has been provided to him for his security. He said that a Bhadohi police team has been sent to Madhya Pradesh. The MLA’s wife Ramlali and his son Vishnu, who are also named in the case, will be arrested soon, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhadohi-mla-arrested-from-madhya-pradesh-s-agar-district/story-xIMAsUXqrb7p2B10LcEAOI.html
14-08-2020||India||ITBP recommends gallantry medals for its jawans who fought Chinese in Ladakh||The soldiers of the Indo-Tibetan Police Force (ITBP), who displayed courage and bravery during the skirmishes in Eastern Ladakh, have been recommended for gallantry awards this Independence Day.ITBP Director General SS Deswal has recommended the names of 21 personnel, who faced the Chinese during face-offs and skirmishes in May-June, for gallantry medal. Also, 294 ITBP personnel have been awarded with the DG’s commendation rolls and insignias.Senior officials said on the condition of anonymity said that these incidents of face-off did not happen in the Galwan Valley but at half a dozen other places in eastern Ladakh.Six other soldiers of ITBP have been awarded for their courage in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh.“The ITBP troops not only effectively used shield to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA advancing troops and brought the situation under control. With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” the force said in a statement.It further said that the soldiers were engaged in stand-offs, sometimes as long as 17 to 20 hours, but received minimum casualties and gave befitting reply to the stone palters of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).“Due to the high altitude training and maneuver experience of the force in the Himalayas deployments, the ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay and due to the all out and befitting response of ITBP jawans at almost all fronts, many areas were safeguarded in the hyper sensitive areas,” the ITBP said.The names of 318 ITBP personnel and 40 other soldiers of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have also been recommended for award of Union Home Minister’s Special Operation Medals for their dedicated services in fight against Covid-19.The ITBP has been in the forefront of the Covid-19 battle since January when it established a big quarantine facility in Chhawla Camp for those who returned from epicentree Wuhan and badly affected Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-recommends-gallantry-medals-for-its-jawans-who-fought-chinese-in-ladakh/story-0RvYD1Y82XxwP4GNwwaSgI.html
14-08-2020||India||DIG South Kashmir Atul Goel, who caught DSP Davinder Singh, gets gallantry medal||Deputy inspector general (DIG), South Kashmir, Atul Kumar Goel is among Jammu and Kashmir Police officers who have been awarded the Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG). Goel is the one to catch Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh at a check post while he was ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway in January this year. The office of the inspector general of South Kashmir had received the tip-off about the movement of a wanted Hizbul Mujahideen militant. The operation was carried out under Goel’s supervision which led to Singh’s arrest along with terrorists Naveed Babu and Altaf. Inspector general Vijay Kumar and Goel had played an important role in registering a case against Singh earlier this year. Goel, along with three IPS officers from Jammu and Kashmir Police - including Sandeep (SSP Anantnag), Gurinderpal Singh (SP Kulgam) - have been awarded the PMG. Two more J&K Police IPS officers, DIG Vidhi Kumar Birdi (currently on deputation in the NIA) and Tejinder Singh (SSP), have received 1st and 2nd bar to PMG respectively.Jammu and Kashmir Police officials have been awarded the maximum number of gallantry medals as the Union home ministry released the complete list on Friday. With a total of 81 medals, Jammu and Kashmir Police tops the list of Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG). Besides this, Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma of Delhi Police Special Cell, who died in Batla House encounter in 2008, has been awarded gallantry medal posthumously. Sharma has received 6th bar to Police Medal for Gallantry - his 7th gallantry medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dig-south-kashmir-atul-goel-who-caught-dsp-davinder-singh-gets-gallantry-medal/story-Pbeil6bfA65OkYfrcPGzEI.html
14-08-2020||India||Situation in Maharashtra not yet conducive to reopening of temples: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday refused to interfere with the Maharashtra government’s decision not to allow religious places of worship to reopen owing to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and reiterated that the situation is not yet conducive for such relaxations. The two-member HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Surendra Tavade, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Associate for Aiding Justice, seeking reopening of places of worship for all faiths. Advocate Dipesh Siroya, the petitioner’s counsel, submitted before the court since the Central government has allowed reopening of temples and also because the pandemic situation in Maharashtra has improved, the state government should follow suit. He pleaded that the government might not allow religious functions to be held in temples and could also restrict the number of devotees’ visit to a shrine, but the public can still be allowed darshan. The bench, however, refused to accept the claim that the pandemic situation in Maharashtra has improved. “Please pray at home and if have some love left for the humanity, please don’t press for these prayers,” said the bench. “If the situation improves, this court, being the temple of justice, will be the first to reopen, before any other temple opens for devotees,” it added. Nisha Mehra, assistant government pleader, opposed the PIL and pointed out that the state government on Wednesday (August 12) had rejected the representations for reopening of temples, and a co-ordinate bench had refused the prayer for interim relief for reopening of Jain temples for the nine-day holy festival of Paryushan, which starts from Saturday (August 15). The bench also directed Siroya to clarify the status of the petitioner body after noticing that it has been registered as a company. “How can a company espouse religious rights?” the bench asked. The PIL will be heard next on Tuesday (August 18).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-in-maharashtra-not-yet-conducive-to-reopening-of-temples-bombay-hc/story-7xuwuTmMrqvonMgNnkTAYP.html
14-08-2020||India||Inspector MC Sharma, killed in 2008 Batla House encounter, gets 7th gallantry medal||Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who died in the 2008 Batla House encounter, has been awarded gallantry medal posthumously. Sharma worked in the Delhi Police’s Special Cell.The Union home ministry on Friday released the list of police personnel who have been awarded the medals a day before the Independence Day.While 215 police personnel have been given the medal for gallantry, 80 will get the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service and 631 for meritorious service.Sharma, then 44, had suffered three bullets when he went to capture five suspected terrorists hiding in south Delhi’s Batla House September 19, 2008. He later succumbed to the injuries in a hospital.He had joined Delhi Police as a sub-inspector in 1989 and soon proved himself to be a cop with a nose to the ground. Sharma was given an out-of-turn promotion and made inspector in 1995.However, the citation which mentions the act of bravery of an award winner has not been released so far. So it is not clear if Sharma has been given the award for the encounter or any previous act of gallantry. He was awarded the Ashok Chakra in 2009.This is Sharma’s seventh gallantry medal. He was awarded the president’s medal seven times.This year, the gallantry awards list is topped by the police personnel from Jammu and Kashmir who have won 81 medals. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 51 medals is at the second spot.The home ministry officials familiar with the selection process said that majority of gallantry medals went to these two forces due to counter-insurgency operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspector-mc-sharma-killed-in-2008-batla-encounter-gets-7th-gallantry-medal/story-0vYLmNOKbsrcSwK89n6K2I.html
14-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena downplays Pawar’s comment on kin||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday downplayed the public admonition of Ajit Pawar’s son Parth by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, saying the young politician should take the rebuke as a blessing. An editorial in Saamana, however, wondered if Parth was being used by someone to damage Maharashtra’s “pride and identity” through the demand for a CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. The NCP president on Wednesday said he attached “absolutely no importance” to his grandnephew Parth’s recent demand for the CBI probe into Rajput’s death, and described the young leader as “immature”. Pawar said he had faith in Mumbai Police, but added he wouldn’t oppose anyone wanting an investigation by the central agency in the case. The editorial in Saamana said Pawar’s statement was “blown out of proportion” by the media and it was “not even a storm in a teacup”. It said: “These news channels create artificial storm for their livelihood. Pawar’s comments on Parth are being construed as a sign that not all is well in the Pawar family and that Ajit Pawar has been warned...Actually, this is all meaningless.” It added, “Sharad Pawar is a senior leader and head of a political party. He can admonish the young. Even late (Shiv Sena founder) Bal Thackeray has done that.” Parth had demanded a CBI probe into the actor’s death in a letter sent to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on July 27. Similar demands have been made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opposition party in Maharashtra. “Parth Pawar wrote to home minister Anil Deshmukh stating that CBI should probe Sushant Singh Rajput case. He said on social media some filmmakers should also be investigated. It would be foolishness to demand a CBI inquiry in the Sushant case. Some experienced people are backing the demand for the CBI inquiry. It should be understood that there is a conspiracy going on to hurt Maharashtra’s self-respect and identity. Is the young Parth Pawar being used for this?” the editorial questioned. The Shiv Sena advised Parth to use the experience of senior leaders in his party to learn. “Parth Pawar is new in politics and he was unsuccessful in winning the Lok Sabha election. He has to work hard. There is a political gymnasium in his house. Therefore, he has a chance to prepare himself,” it said. The editorial welcomed Parth’s stance on the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and said, “There is nothing wrong in speaking in favour of Ram mandir which is being constructed with the Supreme Court’s approval. (Congress leaders) Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, too, have expressed their views. “Uddhav Thackeray visited Ayodhya. But nobody wrote long letters to express their views like Parth.” It added the NCP chief’s daughter and MP Supriya Sule too had said that going to Ayodhya is similar to praying at Pandharpur for many people and there should be “no criticism” of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-downplays-pawar-s-comment-on-kin/story-rZm0a4cLpM4fd2zDutpPjL.html
14-08-2020||India||Independence Day 2020: Govt announces Police Medals, J&K tops gallantry list||Jammu and Kashmir Police has topped the list of Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG) with total 81 medals, followed by 51 medals that have gone to the CRPF this Independence Day.Ahead of the Independence Day on Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday announced the list of gallantry medal awardees to police personnel across the country. The awards include Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal (PPM) and Police Medal (PM) for meritorious services.Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma of Delhi Police Special Cell, who died in Batla House encounter in 2008, has been awarded gallantry medal posthumously. Sharma has received 6th bar to Police Medal for Gallantry.Also read: I-Day 2020 - Defence ministry’s special arrangements at Red FortThree IPS officers from Jammu and Kashmir Police - including Sandeep (SSP Anantnag), Gurinderpal Singh (SP Kulgam) and Atul Kumar Goel (DIG South Kashmir) - have been awarded the PMG. Two more J&K Police IPS officers, DIG Vidhi Kumar Birdi (currently on deputation in the NIA) and Tejinder Singh (SSP), have received 1st and 2nd bar to PMG respectively.DIG Atul Kumar Goel was the one to catch Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh at a check post while he was ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway in January this year. The number of bars to PMG define the number of gallantry medals an officer has been awarded. Mohan Chand Sharma has got 6th bar for PMG, which means it’s his 7th gallantry medal.Officials at the Ministry of Home Affairs, familiar with the medals’ selection process, said the majority of gallantry medals going to the J&K Police and the CRPF is because of the counter-insurgency operations.As many as 80 officers from across the country have been awarded the President’s Police Medal (PPM) for distinguished services while 631 officers have received the Police Medal (PM) for meritorious services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2020-govt-announces-police-medals-j-k-police-tops-gallantry-list/story-9KU9cmFGPxfgfpFLP88g1M.html
14-08-2020||India||‘I am back..hopefully as a better and trained actor’||Dancer, actor, TV anchor, comedian, Raghav Juyal feels that he has finally arrived as a performer, “I started with a dance reality show and there was no looking back as I kept getting work and simultaneously, was doing films too. But something was missing. I felt I had to understand the art of acting too. I realised it was time to work on my acting skills and become a ‘real’ actor not just a filler.”Hailing from Dehradun, Raghav was in his hometown for almost four months before work beckoned him back to Mumbai. “When the lockdown was announced, I decided to reach home and be with my family as I need them with me always. Once in Doon, I met up with childhood friends, and soon we were our old selves. What fun I had here.“Initially there were no Covid-19 cases here, so we used to play football. I tried my hand at guava farming and relived my school days. It was during one of those fun football games that I fractured my knee ligament, so I had to undergo complete rest. Soon, I got a call for a shoot in Mumbai. Though my family was a bit apprehensive of me going back to Mumbai but I persuaded them as I feel I have ‘Pahadi’ immunity and that will keep me safe.”Raghav believes that honesty and impulsiveness that has been inculcated in him since childhood has helped him always. “Yes, these traits have supported me throughout my journey. Though life and people in the industry have been kind to me and helped me but being a small town guy with no TV or film background was surely challenging. I have never shied from asking if I don’t know a thing, be it acting or dancing. That’s the reason I went ahead with acting training and film-making workshops in the last few years.“I trained under acting coach Saurabh Sachdeva and did quite a few plays with him too. This I had to do to polish my craft and make a mark in acting too. Then I gave auditions and started clearing them at the first go. Now, I feel I am back in business, hopefully as a better and trained actor,” said Raghav who was seen in films like ‘ABCD 2,’ ‘Street Dancer 3D’ and ‘Nawabzaade.’Talking about his upcoming projects, he said, “I completed a film ‘Bahut Hua Sammaan’, directed by Ashish Shukla, and with biggies like Sanjay Mishra, Swanand Kirkire and Ram Kapoor. Trust me, it was a truly learning experience for me.” ‘BHS’ was completely shot in Varanasi.“I’m absolutely thrilled to play a dark character in one of my upcoming web series ‘Abhay-2’ directed by Ken Ghosh. It is an eight-part suspense thriller with each episode having a different villain and something different from what we have seen. I think the audience will enjoy it. It was a good experience and I got the chance to share the screen with senior artistes like Chunky Pandey, Kunal Khemu, Asha Negi and many more experienced actors,” Raghav concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-back-hopefully-as-a-better-and-trained-actor/story-k13A3djRqXdjHh1MI020xI.html
14-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Have never made a dosa’, Kamala Harris heard saying in old video that surfaced after her nomination all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘I’ve never made a dosa’: After her nomination, Kamala Harris’ old video resurfacesUS Senator Kamala Harris has been chosen as the running mate by presumptive Democratic nominee for president Joe Biden. This gave the South Asian community in the United States a reason to cheer. Harris came to the US as an immigrant from Tamil Nadu in India. Read moreIndependence Day amid Covid-19: Defence ministry’s special arrangements for celebrations at Red FortThe Ministry of Defence is organising an Independence Day Flag Hoisting Ceremony on August 15 at Red Fort in Delhi, maintaining the balance between the sanctity and dignity of the national function while factoring in precautions related to the Covid-19 scenario. Read more‘There’s little improvement’: Daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee on ex-prez’s healthFormer President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator support after undergoing a critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. His daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted on Friday that his health condition was critical but had not worsened since yesterday. Read moreNew Zealand PM extends Covid-19 lockdown in Auckland by 12 daysPrime Minister Jacinda Ardern extended the lockdown of New Zealand’s largest city Auckland for 12 days as authorities try to stamp out the nation’s first outbreak in more than three months. Under the level 3 restrictions, people will be urged to stay home and consumer-facing businesses will be shuttered until August 26. Read moreI asked him ‘What’s your secret?’: Wasim Akram names batsman who played him better than anyone elseFormer Pakistan left-arm fast bowler Wasim Akram was probably the best exponent of reverse swing. In fact, he and his long-time bowling partner for Pakistan, Waqar Younis are considered the two pioneers of the art. They went on to trouble batsmen all around the world, especially Akram, who finished his career as the leading ODI wicket-taker in ODIs by a fast bowler. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law recalls how he learned of actor’s death, did ‘toughest thing’ of his life and broke news to wifeSushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law has recounted the events of the night him and his wife learned of the actor’s death. On the two-month anniversary of Sushant’s suicide, Vishal Kirti has written a new blog entry, describing one of the toughest things he has had to do in his life, telling his wife that her brother was dead. Read moreIndependence Day 2020: From tiranga macarons to tricolour idlis, try these recipes to showcase your patriotismEvery year, August 15 marks the day of when Indians gained their freedom from the British Raj. This year marks the 74th Independence Day of India, and since the past 73 years, our great nation has been free from British rule. But it is important to note that this freedom came at the cost of the men, women and innocents who lost their lives for their nation. Read moreWatch: A million Covid tests daily soon and 25 years of internet in pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-have-never-made-a-dosa-kamala-harris-heard-saying-in-old-video-that-surfaced-after-her-nomination-all-the-latest-news/story-wzBtJFG0RttXgLZdCt98ZM.html
14-08-2020||India||‘There’s little improvement’: Daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee on ex-prez’s health||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator support after undergoing a critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. His daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted on Friday that his health condition was critical but had not worsened since yesterday. There is a little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light, she added.  Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light.तमसो मा ज्योतिर्गमय🙏In another tweet, she expressed gratitude to everyone standing by her family’s side and requested everyone to continue with their prayers.“I strongly believe in collective energy of prayers. Deepest gratitude to all for standing by us in these difficult times. Would request to continue with your prayers. May God bless us all,” she tweeted.The former President is admitted in New Delhi’s Army (R&R) Hospital. In its morning update on Thursday, the hospital said the former President is “deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/improvement-in-eyes-reaction-to-light-daughter-sharmistha-mukherjee-on-ex-prez-s-health/story-2K3Eqx8cX9Gh4ujfQgdwSM.html
14-08-2020||India||Independence Day amid Covid-19: Defence ministry’s special arrangements for celebrations at Red Fort||The Ministry of Defence is organising an Independence Day Flag Hoisting Ceremony on August 15 at Red Fort in Delhi, maintaining the balance between the sanctity and dignity of the national function while factoring in precautions related to the Covid-19 scenario.All invitees have been requested to wear masks. Besides, an adequate number of suitable masks are being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. Similarly, the availability of hand sanitizers at pre-defined locations has been done. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees.Participation to the event is only through invitation and members who do not have formal invites have been requested to refrain from coming to the venue. About 4,000 plus invites have been issued to officials, diplomats, members of public, media etc.Also read: Fewer guests, police in PPE at Red Fort for August 15 celebrationsThermal screening at all entry points for the invitees has been planned. Thorough sanitization of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is being carried out regularly.Adequate medical booths at four locations have been set up - near the rampart, at Madhavdas Park and a couple of them at 15 August Park. The booths will cater to any attendee who is detected having any symptoms related to Covid-19 during the entry. Ambulances would also be stationed at the four locations.The seating enclosures and walkways have been laid with wooden flooring and carpeting to facilitate seamless movement of guests, at the time avoiding overcrowding of people. Additional door frame metal detectors, with adequately spaced markings, have been provided to avoid queuing and to ensure smooth passage of all the invitees. Most of the parking areas have been brick-lined and paved to ensure smooth entry and exit of vehicles.Also read: For 1st time in 61 years, no spectators at Independence Day function at AttariMembers of the Guard of Honour have been under quarantine to bring in safety. The guiding principle for seating has been “do gaz ki doori” - 6 feet distance between any two guests seated during the event.With an eye on safety, NCC Cadets have been invited to witness the event (instead of young school children) and they will be seated at Gyanpath.In order to sensitize the invitees towards Covid-19 related safety measures, a special advisory for following the guidelines has been issued along with each invitation card. A ‘ request card’ would be placed on each seat for the invitees to exhibit restraint and patience during dispersal after the conclusion of the function. Traffic Police advisory will also contain a note on the matter.An orderly dispersal plan has been put in place for implementation through the controlling officials at various enclosures. In this regard, cooperation of all invitees will be earnestly and consistently requested.Ceremonial drills have also factored in social distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-amid-covid-19-defence-ministry-s-special-arrangements-for-celebrations-at-red-fort/story-PrYXnIDuIFMjxHTExi9QBK.html
14-08-2020||India||Waterlogging reported in parts of Surat post heavy rainfall||Waterlogging was reported in several parts of Surat city in Gujarat following heavy rainfall in the area on Friday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ for the city today.The IMD has also warned of “heavy rains with strong surface winds in Gujarat region” on August 14 and August 15. Normal life has been disrupted in Surat city due to heavy rains and waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waterlogging-reported-in-parts-of-surat-post-heavy-rainfall/story-otGsHPXZOFom9szsAPRUFM.html
14-08-2020||India||Rajasthan Assembly session convenes, proposal for trust vote tabled||The special session of the Rajasthan Assembly began on Friday, with the Congress government led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot moving a confidence motion.The Assembly was adjourned by speaker CP Joshi soon after the session began, and was reconvened at 1pm to take up the confidence motion.The assembly session comes just days after the top leaders of Congress announced a truce between Gehlot and the rebel faction led by Sachin Pilot. The dissident MLAs (Pilot and 18 others) have now returned to the party fold.Also read: Rajasthan Assembly session: After truce, CM Ashok Gehlot to move confidence motion, BJP to counter itThe Congress has said that it is united to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is planning to bring a no-confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot government.The BJP had said on Thursday that the truce is temporary. “This government won’t last long,” former chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje had said yesterday.Both Pilot and Raje are present in the House.The Gehlot government has already indicated that it is keen on a floor test despite the truce because the party thinks it is the perfect way to send across a message of unity. A floor test will also give some breather to Gehlot to let him put his house in order since a motion can be moved only once in a session.With the return of the rebels, the Congress alone has 107 legislators, including the speaker, in the 200-member House where the majority mark is 101. It also appears to have the support of all 13 independents; three of them backed Pilot and have now pledged support to Gehlot. Five MLAs from other parties, too, back the government in the House. On the other hand, the BJP (72) and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party (3) have a total of 75 seats.Meanwhile, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday issued a whip for the second time to six of its MLAs in Rajasthan to vote against the Congress in any no-confidence motion or any other proceedings in the state Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-assembly-session-adjourned-gehlot-s-confidence-motion-to-be-taken-up-at-1-pm/story-ITDySTMUByk2XtQsjfa75J.html
14-08-2020||India||Surpeme Court holds Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court||The Supreme Court on Friday held advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court over his tweets casting aspersions on Chief Justice SA Bobde and the top court. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra pronounced the judgment at 11 am, and said it will hold a separate hearing to decide the punishment to be given to Bhushan. “We find you guilty of contempt of court. We will hear you on sentence aspect,” ruled the bench that included justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. The hearing on the sentencing will be held on August 20. According to the contempt of courts act, the offence carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both. Bhushan had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against Bobde on June 29. He was served notice by the Supreme Court on July 22. The first tweet, reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.” The second referred to the Bobde and was also cited in the order. It said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!” Bhushan had refused to apologise for his tweets, contending they are protected by the freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. He cited the speeches on dissent made by Supreme Court judges DY Chandrachud on February 15 and Deepak Gupta on February 24 to buttress his case. Deepak Gupta retired on May 6. Another suo motu contempt petition is pending before the same bench against Bhushan for calling past chief justices corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine. Bhushan, in that case, had offered an explanation for his statements but the Supreme Court refused to accept it and ruled, on August 10, that it will proceed with the case. That case is now listed for hearing on August 17. The court closed contempt proceedings against Twitter Inc accepting it’s explanation that it is only an intermediary and had also shown it’s bona fides by suspending the controversial tweets immediately after the top court initiated the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-holds-prashant-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-of-court/story-dkfu19bg3GvDTviCc2Kr2O.html
14-08-2020||India||‘Sushant Singh Rajput was our son, want his family to get justice’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday softened his stance over his remarks on late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Raut had previously said that the actor was not on good terms with his father. The actor’s family members had raised an objection to Raut’s remarks and even asked for an apology. On Friday, Raut said that he has full sympathy for Rajput’s family. “Yesterday I just said that they should’ve some patience but it was shown that I’ve threatened them. Was that a threat? Trust Mumbai Police. If you think they’re not doing a good job, then go to CBI.” he said. The Shiv Sena MP said that Rajput “was our son” and Bollywood is Mumbai’s family. “What enmity will we have? Even we want his family to get justice. We want the secret behind his death to come out,” he added. On Wednesday, Rajput’s cousin and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Bablu sent a legal notice to Raut over his controversial remarks on the late actor’s family, his lawyer said.He had asked Raut to apologize publicly in 48 hours or “Raut has told the media that Rajput’s father had married twice, which was the reason the slain actor was unhappy with his father. This is completely untrue and baseless”, MLA’s counsel Birendra Kumar Jha said. Raut, in his response, said that his remarks were based on the information he has. “If there has been any kind of miss on our part, we will think about it. But I will have to look into it. What I have said so far is based on the information I have, Sushant’s family is speaking on the basis of information they have,” Raut had said.The thirty-four-year-old actor died by suicide on June 14 and was found dead at his Bandra residence by Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-was-our-son-want-his-family-to-get-justice-sanjay-raut/story-zn30hXXZ4z3PlOKp4yYhzM.html
14-08-2020||India||Possibility of consent can’t be countenanced in case of a 13-yr-old rape survivor: Bombay HC||The possibility of consent cannot be countenanced in case of a minor rape survivor (13), the Bombay high court (HC) said while rejecting plea of a rape convict for bail during pendency of his appeal. “The prosecutrix (survivor) at the time of the incident was only 13 years of age, and, as a result, the argument that it could be a consensual act cannot be accepted,” said Justice CV Bhadang while rejecting application of Sagar Sahi, a driver, who was, ironically, employed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working for the welfare of children. Sahi was convicted last year for raping a minor in 2015 and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years. He had moved a plea before HC seeking bail during pendency of his appeal against the conviction and the sentence. It was argued, on his behalf, that the medical report of the survivor would show that there were no external injuries on the person of the rape survivor. Expressing possibility that the act could be consensual and the rape survivor could be a consenting party, the lawyer of the convict submitted that it was necessary to bring on record the call data record of conversations between the convict and the rape survivor, but the investigating officer (IO) of the case failed to do so. Justice Bhadang, however, refused to accept the contention as far as consent is concerned. The judge added that the absence of external injuries cannot be prima face considered a proof in favour of the accused, while citing the definition of rape under section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The judge also pointed out to the irony that the convict was employed by an NGO as a driver to work for the welfare of children but has been charged and sentenced for sexually assaulting a minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possibility-of-consent-can-t-be-countenanced-in-case-of-a-13-yr-old-rape-survivor-bombay-hc/story-TLXjtAyopwQ8IsZ9IY1S1K.html
14-08-2020||India||Villagers reject Goa govt’s overture to exclude temple from IIT campus||Panaji: Goa government’s overture to exclude 45,000 square (sq) metres (m) from the Indian Institute of Technology’s (IIT)-Goa campus has been rebuffed by the residents of Xel Melaulim village, as they have reiterated their opposition to setting up of the institute citing environmental hazards such as razing up to 10 lakh sq m of pristine forestland.They have warned of intensifying the stir, if their demands are not paid heed to. The villagers rejected the state government’s proposal following a Cabinet decision for the exemption on Wednesday. “In a single day, you can pass a Cabinet resolution that 45,000 sq m be excluded from the setting up of the IIT. Then, in a single day you can also take a decision to denotify the land for the institute. Why can’t you do what we want?” Shankar Naik, a resident of Xel Melaulim, where the proposed IIT permanent campus is being planned, told media persons. Another villager Shubham Shivolkar echoed Naik and said their grievances are yet to be redressed. “We have written to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant that the land is our sole source of sustenance. Why do you want to evict us?” he asked. On Wednesday, CM Sawant had announced that the village temple and the surrounding land in Xel Melaulim, measuring up to 45,000 sq m, would be excluded during the construction of a permanent campus for IIT-Goa. “Another parcel of land of a similar area size will be included for the IIT campus. I request those opposing the project to withdraw their opposition,” the CM had appealed. But, the unfazed villagers have sent a fresh letter to the CM reiterating their stand. “We are shocked beyond belief that the state government is trying to portray itself like a kind donor, giving 45,000 sq m of our land for our temple. The entire 12 lakh sq m, bearing survey number 67/1 of Xel Melaulim, belong to us, including religious places of worship, agricultural land, forests, grazing ground, and water resources,” stated the fresh letter, undersigned by 104 villagers. “The morally, legally and socio-economically correct position is that the land belongs to local communities and not the state government,” it added. “We are dependent on our land for sustenance. We oppose the setting up of the IIT campus in our village. We will intensify our agitation, if the state government refuses to pay heed to our warning and still goes ahead with its plan,” Shivolkar warned. However, the government has all along maintained that the villagers have no rights over the land since it is a state property. Xel Melaulim village is located in Goa’s eastern corner in the foothills of the Western Ghats and over 50 kilometres (km) away from the state capital Panaji. Rumblings of protest and murmurs of discontent were started by residents of Xel Melaulim village and from adjoining hamlets in early February, when the state government made it known that it would hand over the land for the IIT’s permanent campus in May. The proposed IIT campus’s setting has a dense vegetation interspersed with cashew trees that the villagers claimed have sustained them for generations. The agitating villagers have been demanding that the campus be shifted to another location that doesn’t entail such severe ecological damage. Though Xel Melaulim village falls in an eco-sensitive zone, it hasn’t been formally declared as one because the state government’s notification to that effect is still pending. Goa was allocated an IIT in 2014, but it has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College. Earlier, though the state government had identified two sites --- in Canacona and Sanguem sub-districts – to set up a permanent IIT campus, both were scrapped due to public protests and after the opposition had alleged a land scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-reject-goa-govt-s-overture-to-exclude-temple-from-iit-campus/story-h4IORHjSdcuiJHLFRnsSaK.html
14-08-2020||India||Supreme Court holds Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for tweets against court, CJI SA Bobde||The Supreme Court on Friday held lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for tweets against the court, and chief justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde.Bhushan had posted two tweets, one on the Supreme Court on June 27 and the second one on CJI Bobde on June 29. He was served notice by the apex court on July 22.The top court had on August 5 reserved its verdict in the matter after Bhushan defended his two alleged contemptuous tweets saying they were against the judges regarding their conduct in their personal capacity and they did not obstruct administration of justice.The first tweet, reproduced in the court, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.” The second tweet said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan, in his affidavit, regretted saying Bobde was not wearing a helmet. He added he failed to notice the bike was stationary and that the CJI was not riding but merely sitting on it.On July 22, the top court had issued a show cause notice to Bhushan after initiating the criminal contempt against him for his two tweets.Another suo motu contempt petition is also pending before the same three-judge bench against Bhushan for calling past CJIs corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine. Bhushan had offered an explanation but the Supreme Court refused to accept the same and ruled, on August 10, that it will hear the matter in detail. That case is now listed for hearing on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-holds-prashant-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-of-court-for-tweets-against-cji-sa-bobde-sc/story-mChDvJ23SOIjQE5rMdDbUP.html
14-08-2020||India||‘Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator, medical condition unchanged’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition remains unchanged, the Army (R&R) Hospital, where Mukherjee is undergoing treatment since Monday, announced on Friday. The statement issued by the hospital said that the former president is under intensive care and continues to be on ventilatory support. “His vital parameters are presently stable,” it added. The hospital, in its morning update on Thursday, had said that Mukherjee is “deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support”. Mukherjee underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. Rumours about his health condition were doing the rounds on social media, but Mukherjee’s family took to Twitter to refute them.“My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News,” Mukherjee’s elder son and former Congress MP Abhijit tweeted.His daughter and Congress leader Sharmishta urged media not to call her. “Rumours about my father is false. Request, esp’ly to media, NOT to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-medical-condition-unchanged-hospital/story-ThwS9gzPR4f3lHGO5d5rHM.html
14-08-2020||India||ED probes scam linked to embezzlement fraud in Brazil||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) last month launched an investigation against several Indian businessmen and companies for alleged money laundering linked to a provincial governor in Brazil, who is accused of embezzling funds worth $ 161 million, officials familiar with the development said. Based on a request from Brazil, the central anti-money laundering agency last month froze 67 bank accounts belonging to Indian businessmen and companies, the officials added, asking not to be named. In a letter by ED to State Bank of India’s 11, Sansad Marg branch on July 13, the bank was asked to freeze the accounts of J K Tyre, Hamilton Housewares Pvt Ltd, K P Sanghvi & Sons and six more companies as “ED is investigating a case under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA)”. It asked the bank not to allow any withdrawal from the accounts without its permission. HT has reviewed the ED’s letter to SBI. Similar letters were sent to other banks across India for freezing accounts of 58 more companies last month, officials cited above said. Responding to a plea by advocate Vijay Aggarwal on behalf of Hamilton Housewares challenging the freezing of the account, ED counsel Amit Mahajan informed the Delhi high court on Thursday that the agency has acted on Brazil’s request as there is a mutual legal agreement between the countries. ED, without sharing the name of Brazil’s provincial governor or investigation details from the South American nation, informed the high court the probe involves 53 countries and a sum of $161 million . Aggarwal argued the company’s business has been affected by ED’s action and it is not able to perform day-to-day business. He argued the action has been taken when it is not even known whether a scheduled offence has been registered or not and that ED has not supplied to the company “reasons to believe” to freeze the bank account. Aggarwal said there has been single payment of Rs 12.27 lakh in Hamilton about seven years ago for international transportation of goods and was reported to the Reserve Bank of India, which is said to be under investigation but the primary account, which has over Rs 45 crores, has been frozen. He pointed out that “due to the freezing of account, Hamilton has defaulted in payment of interest on its loans to the tune of Rs 14.73 lakh”. The company pleaded before the court that it be allowed to access its account so that business is not adversely affected. “Company has received a letter from the office of ED. We are ascertaining the relevant details from them,” said Neha Tiwary , chief manager, corporate communications at J K Tyre in an email reply. KP Sanghvi & Sons didn’t respond to email queries. Brazil has been plagued by corruption scandals since 2014 including the famous “Operation Car Wash” in which hundreds of politicians and businessmen are being investigated for money laundering and receiving kickbacks. Operation Car Wash began in 2014 as an investigation into allegations that executives at the state oil company Petrobras accepted bribes from construction firms in lieu of contracts. India and Brazil signed a mutual legal agreement treaty (MLAT) in January this year for cooperation in criminal matters. Sherbir Panag, international legal expert on white collar crimes, said : “It’s a welcome step that India is honouring its MLATs with other countries. It helps set a precedent that through such steps, India’s requests will also be reciprocated expeditiously. All of this notwithstanding, it’s time that guidelines are framed for freezing of accounts by investigating agencies. The freeze quantum should be on the basis of the proceed of crime amount and appropriate buffer, so that genuine business activity is not affected pending investigation. Blanket freezing, especially at a time when companies are struggling to get back to business due to the pandemic is unsustainable and unjustified”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probes-scam-linked-to-embezzlement-fraud-in-brazil/story-G61sDvjuV9qB4IsBhBcb3N.html
14-08-2020||India||Congress spokesperson seeks civility in TV debates, writes to I&B minister||A day after Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi died of a heart attack after participating in a heated TV debate, his party colleague Jaiveer Shergill on Thursday asked the information and broadcasting ministry to restore “civility” in talk shows and issue an advisory to enforce a code of conduct for news channels. In a letter sent to information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, Shergill said it is imperative to restore civility through a code of conduct to “tame the slanderous beast” that television debates have become. “Constant interruptions coupled with toxic and defamatory smears impact the mental and physical well-being of all individuals on the panel,” he wrote. Shergill said issuing an advisory to media houses to follow the News Broadcasting Standards Authority’s (NBSA) guidelines to ensure mere civility is a must, and will serve as an appropriate tribute to Tyagi. Also read: Congress leader Rajiv Tyagi dies after cardiac arrestTagging his letter, Shergill tweeted, “My letter to I&B Minister Shri Prakash Javdekar Ji requesting him to issue an advisory to media to enforce a code of conduct to curb slanderous, sensationalist and toxic TV debates.”  My letter to I&B Minister Sh @PrakashJavdekar Ji requesting him to issue an advisory to Media to enforce a Code of Conduct to curb Slanderous,Sensationalist & Toxic TV Debates-High time to reinforce civility & mutual respect for sake of well being of participants & democracy pic.twitter.com/z3ooQjbX5fTyagi’s death has triggered a debate within the Congress over the participation of its spokespersons in TV debates. A Congress leader said while the party has not yet made a decision on boycotting TV debates, there are voices against the move. “It is high time TV channel owners, editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates into a meaningless, poisonous and potentially fatal activity. At times words can have the same impact as bullets,” tweeted senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel. The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala criticised the alleged “poisonous debate and venomous spokespersons” and the “TRP business” on news channels. “How long will the poison of Hindu-Muslim division continue to engulf the soul of this country?” he asked. Congress leader Manish Tewari also took to Twitter to hit out at the alleged race for “TRP” among news channels. “Sad demise of Rajiv Tyagi reflects extreme stress spokespersons of political parties work under pro-bono. Some get Covid-19 due to stress induced lowered immunity, others just die while TV channels generate TRPs/revenue at their expense with some anchors becoming channel owners,” he said. Congress spokesperson Anand Sharma shared the concerns expressed by Shergill over the alleged “damage done by competitive sensationalism” in the media. “The brazen violation of NBA (News Broadcasters Association) guidelines and code need honest reflection and course correction,” he tweeted. Another Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, said the issue raised by Shergill requires serious consideration, with due regard to freedom of expression and Article 19 provisions, as well as existing guidelines for conduct. “Since the subject is currently under discussion in the parliamentary committee, I will seek a report from the ministry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-spokesperson-seeks-civility-in-tv-debates-writes-to-i-b-minister/story-Fuw1PfiLt9sSRXssSVM3DP.html
14-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally jumps to 2.46 million with 64,553 new cases in 24 hours, death toll over 48,000||In another steep rise in its single-day cases, India has reported 64,553 fresh Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours. With 1,007 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours across the country, the Covid-19 death toll in India has jumped to 48,040. With this, India’s total Covid-19 count rises to 24,61,191 which includes 6,61,595 active cases and 17,51,556 patients who have been cured from the disease or discharged from hospitals, Ministry of Health stated on Friday.Also read: Daily Covid-19 tests inch closer to targeted 1 million markIndia’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload makes it the third worst-hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil. However, the government maintains that the Covid-19 situation across the country is improving as more number of people are getting cured. India’s recovery rate at present is over 70 percent while the death rate stands at 1.95 percent, among the lowest across the globe. India is relentlessly trying to up its game in the number of Covid-19 testing being done on a daily basis. On Wednesday, India tested in excess of 800,000 samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), inching closer to its target of conducting a million tests a day.Nearly 27 million tests have been conducted across the country since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with a single lab at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Virology in Pune. At present, over 1,400 labs are equipped and functional to carry out Covid-19 testing across India. As many as 947 of those are in the public sector while 486 are private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-2-46-million-with-64-553-new-cases-in-24-hours-death-toll-over-48-000/story-96eYdGJO6NddscKz8F97iP.html
14-08-2020||India||Australian PM Scott Morrison wishes India on Independence Day, says ‘our friendship founded on trust’||Australian prime minister Scott Morrison extended “warm congratulations to the people of India” ahead of the country’s Independence Day on August 15.In his message, Morrison highlighted the “elevation of bilateral relations to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” between India and Australia.“Our partnership is geared for the common good of our region and the global community, and this will be critical as we work to overcome the health, social and economic impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Morrison said in his message.“The deep friendship between Australia and India is about more than trade and diplomacy. Founded on bharosa (trust) and samman (respect) - it is a friendship with depth, and marked by democracy, defence cooperation, diaspora and dosti (mateship),” he further said in the message.The Australian PM also said that India “is now our biggest source of migrants”. “Their presence has contributed to Australia becoming the most successful multicultural nation on earth.”Morrison had held a virtual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June after his visit to India was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic.Several agreements, including one on mutual sharing of military logistics facilities, were signed during the summit on June 4.Over the last year and a half, both leaders have met four times. Their first meet was in the year 2018, on the sidelines of East Asia Summit in Singapore, followed by the G20 in Osaka in June 2019, then during the G7 Summit in Biarritz in August 2019. The leaders last met during the East Asia Summit in Bangkok in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-pm-scott-morrison-wishes-india-on-independence-day-says-our-friendship-founded-on-trust/story-qCCuMPHS2z5HSjYvPlclXK.html
14-08-2020||India||‘Need a clearly defined strategy’: Rahul’s message to govt on Covid-19 vaccine||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that India will be one of the nations to produce a vaccine for Covid-19 and the process will require a “clearly-defined” strategy. “The government of India must do it now,” Gandhi tweeted on FridayGandhi also said that the government will need a vaccine access strategy that is inclusive and equitable, ensuring availability, affordability and fair distribution.  Also read: Daily Covid-19 tests inch closer to targeted 1 million markIndia will be one of the COVID-19 vaccine-producing nations.It needs a clearly-defined, inclusive & equitable vaccine access strategy ensuring availability, affordability & fair distribution.GOI must do it now.“India will be one of the COVID-19 vaccine-producing nations. It needs a clearly-defined, inclusive & equitable vaccine access strategy ensuring availability, affordability & fair distribution. GOI must do it now,” his tweet read. This comes a day after Gandhi tweeted a graph showing India’s upward-moving Covid-19 curve on Thursday which he described as “frightening not flattening”. “Corona curve- Frightening not Flattening. If this is PM’s ‘steady state’, then what will a ‘deteriorated condition’ be like?” the Congress leader had tweeted. On Wednesday, Gandhi took another swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Infosys founder NR Narayana Murthy’s warning that the country’s GDP growth may touch its lowest since independence amid the Covid-19 crisis.Gandhi took a dig at the prime minister using one of his widely popular campaign slogans, “Modi hai toh mumkin hai (If Modi is there, everything is possible)”. The former Congress chief attached a screenshot of a media report that carried Murthy’s remark. At an online event on Monday, Murthy said that India’s GDP is expected to shrink by at least five per cent. “There is a fear that we may even reach the lowest GDP since Independence, since 1947,” Murthy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-a-clearly-defined-access-strategy-rahul-s-message-to-govt-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-PlDo4OraCfcFonYyGfdx6M.html
14-08-2020||India||Members of pro-RSS group claim attack by locals; 12 arrested, released on bail||The police in Tripura arrested 12 people for attacking the members of a pro-RSS group ‘Sadbhabana Manch’ which had organised a meeting violating Covid-19 lockdown norms at Kanchanpur in North District of Tripura, nearly 180 kilometres from Agartala.They were later released on bail.Officer in-charge of Kanchanpur police station Paritosh Das said that the members of Sadbhabana Manch organised a meeting at Dasda-Kanchanpur on Tuesday evening when some people, reportedly the members of Nagarik Suraksha Mancha, a pro-Bengali organisation, engaged with an altercation with the former and attacked them.As a result, nine of the Sadbhabana Manch members got injuries and they lodged a complaint at Kanchanpur police station. Based on the complaint, police arrested 12 people. They were later released on bail on Wednesday. However, according to Nagarik Suraksha Mancha general secretary Diptendu Nath, none of their members attacked the other group’s members. “The Manch members violated the lockdown norms by trying to hold meeting. Our members objected to it and later they had an altercation with them. But they didn’t attack anyone,” said Nath. A member of the Manch said that their aim is to maintain peace and harmony among all the communities in the state. “But our members were attacked and also injured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/members-of-pro-rss-group-claim-attack-by-locals-12-arrested-released-on-bail/story-m2V5hk9GwgpSUvbg34FlXJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Rajasthan Assembly session: After truce, CM Ashok Gehlot to move confidence motion, BJP to counter it||A crucial session of the Rajasthan Assembly will begin on Friday where chief minister Ashok Gehlot will move a vote of confidence to prove the majority of his Congress government.The chief minister chaired a Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting at his residence on Thursday, where the decision to move the vote of confidence was taken.Also Read: Gehlot, Pilot meet; BJP, Congress talk floor testThis came three days after a patch-up between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who had rebelled against the chief minister over his style of functioning. Gehlot said he could have proved his majority even without the support of Pilot and 18 of his supporters, but that would not have given him happiness.“We could have proved our majority even without these 19 MLAs but it would not have given us happiness. We will bring a vote of confidence,” the chief minister said. Pilot was also present at the CLP meeting on Thursday and both the leaders shook hands and flashed victory signs.Also Read: ‘Forget what happened’: Sachin Pilot among audience, Ashok Gehlot hits resetThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, said that the truce between the two factions is temporary and announced it will move a no-confidence motion in the state Assembly. “This government won’t last long,” former chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje said on Thursday.Speaker CP Joshi can use his discretion to decide whether to allow the government or the BJP motion, according to analysts. An official at the assembly secretariat, who did not want to be named, said the government’s trust motion was likely to get preference. “This has been the tradition of the house,” said the official.With the return of the rebels, the Congress alone has 107 legislators, including the speaker, in the 200-member House where the majority mark is 101. It also appears to have the support of all 13 independents; three of them backed Pilot and have now pledged support to Gehlot. Five MLAs from other parties, too, back the government in the House. On the other hand, the BJP (72) and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party (3) have a total of 75 seats.The Gehlot government has already indicated that it is keen on a floor test despite the truce because the party thinks it is the perfect way to send across a message of unity. A floor test will also give some breather to Gehlot to let him put his house in order since a motion can be moved only once in a session.In a related development, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday issued a whip for the second time to six of its MLAs in Rajasthan to vote against the Congress in any no-confidence motion or any other proceedings in the state Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-truce-rajasthan-assembly-session-to-begin-today-congress-bjp-talk-floor-test/story-g3BfgdyLpcFmzTQe65Gj3M.html
14-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC to pronounce judgement in Prashant Bhushan contempt case at 11 am and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SC to pronounce its verdict in Prashant Bhushan contempt case at 11 amThe Supreme Court will pronounce on Friday its judgment in the contempt of court case initiated suo motu (on its own) against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets against the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. Read moreEnvironmentalists oppose 3 infrastructure projects in Goa, CM Pramod Sawant suspects ‘foreign hand’Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday that he suspected the involvement of a foreign hand in opposition to projects in the state. Swant was talking about the protests against three projects - the Railway double tracking, the highway four laning and a power line all of which will pass through the wildlife sanctuaries and come at a huge cost to the environment. Read more10 cops win Medal of Honour from Madhya Pradesh; 3 inspectors among them cracked rape and murder casesThree police inspectors are among 10 officials from Madhya Pradesh who were selected for Union home minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation this year. They have been instrumental in cracking three different rape and murder cases in which minors were the victims. Read moreJimmy Lai says he was arrested on ‘trumped up’ chargesHong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai said he was arrested on “trumped up” charges, pushing back against landmark national security legislation that has raised questions about press freedoms and the future of the democracy movement. Read moreThey had written India’s name as winners at innings break: Inzamam-Ul-Haq narrates how Pakistan overcame the odds in BCCI’s Platinum Jubilee matchFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq narrated his experience of playing an ODI against India in 2004 at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata which was specially organised by BCCI to mark their Platinum Jubilee celebrations.Read moreTata Motors drives in India’s largest tipper truckTata Motors on Thursday said it has launched the country’s first 47.5-tonne multi-axle tipper truck for surface transport of coal and construction goods, priced at ₹52.81 lakh (ex-showroom Mumbai). The model, Signa 4825.TK, comes with 16 wheels and offers more load per trip with its 29 cubic metre box load body, Tata Motors said in a statement. Read moreEpic Games sues Apple, Google for removing Fortnite from the app storesEpic Games has sued both Apple and Google for removing Fortnite from their app stores on Thursday. This move escalates the dispute between the companies that has been brewing over the recent weeks. The issue stems from a longstanding Apple App Store rule that states that apps must offer billing through Apple and pay them 30% of revenue. Read moreIndian Railways tweets about new foot operated handwash kioskThe spread of the pandemic has prompted people to come up with new techniques and ideas to ensure more safety. Keeping this in mind, Indian Railways is trying to come up with different innovations. Earlier, the Ministry of Railways tweeted about a device that ensures and reminds people to maintain proper social distancing from one another. Read more5 myths busted about dental hygiene that are sure to amp up your oral healthIn the daily rush of getting the day rolling amid Covid-19 pandemic and juggling various household chores with professional work simultaneously, one activity that barely receives our attention is dental hygiene. Though oral health is often taken for granted, the practice of keeping the mouth, teeth and gums clean and healthy to prevent disease is an essential part of our everyday lives. Read moreWatch: Anti-China protests in PoK over construction of dams||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-to-pronounce-its-judgement-in-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case-at-11-am-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CikVPurfmarAIaZur4vQ9H.html
14-08-2020||India||Environmentalists oppose 3 infrastructure projects in Goa, CM Pramod Sawant suspects ‘foreign hand’||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday that he suspected the involvement of a foreign hand in opposition to projects in the state. Swant was talking about the protests against three projects - the Railway double tracking, the highway four laning and a power line all of which will pass through the wildlife sanctuaries and come at a huge cost to the environment.Speaking at the sidelines of an event, Sawant said that the opposition was more from abroad, than from locals residing in the vicinity.“The opposition is coming from Africa, England and Russia. Those who have not seen Goa and Mollem, are now commenting about it from foreign countries. On the other hand, those who stay in Mollem, say that if the road is widened it will be beneficial to them,” Sawant claimed.“We want power and water 24x7. We want good transport and road facilities. And at the same time we also need a good environment. Government is not keen on destroying the environment. We want to preserve it. If we cut 10 trees, we replant 100 trees. People do not understand this,” Sawant also said.Sawant’s comments come a day after a BJP leader at a press conference defended the project claiming the trio of projects would be beneficial for the state while also benefiting the wildlife. “It is because those in the past built infrastructure that today we are benefitting from it. What we build today, the future generations will thank us for,” a former BJP legislator Siddharth Kuncalienkar, said with the government and party eager to push back to the mounting opposition to the projects that will slice through the western ghats. The campaigners against the projects have, however, hit back at the ruling party. “Any observer including the BJP needs to be clear that destruction is not equal to development of the state and is a fallacy unless ‘the state’ now means ‘wealthy individuals and selected business interests’,” a statement issued by the group campaigning against the projects said.The activists have long believed that the projects, especially the railway line, is being built solely to facilitate the transport of imported coal from Goa’s Mormugao Port to steel plants in North Karnataka for whom Goa is the closest port. The railway line, by far the biggest of the three projects, will come at a cost of diversion of 113.857 hectares of forest land and felling of 18,541 trees. The second project - the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway that was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka - will cost 31.015 hectares of forest land and 12,097 trees. Thirdly, a 400KV power line - 3.5 km of which passes through protected forest area - is also proposed. It will provide additional feed to Goa.These clearances have now been challenged before the Central Empowered Committee as well as the Bombay high court at Goa on grounds that they have been cleared in haste and threaten the rich bio-diversity of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environmentalists-oppose-3-infrastructure-projects-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-suspects-foreign-hand/story-AFCKhXt3LuKgxwA7LmxXKI.html
14-08-2020||India||16 maoists surrender in Chattisgarh’s Dantewada: Police||Sixteen maoists including three commander-level personnel surrendered before the Chhattisgarh police in Dantewada on Thursday.Dantewada Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallav said, “16 maoists have surrendered out of whom three carried rewards on their heads. Most of them belong to the western parts of the Bastar district.”“Three of them are commander-level maoists and were carrying rewards on their heads. There are five cases each registered against two and four cases against one Naxal,” he added.The Dantewada SP further informed that the surrendered maoists used to demolish railway tracks and kill Panchayat executives and villagers. Most of the others were ground level militia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-naxals-surrender-in-chattisgarh-s-dantewada-police/story-0p77CSKC71womF62shfXSM.html
14-08-2020||India||Odisha to increase fines for violating Covid-19 guidelines to Rs 1 lakh, will amend epidemics act||With Covid-19 cases surging, Odisha government now plans to bring an ordinance to amend the epidemics act for increasing the punishment for non-compliance of the guidelines laid down for containing the spread of the pandemic.Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said that Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 would be amended to increase the imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or fine which may extend up to Rs 1 lakh or with both. As the state Assembly is not in session, the amendment to the act would be done through ordinance route, the chief secretary said. The move to make the punishment for violation of Covid-19 guidelines tougher was significant as the number of coronavirus disease cases in the state has crossed 52,000 and death toll stands at 314.Though the Centre had promulgated the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 on April 22 to include protection for healthcare personnel combating the disease and expanding the powers of the central government to prevent the spread of the pandemic, the state government now wants to amend the act for better implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines.“Though the Covid-19 guidelines in the state were being implemented through executive order, it needed a legislative teeth. So the Epidemic Diseases Act is being amended through ordinance. Till now the Centre issued most of the orders on Covid-19 through Disaster Management Act. As health is a concurrent subject, the state is amending the Epidemics Diseases Act to be in better control of the Covid-19 situation,” said a senior official of the health department.Senior advocate Pitambar Acharya said the amendment was necessary as even after imposing certain restrictions under the old act, states are struggling to stem the spread of the disease as there are no specific provisions in the Act which can guide the governments to act in a prescribed manner. It is more than 120 years old and had come at a time when the British officers wanted to limit public gatherings led by the freedom fighters. The old act does not define the term epidemic or disease and has no specific measures or directions to the government to follow at the time of an epidemic. The amendment would help the state handle the pandemic in a better way,” said Acharya.However, senior lawyers said raising the penalty to Rs 1 lakh for anyone found violating the amended Epidemic Diseases Act may be a bit steep. “In a pandemic, a slumdweller caught not wearing mask may not be able to fork out Rs 1 lakh if convicted. The enforcement authorities in the state are just coming to terms with the pandemic. Rs 1 lakh fine amount is all fine, but one needs to see how many can pay it,” said senior HC advocate Surya Prasad Mishra.Meanwhile, the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) said on Thursday that one-third population of Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) in the Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district has developed antibodies to the Sars-CoV-2 virus. RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said that a sero survey in Berhampur town found 31% prevalence at community level in the municipality area. “The survey indicates that 1.5 lakh people in the city were infected with the virus and developed antibodies. At the high risk group level in BeMC, the sero prevalence is 23.4%.“The sero survey was carried out jointly by BeMC, MKCG medical College and RMRC with support from the Health and Family Welfare department,” said Pati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-increase-fines-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines-to-rs-1-lakh-will-amend-epidemics-act/story-0LYUUqHvQV3YgQ2HFzW71L.html
14-08-2020||India||2 trucks collide head-on on Jabalpur-Nagpur Highway, drivers dead||Two persons were charred to death when two trucks caught fire in a head-on collision on the Jabalpur-Nagpur Highway in the Chhapara area of Seoni district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.The trucks loaded with rice and mosambi (sweet lime) were coming from opposite directions when it engaged in a head-on collision. Both the drivers were charred to death and four more were injured, the police said.Chhapara police station in-charge Nilesh Parteti said, “Two people charred to death, four others rushed to a hospital.”Due to the collision, the truck carrying rice overturned after getting dragged for a few feet, Parteti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-trucks-collide-head-on-on-jabalpur-nagpur-highway-drivers-dead/story-ctR3NMU2Ct8Yu9c4kJna5M.html
14-08-2020||India||10 cops win Medal of Honour from Madhya Pradesh; 3 inspectors among them cracked rape and murder cases||Three police inspectors are among 10 officials from Madhya Pradesh who were selected for Union home minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation this year. They have been instrumental in cracking three different rape and murder cases in which minors were the victims. In two of the three cases, the accused were awarded death penalty while in third case, the accused was sentenced to life imprisonment.The names of the 10 police officials figured among 121 officials selected from across the country for the honour, as per official information.The police officers from Madhya Pradesh include Additional Superintendent of Police Hansraj Singh, Sub-Divisional Officer of Police Punnu Singh Parastey, and inspectors Sunil Sharma, Sanjeev Kumar Chouksey, Praveen Kumar Kumre, Arvind Singh Tomar and Gopal Ghasle. Kewal Singh Parte, Deepti Mishra and Priti Patil, all sub-inspectors, have also been given the prestigious medal.According to police officials, Chouksey, who is presently posted in Bhopal, had investigated a case regarding rape and murder of a seven-year-old in neighbouring Vidisha district when he was in charge of Civil Lines police station. The crime was committed in 2015 and the trial court awarded death penalty to the convict in September 2019. Ravi Toli, who was convicted, was out of bail in connection with a molestation case when he committed the crime. Expressing his joy over the award, Chouksey said, “It was a tough case to crack and our team had to make a lot of efforts to get to the accused. But our efforts ensured justice to the victim and her family.” Chouksey had played key role in arrest of a serial killer Adesh Khambra too in 2018, who belongs to Mandideep in Bhopal and whose accomplices killed more than 30 truck drivers and cleaners and looted goods in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and other states. Similarly, Kumre had investigated a rape case when he was posted in Piparia town of Hoshangabad district in 2018, in which a four-year-old girl was raped and murdered. Agitated over the heinous crime, people had staged a massive protest and ghearoed the police station. The accused was tracked down after police continued its intensified investigation round the clock and several days at a stretch. The accused was sentenced to capital punishment. Kumre said, “There was tremendous pressure on the entire police force to nab the criminal. We looked into footage of more than 50 CCTV cameras. My jeep was like my residence for four to five days during investigation. We produced all the evidence and the accused was given death penalty.” Tomar had solved a kidnapping, rape and murder case in Ujjain in 2019. The victim was a four-year-old girl who was raped and whose dead body was thrown in Shipra river in June 2019.He said during intensive investigation more than 50 suspects were questioned when they found a porn video in the mobile phone of one of them. That man turned out to be the accused. The court delivered its judgment in 84 days and sentenced the accused to life imprisonment till his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-cops-win-medal-of-honour-from-madhya-pradesh-3-inspectors-among-them-cracked-rape-and-murder-cases/story-qgr32DCDqJ63Y5pctOY4LP.html
14-08-2020||India||Nearly 1,000 new Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand in a week; tally now above 11,000||With 416 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Thursday crossed the 11,000 cases mark within four says of touching 10,000 cases. The total tally of Covid-19 cases stand at 11,302.On Thursday morning, Ram Sharan Nautiyal, father of Bollywood singer Jubin Nautiyal and former Dehradun district panchayat head took to his social media platform to inform people that he had tested positive for Covid-19. “Due to initial symptoms, I got myself tested for Covid-19 and was found positive. I am fully healthy and admitted at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on the advice of doctors. My entire family and staff who come in contact with me on a daily basis were immediately tested and their results came out to be negative,” he wrote on Twitter.Three Covid-19 positive persons also died in the state on Thursday, of which one death was due to coronavirus while the other two were due to co-morbidities. A total of 143 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with 25 deaths attributed to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The remaining corona infected casualties were attributed to co-morbidities and other causes, added health officials.A total of 7,014 infected people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 62.12%.US Nagar district reported 192 of the 416 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday. The situation in other districts was as follows: Almora (1), Bageshwar (9), Champawat (16), Dehradun (36), Haridwar (107), Nainital (15), Pauri (5), Rudraprayag (4), Tehri (16) and Uttarakashi (15).Haridwar district has so far reported a total of 2,678 cases - the most cases in the state, followed by Dehradun (2,272), US Nagar (2,176) and Nainital (1,624).Also, 327 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Thursday with maximum 216 in US Nagar district. The doubling rate of cases, based on the last seven days’ data, now stands at 23.10 days, while the infection rate is at 5.01%. The state has so far tested over 2.42 lakh samples while 12,000 results are awaited. In one month, the infection rate in Uttarakhand increased from 4.08 % (July 12) to 5% (August 12). The districts of Haridwar, Nainital, US Nagar and Dehradun have witnessed the maximum increase in infection rate compared to the hilly districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-1-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-uttarakhand-in-a-week-tally-now-above-11-000/story-gLNizs5E6eJ1Q9se8qnPmM.html
14-08-2020||India||In self-reliance push, Rajnath Singh launches weapons system made by Ordnance Factory Board||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday launched a number of weapon systems developed by different factories of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) as part of the Atma Nirbhar Week programme. At a programme in Delhi, Singh remotely launched Namica, a missile launching platform for the third generation anti-tank fire and forget missile “Nag”, a new 8.6x70mm sniper rifle developed by the Rifle Factory Ishapore, a dual calibre anti-material rifle developed by the Ordnance Factory Tiruchirappalli and an upgraded commander’s thermal imager-cum-daysight for T-90 tanks developed by the Opto Electronic Factory Dehradun. The OFB said in a statement issued from its headquarters in Kolkata that Namica uses an indigenously produced infantry combat vehicle with amphibious capabilities. It has been jointly developed by Ordnance Factory Medak and DRDL. The platform can fire six missiles with a gap of 20 seconds between the shots. The 14.5/20mm anti-material rifle is a dual calibre modular weapon used for destroying enemy bunkers, light armoured vehicles and radar systems.The upgraded thermal imager-cum-daysight for T-90 tanks has a range of detection at 8,000 meters at night. “It will also be retrofitted in T-90 Tanks already in service and will lead to substantial foreign exchange savings,” the OFB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-self-reliance-push-rajnath-singh-launches-weapons-system-made-by-ordnance-factory-board/story-ohUTGtjxPYhBZ3JzgWQegI.html
14-08-2020||India||Gehlot, Pilot meet; BJP, Congress talk floor test||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot shook hands and flashed victory signs at a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in a show of unity on Thursday, the first such interaction between the two leaders since Pilot rebelled over a month ago and triggered a political crisis that threatened the state government.Three days after the Congress high command brokered a peace deal that ended the turmoil, Gehlot said at the meeting that his government will move a confidence motion in a crucial assembly session beginning on Friday and emerge victorious, a move aimed at sending a message of stability after the month-long tussle, according to party leaders.On the day the warring factions reunited, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the truce was temporary and announced that it will move a no-confidence motion against the government, which appears to be comfortably placed in terms of numbers, especially after the return of 19 dissident legislators, including Pilot, to the Congress fold. The BJP, which also asked its MLAs to prepare for polls, did not ask for a floor test at the height of the crisis that began unfolding in mid-July.Speaker CP Joshi can use his discretion to decide whether to allow the government or the BJP motion — both seeking a floor test, according to analysts. An official at the assembly secretariat, who did not want to be named, said the government’s trust motion was likely to get preference. “This has been the tradition of the house,” said the official. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the motion by the ruling side gets preference in such a situation. “When a confidence motion and a no-confidence motion are moved simultaneously, the assembly tradition is that the ruling side gets preference. However, the final call is of the speaker,” he said.With the return of the rebels, the Congress alone has 107 legislators, including the speaker, in the 200-member House where the majority mark is 101. It also appears to have the support of all 13 independents; three of them backed Pilot and have now pledged support to Gehlot. Five MLAs from other parties, too, back the government in the House. On the other hand, the BJP (72) and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party (3) have a total of 75 seats. At the CLP meeting in Gehlot’s residence, all 19 legislators, who protested against chief minister over his style of functioning and alleged that Pilot was being sidelined, were present. “Apne to apne hote hain [they are our own],” Gehlot said in his peace message, referring to the dissidents. At the same time, he also said the Congress would have proved its majority in the House even without the rebel MLAs, but that “would not have made us happy or given a stable government”, according to legislators present at the meeting who did not want to be named. To be sure, the Gehlot government has already indicated that it is keen on a floor test despite the truce because the party thinks it is the perfect way to send across a message of unity. A floor test will also give some breather to Gehlot to let him put his house in order since a motion can be moved only once in a session. On Thursday, the Congress also revoked the suspension of seven-time legislator Bhanwar Lal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh, two Pilot loyalists who were accused of being part of a conspiracy to topple the government. Gehlot assured all MLAs that their grievances will be addressed and he was ready to meet them wherever they want. Pilot said he was in the Congress and will remain in the Congress, a Rajasthan Congress leader said, requesting anonymity. Pilot also thanked all for supporting him during his tenure as the state Congress chief for over six years and for the post of deputy chief minister. “If the style of functioning or governance has to be changed, then we should not hesitate,”Pilot said, according to the leader cited above. Addressing MLAs, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said the month-long crisis was a “nightmare for all of us” and asked MLAs to refrain from blaming each other. “It is time for unity in the larger interest of the government and the party. Without the party ,we are nobody,” he said.“No more post-mortems...Congress president Sonia Gandhi has told me to convey this to you,” he told the legislators. He said the high command decided on the truce in consultation with Gehlot. Venugopal’s message was meant to convey to the MLAs who have backed Gehlot during the crisis that the chief minister was always part of the discussions with the Pilot camp, a central Congress functionary said. He said there was some resentment in the Gehlot camp over the return of Pilot and the other rebels who threatened the stability of the government. The chief minister and other senior leaders had to persuade them. “Now, they are willing to work with the rebels,” the leader said. After the meeting, Congress leaders Venugopal, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Govind Singh Dotasra, among others, posed for photographs along with Gehlot and Pilot. Before Thursday’s CLP meeting, Gehlot tweeted, asking MLAs loyal to him to “forgive and forget” in the interest of the country and the state. The BJP, too, held a meeting of its legislators where former chief minister Vasundhara Raje is believed to have asked them to prepare for polls. “She [Raje] said this government would not last long and that we should be ready for elections,” a BJP lawmaker present at the meeting said on condition of anonymity. Gulab Chand Kataria, the leader of the opposition, said his party readied a no-confidence motion proposal and 40 lawmakers signed it. Raje separately denied reports of a division in the BJP. “Some people are spreading news about a division in BJP. Let me tell them that the BJP is a family and we are all together” she tweeted. State BJP president Satish Poonia said Gehlot made “cheap allegations” against the BJP, referring to the Congress’s charge that the opposition party was trying to topple the government. “This government does not have a future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-pilot-meet-bjp-congress-talk-floor-test/story-R00vti7SBjZh1QqHDsYemN.html
14-08-2020||India||Scientists urge use of monoclonal antibodies||Global scientists have urged pharmaceutical companies, governments and academic institutions to make monoclonal antibodies used to treat life-threatening diseases available to people living in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).Monoclonal antibodies are lab-made proteins that act like natural antibodies in fighting disease. Derived from human immune cells, these proteins act specifically against targets ranging from cancerous cells to viruses and bacteria, or alter precise immune pathways to augment a person’s ability to fight disease. At least 120 monoclonal antibodies have been approved in the 30 years since the first one was licenced to prevent and treat several chronic and life-threatening diseases, including many cancers, autoimmune disorders and some infections, including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Around 80% of licensed monoclonal antibodies are sold in Europe, the US and Canada, with only 20% sold to countries that account for 90% of the world’s population. Availability and affordability are two of the biggest barriers to availability in LMICs, said the report titled Expanding Access to Monoclonal Antibody-Based Products: A Global Call to Action, released by Wellcome, an independent global health foundation, and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), a non-profit scientific research organisation. “India is one of the best case scenarios among middle-income countries, but still only a fraction of products available in the US are available in India. In fact no monoclonal antibody treatments for cancer are available in the Indian public health system,” Wellcome said in a tweet. Neutralising antibodies, whether natural or monoclonal, can bind directly to portions of viruses that they use to attach to and enter cells, preventing them from initiating infection. According to the Wellcome-IAVI report, monoclonal antibodies can potentially complement Covid-19 vaccines, especially for those who may not benefit from a vaccine because of age or medical conditions.If successful, the new approaches and partnerships forged for Covid-19 can set precedents to support increased global access to monoclonal antibodies targeting many other diseases, the report said. Earlier this week, the US began enrolling healthy adults for two Phase 3 gold-standard randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials to test whether experimental monoclonal antibodies can prevent infection from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The trials are enrolling adults who are at risk of infection due to close contact at work or home with people infected by Sars-CoV-2. Last month, the Drugs Controller General of India approved the indigenous psoriasis drug Itolizumab to treat moderate to severe Covid-19. This monoclonal antibody has been manufactured and marketed by Biocon since 2013 for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Also ongoing are multi-centric trials to evaluate the standard use of the monoclonal antibody drug Tocilizumab, which is a second-line drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. “Tocilizumab is approved to treat moderate to severe Covid-19 patients whose condition is worsening, and the trial will also evaluate whether the drug will prevent the progression of stable moderate disease to severe Covid-19 needing oxygen or ventilator,” said Dr Arvinder Soin, national lead, Indian multi-centre trial on Tocilizumab, and chairman, Medanta Liver Institute, Medanta, Gurugram. “We have already recruited 138 of 180 patients for the Tocilizumab trial, which is being done across 14 hospitals in 10 cities. The majority have moderate disease, with some severe cases. The trial is going fine,” said Dr Soin. The trial will be conducted in several hospitals in Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region), Haryana, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Monoclonal antibodies have dramatically improved cancer survival rates and are being evaluated for their potential to prevent and treat infectious diseases including Ebola, and HIV, but they are among the most expensive pharmaceutical products in the world and inaccessible to most of the world’s population. “Monoclonal antibodies are used for immunotherapy and antibody drug conjugates to treat several cancers, including melanomas, cancers of the head and neck, urinary bladder, stomach, oesophagus, and stomach, among others. But they are very expensive, with each injection – usually given once every three weeks – priced at around ₹3 lakh. They are not available in the public sector in India,” said Dr Pramod Kumar Julka, senior director, Max Institute of Cancer Care, and former professor and dean, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who introduced monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer at AIIMS in 2015.The report proposes four parallel actions to ensure widespread access in LMICs: Increase advocacy and awareness of the life-saving potential of monoclonal antibodies to make them more widely accessible, develop expanded policy and regulatory pathways to increase availability, Invest in and apply new technologies to lower development costs, and establish alternative business models to enable innovative market approaches to promote global access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-urge-use-of-monoclonal-antibodies/story-1QHChVRPjRHjzHoEPf2DYI.html
14-08-2020||India||Study confirms BCG vaccine efficacy||Yet another study has established that BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine increases the ability of the immune system to fight off Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According the preprint study available on medRxiv, an open access server for health sciences, some staff members of the Emirates International Hospital in United Arab Emirates was administered a booster BCG vaccine at the beginning of March. By the end of June, the hospital staff was tested for Covid-19 using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.The participants were divided into two groups: booster vaccinated, and unvaccinated members.“…Results: 71 subjects received the booster vaccination. This group had zero cases of positive Covid -19 infection. 209 subjects did not receive the vaccination, with 18 positive PCR confirmed Covid -19 cases. The infection rate in the unvaccinated group was 8.6% versus zero in the booster vaccinated group…,” says the research paper that has not yet been peer reviewed.“Our findings demonstrated the potential effectiveness of the booster BCG vaccine, specifically the booster in preventing Covid-19 infections in an elevated-risk healthcare population,”the paper adds. This is at least the fifth study to show the possible benefits of the BCG vaccine, which has been administred to most Indian children for decades. BCG protects against childhood tuberculosis (TB) in countries such as India, where it is administered to newborn babies as part of the immunisation programme. India’s low Covid-19 case load has been partly attributed to BCG vaccination that is a part of the National immunisation programme for about 50 years.India is conducting its own study on the vaccine’s efficacy. “One of the reasons for low mortality due to Covid-19 in India is said to be the BCG vaccine which is being given at birth to all children since 1962-63. ICMR study is to establish that and is being conducted among elderly population. AIIMS, Delhi, is one of the trial sites. The work has started and ethics committee clearance is also in place. The vaccine will be given on OPD basis especially in people from hotspot areas,” said Dr AB Dey, head, geriatrics department, AIIMS, Delhi.The Indian Council of Medical Research- National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (ICMR- NIRT) has initiated a multi-centric study to see if BCG can reduce the severity of Covid-19 among individuals aged 60 years and above residing in hotspots.About 1000 healthy volunteers above 60-years of age are being recruited in six states with high Covid-19 disease burden, and will be followed up for six months.“The process has begun at NIRT, which is identified the nodal institute to spearhead the study. It is too early to comment on the results, but we will share information when there is an update,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR. The states where the study has been planned are Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi.The researchers of the medRxiv study, however, do acknowledge there were certain limitations that could somewhat impact the results. “…such as lack of clear understanding and documentation of any confounding factors between the two groups that could have influenced the transmission and infection rate, sample size, and discrepancy between the number of subjects in the two groups. Staff comorbidity as well as any over the counter supplements that the staff could have taken in attempts to prevent Covid-19 infection was not documented. Despite the limitations of this study, we feel that our findings of 8.6% versus zero percent infection rate is significant enough to suggest the promising effectiveness of an up-to-date BCG booster vaccine in prevention of Covid19 infection,” they said in the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-confirms-bcg-vaccine-efficacy/story-zj9Si5vLpKZAJOwDN6ZJJI.html
14-08-2020||India||Govt plans to go ahead with international film festival in November||The government is planning to hold the 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI) in Goa as per the original schedule, from November 20 to 28, despite the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The IFFI is a major event that sees the participation of thousands of cinema lovers from all around the world in film screenings, discussions and numerous other events.However, with social distancing being the norm, the organisers face a challenge to ensure that the festival remains vibrant and safe at the same time. “Entries have been called for the festival, which is scheduled to be held from November 20 to 28. Social distancing protocols will be in place this year. Covid-19 will definitely be factored in while organising the festival,” a person aware of the developments said.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant told media persons on Wednesday that the IFFI 2020 would be held in the state in the last week of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-go-ahead-with-international-film-festival-in-november/story-dwZMvpR5mrUrddKPyA9WYK.html
14-08-2020||India||No improvement in former President’s health: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition remained unchanged, the Army (R&R) Hospital, where Mukherjee is undergoing treatment since Monday, announced on Thursday.“He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in its morning bulletin.Mukherjee had to undergo a critical operation to remove a clot in his brain, suffered due to a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. Rumours about his health condition were doing the rounds on social media, but Mukherjee’s family took to Twitter to refute it.“My Father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive & haemodynamically stable! Speculations & fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that Media in India has become a factory of Fake News,” Mukherjee’s elder son and former Congress MP Abhijit tweeted.Mukherjee’s daughter and Congress leader, Sharmishta, also said that the rumours were false. “Rumours about my father is false. Request, esp’ly to media, NOT to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-improvement-in-former-president-s-health-hospital/story-HNzjbOAt03CqINUqHX0McK.html
14-08-2020||India||Daily Covid-19 tests inch closer to targeted 1 million mark||India tested in excess of 800,000 samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, inching closer to its target of conducting a million tests a day even as infections of the viral disease have continued to mount steadily.In total, India has performed 26.8 million tests since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with one lab at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology in Pune. As of Thursday, testing is being done in 1,433 labs across the country — 947 in the public sector and 486 private ones.Experts say that to control the outbreak, aggressive testing is crucial. In this case, the number of Covid-19 cases diagnosed in the country is likely to see an increase before it starts seeing a dip, indicating that the spread is slowing. Until Thursday, India recorded 2,459,275 cases and 48,140 deaths. India has conducted 20,140 tests per million residents — much lower than other countries that have comparable caseloads. In comparison, the United States and Brazil, the only two nations with more cases than India, have conducted 204,130 and 62,197 tests for every million residents.The country’s target of conducting a million tests a day would mean that it would be conducting 750 tests per million per day — significantly higher than the World Health Organization (WHO)’s recommendation of 140 tests per million residents a day. To be sure, India is still testing much above the WHO advisory – in the last week, the country has tested an average of 503 people per million every day.For the week ending August 12, India’s daily tests have increased by 2.8% every day on average. This number was the same the week before that. If this rate of increase in daily testing remains constant, then the country may touch the 1 million-daily-test mark in 12 days, according to HT’s projections.The four highest single-day tests conducted across the country have all been reported in the past five days — 830,391 daily tests on August 12; 733,449 on August 11; 719,364 on August 8 and 698,290 on August 9 – highlighting the recent increase. On August 9 (Sunday) 477,023 samples were tested. To be sure, Sundays are historically days when daily testing drops as many labs function with low staff and few people step out. “India’s ‘test, track and treat’ strategy has helped us bring down the fatality rate from its peak of 3.36% on June 17 to 1.96% within two months... We have been ahead of all our testing targets. The target of 100,000 tests was May 31; we crossed it on May 10. In July-end, I said in an interview that the target was to reach a million tests in 12 weeks, we are geared to reach it in two to three weeks,” Union health minister Harash Vardhan said on Thursday. A July 7 column in this newspaper suggested a target of a million tests a day. “We are trying our best to meet the target (by August-end),” said ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava.The recent increase in testing has also brought down the weekly average positivity rate — the fraction of tests that come back positive — in the country from 12.5% (the highest recorded so far) on July 25 to 9.4% on Thursday. Overall, 8.9% of all tests in the country have come back positive. According to WHO recommendations, the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least 14 days before it can be assumed that an outbreak is under control and lockdowns can be relaxed.Much of the recent increase in testing can be attributed to the growing role of antigen tests in the states. Antigen, or rapid, tests usually provide results within hours and are relatively cheap. These kits are designed to detect antigens (substances in our bodies that stimulate an immune response) and can be performed in mobile stations and don’t necessarily need labs. The downside is that they have a far higher chance of returning false negatives (showing infected people as uninfected), and thus can let cases slide under the radar.The real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, on the other hand, is the gold-standard for Covid-19 testing and is the most definitive test available. It is used for the detection of nucleic acid from Sars-CoV-2 and is based on PCR, a process that duplicates and amplifies genetic fragments of the virus, so that it becomes easily detectable. The downside is that the process, from samples collection to results, for these can generally take 24-48 hours and needs dedicated machines.During the weekly Covid-19 press briefing on August 5, Union health ministry officials had said that antigen tests accounted for at least a quarter of all tests conducted in the country until then. ICMR has also said the proportion of antigen tests is increasing. “When we started, antigen tests comprised only 5-6% of the total tests, but this proportion is consistently rising. Today, total antigen tests are nearly between 25-30% tests of the total number of Covid-19 tests done so far,” Dr Bhargava said on August 5.Only four states — Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka and West Bengal — give a breakup of testing numbers based on antigen and RT-PCR/other nucleic tests. Among them, of the 1,034,537 samples tested in the last week, a majority (50.3%) have been antigen tests.HT has repeatedly pointed out that antigen tests are best used when time is a constraint and results are needed quickly -- in a containment zone or a hot spot, for instance. In terms of states, the wide disparity in testing rates remains as higher-than-average testing states have continued to fuel the nationwide boost to testing numbers in the past weeks. Among the 20 major states, Assam has conducted the highest number of tests in the country for the week ending on August 12 — 10,649 tests per million. Andhra Pradesh features on the second spot with 7,930 tests per million in the last week, followed by Delhi, with 7,210 tests per million. To be sure, these states all have a testing rate that is higher than the national average.At the lowest end of tests in the last week, are Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh with 1,360, 1,384 and 1,702 tests per million. And much like the top, these states have overall lower-than-national-average testing rates. Bihar, the state with the lowest overall testing rate, appears to have improved its testing in the last week – the state tested 4,467 samples per million in the last week against the national average of 3,523.“For a small state like Assam we have been crossing several milestones in testing. On July 30, we conducted 50,000 tests on a day and on August 4 we did more than 75,000 tests. On August 12, we had kept our target as 100,000 tests, but when we tallied the figures at the end of the day, we found we conducted more than 1.43 lakh tests. We were quite surprised,” said Assam’s principal secretary (health) Samir Kumar Sinha. “This has required lot of mobilisation, lot of people on the ground, large number of test kits. Nearly 90% of the tests that we are doing these days are rapid antigen tests and the rest RT-PCR,” Sinha said.Andhra Pradesh commissioner of health Katamaneni Bhaskar said only around 40% of the tests being done are rapid antigen tests. Out of 55,692 tests done on Thursday, only 26,000 tests were antigen tests. “We have been doing antigen tests only as per ICMR guidelines. And they are also reliable. If a person tests positive in antigen tests, he is positive for Covid-19,” Bhaskar said.Officials in Bihar said they have been working on increasing their testing rate. “We are increasing our testing every day. During the last 24 hours, 104,452 people were tested and so far 137,742 tests have been conducted in the state,” the state’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit said.Experts, however, said that other than ramping up the number of tests, the pricing needs to be controlled as well. “There is a need to increase testing for Covid-19 across the country as our testing per million still continues to be low. For this, we need not only trained staff but the cost of the testing has to be brought down further. An RT-PCR test costs about ₹2,400, it needs to be brought down to about ₹1,000. It can be done through bulk procurement by one agency for the entire country and scaling up manufacturing,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-tests-inch-closer-to-targeted-1-million-mark/story-n5pX5z9QclRLKGABl8cClN.html
14-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The coronavirus disease, Covid-19, has ravaged the world. As of this writing, there have been 20.6 million cases of the disease registered and three quarters of a million people have died from it. Almost every one of the 195 countries in the world has seen cases.The US, the world’s largest economy and also its most powerful country, has been laid low by the disease, with around 5.2 million cases and around 167,000 deaths. India has thus far seen 2.4 million cases and around 47,000 deaths.The disease has forced countries to lock down, transport networks to collapse, and people to work or study from the relative safety of their homes. Economies have been roiled — the global economy is expected to contract by around 5% this year according to IMF. India, too, is expected to see its economy contract by at least that much (although most experts believe that the contraction could be sharper here).The way we live and the way we work (and the way we party and play, if anyone is in the mood for those) has changed. Yet, life and work, have gone on — and for that, we must thank the internet. Purists may count the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome epidemic of 2002-2003 as the first epidemic of the Information Age. There were just around 700 million internet users back then, and broadband was still a novelty (relatively), and social media, e-books (in any significant way; the Kindle was launched only in 2007) and OTT platforms were yet to make an appearance. And so, this writer would like to think that Covid-19 is the first pandemic of the Information Age — and thank God for that (the internet, not the pandemic).Tomorrow (Saturday, August 15) marks the 25th anniversary of the then state-owned Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd’s (VSNL) launch of internet services (for the public) , offering the tearaway speed of 9.6 kbps for ~15,000 (for 250 hours of internet access a year). All such access was through a dial-up modem, the sound of which is embossed on my auditory nerves to an extent that no number of WhatsApp alerts can erase — beeps, bops, bloops, and screeches as one waited to go down the rabbit hole.The internet (even this newsroom only recently stopped capitalising it) has made Covid-19 bearable. It has allowed people to work remotely. It has allowed students to learn remotely. It has allowed consumers to shop remotely (something they were already doing, though these past few months have probably helped the whole internet economy leapfrog years into the future). Meanwhile, the popularity of social media had already familiarised us with virtual networks of family, friends, even strangers with shared interests. Even those in enforced quarantine and self-isolation have been able to inhabit the same virtual universe as their connections.The internet has also made it easier to manage the pandemic. At a very basic level, the latest research on Covid-19, and the most recent discovery on therapies, is immediately available to health care workers around the world. At a slightly more involved level, the internet has made telemedicine a reality. And, at the most controversial level, contact tracing apps have the ability to show who is safe and who isn’t.The fact that the internet has established its centrality in just about every aspect of life during the pandemic, and the fact that the internet economy has jumped ahead in time to where it may have been in 2030, however, poses two very significant challenges that are worth repeating on the 25th anniversary of the internet in India.The first is the digital divide, which, despite its cliche-ridden usage, is a reality, and has been sharply felt over the past few months, increasing the distance between the (digital) haves and the have-nots. The second is the need for an overarching privacy and data protection law that allows people to benefit from the good the internet can do (and it can do a lot of that), without having themselves or their data exploited.Onward and upward!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bFMczkeTDWBJAu4ZamqSUI.html
14-08-2020||India||SC to pronounce its verdict in Prashant Bhushan contempt case today||The Supreme Court will pronounce on Friday its judgment in the contempt of court case initiated suo motu (on its own) against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets against the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra and also comprising justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari will deliver its verdict at 11 am.Bhushan posted two tweets, one on the Supreme Court on June 27 and the second on CJI Bobde on June 29. He was served notice by the SC on July 22.The first tweet, reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.” The second tweet said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan, in his affidavit, regretted saying Bobde was not wearing a helmet. He added he failed to notice the bike was stationary and that the CJI was not riding but merely sitting on it. The court had reserved its verdict in the matter on August 5.Another suo motu contempt petition is also pending before the same three-judge bench against Bhushan for calling past CJIs corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine. Bhushan had offered an explanation but the Supreme Court refused to accept the same and ruled, on August 10, that it will hear the matter in detail. That case is now listed for hearing on August 17.Meanwhile, a petition filed before the apex court by Bhushan along with former Union minister Arun Shourie and journalist N Ram challenging the law criminalising contempt of court was withdrawn by them on Thursday.Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, who represented the petitioners, sought the permission of the court to withdraw the petition citing pendency of similar cases against Prashant Bhushan before the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-pronounce-its-verdict-in-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case-today/story-PJRQRUxZNo9hOicoEt9j7M.html
14-08-2020||India||5 NIA officers get home min’s medal for excellence||Five officers of National Investigation Agency (NIA) including the officer who investigated the ISIS conspiracy in India have been awarded “Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation” this year, the agency said on Thursday. The five officers are A P Shoukkathali (additional SP, NIA, Kochi), Vikram Mukundrao Khalate (SP, Mumbai), Dhan Ram Singh (additional SP, Guwahati), C Radhakrishna Pillai (deputy SP, Kochi) and Anil Kumar (deputy SP in New Delhi).NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said Shoukkathali probed ‘Omar Al Hindi-Kanakamala ISIS Module’ case and arrested six for their involvemnent in the conspiracy to carry out terrorist attacks on behalf of ISIS/Daish in south India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-nia-officers-get-home-min-s-medal-for-excellence/story-LNAKNxzGdNrc1UiIqo8J0J.html
14-08-2020||India||Modi set to become longest serving non-Congress PM||Narendra Modi who took oath as prime minister for his second term on May 2019 is set to become the longest serving non-Congress leader to occupy the office. With 2,272 continuous days in office as of Friday, Modi will match the record held by the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee who served in office for 2,272 days across three separate terms. On Saturday, he will surpass it. In May 2014, Modi was first elected PM when he led the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a landslide victory in the Lok Sabha elections winning 282 seats in the Lower House. Five years later, he returned to power with an unprecedented 303 MPs. Vajpayee who was first elected PM in 1996, was in office between May 16 and June 1, a tenure that lasted 13 days. His second stint came in 1998, when he was PM for 13 months between March 1998 and April 1999. This was followed by a five-year term between 1999 and 2004. While Vajpayee resigned on May 27, 1996, after his 13-day stint, and after delivering one of the best speeches Parliament has ever heard, his successor Deve Gowda was sworn in only on June 1. Technically, Vajpayee was the caretaker PM for those days, a fact some calculations of his tenure overlook.  Other than Vajpayee and Modi, PMs with long tenure include India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who assumed office on August 15, 1947 stayed in the seat till May 27, 1964, a total of 6,130 days or almost 17 years. His daughter Indira Gandhi who first assumed office on January 24, 1966 continued till March 24, 1977; she returned as PM on January 14, 1980 and continued till her assassination on October 31, 1984. She was in office for 5,829 days. Dr Manmohan Singh was PM for 10 years between May 22, 2004 and May 26, 2014, a total of 3,656 days. Then come Modi and Vajpayee. On Modi’s term, BJP national vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said his leadership has left an indelible mark on polity as well as governance. “Some PMs left a mark on polity while others on governance. He has made a mark on both.” Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, “Prime Minister Modi will be remembered for setting scary, disappointing and nation-damaging records.” “He is the first Prime Minister to give the unwarranted gift of highest unemployment, giving clean chit to land grabber China apart from being the architect of biggest and scariest economic disaster existent in India,” Shergill added. Abhay Deshpande, a political commentator, said, “He’s taken the BJP from a party with a fractured mandate to a party with a clear mandate. It is obvious he will be in a position to create a record for being the longest serving non-Congress PM.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-set-to-become-longest-serving-non-congress-pm/story-TPlRxQekmFp6uLzMeChzrK.html
14-08-2020||India||Connectivity gets better but parts of India still logged out||When India celebrates its 74th independence day this Saturday, it will also mark 25 years since the internet was first made available for public use in the country. The internet was first used in India in 1986, but was available to a limited educational and research community. It was thrown open to public use for the first time on India’s 49th independence day in 1995. No doubt the internet is now at the core of the communication network – there are more than 700 million internet subscribers in India – but there is still a significant population not connected to the internet.The number of internet users in India has grown significantly in recent years, according to data compiled by the World Bank. It was almost seven years after the internet was first thrown open to the public that more than 1% of India’s population used the internet. It took another nine years for this figure to cross 10%. But then, in just six years, the share of the population using the internet grew by 24 percentage points – from 10% in 2011 to 34% in 2017. Globally, 50% people used the internet in 2017. The figure is much higher in developed countries -- 87% in the United States, 82% in France, 91% in Canada and 87% in Australia. In China, it is relatively low at 54%.Another set of figures from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India shows that the internet has penetrated even deeper into the society after 2017. There were about 34 internet subscribers per 100 people in India in 2017, which grew by 20 percentage points in just two years. By the end of 2019, there were about 54 internet subscribers per 100 people. To be sure, this does not necessarily mean that 54% of Indians use the internet, because one person can be using more than one internet connection. In absolute terms, there were 719 million internet subscribers in India by the end of 2019. Mobile telecom networks have played an important role in increasing internet access in India. 3G internet service was first launched in 2008 and 4G in 2012. Between 2013 and 2019, there was a 68% increase in the number of wireless internet users (from 220 million to 696 million) compared to an 18% increase in the number of wired internet users (from 18 million to 22 million). The share of mobile internet users in total internet users grew from 92% to nearly 97% in this period.Even as the number of internet users has been growing rapidly, there is still a large population with no access to the internet – particularly in rural areas, poorer states and in poorer households.The Delhi telecom circle (which includes parts of the national capital territory outside Delhi as well) had 169 internet subscribers per 100 people by the end of 2019, according to TRAI data. This is the highest among 22 telecom circles in India. Again, the number being higher than 100 here is because of people using more than one internet connection. Himachal Pradesh and Punjab service areas are at the second and third position in terms of the number of internet subscribers per 100 people. But this figure is as low as 32 in Bihar (including Jharkhand). There are less than 50 internet subscribers per 100 people in at least six telecom circles.These headline figures hide the significant rural-urban gap in internet penetration. Nationally, there are 106 internet subscribers per 100 people in urban areas compared to just 30 in rural areas. This gap is seen across telecom circles. In urban areas, there are more than 100 internet subscribers per 100 people in 12 telecom circles. This figure is more than 80 in six others. But in rural areas, this figure is less than 60 in all circles except the rural parts of Delhi. To be sure, this figure is not available for three telecoms circles – Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh (West) and West Bengal (including Sikkim). Internet usage also varies significantly with class and gender. According to the 2017-18 National Statistical Office survey on consumption of education services in India, nearly 24% households in the country had access to the internet. This figure increased with increasing monthly per capita expenditure of households. In rural areas, it was nearly 7% in the poorest 20% households compared to 27% in the richest 20% households. In urban areas, it was 20% in the poorest households and 62% in the richest. (See chart 3)Another survey finding shows that 40% people in the age group of 15 to 29 years were able to use the internet, but this figure was 48% among men and 32% among women, a gap of 16 percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/connectivity-gets-better-but-parts-of-india-still-logged-out/story-VSqXriMdGUudWb7eBcWzjN.html
14-08-2020||India||Congress leader urges Centre to restore ‘civility’ in TV debates||A day after Congress spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi died of a heart attack after participating in a TV debate, his party colleague Jaiveer Shergill on Thursday wrote to the information and broadcasting ministry, seeking steps to restore “civility” in television debates and an advisory to news channels to observe a code of conduct. In a letter to information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, Shergill said it was imperative to restore civility through a code of conduct in order to “tame the slanderous beast” that television debates had become. “Constant interruptions coupled with toxic and defamatory smears impact the mental and physical well-being of all individuals on the panel.”Shergill also said issuing an advisory to the media houses to follow News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) guidelines to ensure more civility is a must and will serve as an appropriate tribute to Tyagi. Tagging his letter, Shergill tweeted, “My letter to I&B Minister Shri Prakash Javdekar Ji requesting him to issue an advisory to media to enforce a code of conduct to curb slanderous, sensationalist and toxic TV debates.” Tyagi’s death has triggered a debate within the Congress over its participation in such panel discussions on television channels. A Congress leader said the party had not yet taken a decision, but there were voices against the move. “It is high time TV channel owners , editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates into a meaningless , poisonous and potentially fatal activity. At times words can have the same impact as bullets,” tweeted senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-urges-centre-to-restore-civility-in-tv-debates/story-bNQolkLZiGz718Mez93QTK.html
14-08-2020||India||J-K police in Rajouri to collect DNA samples of relatives of 3 ‘militants’ killed in encounter||A Jammu and Kashmir police team from Shopian reached Rajouri on Thursday to collect DNA samples of three families to match them with those of three young men allegedly killed in a fake encounter and buried in Baramulla, a top official said.“Today a police team from Shopian reached Rajouri. It will take DNA samples of the families before returning. Thereafter, an analysis will be done and then something may emerge. The Shopian police team has just reached and the formalities are being completed by them,” Rajouri district commissioner Nazir Sheikh said,“There is no decision to send these families on August 16 to Baramulla and there is no such communication with us as of now but families did approach us,” he said.The DC said there is no authentication that the three men were killed in a fake encounter by security forces.“Matching the DNA with three bodies may take place at a later stage but only missing persons’ complaint has been lodged with us and we are working on the basis of it. We can’t say anything else on it because there is no authentication as of now”. The three men have been missing since July 17.Lal Hussain, uncle of Imtiyaz Ahmad, one of the three missing men said, “The families are in a state of shock. The pictures that went viral on social sites are of my nephew Imtiyaz Ahmad and two other relatives Ibrar Ahmad and Ibrar Ahmad Khan. He claimed that the administration had promised to send the families to Baramulla on August 16 where the bodies of the “terrorists” have been buried. “In 2018 my nephew Imtiyaz Ahmad had gone to Shopian to work in an apple orchard. In 2019 he cleared his 12th class examination and wanted to pursue his studies but his father is just too poor. This year he again went to Shopian on July 2 and was joined by the other two on July 17 to work in apple orchards but they never returned,” he said. Ibrar Ahmad, 26, son of Mohammad Yousuf of Tarkassi had worked in Kuwait for four years as labourer on a working visa. He was the father of a 15-month-old boy.. “They were simple nomads, who wanted to support their families. They never indulged in any terror activities,” Hussain asserted. The families of three labourers had lodged a missing report with Rajouri police on August 9. The three young men aged 21, 26 and 18 years had left Rajouri and reached Shopian via Mughal Road on July 2 and July 17 to work as labourers but since then remain missing. Lal Hussain had last spoken to his nephew Imtiyaz on July 17 at 7.30 PM. Defence spokesperson of 15 Corps and 14 Corps, Colonel Rajesh Kalia on August 10 had said, “We have noted social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on July 18. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols. Army is investigating the matter”. On Tuesday National Conference leaders headed by provincial president Devender Singh Rana urged the administration to mobilise the police for tracing the missing men earnestly and let their families know about their welfare and whereabouts. NC also constituted a two member team of the party functionaries, comprising advocates Choudhry Liaqat and Muzaffar Ahmed Khan, to explore all the legal options and if needed file a habeas corpus petition in the High Court about the three men . CPI (M) leader MY Tarigami and Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari have also demanded an order by the Lt Governor for a time-bound judicial probe. “The incident of three labourers from Rajouri going missing from Shopian district from July 17 is a serious issue and needs a time-bound judicial probe,” said Tarigami. According to media reports the trio went missing just a day before the security forces claimed it killed three unidentified militants in Shopian. “There are unverified reports that the missing labourers have been killed in a fake encounter in Shopian on July 18. This is shocking and must be probed by a sitting High Court judge in a time-bound manner,” he added. “In the past also unfortunate incidents of civilians being killed in fake encounters for rewards and promotions have been reported in Kashmir. The 2010 unrest was the creation of the Machil fake encounter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-in-rajouri-to-collect-dna-samples-of-relatives-of-3-militants-killed-in-encounter/story-7vxkJYQRHjay1mspKETHeK.html
14-08-2020||India||Dial-up dreams to Wi-Fi wonderland||On August 15, 1995, Indians woke up to the tariff plan of a new sort of communication service they could purchase: dial-up internet. At Rs 15,000 a year, it was not quite something the average Indian could afford then. The subscription would run out if someone connected for more than 250 hours over the year. The speed, breathtaking by the standards then, was 9.6 kilobytes per second.Today, internet connectivity is at least 4,000 times as fast, and costs a fraction of what it did 25 years ago. It had in 1995 all of 23,500 websites (compared to 1.8 billion now, according to Internet Live States). The most novel use at the time was sending and receiving e-mails. Today, it’s the backbone on which tomorrow’s self-driving cars, autonomous robots and immersive virtual reality are being built. In India, it is now where conversations in the smallest of towns take place.But, like most agents of epochal change, India’s internet journey began with slight trepidation, heaps of excitement, and the collective efforts of a small but a driven group of people.“In the years before 1995, there were a few institutions or groups that were experimenting with access to internet. One was the academic network, called ERNET and the other was the Internet Users Club of India which was led by none other than Shammi Kapoor,” said Brijendra Kumar Syngal, the then managing director of Videsh Sanchal Nigam Limited (VSNL) and the man largely credited with bringing commercial data connectivity to the country.VSNL’s service, called the Gateway Internet Access Service (GIAS), was available first in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. The company held a virtual monopoly till 1998 when Satyam Infoway began internet service operations. “The launch was the result of a great camaraderie between all those people, the enthusiasts, the scientists – no one at any point tried to pull anyone down,” added Syngal. To understand what the launch of dial-up connections meant, it is important to look at the state of the internet in India prior to that. Surfing the World Wide Web, at the time a collection of mostly text-based web pages, and email were possibly the only applications that most people used the internet for. A large proportion of these were scientists, researchers and professors in seven of the country’s top colleges who became part of ERNET (Education and Research Network) that began in 1986, sharing insights about their respective fields. But this was still time when telecommunications in India was too rudimentary to sustain data links over phone lines. “With telecom lines being very unreliable IIT Kanpur started an ‘F-Mail’ where every week all e-mails would be copied onto a floppy and couriered to NCST Bombay that would send out the mails and copy back the incoming mails and courier the floppy back to IIT Kanpur,” wrote professors S Sadagopan, the director of IIIT-Bangalore, and N Mohanram, the former Director General of ERNET India, in an op-ed piece for telecommunications website Voice&Data.If this was the beginning of the cocoon phase for India’s internet story, the metamorphosis to when it finally took wings happened roughly around 1995 and 1996. While VSNL’s service was active, it suffered from teething troubles. “I will admit, we made mistakes in the beginning. We did not anticipate demand and the infrastructure was extremely inadequate,” said Syngal, adding: “if you ask me, everything that could go wrong went wrong”. The VSNL team was criticised by the media as well as the administration, as people kept reporting dropped connections. At the same time, however, the fledgling software industry and the enthusiasts clubs, particularly led by the techno evangelism of Bollywood star Shammi Kapoor succeeded to sell the vision of an internet boom to the labyrinthine bureaucracy. “At one point, we tried to make what was the closest to a video call between the then telecom minister and his family members in Bihar. It was not like today’s video calls, it was more of a one-time video message, sent purely to demonstrate the potential of the technology,” said Harish Mehta, one of the founders of Information Technology collective NASSCOM and among the people who was part of the early internet advocacy groups.Among these people was Dewang Mehta, who went on to become one of the most prominent faces of the Indian software lobby group. “Dewang came up with the slogan -- roti, kapda, makaan aur bandwidth -- and a minister we met at the time had no idea what bandwidth was. This is how new it was to explain connectivity to the powers in Delhi even though the world was becoming aware,” said Mehta, adding that the slogan was one of the starting points from where the close coordination with the government began. Dewang Mehta died in 2001 at the age of 38, but left a significant legacy in India’s IT industry: He was named by Computerworld Magazine as Software Evangelist of the Year three years in a row. In late 2000, the Geneva-based World Economic Forum selected him as one of the 100 “Global Leaders of Tomorrow”.Harish Mehta, at present the executive chairman of Onward Technologies Ltd, was also among people who started the Bombay Computer Club, which would grow into the Internet Users Club of India and draft Kapoor as the one of its star advocates. “In services sector, we use a concept of selling something that is not visible – it’s a solution. In marketing, we would bank on something called evidence-based marketing where we would cite our past record. We asked Shammi ji to use the same model to sell the internet vision in India, because it was still not a concept anyone knew,” he said. And after all, Kapoor was, as a wag pointed out at the time, the original Yahoo. “Shammi ji was a great orator. We took him to Bombay, Delhi, Bangalore, everywhere. We took him to Syngal’s office, the ministry and we talked about why internet was necessary,” he said, adding that one particular event in 1996 at NASSCOM’s Nehru Centre was a key turning point. On that day, when Kapoor told his story about the internet, hundreds of people turned up. “All that excitement culminated into nudging the government to allow more private companies to offer internet services,” Mehta added.This phase sowed the momentum for an inflexion point that was marked by a “dramatic drop in costs”.“After 1997, with proper internet infrastructure now erected across India, the cost of telecommunication services plummeted. We used to budget somewhere around 4-5% of our topline as our communication spend. It became close to 0 all of a sudden,” Mehta said. The infrastructure referred to by Mehta was the setting up of nodes and servers across multiple locations – which increased capacity. “But more than the gains from lower costs, it was the increase in productivity that being online brought to every company,” he said.By 1998, cyber cafes began mushrooming across India-- at first in the metro cities, before they became profuse in tier II cities by the turn of the millennium. Till late 2004, internet bandwidth grew steadily as ISDN networks complemented home dial-up connections, which became cheaper by the way. In 2004, the government announced the Broadband Policy, defining 256kbps download speed and an always-on feature as crucial conditions for a service to be classified as broadband. This set off a home broadband revolution, which powered an over 1,300% rise in internet subscribers in the country between 2005 and 2015. Today, most people in India access the internet on their mobile phones. “The communications revolutions, now when I look back at this two decade journey, was integral to the India Inc story. It helped us arrive in Silicon Valley, take our products global,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dial-up-dreams-to-wi-fi-wonderland/story-rFoaWmEbLJagTgH6VqpXnN.html
14-08-2020||India||Digital archives keep track of lost websites, lapsed domain names from the early years||What do you remember of the first time you used the internet? The screee-beep of the modem connecting? The joy of seeing little computer icons linking to each other in your taskbar, indicating that your dial-up was working? Or paying the cyber café guy Rs 10 to book your train ticket?When India first got online 25 years ago, it was slow going. Pages took ages to load (with the hourglass icon turning endlessly). But once we got comfortable, we were hooked. You filled your Muzik folder with MP3 files, saw the MSN-Yahoo rivalry unfold like a repeat of the ’80s cola wars, did a web search through Ask Jeeves. And it was all free, and ad-free.Users got their first taste of power in 1994, with public-journal formats that allowed anyone to post their thoughts for the world. We didn’t even call them blogs until 1999, but by 2004, Blog was the Oxford English Dictionary’s Word of the Year.The internet’s first-ever website, Info.cern.ch, has been saved for posterity by the guys who built the internet. But where do you go to see the rest of it? When domain names lapse, or companies collapse, the websites can vanish without a trace. You can’t pull an old one from the shelf. That’s probably why The Internet Archive is such a gem.HIT REWIND Born 24 years ago — just a year after India connected to the Internet — The Internet Archive is an American non-profit organisation that digitises films, books, letters, images, audio, video and software programmes. Its key project, The Wayback Machine trawls the web, copying pages, to build a library of the internet itself. The Machine lets you see what a page looked like when it was archived, even if the site has changed or been taken down. More than 458 billion pages have been saved so far. It’s not nearly enough. The internet has more than 60 trillion web pages. And with social media, there’s more to archive than ever. Meanwhile, not everyone’s thrilled about record-keeping. Because the Wayback Machine collects site caches without asking, it’s raised questions about copyright infringement and privacy. In 2017, Internet Archive was among 2,600 sites banned by the Indian government as part of the fight against digital piracy. And earlier in the coronavirus disease lockdown, publishers sued the non-profit for making its digitised library available globally. PIECES OF THE PAST Symbolics.com, the first domain name ever registered on the internet, was already 10 years old when India logged on in 1995. It used to be a computer programming business. But it is now the Big Internet Museum. Meanwhile, ArchiveTeam.org has been keeping track of sites and companies about to go bust and archiving their online material, since 2009. They describe themselves as “a loose collective of rogue archivists, programmers, writers and loudmouths dedicated to saving our digital heritage”, and also offer advice on how to archive your own data. Some governments are taking big steps too. In Sweden, every web page that ends in .se has been saved by the National Library’s Web Archive division. The British Library has archived 6 billion pages. India doesn’t have such an archive, except for election-related data. But the Wayback Machine has been paying attention to India almost from the start. There are more than 34,000 captures for just the Hindustan Times site, for instance, some dating back to 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-archives-keep-track-of-lost-websites-lapsed-domain-names-from-the-early-years/story-GS11TJHLJmNKYjsuQ6YLzO.html
14-08-2020||India||4 states write to EC for deferring by-elections amid Covid concerns||Four states -- Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat -- have written to the election commission to defer the upcoming by-elections to the state assembly, citing rising Covid-19 cases and heavy rains, according to officials familiar with the matter.Elections to 56 assembly constituencies and one parliamentary constituency, including the eight which were deferred last month, are scheduled to be held from September. So far, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has only held elections to some Rajya Sabha seats, and the assembly council of states, where voting is open to specialised electoral colleges rather than the general public.According to the ECI officials cited above, the chief secretaries of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, and the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Kerala, have written to the commission apprising it of the situation on the ground. The by-polls are to be conducted across eight states, Tamil Nadu, Assam, UP, MP, Kerala, Gujarat, Haryana and Nagaland. A break-up of the same is not available.The Kerala CEO has cited “heavy rains and floods” as the primary reasons for deferring the polls. Before writing the letter, he sought feedback from district magistrates in the state, said an EC official, referring to the letter. “Tthe people involved in the relief operations are the same who are likely to be involved in conducting the elections,” said an EC official who asked not to be named. “The deployment of election machinery is a potential hurdle.” Kerala is getting heavy rains, leading to flooding, and the death toll in the Idukki landslide hit 55 on August 13. The ECI official said that the Gujarat chief secretary has attached a detailed report from reputed health associations to apprise the commission of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. He added that the commission is monitoring the situation closely and will take all reports into account before taking a final call. “The situation is dynamic and changing everyday. We will take a call on when to hold the bypolls at an appropriate time.” According to the Health ministry, Gujarat had 57,421 cases as of August 13, while Madhya Pradesh had 31,239 cases and Haryana, 36,694. The situation across the country is worsening, with over 60,000 cases reported on Thursday. A second ECI official, however, said that the bypolls would have no bearing on the assembly election scheduled to be held in Bihar later this year. “Bypolls can be deferred, as in most cases there are only a few vacancies,” said the second official. “But the Bihar elections are on schedule at present. If we do not conduct the Bihar elections, president’s rule will have to be imposed in the state.” Polling in the state is due in November.The Commission, on July 24, deferred bypolls to eight states till September 7 though the mandatory six-month period to conduct these elections has lapsed. Under the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the commission is supposed to hold by-elections within six months of a seat getting vacated, either due to resignation or the death of a legislator. The six-month period has not yet lapsed for the other 48 other assembly seats and one parliamentary seat. According to former chief election commissioner Vikram Sampath, the EC will evaluate the situation and take a call. “The rule is that the bypolls have to be held within six months,” said Sampath. “But there is a provision to postpone these polls. The EC holds a consultation with the Law Ministry and can defer them.” Sampath added that there is no rule on how long these polls can be deferred, or what reasons can be cited to delay the polls.“It is a judgement-based call,” said Sampath. “The commission will have to monitor the severity of the pandemic, and situation on the ground, and decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-write-to-ec-for-deferring-by-elections-amid-covid-concerns/story-Jq15rFICScYNbDb9l9HpAO.html
14-08-2020||India||SC declines stay on merger of 6 BSP MLAs with Congress in Rajasthan||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stay a September 2019 decision by Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi allowing the merger of six MLAs elected on the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket with the Congress party. The move should come as a shot in the arm of the state’s Congress government, which is still recovering from an internal revolt that is on the way to being resolved and which faces a no-confidence motion by the opposition when the assembly session starts on Friday.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said that the issue regarding the validity of the speaker’s decision is pending before a single-judge bench of Rajasthan high court, and declined to grant interim relief to the petitioner, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Madan Dilawar, who sought disqualification of the six BSP MLAs for defection.“We are not inclined to grant any interim relief,” said the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari.The top court adjourned the case until Monday after senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing on behalf of the speaker, said the agenda for the Rajasthan assembly session will be decided at 10 am on Friday, and also submitted that the opposition is free to move a no-confidence motion.“They have not moved a no-confidence motion. They can do that anytime,” he said.The decision on the no-confidence motion had not been taken at the time of the hearing. Senior counsel Harish Salve, appearing for Dilawar, sought a stay on the speaker’s decision, stating that if a no- confidence motion ensues, then the BSP and Congress party will issue whips and there will be uncertainty on whose whip will hold good with respect to the six MLAs.“If the speaker’s decision is later struck down by the high court, then the six MLAs, in order to escape disqualification, can claim that the speaker’s decision was in force at the time when they voted (against the BSP party whip),” Salve said.“Court cannot pass orders based on what may or may not happen in the house,” Sibal responded.Dilawar moved the Rajasthan high court on July 28, seeking disqualification of the six former BSP legislators on grounds of defection under 10th schedule of the Constitution.The six MLAs -- Lakhan Singh, Rajender Singh Guda, Deepchand, Joginder Singh Avana, Sandeep Kumar and Vajib Ali -- were elected to the Rajasthan assembly in December 2018 on a BSP ticket. They later submitted a joint application to the assembly speaker on their unanimous decision to merge with the Congress party on September 16, 2019. The request was approved by the speaker on September 18, 2019.This was challenged by Dilawar, who filed a plea before speaker in March 2020 for disqualification of the six MLAs for defection. The 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India contains provisions relating to disqualification of lawmakers for defection. One of the grounds for disqualification, as per paragraph 2 of the 10th schedule, is voluntarily giving up membership of the political party on whose ticket the lawmaker is elected.The speaker rejected Dilawar’s plea on July 22 after which the latter approached the high court challenging the speaker’s decision. A single-judge bench of the high court issued notice to the speaker on July 30, but declined to stay the decision. A division bench of the high court also declined to grant a stay and requested the single-judge bench to hear and dispose of the matter within one day.Dilawar then approached Supreme Court seeking a stay on speaker’s order.“When the Rajasthan high court is hearing the matter, how can we pass an order? ” justice Mishra asked Salve.Archana Sharma, the Rajasthan Congress spokesperson, said the merger of BSP MLAs with the Congress was legally valid and there was no ambiguity on that. “We welcome the SC direction,” she said.The hearing of the case will continue before the Rajasthan high court on Friday.Petitioner Dilawar’s lawyer Ashish Sharma said they would wait for the Rajasthan high court’s verdict, expected on Friday, to decide on the next course of action. “The arguments are expected to the completed on Friday and our next course of action will depend on the court’s order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-stay-on-merger-of-6-bsp-mlas-with-cong-in-raj/story-5w6A1am4m9rlZFP8BDQ88H.html
14-08-2020||India||SC lifts registration ban on BS-IV vehicles sold until March 31||The Supreme Court on Thursday lifted the freeze on registration of BS-IV vehicles sold during the initial days of the Covid-19 lockdown until March 31. Modifying its July 31 order, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said: “Those vehicles sold and registered during the month of March on the E-Vahan portal and those vehicles whose temporary registrations were made, to that extent, registration is allowed. We cannot allow registration of [39,937] vehicles not uploaded on the E-Vahan portal [of the ministry of road, transport and highways].”The court on July 31 ordered the freeze after it saw abnormally high sale of vehicles in the days leading up to March 31 when business across the country came to a standstill on account of a nationwide lockdown announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The court on Thursday went by a chart presented by the ministry, which verified details of vehicles sold and registered on e-Vahan from March 12-31. As per the Federation of Automobile Traders Association (FADA), a total of 2,25,257 vehicles were sold during this period. On verification, the ministry found data of 1,45,152 vehicles on its portal that were granted permanent registration while 29,834 were awaiting registration. These vehicles can now be registered as per the court’s latest order.Out of the balance 50,261 vehicles, the ministry contacted states which are yet to connect on the e-Vahan portal. These states included Andhra Pradesh, and few regional transport offices in Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Andaman Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep. The Centre located data of 10,324 vehicles in these states but found no details about 39,937 vehicles shown as sold by FADA. The court refused to permit registration of this category of vehicles.Prior to passing the order, the bench asked senior advocate KV Vishwanathan, who appeared for FADA, to explain how so many vehicles were sold during the lockdown. The court told Vishwanathan that on March 27, the court allowed the sale of vehicles beyond March 31 in lieu of the difficulty faced by automobile dealers due to lockdown restrictions.According to the ministry, between March 12 and March 31, the e-Vahan portal recorded sales of 9,56,015 vehicles which included two-wheelers, three-wheelers, commercial and passenger vehicles. The maximum sales occurred on March 29 (78,525), March 30 (94,054) and March 31 (55,334).Vishwanathan explained that several vehicles were sold online while some were sold by dealers that were later sold as second-hand vehicles.“There is no advantage being taken of the court’s order. We want to dispel the notion that the FADA has tried to manipulate or play fraud on the court. The dealers were under tremendous pressure to sell the stock prior to March 31. For this reason, attractive discounts were offered. Now by denying registration, they will be placed in great financial distress.”The dealers even pointed out that during March, several days were auspicious, which recorded heavy sales. But the bench refused to accept this argument and said, “We will not permit mahurat sales. It cannot violate the law. We will make it un-mahurat (unauspicious) for you.”The bench was even keen to knock out the sale of BS-IV vehicles in Delhi as it felt this was impermissible under orders passed on October 24, 2018. But Vishwanathan clarified to the court that the restriction on the sale of BS-IV vehicles in Delhi was applicable to the sale post-March 31 and not prior in time....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-lifts-registration-ban-on-bs-iv-vehicles-sold-until-mar-31/story-PVpd9tl2BYPFY03FIZKKlL.html
14-08-2020||India||PLA still at LAC, India plans new ways to counter China’s wolf-warrior diplomacy||With the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding out on de-escalation at some points of its transgressions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh -- Gogra-Hot Springs as well as Pangong Tso -- the Narendra Modi government is considering new ways to counter China and ensuring that the troops are back to their peacetime locations.According to people familiar with the matter in the government and the military, contrary to China’s public posture that building trust with India is one of its diplomatic priorities, the PLA continues to sit on the green top of the Finger 4 feature on the north bank of Pangong Tso. This allows China a dominant sweep from Finger 3 to Finger 8. All the PLA has done is to vacate the saddle and the ridge beyond the brown top on the contested Finger 4.The situation in the Gogra-Hot Springs area near Kongka La is no different -- the PLA is where it transgressed, with an objective to come up to the Kugrang River, a tributary of the Shyok River.This obstinacy is matched only by the Chinese portrayal of even a routine meeting between the Indian ambassador to Beijing and a deputy director in the Foreign Affairs Commission as path-breaking, the people, none of whom wished to be identified, added. Meanwhile, they said, Beijing’s refrain about meeting India halfway is beginning to grate because “it is the PLA that is the aggressor, not the Indian army” as one official put it.The official added that this would appear to be part of China’s strategy. “The Chinese projection of normalcy with India is a suggestion that New Delhi must accept the PLA ‘s aggression and move on with resuming diplomatic dialogue. This is totally unacceptable.”Last Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry posted a statement on its website claiming that maintaining peace along the disputed boundary and deepening strategic trust with India was one of China’s key priorities. The statement has no reflection on the ground in Ladakh with the PLA making no efforts to restore status quo ante, the Indian official pointed out.“For the India-China relationship, the two sides should jointly safeguard peace and security in the border areas and maintain sound development of bilateral ties,” the statement said.While another round of diplomatic parleys between the two countries at joint secretary-level are expected soon, Indian troops are now ready to call the PLA’s bluff, the Indian officials said. The Indian military has decided that the Ladakh transgressions are unacceptable, and this includes the hindrance to Indian Army patrols in the crucial Depsang Bulge area, they added.But India has to play it cool, they said, adding that the PLA’s obstinacy in moving back may be designed to provoke a reaction from the Indian Army and use it to further escalate the situation along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-tensions-india-plans-new-ways-to-tackle-china/story-sLm0ZYo5LYaB171hy0DLLK.html
14-08-2020||India||Innovation, free expression key for digital framework||Today the internet is synonymous with human freedom. It enables a broad range of facilities that has improved the lives of millions of Indians. Beyond the rhetorical value of August 15 being our Independence Day, it marks the date on which Videsh Sanchar Nagar Limited (VSNL), launched internet services for private, individual use, in 1995, 25 years ago. .A quarter of a century is a useful benchmark to examine its growth, present challenges and a tenuous future. A structural premise to examine is the existence of the “digital divide”. This hackneyed phrase cocoons the lived reality of discriminatory internet access. It exists despite consistent effort by policy makers, governments and civil society. Data published by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India for 2019 shows that there is more than one connection for every two indians. This same data reveals a concentration in metropolitan areas, for instance Delhi, which has more internet connections than people. Even within these islands of connectivity, research points to a deprivation on the lines of caste, gender and income. The concern on access is further compounded in hamlets across our vast country. According to a reply in Parliament in February, around 27,721 villages lack the underlying network infrastructure for basic tele-connectivity. The gains are impressive, but inequity prevails. We cannot consider internet access without accounting for its muscular deprivation through internet shutdowns. By several estimates India leads the world in this harmful practice that undermines fundamental rights and economic growth. As noticed by the Supreme Court in its decision in Anuradha Bhasin v. Union of India, the existing regulation authorising internet shutdowns lacks elementary safeguards of a periodic review. Generally, the issue of internet access is a threshold issue, which is vital to a core development framework that will be addressed given its cross- partisan appeal. It is the initial layer of human freedom, but as much as it is achieved, social justice and liberty must match this rollout. Here, issues become contentious, as they consider competing visions of the internet -- even a digital India. While there are several areas to consider, three are significant. These are free expression, privacy and innovation which branch into several associated liberties and threats. With increase in internet access, the nature of censorship has become complex. It relies on antiquated models of criminalisation and bans that are mixed with online abuse, organised disinformation and a deluge of information on social media. Today, voter manipulation, non-consensual sexual abuse imagery, and user additiction are germane issues which provide a choice between a rights-based framework or growth of authoritarianism to public officials and policy makers. These trends, incorrectly posed as trade-offs are similarly evident in the domain of individual privacy. This denominative value of privacy for the ordinary Indian is the facility of independent choice. This is being gradually eroded under the guise of ease and convenience. Personal data is being amassed and surveillance systems are being deployed as the internet transforms from a communication technology to being integrated with physical facilities and access controls. Here, data, rather than citizenship will determine fundamental rights and this requires a spirited defence of fundamental rights. Finally, the mantra of innovation continues to hold promise for entrepreneurs when it permits value for users through the creation of new products and services. Here, there is reason to be guarded against the doctrine of hyperscale and monopolies -- by Silicon Valley platforms, influential technologists, telecom companies and even by the government. After all, we should heed the lessons of liberalisation that was premised in ensuring a market environment based on competition. It would be amiss to note these challenges without considering the impact of the ongoing pandemic. The internet has been vital in overcoming its challenge, for instance in ensuring remote healthcare for millions. Here, rather than a tryst with destiny, we would be well served to look back at a difficult time in our national history. When we faced external aggression, economic distress and continuing religious tensions. Reflecting on these challenges, Prime Minister Nehru on August 15, 1963 stated, “Free India is still a child, for what are sixteen years in the life of a country?”. In a similar sentiment, even if we do not consider the internet a child, for this transformational technology a quarter of a century only marks an early teenage. We must be hopeful, but honest to our constitutional vision as we look towards a digital India.(Apar Gupta, is an advocate and the executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/innovation-free-expression-key-for-digital-framework/story-GQwh69PtLE69SKNpQMwwBJ.html
14-08-2020||India||Gehlot is our leader, have never disputed his leadership: Vishvendra Singh||Vishvendra Singh, the former Rajasthan minister for tourism and a part of the 18 dissident Congress leaders, who had backed sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in his bitter power struggle against CM Ashok Gehlot, spoke to HT about the recent political high drama in the desert state. Edited excerpts of the interview: Were you in Delhi or Manesar in Haryana for all these days? Why were the lawmakers camping in Haryana? Initially, we went to Delhi. But since Delhi hotels were shut because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, I decided to stay at my residence in the national capital, Mr. Pilot stayed at his and the rest of the MLAs (members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly) decided to stay at one place ... they wanted to stay at a central place in Haryana. Besides, Manesar and Gurgram are both close to Delhi. We went to Delhi to update the party high command that the election manifesto was not being implemented at a pace it should have been, and the coordination between the two – the government and the organisation – had left a lot to be desired. We wanted to apprise the high command about all these sticking points. Also read: Congress revokes suspension of 2 Rajasthan MLAs from Sachin Pilot camp ahead of key meetWe also heard a statement allegedly from the Pilot camp that the Gehlot government is reduced to a minority and Pilot had the support of 30 MLAs. Was there an attempt to topple the democratically elected government? There’s a leader, and always only one leader. We went under the leadership of Mr. Pilot as the PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) chief and deputy CM. We all along had maintained radio silence about our misgivings. Though we have been abused by a section of people, we did not react to those statements. We are part of the same family and we wanted to convey a unified picture to the party high command. ALSO WATCH | ‘Gehlot head of the family, never disputed his leadership’: Vishvendra Singh There was a perception that the Pilot faction was hobnobbing with the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and the latter was behind the political turmoil because it had wanted to cash in on the factionalism and form its own government. How do you react to this perception? How are we supposed to be linked to the BJP? Each one of us (MLAs) has paid our own bills, and each one of us has paid the lawyers. Mr. Pilot has all the relevant documents to back my assertions. If we were allegedly hobnobbing with the BJP, then we would not be having this discussion? Who’s your leader? Gehlot or Pilot? Our leader is Mrs. Sonia Gandhi. At the Centre, it is also Rahul Gandhiji and Priyanka Gandhji. At the state level, it is Mr. Gehlot since he is the CM and the head of the family … we have never disputed his leadership, neither has Mr. Pilot joined issue over it. Else, Mr. Pilot would not have settled for the deputy CM’s portfolio. Whoever the high command chooses is our leader. If the high command would have decided Mr. Pilot as the CLP (Congress legislative party) leader, then he would have been our leader. However, Mr. Gehlot was chosen by the high command, while Mr. Pilot is the leader of the state organisation, as the PCC chief. Will you attend the CLP happens, as and when it is convened? Why not? I’m not guilty of any wrongdoing. Did the high command give you any assurance about restoring your Cabinet berth? No. We have put no condition … the only condition is that we want self-respect and we want protection from the high command and that the promises made to the public must be fulfilled without any further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-is-our-leader-have-never-disputed-his-leadership-vishvendra-singh/story-WODtwEtuQDwyzq23VRLnGJ.html
