15-08-2020||India||2 Baghjan firefighters selected for President’s gallantry award posthumously||President Ramnath Kovind has approved gallantry award posthumously to two firefighters of Oil India Limited (OIL), who lost their lives while battling the blaze at Baghjan gas well in Assam, the company said on Saturday. The well no. 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 81 days since May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, killing the two firefighters at the site. “The President of India has approved President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry posthumously to OIL deceased firefighters, late Tikheswar Gohain and late Durlov Gogoi, who laid their lives in the line of duty at Baghjan well no. 5 blowout,” the PSU major said in a statement. The recognition was given on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. Meanwhile, despite two back to back failures, the OIL said that efforts are on to douse the fire by capping the damaged gas well.On July 31, an endeavour to shut the well did not succeed as a hydraulic lift used to put a lid on the mouth of the gas well gave in and “toppled over”. The second attempt to shut it failed on August 10 when the iron cable to lift a Blow Out Preventer (BOP) snapped. A BOP is a metal cover weighing several tonnes that is placed at the mouth of any gas or oil well to stop leakage of the fuel from under the ground.On July 22, three foreign experts from a Singaporean firm, which was invited to assist OIL and ONGC for putting out the inferno, suffered burn injuries while they were removing a spool from the well head. OIL said that it continues to face protests and blockades across its wells and field locations, leading to heavy production loss in the last few months. “A total of 28,199 metric tonnes of crude oil and 67.11 million metric standard cubic meter of natural gas have been lost as a result of protests, blockades, bandhs in and around Baghjan area since May 27, 2020 due to the blowout,” it added. On the relief and rehabilitation process, OIL said that surveys for assessment of damage for compensation by the district administration are in progress in Tinsukia and Doomdooma circles. “A total of 2,756 families have been surveyed for assessment of damage for compensation till August 14, the PSU said. Over 9,000 people were initially shifted to 13 relief camps after the well suffered a blowout in May and subsequently caught fire last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-baghjan-firefighters-selected-for-president-s-gallantry-award-posthumously/story-iOYVsrnjDuZE3n8puShopN.html
15-08-2020||India||All villages to be connected with optical fibre in next 1,000 days: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that the task to connect India’s over six lakh villages with optical fibre network will be completed in the next 1,000 days. Besides, a high speed internet connectivity via submarine optical fibre cable will be extended to Lakshadweep in this period, he said. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India’s 74th Independence Day, he pointed out that only five dozen panchayats in the country were connected with optical fibre cable before 2014. The prime minister also announced a new policy on cyber security to be unveiled shortly amid threats emanating from cyber space. He said the country is witnessing expansion of roads and internet at unprecedented and rapid speed, from the peaks of Himalayas to islands in the Indian Ocean. In the last five years, 1.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with optical fibre cable, Modi said. “In the next 1,000 days, all villages in the country will be connected with optical fibre,” he said, adding Lakshadweep too would be connected with submarine optical fibre cable in the next 1,000 days. Modi recently inaugurated the first ever undersea optical fibre cable project for Andaman and Nicobar Islands which will provide high speed broadband connections in the union territory at par with services in the mainland.The prime minister had laid the foundation for 2,312-kilometre Chennai - Andaman and Nicobar Islands (CANI) connecting submarine optical fibre cable project on December 30, 2018.Referring to the digital India, he said the importance of the mission has been realised during the COVID-19 pandemic.“In the last month only, transactions worth about Rs 3 lakh crore took place through BHIM UPI alone,” he said.During the lockdown period, digital transactions witnessed a huge surge. In a tweet, IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said connecting all the villages in India by optical fibre internet in 1,000 days will be a “game changer” for Digital India. Prasad further said that the telecom department will fast track the provisioning of high speed internet services via submarine optical fibre connectivity to Lakshadweep Islands, in line with target set by the prime minister.“For high speed Internet services in Lakshadweep Islands PM @narendramodi Ji today set a target of 1000 days to provide submarine optical fibre connectivity to these islands. Like linking Andaman & Nicobar islands @DoT_India will fast track this as well”, the minister tweeted.Meanwhile, an official release said that optical fiber connectivity to the villages and submarine OFC to the Lakshadweep islands will help people in getting cheaper and better connectivity, and in leveraging the benefits of Digital India.“OFC connectivity to the villages and submarine OFC to the Lakshadweep islands will help the people in rural areas/villages and those in Lakshadweep islands in getting cheaper and better connectivity and all the benefits of Digital India, especially in improving online education, tele-medicine, banking system, online trading, boosting tourism and skill development etc,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-villages-to-be-connected-with-optical-fibre-in-next-1-000-days-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-i6qk4hE7NI1EznY6qHDfJL.html
15-08-2020||India||Four Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, 11,940 infected with disease||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 325 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the state tally to 11,940. The recovery rate of patients has reached 65.16 percent with 7,748 cured patients getting discharged on Saturday, according to the state’s daily Covid bulletin.On Saturday, maximum 135 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Nainital (62), Dehradun (34), Rudraprayag (27), US Nagar (23), Tehri (16), Chamoli (13), Almora (9), Pauri Garhwal (3), Champawat (2), and Pithoragarh (1). The state also reported deaths of four Covid-19 positive patients; two of them died due to coronavirus while the other two perished due to comorbidities, according to the health department release. A total of 151 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now but the state maintains that only 29 of them have died due to the contagion and the rest of the positive patients have succumbed to comorbidities and other causes. Also Read: Woman claims having child with Uttarakhand BJP MLA, demands DNA test Haridwar district has reported 2,935 Covid-19 positive cases, the maximum in the state, followed by Dehradun (2,379), US Nagar (2,223) and Nainital (1,740). Also, 246 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum of 126 in Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 25.63 days, while the infection rate is 5%. The state has so far tested over 2.25 lakh samples of which results of over 13,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 486 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 381 in Haridwar district. The state government has operationalised 17 dedicated Covid hospitals and 381 Covid care centres (CCC) across the state and started home isolation of asymptomatic positive patients recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-11-940-infected-with-disease/story-Ww01CxWLXQlZz2ZjWesneO.html
15-08-2020||India||Public sentiment demanded that CBI probe Sushant case: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said it was a “public sentiment” that the probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death be conducted by the CBI even though he believes in capability of the Maharashtra Police.Governments of Maharashtra and Bihar have locked horns over the jurisdiction to investigate the Rajput case.The Bihar government had recommended a CBI probe, days after Patna police registered an FIR against the late actor’s Mumbai-based girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty on the charge of abetment of suicide.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 this year.“I have worked with the Maharashtra Police for the last five years, so I know their capabilities. However, sometimes, police function under political pressure which should not happen,” the former chief minister told reporters when asked whether he believes in the Maharashtra police.He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a COVID care centre for journalists.Fadnavis said the supreme court will pass an appropriate order in the matter so that no comparison is made between the Maharashtra and the Bihar Police in the case.“I have been saying since the first day that Maharashtra police are the best,” he added.“The kind of situation arose in (Sushant case)...a public sentiment got created that this case should go to the CBI. That is why it has gone to the supreme court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-sentiment-demanded-that-cbi-probe-sushant-case-fadnavis/story-IZGgPeElmJUZGaB9ckDVlJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Hope Dhoni will continue to contribute to Indian cricket: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday thanked former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his unparalleled contributions to the Indian cricket and hoped that he will continue to contribute in strengthening the game.Shah also said that with Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket, the world will miss his helicopter shots.“I join millions of cricket fans across the globe to thank @msdhoni for his unparalleled contributions to Indian Cricket. His cool temperament has turned several hot encounters in India’s favour. Under his captaincy India was crowned World Champions twice in different formats,” he tweeted.The home minister said Dhoni has mesmerised millions through his unique style of cricket.“I hope he will continue to contribute towards strengthening Indian cricket in the times to come. Best wishes for his future endeavours. World cricket will miss the helicopter shots, Mahi!” he said.Dhoni, the two-time World Cup-winning former India captain, retired from international cricket on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-dhoni-will-continue-to-contribute-to-indian-cricket-amit-shah/story-w5goyQi0cPH7p099jRgB0K.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Maharashtra is India’s Covid capital,’ says Fadnavis, offers containment tips||Leader of opposition in Maharashtra assembly Devendra Fadnavis on 74th Independence Day described the western state as India’s ‘Covid Capital’ citing figures of coronavirus infected patients and casualties. He also advised the state government to put greater emphasis on RT-PCR tests for detection of positive cases in the state. “Maharashtra has become the Covid capital of India as the state accounts for 24% of total cases and 41% of total deaths in the country due to the disease,” Devendra Fadnavis tweeted earlier today.Maharashtra’s coronavirus tally reached 5,84,754 on August 15 as per the latest figures released by the state health ministry. The fatality count has risen to 19,749 as on Saturday. In comparison, the country has registered 25,26,192 total Covid-19 cases so far including 49,036 deaths due to the disease. Maharashtra is by far the worst affected state in the country with Tamil Nadu being a distant second.Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now over 5.84 lakh with 12,614 new casesAs regards casualties, Maharashtra’s figure of 19,749 deaths is almost four times the number of fatalities recorded in Tamil Nadu-- 5,514—which has the second worst death toll in the country.Fadnavis has in the past accused the three-party coalition government in Maharashtra, led by former BJP ally Shiv Sena, of mismanaging the Covid situation in the state. However, today, he said he was interested in solutions to contain the spread of the disease and not in making allegations. “We are not making any allegations. We are more interested in arresting the spread of Coronavirus than doing politics. I have been demanding that the number of tests should be increased in the state,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency PTI after inaugurating a Covid care centre for journalists.Earlier, Fadnavis had attacked the Uddhav Thackeray led state government for not conducting enough number of tests and also for allegedly underreporting the number of deaths. On Saturday, he advised the state government to increase the number of RT-PCR tests compared to the antigen tests.Also Read: 4,000 apply for e-passes from Mumbai for inter-state travel ahead of GaneshotsavHe said the current ratio of RT-PCR and antigen tests is 1:2, which should be equal.In another suggestion, he said the state government should look to set up small centres for Covid care as they are easy to manage. When asked about the performance of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, he said there is infighting among the ruling constituents, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-is-india-s-covid-capital-says-fadnavis-offers-containment-tips/story-isJCWJFBQDwWcY9uEuOOCK.html
15-08-2020||India||Girl suffers burns as rape accused tries to kill her mother||A 10-year-old tribal girl sustained burn injuries in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district when two men entered her house and tried to set her mother on fire demanding that the latter withdraw the rape case registered against one of them, police said on Saturday.While police have arrested an accomplice of the main accused after the August 13 incident which occurred in Parner tehsil, the latter is on the run, an officer said.The girl, currently in hospital, is out of danger, he said.The main accused has been identified as Rajaram Tarte and his friend as Amol Tarte, he said.“Rajaram and Amol entered the house of the woman on Thursday. Rajaram threatened her and asked her to withdraw the case of rape she had filed against him,” the officer said.He threw petrol on the woman, some of which also fell on the girl, he said quoting the FIR.“At the same time, Amol Tarte lit a matchstick and hurled it at the woman. However, the match stick fell on the frock of the girl which caught fire,” the officer added.A case has been registered against the duo under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015.“We have arrested Amol Tarte and search for Rajaram is going on,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-suffers-burns-as-rape-accused-tries-to-kill-her-mother/story-RGfAJ41VXBrbzm0jsBaMDL.html
15-08-2020||India||Biggest single-day spike of 8,818 new cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike of over 8,800 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 related fatalities. With this, the total number of infections rose to 2,19,926 and death toll to 3,831 in the state, the health department said. The day also saw 6,629 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,818 fresh cases, 3,495 of them were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on Friday with 7,908 cases. As of August 15 evening, 2,19,926 positive cases have been confirmed and they included 3,831 deaths and 1,34,811 discharges, the health department said. It said that out of 81,276 active cases, 80,560 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable while 716 are in the intensive care unit (ICU). A total of 35 out of 114 deaths reported on Saturday were from Bengaluru urban followed by Mysuru (10), Dharwad (7), Ballari and Dakshina Kannada (6), Belagavi, Davangre and Shivamogga (5), Hassan and Chikkamagaluru (4), Raichur and Bidar (3), Udupi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag and Haveri, and Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Yadgi, Chamarajanagara and Chikkaballapura (1). Most of the dead were either with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,495, Ballari 759, Mysuru 635, Belagavi 358, Davangere 327, Dakshina Kannada 271, Udupi 241, Dharwad 239, Vijapura 232 followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 87,680 infections followed by Ballari 13,807 and Mysuru 9,915. Among those discharged too, Bengaluru urban topped the list with a total of 51,426 followed by Ballari 7,504 and Kalaburagi 6,369. A total of 19,93,760 samples were tested so far out of which 54,806 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples during the day, 25,731 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-single-day-spike-of-8-818-new-cases-in-karnataka/story-RqvPP3xNKnW8isWDCbP3nM.html
15-08-2020||India||Mamata pays visit to Governor on I-Day; Dhankar flays her for skipping ‘At Home’ function||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday called on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan here which she later termed as a “courtesy visit”. Banerjee was accompanied by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state police chief Virendra and city police Commissioner Anuj Sharma. The chief minister headed straight to the Raj Bhawan after attending the Independence Day parade held at the Red Road earlier in the day. “As we will not be able to attend the programme scheduled (at Raj Bhawan in the evening, we came here after the Red Road event even though we had no appointment. “We had ‘adda’ (Bengali word for chat or conversation) with the Governor and greeted him on the occasion of Independence Day,” Banerjee said after the hour-long meeting. However, later in the evening, absence of the chief minister from customary function at the Raj Bhawan drew criticism from Dhankhar. The Governor said Banerjee’s absence from the programe “stunned” him and he was at “a loss for words”. “Absence of CM and officials @MamataOfficial on occasion of Independence Day celebration at Raj Bhawan has like many startled and stunned me. We need to rise to occasion as respect to freedom fighters who gave their all to secure for us freedom and democracy. I am at a loss for words,” Dhakhar tweeted in the evening after the party. “The vacant seat meant for CM @MamataOfficial at celebration of Independence Day at Raj Bhawan speaks volumes -has created unwholesome situation that is not in sync with rich culture and ethos of WB. “There is just no rationale for this unbecoming stance,” Dhankhar tweeted along with a photograph where he was seen sitting next to the vacant chair meant for Mamata Banerjee. He stated that the traditional “At Home” programme was organised keeping in mind the Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distance and for that the number of invitees was kept below 35. “Due to Covid scenario attendance at traditional ‘AT HOME’ at Rajbhawan was kept <35. Social distancing and protocol #COVID-19 was maintained. It would have been befitting if CM and officials @MamataOfficial had participated. Their action not in sync with sanctity of occasion,” he tweeted. A high tea was organised in the sprawling lawn of the Raj Bhawan to commemorate the day. Chief Justice, Sr Judges, Leader of opposition Abdul Mannan, CPM leader Dr Sujan Chakrabarti, top brass of Army, Air Force, Navy, BSF, Coast Guard as also former Air Chief Arup Raha and former Nagaland Governor Shyam Datta were amongst distinguished persons present on the occasion. Dhankar tweeted. On several occasions, the state government and the Governor have crossed swords on a host of issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-pays-visit-to-governor-on-i-day-dhankar-flays-her-for-skipping-at-home-function/story-xqfVOAliL53jHqnb58oYuI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Dil abhi bhara nahin’: Jharkhand demands a farewell match for MS Dhoni in Ranchi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has appealed to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to hold a farewell match for MS Dhoni-- India’s only cricketer to have won two world cup titles as captain of the team—who announced his retirement from International cricket on the 74th Independence Day today.Dhoni’s announcement has ended speculations on his international career including a possible bid to make a claim for a place in the squad for the next Twenty20 World Cup tournament.“I wish to appeal to BCCI to hold a farewell match for MS Dhoni which will be hosted by all of Jharkhand and witnessed by the whole world,” Soren tweeted reacting to Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket.Dhoni is a resident of Ranchi, Jharkhand’s capital and has played in front of his home crowd in a couple of International matches held at Ranchi’s newly constructed cricket stadium. Soren said Indians would love to see Jharkhand’s son in action again.“Mahi, who gave the country and Jharkhand several moments to remember, has retired from international cricket today. We won’t be able to watch our favourite son of Jharkhand in the blue jersey any more. But the hearts of the countrymen are not full yet. I want Mahi to play a farewell match in Ranchi,” Soren said in his first tweet.Mahendra Singh Dhoni was known for his astute cricketing brain and ability to deal with pressure while finishing games for India. He is widely considered one of the greatest tacticians that the modern one day version of the game has seen.He also has the distinction of leading Indian team to all three ICC trophies, the one day world cup trophy in 2011, world T20 title in 2007 and the Champions Trophy in 2013.Wishes and tributes for the Indian legend are flooding the social media. From his fellow cricketers to other sportsmen to celebrities from other fields to politicians; all are wishing Dhoni well for his second innings while acknowledging his immense contribution to Indian cricket.Home Minister Amit Shah says he hopes Dhoni will continue to contribute in strengthening the game and added that with Dhoni’s retirement from international cricket, the world will miss his helicopter shots.“I join millions of cricket fans across the globe to thank @msdhoni for his unparalleled contributions to Indian Cricket. His cool temperament has turned several hot encounters in India’s favour. Under his captaincy India was crowned World Champions twice in different formats,” he tweeted.The home minister said Dhoni has mesmerised millions through his unique style of cricket.“I hope he will continue to contribute towards strengthening Indian cricket in the times to come. Best wishes for his future endeavours. World cricket will miss the helicopter shots, Mahi!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dil-abhi-bhara-nahin-jharkhand-demands-a-farewell-match-for-ms-dhoni-in-ranchi/story-SG81BK5sYgdIInKSyxuwGN.html
15-08-2020||India||Joe Biden offers full-throated support to India against China, Pakistan||Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, will work with India in the Indo-Pacific to ensure no country, including China, “is able to threaten its neighbours with impunity” and will have “no tolerance” for cross-border terrorism in South Asia, if elected president, his campaign said in an expansive agenda released Friday for bilateral relations with India and the welfare of Indian Americans.A Biden administration also will place a “high priority” on bolstering ties with India, continue to strengthen India’s defence capabilities and bring the United States back into the Paris climate to work with India again to combat climate change, according to the agenda.On immigration, which has been a major part of India-US relations, Biden will “preserve family unification as a core principle of our immigration system”, increase the number of visas offered for permanent, work-based immigration — Green Cards, overturning the Trump administration’s switch to a merit-based system.His administration will also exempt from any cap recent graduates of PhD programs in STEM fields, eliminate country limit on Green Cards, which has created a 100-year-long backlog for Indias. He will support reforming the temporary visa system for high-skill — H-1Bs — to protect wages and workers and then their numbers.The agenda was a first expansive plan released by any presidential campaign yet for aims and goals for relations with India and Indian Americas. And, thus, marked the importance being accorded to India. It was released just hours before a major outreach by senior members of the Biden campaign to the community.On bilateral relations with India, the former vice-president will bring to the offie years of supporting India. As a senator, the agenda said, Biden had in 2006, said,“My dream is that in 2020, the two closest nations in the world will be India and the United States” In 2008, he led other Democrats to back the India -US civil nuclear deal. The Obama-Biden administration declared support for India’s claim to permanent membership of the UN Security Council and Declared India a major defence partner.As president, the agenda said, “Biden believes there can be no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia – cross-border or otherwise”. The reference here was unmistakably to cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan, which had also been a sore point with the Obama administration.On China, the Biden administration will ensure continuity. “A Biden Administration will also work with India to support a rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region in which no country, including China, is able to threaten its neighbours with impunity.” There was no explicit mention of the border clashes but, once against, the sub-text was clear, aligning with growing bipartisan support for India in these clashes.“Biden will deliver on his long-standing belief that India and the United States are natural partners, and a Biden Administration will place a high priority on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship,” the agenda said, adding, “No common global challenge can be solved without India and the United States working as responsible partners.”It added: “Together, we will continue strengthening India’s defense and capabilities as a counter-terrorism partner, improving health systems and pandemic response, and deepening cooperation in areas such as higher education, space exploration, and humanitarian relief.”For the estimated 4 million Indian Americans, the Biden vowed adequate representation in the his administration if elected and pointed, as evidence, picking Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate. “Our government will reflect the diversity of the United States, and Indian American voices will be included in shaping the policies that impact their communities,” said the agenda.The Biden administration will address the rising incidents of hate crimes against “Indian Americans of all backgrounds -- Hindu, Sikh, Muslim, Jain, and others -- (who) have been subjected to bullying and xenophobic attacks”. He will see a legislation to increase the punishment for certain hate crimes that occur in houses of worship and other religious community sites, such as gurdwaras, mandirs, temples, and mosques.“We cannot leave our faith-based organizations to rely on donations and internal fundraising efforts to guard against deadly attacks. Biden will work with Congress to attain an immediate and substantial increase in direct security grant funding to faith-based organizations,” said the agenda.The Biden administration will also work with congress to reform the immigration system and find a way to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants, including 500,000 from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-offers-full-throated-support-to-india-against-china-pakistan/story-QXXDd5Wxyp7KlhXq0A4mON.html
15-08-2020||India||CRPF officer who won 7th gallantry award dedicates it to his buddy who died fighting terrorists||Highly decorated CRPF officer Naresh Kumar has dedicated his 7th gallantry medal, awarded on the 74th Independence Day today, to his buddy Mohd. Yasin Teli, who died fighting JeM terrorists in Pulwama. Naresh Kumar was awarded the latest honour for leading his team in an operation to kill three terrorists who attacked a security force camp near the Srinagar airport in 2017.The 35-year-old assistant commandant joined the force in 2013 and has been decorated with the 6th bar to Police Medal for Gallantry, which is his seventh gallantry medal in the last four years.Naresh Kumar is from Hoshiarpur in Punjab and he won his first gallantry medal in 2017. He has been heading the elite quick action team (QAT) of the central force in the Kashmir Valley till recently. Speaking about his phenomenal achievement, Naresh says he wants to dedicate it to his buddy who was slain in an anti-terrorist operation. “I want to dedicate my medal to my buddy Shaheed Mohd. Yasin Teli, who was killed in an operation by JeM terrorists in Pulwama. My team and I neutralized 3 JeM terrorists in an operation for which I have been awarded Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG),” AC Naresh Kumar told ANI.The CRPF describes Kumar as an officer with “sharp tactical acumen and indomitable courage”.Kumar has a B Tech degree from Punjabi University, Patiala. His wife Sheetal Rawat also serves in the CRPF as an Assistant Commandant. She was Kumar’s batch mate. Speaking about family, Kumar says the nation comes first.“My parents used to get information from the news that I am in some operation. During operation, it is not possible to talk, but I do it right after finishing the operations. Parents get worried but, the nation comes first,” Kumar said.While Kumar says he was elated for having won the honour yet again, his colleagues in the force say it is well deserved.“This is his seventh bravery medal in the last four years. He has become the highest medal winner after second-in-command rank officer P R Mishra of the force who has won six such medals including the third highest peacetime medal Shaurya Chakra,” a senior CRPF officer said.As far as Kumar is concerned, he has a simple desire.“I wish to keep serving my country and this is what I donned my uniform for,” he said.The CRPF, country’s largest paramilitary force with over 3.25 lakh personnel, has bagged the second highest 55 gallantry medals this time after 81 medals won by Jammu and Kashmir Police.Kumar who has won all his bravery medals for his operation in Jammu and Kashmir says he wishes to return there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-officer-who-won-7th-gallantry-award-dedicates-it-to-his-buddy-who-died-fighting-terrorists/story-gVac6I2G9Xh7gSpKugdNMN.html
15-08-2020||India||Telangana revenue officer caught red-handed accepting Rs 1.1 crore bribe, arrested||Telangana’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested a tehsildar (block revenue officer) after catching him red-handed while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore in cash from a property dealer the previous evening. A team of ACB officials led by Hyderabad zonal deputy director Ramana Kumar and Ranga Reddy-Medchal-Malkajgiri deputy superintendent of police Suryanarayana, acting on a tip-off, raided the residence of Erva Balaraj Nagaraju (47), tehsildar of Keesara block at his residence at Arul Colony, Kapra on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Friday evening. They caught him red-handed while accepting a bribe of over Rs 1.10 crore from real estate developer Chowla Srinath Yadav (50) from Uppal to settle a dispute pertaining to 19.39 acres of agricultural land at Rampally Dayara village on the city’s outskirts.The ACB sleuths took Srinath Yadav, real estate broker Kandadi Anji Reddy (40) from Keesara and also Rampally Dayara village revenue assistant Bongu Sairaj (32) into custody along with the tehsildar. “The accused would be produced before the special judge for ACB cases, Hyderabad,” a statement from the ACB director general said. According to the statement, Nagaraju demanded Rs 2 crore as bribe from Srinath Yadav of Sri Satya Developers, Uppal to settle the land issue pertaining to 19.39 acres in Rampally Dayara village and process the file. Searches continued at Nagaraju’s residence till late in the night. Apart from the bribe amount, the authorities also seized unaccounted cash of Rs 28 lakh, besides Rs 8 lakh accounted cash, from his residence. “This is the largest amount of cash ever seized by the ACB from any official in the state so far. It took more than five hours to count the cash that he had received as a bribe,” an ACB official familiar with the development said. The ACB also confiscated several documents from the possession of Nagaraju pertaining to land details of a bank locker, besides about half a kilo of gold ornaments. Many immovable properties belonging to Nagaraju were identified. Further investigation of the case is in progress, the ACB statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-revenue-officer-caught-red-handed-accepting-rs-1-1-crore-bribe-arrested/story-o9egZj6tg1aqUerXWwwZbM.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MS Dhoni retires from international cricket; leaves behind an unmatched legacy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MS Dhoni retires from international cricket; leaves behind an unmatched legacyMahendra Singh Dhoni, former Indian cricket captain who led Team India to victories in the ICC WT20 (2007), ICC World Cup (2011) and ICC Champions Trophy (2013), has announced his retirement from international cricket. Dhoni, who had retired from Test cricket at the end of 2014, last played for India in an international match in the semi-final loss to New Zealand in the recently concluded ICC World Cup.Read more. PM Modi’s ‘thank you’ note to the Gulf sharpens the contrast with Pak | AnalysisPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke of India’s deepening ties with the Gulf countries and thanked them for letting Indians stay for an extended period amid the coronavirus pandemic. India is grateful to them for honouring New Delhi’s request, he said in his 90-minute address to the nation from Red Fort.Read more. Nepal PM Oli dials PM Modi to wish on Independence Day, first contact in 4 monthsNepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Saturday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to wish India on its 74th Independence Day, the first direct contact between the two leaders in four months.Read more. Six arrested for abducting, selling and raping woman in Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh Police arrested six people on Friday for abducting, selling and raping a 24-year-old woman, rescued from Banmore area in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal on Tuesday.Read more. Indians in China facing twin challenges of Covid-19, border aggression: EnvoyIndians both in the country and in China are facing the twin challenges of a pandemic and aggression at the border, India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said on Saturday, adding that citizens have to be united to face the challenge.Read more. Suresh Raina follows MS Dhoni, announces retirementIndian cricketer Suresh Raina on Saturday took to social media and informed about his decision to retire from international cricket.Read more. WhatsApp stickers to get a major update soonWhatsApp has added a new update to its beta program on Android. The new update brings a search tool for WhatsApp stickers on the app. Unlike emojis and GIFs, there’s no search tool for stickers on WhatsApp.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ms-dhoni-retires-from-international-cricket-leaves-behind-an-unmatched-legacy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jLtyg3hEIg2dL0GKMlwuYI.html
15-08-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now over 5.84 lakh with 12,614 new cases||Another 12,000 plus new cases of Covid-19 took Maharashtra’s tally in the pandemic to over 5.8 lakh on Saturday, the health department said.The state recorded 12,614 new cases out of which 1,254 were in Mumbai to take the state’s tally 5,84,754.It was marginally higher than Friday’s count of 12,608 new cases.On Saturday, Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally stood at 1,27,716.The death toll in Maharashtra rose to 19,749 with 322 casualties. Mumbai reported 48 of the casualties.The number of recovered patients went up to 4,08,286 after 6,844 people were discharged on Saturday.Click here for full coronavirus coverage.On most days between August 8 and August 15, Maharashtra has reported fresh Cpovid-1d-19 cases in excess of 12,000. On August 8, the state marked the highest single-day spike with 12,822 that took the tally past the 5 lakh mark. In the last one week, Maharashtra has added 80,000 new cases of Covid-19.As authorities continued to ramp up testing, the health department said that 31,11,514 people have been tested so far for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-now-over-5-84-lakh-with-12-614-new-cases/story-8pJX48uvewV6TGKMfeeSOL.html
15-08-2020||India||No immediate possibility of opening schools in Odisha, says minister||On a day Odisha posted a record high of 2,496 fresh Covid cases, Odisha government said it has no immediate plans for reopening of schools in the state considering the surge in Covid-19 positive cases.Unfurling the national tricolour in the Jajpur district on Saturday, school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said that reopening of schools from September does not look possible in Odisha. “Going by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in August in Odisha, it cannot be said with certainty that the situation will be normal in September. Keeping this in mind, the state government will soon launch a new scheme ‘Siksha Sampark Yojana’ to provide e-education to about 60 lakh children,” said Dash.Early this month, the Assam government had invited suggestions from residents on a possible reopening date for schools.Dash said about 22 lakh children in the state are now availing e-education, while the remaining 38 lakh students are deprived of the facility due to lack of mobile network in their area. So teachers will visit these areas and teach the children at their home.Dash said that since three months of the new academic session have already passed, steps are being taken to reduce the school syllabi accordingly. The revised syllabi will be finalized next week.Secretary of All Odisha Secondary School Teachers Association, Prakash Mohanty, says the government has no clear plan on how to teach children in secondary classes.“The education of students of Class 8, 9 and 10 after summer vacation has been hampered. While online classes have not helped much, there is no clarity on how teachers would reach out to the children,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-immediate-possibility-of-opening-schools-in-odisha-says-minister/story-s7cdA5A6YrfcUyZyTGVHfL.html
15-08-2020||India||Flood situation improves in Assam; 13,300 in 3 districts affected||Flood water receded from one district of Assam reducing the number of people affected by the calamity to over 13,300 across three districts on Saturday, an official bulletin said here.At present, 36 villages in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur and Baksa districts are under water, according to the daily flood bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).The water had receded from Biswanath district since Friday when more than 29,600 people in 56 villages of four districts were reeling under the impact of the deluge.The total number of people losing their lives in this year’s flood and landslide stands at 138 across the state.While 112 people died in flood-related incidents, 26 were killed in landslides.Lakhimpur is the worst-hit with over 10,600 people affected, followed by Dhemaji and Baska where the number of flood victims is 2,400 and 300 respectively, ASDMA said.It said that the authorities are running nine relief camps and distribution centres in two districts, where 134 people are currently lodged.The Brahmaputra river is flowing above the danger level at Nimatighat in Jorhat and Tezpur in Sonitpur districts, while its tributaries Dikhour and Jia Bharali are also flowing above the red mark at several areas.Roads and other infrastructure were damaged in Lakhimpur district, while erosion was witnessed in Udalguri, ASDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-improves-in-assam-13-300-in-3-districts-affected/story-0jgfkHSLaeGs2yWM9JXiXI.html
15-08-2020||India||Centre convenes Aug 18 meet to prod Punjab to complete Sutlej-Yamuna link canal||Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will hold a meeting with chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab on August 18 to work out a solution for implementation of Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal by Punjab. The meeting has been convened on the directions of the apex court of July 28. In a communication to Haryana chief minister, ML Khattar and his Punjab counterpart, Capt Amarinder Singh, the Union Minister has sought their presence in New Delhi on August 18 for the meeting. “The Haryana chief minister has written back to the Union minister to inform that he will attend the August 18 meeting,’’ said a top official. The apex court during a July 28 hearing had observed that “let the Chief Ministers of both the states meet to find out the solution if any, else there is a decree which has to be executed”. The SC had also ordered that the outcome of the same, if any, be informed to the court when the case is listed later this month.Also read: Apex court order on SYL must be implemented: DushyantThe Union water resources ministry has recorded Punjab government’s unwillingness to complete the canal after several rounds of meetings between central, Haryana and Punjab governments in 2019 remained inconclusive. Talks were held on the orders of the Supreme Court to work out a solution to implement apex court’s judgments to complete the remaining portion of the SYL canal in Punjab. Top Haryana officials who attended the meetings said the Central ministry has recorded Punjab’s refusal to complete the canal in the minutes of the meetings held between the officials of the two states and the Centre.“Punjab has clearly refused to complete the canal on the pretext of non-availability of spare water. Punjab’s argument was a mere excuse to not implement the apex court’s orders,’’ said a Haryana official. “Completing the construction of the canal and availability of water are two separate issues altogether. The water availability issue is relevant once the capacity to carry the water is in place,’’ said an official. Quoting an example, the officials said that during the rainy season when there are no restrictions on water indent, the surplus water of the Ravi and Beas can be used for Haryana’s parched southern districts to supplement the receding groundwater table. “Otherwise this surplus water goes to Pakistan,’’ officials said. On July 9, 2019, the SC had requested the Punjab and Haryana chief ministers to constitute a committee of officers and ensure that deliberations took place with the intervention of the Central government at the highest level to work out a solution. During a September 2019 hearing, the apex court had granted four more months to hold out mediation and resolve the dispute. The apex court had said that it hoped and trusted that functionaries of both the states will rise to the occasion to find out a solution which is in the interest of all and ultimately if this Court is required to hear the matter on merits definitely it will do so. Haryana has stuck to its stance that its share of 3.5 million acre feet (MAF) in the Ravi and Beas waters and the completion of the canal are absolutely non-negotiable. At present, Haryana gets 1.62 MAF of Ravi and Beas waters. Punjab on the other hand is furthering an argument that the volume of water available in its rivers has drastically reduced over the years. The apex court had on July 11, 2017, said that the authorities of both states remember that a decree passed by the apex court has to be respected and executed. “Our granting of time does not endow Punjab with any kind of liberty to devour time and pave the path of procrastination. On the contrary, to take a stand of amiability and amicability so that the facilitator, that is, the central government can bring both parties together to resolve the issue,” the SC had said. Addressing a presidential reference in the matter, a constitution bench of the Supreme Court had on November 10, 2016, set aside the Punjab Termination of Agreements Act, a law which unilaterally terminated Punjab’s water sharing pact with Haryana.“The Punjab Act cannot be said to be in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and by virtue of the said Act, Punjab cannot nullify the judgment and decree referred to herein above and terminate the December 1981 agreement,” the Supreme Court had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-convenes-meeting-of-haryana-punjab-cms-on-august-18-to-discuss-syl-canal/story-4rNSTfI8JFwC9Mphxu8eDK.html
15-08-2020||India||Jaishankar thanks Israel, Russia, Bhutan, other countries for I-Day wishes||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar thanked the foreign ministers of Israel, Russia, Bhutan, the Maldives, Lithuania and Latvia on Saturday for their wishes on India’s 74th Independence Day.Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid, in a tweet, said since independence, India has strived to be, and now become, an enduring example of democracy and development for the region and the world.Responding to his tweet, Jaishankar said the relationship between India and the Maldives is a shining example of “Neighbourhood First”.The Foreign Affairs Ministry of Russia also greeted Jaishankar on India’s Independence Day.Jaishankar thanked Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov for his wishes and said India greatly values the exceptionally close and time-tested relationship with Russia.Bhutanese Foreign Minister Tandi Dorji tweeted: “I take this privilege to wish every Indian a very #HappyIndependenceDay. I pray for your great country to grow from strength to strength.” Replying to Dorji, Jaishankar said, “Your warm sentiments reflect our unique relationship.” The external affairs minister also thanked his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi for his congratulatory call on Independence Day.“Thank FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi for his congratulatory call on our Independence Day. Discussed our robust bilateral cooperation and Israel’s full normalisation of ties with UAE,” he said in a tweet.The UAE and Israel finalised a deal with an aim to normalise their bilateral relationship, seen as a major development in moving ahead with peace initiatives in the Middle East.Jaishankar’s counterparts in Latvia and Lithuania, Edgars Rinkevics and Linas Linkevicius respectively, also greeted him.The external affairs minister thanked the two leaders in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-thanks-israel-russia-bhutan-other-countries-for-i-day-wishes/story-tGkeDrhAwbiSSJH1KTHoWO.html
15-08-2020||India||In I-Day wish to Modi, Nepal PM says looking forward to ‘meaningful bilateral cooperation’ with India||Nepal looks forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli told his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in a phone conversation on Saturday, the first contact at the highest level between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row. Oli called Modi to congratulate him on India’s 74th Independence Day, and expressed his appreciation for the Indian leader’s renewed priority to the neighbourhood, as spelt out in his Independence Day address. The two leaders last spoke on April 10 to discuss the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In May, Nepal protested against the opening of a road by India to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet, and ties were hit further when Kathmandu published a new political map that depicted the Kalapani area, controlled by India, as Nepalese territory. Saturday’s phone conversation, which was widely anticipated in diplomatic circles, provided an opportunity for the two sides to clear the air and take forward the process of addressing their differences, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The conversation also came two days before a meeting in Kathmandu of the India-Nepal joint oversight mechanism, a body that oversees the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi. The body, launched in 2016, is chaired by Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi. “Prime Minister Oli appreciated Prime Minister Modi’s renewed priority to neighbourhood as spelt out in today’s Independence Day address. The Prime Minister of Nepal looked forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation,” said a readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry. A statement from the external affairs ministry said the leaders “expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries”, and Modi offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard. “Prime Minister thanked the Prime Minister of Nepal for his telephone call and recalled the civilisational and cultural links that India and Nepal share,” the statement added. In his speech, Modi said India is forging deeper connections with its neighbours through a partnership of security, development and trust. Noting that a quarter of the world’s population lives in South Asia, he said the countries of the region can create countless opportunities for the development and prosperity of such a large population through cooperation and partnership. “All the leaders of the countries of the region have a huge responsibility, an important responsibility for the development and progress of such a vast population,” he said. “The more peace and harmony there is in this whole region, the more it will work for the welfare of humanity,” he added. Oli congratulated Modi on India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council and expressed his “best wishes for the successful discharge of this important responsibility”, the Nepalese foreign ministry’s readout said. The two leaders exchanged views on latest efforts in the fight against Covid-19 and agreed to work together in this area, it said. While underlining the need for early development of a vaccine, Oli expressed the hope that scientists around the world, including in India, will be able to develop it in order to control and prevent the disease from spreading further, it added. The two leaders also agreed to continue discussions on bilateral matters in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-i-day-wish-to-modi-nepal-pm-says-looking-forward-to-meaningful-bilateral-cooperation/story-14nGo1BO0Zbcw2pLeZES0O.html
15-08-2020||India||Manipur extends Covid-19 lockdown till August 31||Manipur authorities on Saturday extended the ‘complete lockdown’ till August 31 amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The new state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar who is the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued the order that stated new Covid-19 cases continued to be detected amongst people who have no history of travel outside the state. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “Locality based retail shops dealing with essential commodities like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk booths, poultry meat and fish will open in all districts from 8am to 2pm on all days except Sundays,” according to the order.The wholesale shops in Thangal bazaar and Dharamshala shall remain open from 10am to 3pm on all days except Sunday to cater to requirements of retailers in the districts, it said.Apart from roster opening of shops from 8am to 4pm in Thangal and Paona Bazar, all standalone shops like those selling construction material,hardware,electrical items,cement etc located outside Paona bazaar, Thangal Bazar and Nagamapal area are also allowed to open from 8am to 2pm, except those in bylanes between buildings, it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The state has been witnessing a ‘complete lockdown’ from 2pm of July 23 following reports of Covid-19 infections amongst a few people who have no history of travel outside the state.As of Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in Manipur reached 4,390 while 2,438 people have recovered from the disease, said officials in Imphal. The number of active cases is 1,939, the officials said adding that the recovery rate stood at 55.5%. Thirteen people have died of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-august-31/story-wfH9jCld96zgRqlVpWdVGI.html
15-08-2020||India||Once India gets vaccine, Covid-19 warriors will get first doses: Minister||Scientists are working hard on coronavirus vaccine and if their efforts bear fruit, Covid-19 warriors will be the first ones to get the dose, Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Saturday. Interacting with reporters on the sidelines of the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort here, he also hailed the National Digital Health Mission unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation. “This is a historic day for the country’s health sector. On the auspicious occasion of our Independence Day, our PM announced this mission. This will bring widespread change in the field of health,” Choubey said. Modi on Saturday unveiled the ambitious National Digital Health Mission under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services and he also announced that the country has made plans for mass-producing Covid-19 vaccine once scientists give a green signal. “Our scientists are working very hard on it. Three vaccines against Covid-19 are in various stages of testing. And, if we do succeed in getting a vaccine, our COVID warriors will be the first one to receive the dose,” the minister of state for health said. Modi in his address said, “When scientists will give us the green signal, it will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it.” “So, our PM has spelt it out that this government is determined to fight its way out of the coronavirus crisis,” Chaubey said. Asked about the health ID card for each citizen that will be provided under the National Digital Health Mission, the Union minister said it will facilitate heathcare access to people. “The card will carry the medical history of the patient, and a doctor will be able to access prior information on ailments and treatment, if any, and begin treatment,” he said. Choubey said if a citizen travels from Patna to Bangalore, a doctor in the southern city will be able to access health-related data on the Patna patient, and respond faster. Modi in his address said this mission will bring a new revolution in India’s health sector and it will reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology. The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments.  The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country. On coronavirus vaccine, Modi said the country has prepared a roadmap to ensure that a Covid-19 vaccine reaches everyone in the shortest possible time. He said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of trials in the country.  The phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials of two of the vaccine candidates, developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), and Zydus Cadila Ltd, are currently underway.  The Serum Institute of India has been permitted to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the third vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University. The Pune-based institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-india-gets-vaccine-covid-19-warriors-will-get-first-doses-minister/story-DL5YkAbLDah7csn5rEatbL.html
15-08-2020||India||On 74th Independence Day, Tripura CM announces state’s first medical college outside Agartala||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Saturday announced a new medical college in the state, to be built at Ambassa in Dhalai district, about 80 odd kilometres from capital Agartala. This would be the first medical college outside the capital city and the third in the state.“Our government is trying to contain the disease. We will make all required arrangements for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. And we are going to open another medical college at Ambassa. We have started working on it,” said Deb at Assam Rifles parade ground in Agartala on the occasion of 74th Independence Day. He also appreciated the front line workers including doctors, health workers and others for their commitment to fight the pandemic.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli dials PM Modi to wish on Independence Day, first contact in 4 months He added that the state has no dearth of either medicines or personal protection kits. The government has also arranged for 2,129 beds for Covid-19 patients. The state has registered a total of 6,785 Covid-19 positive cases including 5,088 cases of recoveries. Total 49 Covid-19 patients have died due to the disease and two patients have died by suicide. CM Deb added that his government was focused on developing health, education, transport, power and internet infrastructure among others. He added that work on the 15 kilometre-long Agartala-Akhaura railway line, laying of fiber cable, inland waterways project and others are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-independence-day-tripura-cm-announces-state-s-first-medical-college-outside-agartala/story-EbwSyOFJQkNFVUhlSxdbbO.html
15-08-2020||India||Sharad Pawar’s censure of Parth is ‘family matter’, says Devendra Fadnavis||NCP chief Sharad Pawar rebuking his grandnephew Parth publicly was a family matter and the BJP was not “remotely associated” with the issue, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday.The BJP leader also expressed concern about the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra, which, he said, had become a “Covid-19 capital”.Sharad Pawar had said on Wednesday that he attached “absolutely no importance” to Parth’s demand for a CBI probe into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide.The NCP chief also termed Parth, son of his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,as “immature”, setting off speculation about a rift in the family.The Maharashtra government, of which NCP is a part, has maintained that Mumbai Police are capable of probing the actor’s death.“Parth Pawar issue is a family matter of the Pawars.We don’t want to get into that issue. We are not even remotely associated with it,” Fadnavis told reporters here.“It is a matter within their family, and they should try to resolve it within the family,” he added.The BJP leader pointed out that Maharashtra has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country and accounts for 40-41 per cent of the total deaths.“Unfortunately, Maharashtra has become a Covid-19 capital....The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is grim,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-s-censure-of-parth-is-family-matter-says-devendra-fadnavis/story-DlyqE362F3V1DombpMCR3H.html
15-08-2020||India||IMD issues orange rain alert for south Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange rain alert for the weekend in south Bengal districts on Saturday. Rain has already hit Kolkata. According to the forecast some of the districts in south Bengal could receive very heavy rain on Saturday. Kolkata and its adjoining areas are also expected to receive heavy rain.On Sunday, heavy rain is also expected to lash the districts of Purlia, Bakura, Jhargram and Burdwan.“A low pressure has developed over the Bay of Bengal and it has intensified into a well-marked low pressure area. It is located near the Odisha and West Bengal coast and this would trigger rain over the weekend,” said a senior official of the regional meteorological centre in Kolkata. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea as winds with speed reaching up to 45 km per hour may be blowing over Bay of Bengal. The district administrations have been alerted to restrict beach activities. The colour red is used to denote the highest level of warning in the IMD’s four-stage colour-coded weather warning system. Orange comes next and denotes administration to stay alert. On May 20, West Bengal was hit by cyclone Amphan with wind speed gusting up to 185 km per hour. The cyclone killed 98 people and left a trail of destruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-rain-alert-for-south-bengal/story-iE1FLrghpM392t3Jmz4plM.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Oli breaks ice with PM Modi on I-Day, tweets from top Nepal leaders follow||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Saturday dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to wish India on its 74th Independence Day, the first direct contact between the two leaders in four months. PM Oli’s ice-breaking phone call was quickly followed by tweets from Nepal’s former prime ministers, Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and Madhav Nepal of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, and Sher Bahadur Deuba, president of the opposition Nepali Congress.PM Oli had set up a row over an 80-km road built by the Border Roads Organisation in April this year and issued a new map the next month that depicts Indian territories, Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory.A statement by the external affairs ministry said PM Oli greeted the government and people of India on the occasion of its 74th Independence Day. He also conveyed congratulations for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.“The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries,” the statement said.Prime Minister Modi offered India’s continued support to Nepal to deal with the pandemic and “recalled the civilizational and cultural links that India and Nepal share”.The two prime ministers had last spoken on April 10, a conversation that had focussed on the Covid-induced lockdown and the problems being faced by people on both sides of the border.PM Oli’s early morning tweet, and then the phone call, was followed up by more tweets from across Nepal’s political spectrum.“I would like to convey my heartfelt greetings and congratulations to PM Modi ji, his government and people of India,” tweeted Dahal, better known by his nom de guerre Prachanda.Madhav Nepal tweeted his letter to PM Modi that expressed optimism about the future of India-Nepal relations. “We are confident that Nepal-India relations based as they are on close cooperation, historical ties and people-to-people contacts, would continue to grow in coming years to the satisfaction of the people of two countries,” Madav Nepal’s letter said.Deuba, who heads the lead opposition party Nepali Congress, extended “cordial greetings and best wishes to the friendly people and the government of India” in his tweet.In his Independence Day address early on Saturday, PM Modi had stressed on peace and harmony in the South Asia region. “All the leaders of the countries of the region have a huge responsibility, an important responsibility for the development and progress of such a vast population,” he said.“The more peace and harmony there is in this whole region, the more it will work for the welfare of humanity,” he said of the region that is home to a quarter of the world’s population. PM Modi also spoke about New Delhi’s efforts to forge deeper connections with India’s neighbours.PM Oli’s phone call comes days ahead of the meeting of the India-Nepal body overseeing the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi that is scheduled to meet in Kathmandu next week.This meeting between Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi is also the first between the two sides after the row over Nepal’s new map took relations to a new low.India has been sharply critical of Kathmandu’s decision to issue a new map, describing it as untenable and an “artificial enlargement of claims” that isn’t based on historical facts or evidence. “It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues,” New Delhi said in June this year after lawmakers cleared an amendment to incorporate the new map in Nepal’s emblem.Indian officials had, however, made it clear that New Delhi would not hold back on assistance granted to Nepal due to the boundary row and would continue to focus on deepening people-to-people ties between the two countries. It was in this context that the Indian army had earlier this month gifted 10 ventilators to Nepalese army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-oli-dials-pm-modi-to-wish-on-independence-day-first-contact-in-4-months/story-MfAf8cvAEsTeIzTwFUUUIO.html
15-08-2020||India||Explained: How does RBI’s Positive Pay system for securing your high value cheques work||High value bank cheque transactions are set to become safer with the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) stated intention to adopt the Positive Pay system for the payment of cheques valuing Rs 50,000 and above.The move is aimed to end cheque frauds including altering, counterfeiting and forging of the financial instruments and it is likely to do away with the need for banks to call customers to confirm if they indeed issued a high value cheque that comes up for payment at the customer’s bank’s clearance branch. The move announced by the RBI is likely to cover 20 percent of total cheques by volume and 80 percent by value, according to the central regulator, which announced the scheme earlier this month.Positive Pay system- Double safety for high value bank chequesThe system works by ensuring that every high value cheque valued at Rs 50,000 and above is crossed checked with details provided by the issuing party or the individual. Only a match will lead to the drawee’s bank clearing the cheque and in the event of a ‘no match’ scenario, the issuing authority/individual will be contacted for verification, cancellation or withdrawal of the cheque.The process for double verification under the systemThe Positive Pay system demands that an account holder electronically uploads the details of the high value cheque through the bank’s net banking system.Customers will need to put in a cheque number, issuance date, payee name, account number, amount payable along with an image of the front and reverse side of the instrument on the Positive Pay system. The cheque can then be handed over to the beneficiary.In the next stage, the cheque is submitted for encashment to the beneficiary’s bank and forwarded to the clearing branch of the drawee bank. The drawee bank then compares the details mentioned on the cheque with the details provided online by the customer through the Positive Pay system. If the details match, the cheque is honoured.Positive Pay operational guidelines soonThe RBI has said that the guidelines for the new system will be released soon. The guidelines will have to be adhered to by both the participating banks and customers. RBI Governor Shashikanta Das also said that the central bank will set up an Innovation Hub in India to promote innovation in the financial sector.A scheme of retail payments in offline mode using cards and mobile devices, and a system of online dispute resolution (ODR) mechanism for digital payments will also be introduced, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-does-rbi-s-positive-pay-system-for-securing-your-high-value-cheques-work/story-ErKbSeD48WT2CG5GMyRpzN.html
15-08-2020||India||Indian Army dogs Vida, Sophie honoured with ‘Commendation Cards’ on 74th Independence Day||Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year, for their role in different operations.Commendations Cards are given to dogs for good performance while performing the duty.In December last year, in a bid to increase the operational capabilities of its troops, the Army has developed an audio-video surveillance system integrated with a protective bulletproof jacket, which can be mounted stealthily on the Army dogs to receive information about location and strength of enemy from a safe distance.Also read: Cop in Maoist hotbed of Gadchiroli wins second gallantry medal in 5 yearsEquipped with the gadget, the Army dogs can spy on the enemy location from close quarters. The camera and transmitter send the information on the receiver that can be at a safe distance up to one-km from the enemy location.Also read: New focus of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is ‘make for world’, says PM Modi“The Silent Warriors” as the Army dog unit is fondly called have indeed proven to be an asset for the security forces. They are truly the warriors India needs to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-dogs-vida-sophie-honoured-with-commendation-cards-on-74th-independence-day/story-gnHaQinxDfj2CKZNZQf6vO.html
15-08-2020||India||WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan honoured for helping Tamil Nadu fight Covid-19||Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation, Soumya Swaminathan was on Saturday conferred with the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s special award, in recognition of her advisory role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Swaminathan received the award from Chief Minister K Palaniswami on the 74th Independence Day celebration at Fort St George here. The WHO representative has been offering suggestions to the state health department to step up measures in fighting the pandemic. Later, speaking to reporters, Swaminathan thanked the state government for selecting her and advised people to follow the pandemic protocols while venturing out. “Maintain a six feet social distance, do not go out without wearing masks and be careful while venturing out”, she said. According to the World Health Organisation, Swaminathan has 30 years of experience in clinical care and research and has worked throughout her career to translate her research into impactful programmes. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s Best Practices award was bagged by the department of treasuries, while the Greater Chennai Corporation received the second prize for conducting fever clinics across the city to break the transmission chain of Covid-19. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation received the certificate of appreciation for various steps undertaken to ensure uninterrupted availability of drugs for combating coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-honoured-for-helping-tamil-nadu-fight-covid-19/story-QvJSRCv871c4xZ0qQJnKiM.html
15-08-2020||India||ED grills Kerala CM’s former secretary in gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday grilled M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer and former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with the gold smuggling case, official said.Sivasankar was earlier questioned by the National Investigation Agency and Customs department in the same case.The ED had made a submission in the special court dealing with economic offences in Kochi saying after questioning Swapna Suresh, second accused in the smuggling case, it came to know that Sivasankar was aware of her questionable integrity. It also said when the state government officials went to the United Arab Emirates in 2018 to seek flood assistance she was in the country to co-ordinate their visit. It showed she had considerable influence at the CM’s office, the ED said in the affidavit.The Kerala gold smuggling case hit the headlines on July 5 when the Customs seized 30 kg of gold that came in an air consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. P Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate who came to take the consignment was arrested by the Customs after the seizure of the gold and two others – Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Sivasankar was suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. Meanwhile, the NIA arrested four more persons in connection with the case. With this total arrest has gone up to 20. It also carried out raids at six places in Kozhikkode and Malappuram districts. The NIA took over the case a week after the seizure. Other Central agencies like the Customs, ED, Income Tax and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are assisting the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-grills-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-8jqHLQvqQBWAHkPqvrPmgM.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi rues absence of children at Red Fort during I-Day celebrations||Clad in thematic wear, every Independence Day they sit on the lawns of the Red Fort in a colourful pattern drawing the attention of the crowd, but on Saturday, school children were conspicuous by their absence at the venue.Children are vulnerable to the coronavirus infection and so, in view of the containment measures adopted for the event, they did not take part in the celebrations this year, which were significantly scaled down due to the Covid-19 situation.“Today, our children are not here with us. The coronavirus pandemic has halted all of us,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort.Everyone felt their absence as children clap and cheer loudly throughout the event, but this time, it was a rather quiet affair in keeping with the Covid-19 safety protocols.While there were a few school students from the higher classes among the NCC cadets who took part in the celebrations, they too said the absence of the children could be felt.Popular among children, Modi has a penchant to interact with the crowd at a close distance, especially the children, and every year at the Independence Day celebrations, he invariably breaks the security protocol to shake hands with the children, who wait to meet and greet him with bated breath.Scores of school children add youthful energy to the grand event every year, but amid the coronavirus scare, they were not present on the occasion this year.Sporting a saffron and cream headgear with a half-sleeve kurta and a churidar, the prime minister delivered his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech that lasted for 86 minutes, during which he unveiled his vision of an “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” to make India a global manufacturing hub.The grand annual event was scaled down this year in keeping with the safety protocols to contain the spread of the coronavirus that has wreaked havoc across the world.A number of seats across all enclosures remained empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rues-absence-of-children-at-red-fort-during-i-day-celebrations/story-OW5I3LkfNVwQBNIVKxDUJP.html
15-08-2020||India||Covid-19 status check on Independence Day: Recovery rate at 71.7%, fatality rate at 1.94%||The national recovery rate from Coronavirus disease stands at 71.17% as India celebrates the 74th Independence Day. The country has also seen 57,381 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which is the highest figure for any single day.Union health ministry data says 32 states and Union Territories have reported higher than 50% recovery rate, while 12 states/UTs have exceeded the national recovery rate of 71.17%, translating into 18,08,936 recoveries.The development comes on a day when India registered 65,002 fresh cases, taking the Covid-19 tally past 25 lakh to reach 25,26,192, while the number of fatalities neared 50,000-mark with 996 deaths reported over the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 49,036, according to the Union health ministry data released on Saturday morning.India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11, when the country registered 53,601 new infections.The case fatality rate in the country has declined to 1.94 per cent. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had yesterday cited it as among the significant achievements of government’s containment strategy.There are 6,68,220 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, which is 26.45 per cent of the total caseload.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 2,85,63,095 samples have been tested up to August 14. Of these, 8,68,679 were examined on Friday, the highest in a day so far. The government aims to be able to test up to 1 million people every day by the end of this month. Of the total 49,036 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra counts for the maximum with 19,427, followed by 5,514 in Tamil Nadu, 4,178 in Delhi, 3,717 in Karnataka, 2,746 in Gujarat, 2,475 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,335 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,319 in West Bengal and 1,081 in Madhya Pradesh. The fatality rate of under 2% is significant in this regard as the government’s containment strategy focuses on aggressive tracing, testing and isolating patients to ensure maximum number of lives are saved. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7 and it has taken just 8 days to add another 5 lakh cases, however, the government has maintained that the high numbers of infections are a direct result of the increasing levels of testing in the country. The government also hopes that the numbers will begin to stabilize in about two months’ time. On the testing front, a total of 2,85,63,095 samples have been tested up to August 14. Of these, 8,68,679 were examined on Friday, the highest in a day so far. Giving further hope to citizens, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that the country has made preparations for the mass production of Covid-19 vaccine once it is cleared by experts. Three vaccine candidates are currently in different stages of human trial in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-status-check-on-independence-day-recovery-rate-at-71-7-fatality-rate-at-1-94/story-2W3NERpBnT9mllsRnFzFAJ.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy doesn’t mention time of death, claims lawyer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput’s post mortem report doesn’t mention time of death, says lawyerThe lawyer for Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has flagged the post mortem report of the actor which he claims does not mention the time of death. Read more Air India crew members who survived Kozhikode air crash given special leave to recoverThe cabin crew members who operated the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX 1344 that operated from Dubai to Kozhikode on August 7 have been granted special paid leave for a month. Read more Gold prices may hit below Rs 50,000 level. Should you invest or wait?Experts say the price of 10 gram of gold can fall below Rs 50,000 and that of one kilogram of silver can come down to Rs 60,000 tracking the international market. Read more Amit Shah asks countrymen to take a pledge on 74th Independence DayUnion home minister Amit Shah has said that the 74th Independence Day is witness to an independent, strong and self-sufficient India that our freedom fighters had dreamt of and he urged the citizens to take pledge on the occasion to fulfill Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Read more Sanjay Dutt posts on social media for first time since cancer diagnosis, wishes fans on Independence DayActor Sanjay Dutt has shared his first social media post after he was diagnosed with cancer earlier this week. Sanjay wished his fans and followers on Independence Day. Read more Grocery store employee entertains shoppers with her melodious voice, goes viralSome shoppers at a store in Derbyshire, United Kingdom, have had the pleasure of witnessing a melodious musical performance while grocery shopping – all thanks to 24-year-old Lily Taylor-Ward. Read moreYumthang, Dzüko, Valley of Flowers: Check out India’s most picturesque floral landscapesIf you have ever imagined yourself running through a picturesque field of blooming poppies, with your hair caught in the wind or even if you imagine trekking through these fields to capture those amazing photographs, India has several destinations that you can visit. Read more Missiles, fighter jets, medical tech: PM Modi’s ‘atmanirbhar’ India examplesAddressing the nation on Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that the country will realise the dream, adding that the dream of self-reliance is turning into a pledge. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sushant-singh-rajput-s-post-mortem-report-doesn-t-mention-time-of-death-claims-lawyer-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2sCDHxxZfYm7eElowz6rnL.html
15-08-2020||India||Cop who ran marathons to fund education now a winner of 2 President’s gallantry medals||In 2015, a poor farmer’s son from Rajewadi village in Maharashtra’s Beed district achieved his dream of becoming a police officer when he completed the course at the Police Training School in Nashik and was posted as a police sub-inspector at Gadchiroli with the C-60 commando force fighting the Maoists.Three years later in 2018 Rajesh Khandwe (29) was awarded the President’s medal for gallantry after he single-handedly eliminated two Maoists in an encounter soon after joining the force in 2015. Since then Khandwe has been part of many encounters with the Maoists in Gadchiroli. In recognition of his efforts, Khandwe was promoted to the rank of assistant police inspector in 2017.On August 15, 2020, Khandwe once again was awarded the President’s gallantry medal for his resolute actions against the Maoists that he carried out in 2017. But Khandwe isn’t celebrating his medal. Minutes after he got to know that he was being awarded the medal for gallantry on Friday morning, his friend and colleague Dushyant Nandeshwar lost his life in an encounter with the Maoists at Kothi outpost in Gadchiroli.“I have lost 25 of my friends in the last five years, and the medal is a tribute to them. Every such incident spurs me to continue my tenure in this Maoist prone area of Gadchiroli,” said Khandwe, speaking over the phone.Life has not been easy for Khandwe who as a child wanted to join the Indian Army. “I come from a very poor family, and my father could not afford our education. I studied in the village school till seventh grade and then was selected to study at Krida Prabodhani run by the Maharashtra government,” said Khandwe. Krida Prabodhani selects talented children and provides them necessary training and facilities to pursue the sport they are interested in.As an athlete, Khandwe had excelled at a young age and was spotted by the Maharashtra government. Later, Khandwe moved to Pune for further schooling and started living in a hostel. Khandwe then used to run marathons at Kolhapur, Satara and other districts just to fund his education.“I still remember how I used to run just so that I can get the prize money to fund my education. My goal was to join the Indian Army, but my family then did not have the money for me to join the National Defence Academy. But I still wanted to serve the nation, and that was my sole motto. Something which I had inculcated as a child when I knew about the supreme sacrifice made by Captain Krishnakant Kulkarni-Dharashivkar from Udgir,” said Khandwe.Captain Krishnakant Kulkarni-Dharashivkar had made the supreme sacrifice, while leading a six member Ghatak platoon of the Indian Army in Kargil in 1999, when a bomb exploded and splinters pierced his skull. Captain Kulkarni-Dharashivkar’s sacrifice had a huge bearing on Khandwe. “While I was in hostel, I had decided to join the police force and had rejected offers from many firms including the Indian Oil Corporation.”Khandwe who gladly accepted the posting at Gadchiroli after his police training isn’t interested in leaving the Maoist affected region. “My parents worry about me a lot, and each time I call them they ask me to take a transfer out of Gadchiroli. But that is not what I want, and thankfully my wife whom I married in 2017 is very supportive of my decisions. She in fact has gone ahead and named my son Veer,” said Khandwe.“I am not the one to back out of a tough situation. That is how life has been for me,” said Khandwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-who-ran-marathons-to-fund-education-now-a-winner-of-2-president-s-gallantry-medals/story-kpjly0Ylk9kFEHzgC7cabO.html
15-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh’s autopsy report skips mention of one crucial detail, claims family’s lawyer||The lawyer for Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has flagged the post mortem report of the actor which he claims does not mention the time of death.“The post mortem report that I have seen doesn’t mention the time of death which is a crucial detail. Whether he was hanged after being killed or he died by hanging can be cleared with the time of death,” Vikas Singh was quoted as saying by ANIThe postmortem was carried out at Mumbai’s Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital. A senior police official has said that cause of death is “asphyxia due to hanging” The actor was found dead in his flat in Mumbai of June 14.The Bihar government in its written submissions to the Supreme Court on Thursday said the Maharashtra Police neither registered an FIR on Rajput’s death nor did it extend any support to Patna Police for investigating the case on “account of political pressure”. Last week, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a case into the death of Rajput naming his ex-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other family members or known associates apart from unknown persons as accused.The case was handed over to CBI by the Bihar government after Rajputs father KK Singh and the Bihar police alleged a cover-up by the Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-of-death-not-mentioned-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-post-mortem-report-says-family-s-lawyer/story-kBNkofchIkyugPwGAFZUNI.html
15-08-2020||India||Jharkhand reports highest one-day jump of 1,242 Covid-19 cases, tally over 22,000||Jharkhand reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Saturday with 1,242 people found infected with the coronavirus disease while 16 patients died in different hospitals across the state.More than 100 inmates of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail (BMCJ) were among the 1,242 new patients infected with the virus. The state also reported 698 recoveries in the last 24 hours.With these new cases, the state’s total count touched 22,192 including 8,156 active cases, 13,811 recovered cases and 225 deaths.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to the health department’s bulletin, with 276 new cases Ranchi reported the most number of cases by East Singhbhum (169) and Giridih (107). Of the 16 deaths reported in the state, eight people died in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, three in Ramgarh, two each in Ranchi and Deoghar and one in Hazaribag.With the addition of 276 new Covid-19 cases, Ranchi has so far reported 4,272 cases including 2,006 active cases, 2,228 recoveries and 38 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAccording to the bulletin, the pandemic’s seven days growth rate stood at 4.89% and disease’s doubling period was 14.11 days. The recovery rate was 61.82% and mortality rate was 1.01%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-registers-record-1242-new-covid-19-cases-ranchi-crosses-4000-mark/story-uocagFwah1cMHOcrD7rOVM.html
15-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Narendra Modi, demands inclusion of Chhattisgarhi dialect in 8th Schedule||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the inclusion of Chhattisgarhi dialect among the languages in the 8th Schedule of the Indian Constitution enabling its wider use and recognition. In his letter, the chief minister said that while it has been twenty years since the formation of Chhattisgarh as the 26th state of the Indian Republic, in terms of culture, the state has a separate identity in ancient history. He said that the states’ Chhattisgarhi dialect has a history of its own. The grammar of the dialect, prepared by Hiralal Kavyopadhyay and edited and translated by George A.K. Grierson, was published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1890. A wide range of quality literature is also available in Chhattisgarhi and is continuously increasing.The CM further said that while Chhattisgarhi sub-dialects and some other languages are also prevalent in the state, the majority of the residents use Chhattisgarhi as their language and it is also a language of communication with those speaking other regional dialects. He informed that apart from Hindi, Chhattisgarhi has been adopted as a state official language and Chhattisgarhi Official Language Day is celebrated every year on 28th November in the state.Further building the case for the language, CM Baghel said the Chhattisgarh Official Language Commission has also been constituted to preserve the tradition and for the development of overall linguistic diversity of the state according to the public sentiment and necessity.Baghel said it has been conveyed by the Centre that the inclusion of Chhattisgarhi and some other languages in the Eighth Schedule is under consideration. In this perspective, in accordance with the sentiment of 2.75 crore people of Chhattisgarh state, you are requested that keeping in view the prosperity and public goodness of Chhattisgarh, it is necessary to include Chhattisgarhi in the Eighth Schedule.The Eighth Schedule currently recognises 22 Indian languages,helping in their development and enabling people to take examinations for public service in the listed languages. He also urged the prime minister to take quick and positive decisions in accordance with the sentiments of the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-demands-inclusion-of-chhattisgarhi-dialect-in-8th-schedule/story-GqRbmrlCmDXY4NKOHBCAiN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Blaming Cong to cover up failure’: Shivakumar slams Karnataka home minister over Bengaluru violence||The Congress in Karnataka on Saturday slammed home minister Basavaraj Bommai over his alleged failure to prevent the violence in Bengaluru that left three dead, and said he sought to blame the ‘internal strife’ in the grand old party for the incident.“I read the Home Minister’s statement.. Who is he? Any authority or sub-inspector or has he been appointed as the commissioner of police? Who is he to talk about investigating the corporators, blackmail and threaten them by serving notices to them?” Congress state chief DK Shivakumar asked.He was addressing reporters here after hoisting tricolour at his party office on the occasion of the Independence Day.Bommai had on Friday alleged that internal squabble in Congress and SDPI’s larger conspiracy to disturb law and order were among the reasons behind the recent violence in Pulakeshinagar constituency here.Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.Also read: Siddaramaiah didn’t condemn attack on Congress MLA’s house, says BJPThe MLA’s residence and a police station at DJ Halli were torched by rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister.Shivakumar, a former minister, further said the BJP-led government in the state was trying to give the riots a caste colour only to ‘cover up’ its failure.Alleging that communal violence takes place whenever BJP comes to power, the state Congress chief said the Sringeri incident was planned by BJP and Bajrang Dal.Also read: Bengaluru’s dark night | HT EditorialHe was referring to the incident that occurred two days ago in Sringeri, where a flag was found atop a statue of Adiguru Shankaracharya leading to tension in the temple town.A man, who had allegedly picked up a poster from the nearby mosque and threw it on Shankaracharya’s statue under the influence of liquor has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaming-cong-to-cover-up-failure-shivakumar-slams-karnataka-home-minister-over-bengaluru-violence/story-cXMeHiNlRD1TGFKLmWLTHK.html
15-08-2020||India||Independence-Day celebrated across Jammu region amid heightened security||The 74th Independence Day was celebrated with full zeal and patriotic fervour across Jammu region on Saturday amid heightened security arrangements and the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. However, the official functions witnessed low attendance as authorities restricted the entry to special invitees and also curtailed many traditional programmes as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The main function in Jammu region was held at Mini Stadium Parade here where K K Sharma, advisor to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, unfurled the national flag and addressed the gathering, highlighting the importance of the event. The officials said the respective district development commissioners hoisted the national flag at the main functions in the rest of the nine districts of Jammu region, while small official functions also marked the day. In Jammu and elsewhere, local residents hoisted the tricolour at various city chowks, while all mainstream political parties including the BJP, Congress, National Conference, PDP and Panthers Party also organised special functions to observe the day. “I congratulate the people of the country on the auspicious occasion including those residing under the illegal occupation of Pakistan and China. This country belongs to the people living in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and those in Aksai Chin (China) as well. “The time will come sooner or later that they will be freed and we will hoist our tricolour there as well,” J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina told reporters after unfurling the national flag at the party headquarters here. Meanwhile, two groups of sports enthusiasts celebrated Independence Day in their own style with a dozen cyclists undertaking a 74-km ride from Jammu to Samba and another group of over 50 runners covering 10 km distance in Kathua district. Carrying national flags and chanting slogans in praise of the country, the organisers planned the events separately to convey a message of unity and motivate youngsters towards physical exercise to maintain fitness, especially during the current pandemic. “We have decided to undertake a 74 km journey from Jammu to Samba to celebrate Independence Day and convey a positive message on the need for physical activity,” the leader of over a dozen-strong group of professional cyclists said before leaving for the trip on Saturday morning. He said they are aware of the challenging situation due to the outbreak of the pandemic and are strictly following the guidelines. Authorities in Jammu had imposed a weekend lockdown -- from 6 pm Friday to 6 am Monday -- since July 24 following a spike in Covid-19 which had claimed a total of 39 lives in the region. Separately, over 50 runners including 20 girls and some cyclists covered 10-km distance in Kathua district. “We had planned this event to celebrate Independence Day and also to motivate the people especially youngsters to physical fitness,” Neeraj Singh, member of Kathua distance runners, said. Carrying flags, the participants chanted slogans in praise of the country throughout the journey in the town, while maintaining social distancing. Police, Army, BSF, CRPF and other security forces also hoisted the tricolour in special functions at their headquarters in the hinterland and along the Line of Control (LOC) and International Border (IB), the officials said. Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) Mayor Chander Mohan Gupta hoisted the national flag in presence of JMC Commissioner Avny Lavasa at JMC headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-celebrated-across-jammu-region-amid-heightened-security/story-wRAP6dhNzn7ocX2m8QsupK.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘thank you’ note to the Gulf sharpens the contrast with Pak | Analysis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke of India’s deepening ties with the Gulf countries and thanked them for letting Indians stay for an extended period amid the coronavirus pandemic. India is grateful to them for honouring New Delhi’s request, he said in his 90-minute address to the nation from Red Fort.India’s ties with the Gulf countries, crucial to meet New Delhi’s energy needs, had improved manifold in recent years, PM Modi said. The explicit expression of gratitude to countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar comes amid the government’s consistent efforts to strengthen ties with the Gulf across sectors.PM Modi’s remarks, as also India’s unequivocal statement welcoming UAE’s accord with Israel, contrasted sharply with Pakistan’s guarded response to full normalisation of relations between UAE and Israel.“Pakistan’s approach (to the accord) will be guided by our evaluation of how Palestinians’ rights and aspirations are upheld and how regional peace, security and stability are preserved,” Islamabad’s statement said,India’s statement, issued after UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan briefed his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, was unambiguous and welcomed restoration of full diplomatic ties between New Delhi’s two strategic partners. New Delhi also maintained its traditional support for the Palestinian cause and hoped for early direct negotiations for an acceptable two state solution.Israeli foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi spoke to Jaishankar on Saturday to brief him on the accord.Also Read: From Red Fort, PM Modi delivers one message to 2 neighbours, China and PakSince he took over as PM, Narendra Modi has made cementing relations with Gulf countries his topmost priority. He was the first prime minister to visit Abu Dhabi in 2015 after 34 years. The next year, he traveled to Saudi Arabia, the flag bearer of Sunni Islam. The two Sunni countries along with Kuwait and Qatar are at the heart of PM’s Middle East diplomacy as New Delhi realises the role these countries play in its energy security, the well-being and progress of the Indian diaspora safety as well as the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the 57-member grouping of Islamic countries.An Indian diplomat said the statements by New Delhi and Islamabad on the UAE-Israel accord reflecting their different priorities.“While India has found partners for peace in the Middle East, it is for Pakistan to answer whether it will partner on-going Shia revolution in Iran or restoration of Ottoman empire in Turkey or revival of Muslim Brotherhood in Qatar. It is quite evident that the UAE-Israel accord will restore peace in the normally restive region as opposed to polarisation that Pakistan has exploited in the past using either Palestine or Kashmir as per its political convenience,” said a senior Indian diplomat.It was a reflection of the strength of ties between India and the Gulf countries that Pakistan’s repeated requests to convene a meeting of the OIC’s Council of Foreign Ministers have not been accepted so far. The Saudi-led OIC’s refusal drove foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi to tell a TV channel that he would ask Prime Minister Imran Khan “to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir”.The Imran Khan government, which came under attack from opposition parties for Qureshi’s remarks, is learnt to have hugely upset the kingdom. Pakistan is planning to send its Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa to Riyadh to try to repair relations but is yet to get confirmation from Saudi Arabia for an appointment with the Saudi leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-thank-you-note-to-the-gulf-sharpens-the-contrast-with-pak-analysis/story-doL5uiKSmNRHQeIqP4ay9L.html
15-08-2020||India||Governor Jagdeep Dhankar calls for violence-free elections in Bengal||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday called for violence-free elections in Bengal during an interaction with media persons at an Independence Day function. The crucial state assembly elections are due in 2021. “I appeal to everyone. Let us generate a climate that will give an example to the entire country that elections in the state of West Bengal are most authentic, genuine and free from any kind of violence,” Dhankhar said.Violence has marked all recent elections in the state and dozens have been killed in the run up to the elections and in post-poll violence. In 2003, at least 76 people were killed throughout the panchayat election process – the highest death toll in any election in the state. It is apprehended that the upcoming assembly elections in 2021 are likely to be no exception. The Bharatiya Janata Party which won 18 of the state’s 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, marking the party’s highest ever growth in Bengal, recently hinted that it would adopt an aggressive role in the coming elections. BJP’s state president Dilip Ghosh had tweeted in June: “Badla o hobe, badal o hobe.” (There will be revenge as well as change). The slogan appeared with Ghosh’s photo and a map of West Bengal. The party has alleged that at least 108 leaders and workers have been killed in Bengal since 2011. The ruling Trinamool Congress, which had been at loggerheads with the governor on several occasions, had accused Dhankhar of acting like a mouthpiece of the BJP Recently chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said: “I think the governor is acting more dangerously than a BJP mouthpiece” Dhankhar also said Saturday he would ensure that elections are free and fair this time. “I have been trying for it from day one. And I can assure this will happen. This is bound to happen. This is my constitutional obligation. I am working harmoniously with everyone concerned to ensure that democratic fabric is not tainted and stained and that it is kept sublime,” he said. A TMC minister, however, took a jibe at the governor and said that Dhankhar, while commenting on poll violence, could be referring to the BJP ruled states. “I think he was referring to the country as a whole and was criticizing the violence which the BJP has unleashed. Even we want elections to be violence-free. The most free and fair elections are held in West Bengal. The governor was referring to BJP-ruled states where anarchy is going on,” said science and technology minister Bratya Basu.“We welcome the governor’s statement. It is his constitutional duty and obligation to ensure that elections are held in a free and fair manner. While it is true that violence has been unleashed in BJP ruled states, it would also be a big joke if we say that elections in Bengal are held in a free and fair manner. In the BJP ruled states terror started after 2014. In West Bengal it started in 2011,” said Sujan Chakraborty, a CPI (M) legislator from Jadavpur.Chief minister Banerjee along with the chief secretary, home secretary, director general of police and Kolkata police commissioner, went to Raj Bhavan to meet the governor on Saturday noon. “The governor had invited us for tea in the afternoon. But we won’t be able to attend it. So we went to meet him much earlier without prior appointment,” Banerjee said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-jagdeep-dhankar-calls-for-violence-free-elections-in-bengal/story-qYPWTREQ7K7vosfSoMqbkI.html
15-08-2020||India||No dearth of medicines and PPE kits in Tripura, CM Biplab Deb on I-Day||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Saturday that there is no shortage of medicines and personal protective equipment (PPE), amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the state.Unfurling the national flag at the Assam Rifles Parade Ground here on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day, he lauded Covid-19 warriors for their services.“Independence Day is being celebrated in the country in an unusual situation due to the coronavirus pandemic. The government is taking all measures to contain the spread of the disease. There is no dearth of medicine and PPE kits in the state,” Deb said.He inspected the guard of honour of various contingents of the security forces and presented medals to the police personnel for their distinguished services. Only a few ministers and government officials were present on the occasion.The chief minister said the government has arranged for 2,129 beds for treatment of coronavirus patients and a medical college will be set up in Ambassa, the headquarters of Dhalai district. Inspected the parade & took salutation of forces during celebration of 74th Independence Day at Assam Rifles ground in Agartala.Also distributed various Police Medals and addressed beloved people of Tripura.#TripuraCelebrates15thAug#IDay2020 pic.twitter.com/nqkliDLPEWThe total number of coronavirus patients in the state rose to 6,952 with 164 new cases reported on Saturday, while the toll climbed to 50 as four more persons succumbed to the disease, a health department official said.Deb said the government is working to bring the entire state under the broadband network connection.The Centre has allocated Rs 3,193 crore for the 15-km long Agartala-Akhaura rail link project and the work for it is progressing well, he said, adding that a survey for an alternative railway line from Belonia in South Tripura district to Dharmanagar in North Tripura has been started.Tripura will emerge as a logistic hub in the north-east region as vessels will start ferrying goods soon through the India-Bangladesh protocol route on the Gomati river, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dearth-of-medicines-and-ppe-kits-in-tripura-cm-biplab-deb-on-i-day/story-iaoHeZebnOB7UmI42HFjnN.html
15-08-2020||India||Despite HC stay, Jagan sticks to 3 capitals plan, says foundation for executive capital at Vizag shortly||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday announced laying of foundation stone for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool shortly. Jagan’s announcement at the 74th Independence Day celebrations held at Indira Gandhi municipal stadium in Vijayawada came at a time when the state high court is hearing a record number of 55 public interest litigation petitions challenging the recently enacted legislations to form three capitals in the state. Addressing the gathering after unfurling the tricolour, the chief minister said the decision to establish three capitals was taken to ensure balanced growth of the state and to do justice to all the three regions. “The bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh in 2014 has left deep wounds on the people of the state and they are deeply hurt. Decentralisation of development and balanced growth in all the three regions of the state by forming three capital cities is the only way to undo the injustice done to Andhra Pradesh due to bifurcation,” Jagan said. He added that foundation stones for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool will be laid “very soon”.His government’s plan to lay the foundation stone on August 16 for the construction of the executive capital at Visakhapatnam has been halted due to the state high court’s order extending the status quo on the three capitals plan till August 27. The government has moved the Supreme Court seeking to vacate the stay, but the SC has not taken up the case till now. Also Read: After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan decides to develop it againThe chief minister also reiterated his government’s commitment to achieve special category status for Andhra Pradesh.“It was a promise made by the Centre in the Parliament. Today, the Centre doesn’t need anybody’s support. I hope the situation will change and by God’s grace, we will get Special Category Status”, he said, adding that his government would continue to make efforts in that direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-hc-stay-jagan-sticks-to-3-capitals-plan-says-foundation-for-executive-capital-at-vizag-shortly/story-OWBr3DZLr0ukeRCYT3YttO.html
15-08-2020||India||Like ‘Quit India’, campaign needed against Covid-19, says Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday called for a mass awareness campaign on the lines of the Quit India Movement against the British in order to drive out coronavirus from the state and the country.Speaking at the Independence Day function at Swarnim Park in Gandhinagar, he said that while the pandemic had slowed down the pace of development in the state, his government was committed to make up for it.“To achieve independence and drive out the British, the entire country resonated with the slogan of Quit India. As a result, the British left the country and we got freedom.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Likewise, let’s start a mass awareness campaign to free the country and Gujarat of coronavirus,” he said.Rupani also spoke about the initiatives taken by his government to help people tide over the current crisis.“It is our strength that despite earthquake, flood, cyclone, Gujarat and its people have changed crises into opportunities. Our development arc has slowed, but we are committed to make it up,” he said. The state government has managed to bring down the Covid-19 death rate to 2.1 per cent and increase the recovery rate to 78 per cent, he said.Due to its effort to deal with the pandemic, the state government has received positive feedback from the Supreme Court, World Health Organisation and Niti Aayog, he said.The state government has announced a Rs 14,000 crore Aatmanirbhar package for small businesses, farmers, fishermen, among others to revive the economy, he said.The state government had offered Rs 1,370 crore as assistance to MSMEs affected by the pandemic, he added.Chief minister’s wife Anjali Rupani and senior bureaucrats were present at the event in the state capital.Due to the pandemic, the function was held in the capital for the first time in 15 years instead of the headquarters of some other district in the state, the tradition started by former chief minister Narendra Modi.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Rupani also felicitated “corona warriors,” including senior doctors of the state coronavirus taskforce health workers from different parts of the state for their contribution to the fight against the pandemic.He said the state government has launched the Industrial Policy 2020 under the Aatmanirbhar Gujarat, which will ensure holistic development of the backward areas of the state.The chief minister said the Gujarat government will take a lead in the National Digital Health Mission announced by the prime minister.At least 1.5 lakh youngsters in the state had benefited from the Mukhya Mantri Apprenticeship Scheme, he said.Apart from this, land rights have been transferred to 51,400 tribals under Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) PESA Act.Listing some of the achievements of his government, the chief minister said that water reservoir capacity has increased under Sujalam Sufalam Yojana, while uninterrupted power and quality electricity has been provided to farmers.Rupani also spoke about the recently-launched Mukhya Mantri Kisan Sahay Yojana and various steps taken to help the farmers in the state.Moreover, the state government had set up new medical and engineering colleges, some of them in tribal areas, to cater to the needs of the regions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-quit-india-campaign-needed-against-covid-19-says-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani/story-8NJ10mSMwf839M09pjggQL.html
15-08-2020||India||Air India crew members who survived Kozhikode air crash given special leave to recover from tragedy||The cabin crew members who operated the ill-fated Air India Express flight IX 1344 that operated from Dubai to Kozhikode on August 7 have been granted special paid leave for a month.An airline source said that these crew members have been given special leave so that they can rest and recover from the tragedy. The plane overshot the runway while lading at the table top Kozhikode airport; it had four cabin crew members and two pilots.While the two pilots lost their lives in the accident, all four cabin crew were rescued. Total 18 people had lost their lives in the tragedy.Top sources from the airline said that the cabin crew, who were stationed at their seats while landing, had started taking off their seat belts when the accident took place. While two male cabin crew (Abhik Biswas and Lalit Kumar) went unhurt, a senior female cabin crew - Shilpa Katare - suffered minor injuries.One of the male cabin crew members had to be rushed to the intensive care unit of a hospital, but is believed to be stable as of now. While Katare got discharged and returned to her home in Calicut on Wednesday, Akshay Pal Singh, the fourth male cabin crew is recuperating in the hospital. He is believed to have fractured his leg and sustain multiple inuries.While speculation continues around the probable reason for the accident, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Wednesday announced that a team of five officials have begun their probe on the cause and the contributory factors leading to the accident. The team has been told to complete the investigations in five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabin-crew-members-who-survived-kozhikode-air-crash-given-special-leave-to-recover-from-tragedy/story-akPQH1CWSg2BYNObbwYl9H.html
15-08-2020||India||Amit Shah asks countrymen to take a pledge on 74th Independence Day||Union home minister Amit Shah has said that the 74th Independence Day is witness to an independent, strong and self-sufficient India that our freedom fighters had dreamt of and he urged the citizens to take pledge on the occasion to fulfill Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.“On this Independence Day, come, let us pledge to fulfill the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s dream of an Atmanirbhar Bharat and contribute to India achieving newer feats by adopting as much as possible ‘Make in India’ productsShah made the comments while unfurling the National Flag at his New Delhi residence. He also paid tribute to all brave men who have safeguarded India’s territorial integrity with their valour and sacrifice.“On the occasion of Independence Day, I bow before those who contributed to India’s freedom with their valour and sacrifice and also pay my respects to those brave men and women who made the supreme sacrifice in the cause of the nation’s unity, integrity and security,” he said.Building on the theme of self reliance, the home minister added that the current government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had uplifted the poor and deprived sections from poverty and empowered them. He also said that India had emerged as a powerful country.“On one hand the Modi Government has provided poor and deprived sections with housing, power and health insurance, while on the other hand India has emerged as a powerful nation,” Shah said.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on making the country self-reliant and strong while announcing several initiatives like national digital health mission and mass production of Covid-19 vaccine once it is approved for mass use by scientists during his 7th consecutive Independence Day speech delivered from the ramparts of the Red Fort.The prime minister stressed on Aatmanirbhar Bharat and presented a broad outline for reviving India’s economic growth with the mantra of self-reliance at its heart. He also said that India was determined to protect its sovereignty despite the dual threats of terrorism and expansionism without naming either Pakistan or China.PM Modi said his government had committed Rs 110 lakh crore for national infrastructure projects to boost the economy and create jobs and added that all six lakh villages in the country will be connected with optical fibre in 1,000 days.Dwelling extensively on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, he gave a call for reducing imports and pushing exports of finished products in place of raw material. He added that India will have to focus on the twin mantras of Make in India as well as Make for World.The prime minister also underscored his government’s commitment to holding assembly polls in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the ongoing delimitation exercise is over and stated that a new era of development has begun in the region after the scrapping of Article 370 a year ago.While announcing the launch of the national digital health mission from Saturday, Modi said citizens will be issued a health card that will have all their medical information, adding the project will revolutionise healthcare in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-asks-countrymen-to-take-a-pledge-on-74th-independence-day/story-SUxCOJIrkgkf5Y8rOJZHML.html
15-08-2020||India||Nepalese PM KP Sharma Oli calls Narendra Modi to greet him on I-day||Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to convey his greetings on India’s 74th Independence Day and also congratulated the government for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, the external affairs ministry said in a statement“The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries. Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard,” the statement said.On August 9, India handed over 10 ventilators to Nepal for its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi thanked his Nepalese counterpart for his telephone call and recalled the civilizational and cultural links that India and Nepal share, the statement said.Oli’s phone call came amid Indo-Nepal ties hitting a rough patch after the Himalayan country recently unveiled a new map showing parts of Uttarakhand as its territory.On Friday, Oli took to Twitter to greet Modi. “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepalese-pm-kp-sharma-oli-calls-narendra-modi-to-greet-him-on-i-day/story-QdIqvOcdo7AWzGHP1lCODM.html
15-08-2020||India||Defence minister contradicted PM Modi on Ladakh stand-off, says Ahmed Patel||Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Saturday criticised the Centre over the eastern Ladakh stand-off and said that the Defence Minister contradicted Prime Minister on the matter.“Merely saying it is not enough. If they gave a response we are happy. We must believe what PM says but he and his government know the reality. The reality is not good. If they (Chinese soldiers) entered into our territory -Defence Minister said something and PM said something else,” he said while speaking to ANI.“They should at least take Opposition into confidence. If something has happened then what is there to be ashamed of? It happened earlier too. The action should be taken diplomatically, economically and they should be pushed back if they entered into this side,” he added.The statement from the Congress leader came hours after Prime Minister in his Independence Day speech said that India’s soldiers have given a fitting reply to anyone who has challenged the country’s sovereignty, “from LoC to LAC”“From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), whenever India’s sovereignty has been challenged, our soldiers have answered them in their own language,” said the Prime Minister, in a strong message to Pakistan and China without naming either.Referring to the clash with China in June at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, PM Modi further stated, “India’s integrity is supreme for us. What our jawans can do, what the country can do, the world saw that in Ladakh. Today, I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-contradicted-pm-modi-on-ladakh-stand-off-says-ahmed-patel/story-cx5jjzsiC0AhMslrRLai6I.html
15-08-2020||India||2,496 new cases push Odisha’s Covid-19 tally to over 57,000||Odisha on Saturday reported record 2,496 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 57,126, a health department official said.Nine more coronavirus patients also succumbed to the disease, following which the death toll rose to 333, he said.Of the new patients, 1,591 were reported from among the people lodged in different quarantine centres, while 905 were detected during contact tracing.The fresh cases were found in 29 of the state’s 30 districts.Khurda district, of which state capital Bhubaneswar is a part, reported the maximum number of new cases at 378, followed by Ganjam at 327, Balasore at 165, Sundargarh at 156, Rayagada at 146 and Koraput at 133. “Regret to inform of the demise of nine Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said in a twitter.Of the nine fatalities, four were reported from Sambalpur district, two from Cuttack and one each from Ganjam, Keonjhar and Nayagarh.Besides, 53 more Covid-19 patients have lost their lives in the state but these fatalities have been attributed to other reasons.There are 17,534 active cases in the state at present, while 39,206 patients have so far recovered from the disease.Odisha tested record 47,887 samples for Covid-19 on Friday. So far, the state has conducted 8,55,713 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-496-new-cases-push-odisha-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-57-000/story-quKcGRN5ekJOPMzFylrSLK.html
15-08-2020||India||J-K on a new journey of normalcy and development, says L-G Sinha in I-Day speech||A new era of normalcy and development has dawned in Jammu and Kashmir due to the changes effected in the last one year, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Saturday and expressed the resolve to make peace, progress and social harmony the most integral part of the transformed narrative. “It is a matter of great sorrow that the legacy of cultural syncretism has been eclipsed by the vicious story of sectarianism. But, we want to transform the narrative once again. We want to make development, peace, progress and social harmony the most integral part of the narrative of Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha said in his Independence Day speech at Sher-e-Kashmir cricket stadium here. He said that the government is committed to providing a better alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation for the people of Jammu and Kashmir and urged the youths to engage in activism that helps the nation to progress. “After the constitutional change enacted in 2019, the central government took not one or two, but historic 50 decisions to transform the face of the region. A new era of normalcy and development has dawned due to the changes effected in the last year; a new journey has been undertaken,” the L-G said referring to the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year. Referring to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s doctrine of ‘Insaniyat, Jamhooriyat and Kashmiriyat’, Sinha lamented that humanity conceded defeat to terrorism for decades in Kashmir, democracy suffered at the hands of vested interests and Kashmiriyat was massacred to appease the hatred that ensued. Youth and student life are defined through activism and youth-power has been the harbinger of all transformations, said Sinha, who took charge on August 7. “Activism is not a bad thing, but to choose the correct option is of utmost significance. Your activism should be directed at the development of the nation, as this country belongs to none other than you, and you are its future leaders,” he said, exorting the youths in Jammu and Kashmir to take advantage of the new opportunities. The L-G said the government has five main guiding principles - to put in place a just and transparent system of governance, a thriving grassroots level democracy, maximizing the reach of government welfare schemes; accelerating economic development and creation of employment. Sinha said some “wrong decisions” were unfortunately taken after independence which inevitably led to resentment in the hearts of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and distanced them from the rest. “This distancing led to the widening of fissures and cracks. Generation after generation was sacrificed at the altar of hatred. Instead of countless doors that should have opened for the people in independent India, numerous doors closed upon the people, and distances increased,” he said. He, however, said equality and justice are being gradually restored in Jammu and Kashmir. Sinha said his administration stands by all those who are committed to and strive towards strengthening democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. “Elected representatives of local self-governments, who face threat, are being provided with a Rs 25 lakh life insurance cover. To make policing more effective, the necessary reforms are being undertaken,” he said, remarks which come in the backdrop of recent attacks on political workers. “We are committed to providing a better alternative for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. An alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation,” he added. The L-G said no system of governance can be truly just if even one person is deprived of equal social, political and economic rights. “The rights of women who marry outside Jammu and Kashmir are now protected. “Refugees from West Pakistan, displaced migrants, pahadi speaking people, Other Backward Classes and safai karmis have finally found long delayed justice. They now possess democratic, employment and property rights. “An unbiased reservation policy is being put in place now in education and employment sectors,” he said. The L-G said the full application of 73rd and 74th amendments of the Constitution has laid the ground for a strong grassroots democracy in the UT. “Panchayats and municipalities lay the base for thriving, significant and accountable grassroots democracy. To ensure development, unprecedented energy is being channelized at the ground level through 960 councillors, as well as more than 27,000 sarpanchs and panchs,” he said. He expressed gratitude to J-K police, central paramilitary forces and the jawans of the military, for sacrificing their lives to ensure the integrity and freedom of the nation and ensure that the citizens of the country live a secure and peaceful life. Sinha said the government aims to create ultra-modern and world-class infrastructure in the UT. “We have to transform Jammu and Kashmir into a world class tourism destination. We have to create a peaceful environment here. I expect the full cooperation and support of people here that we may create a new Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. “We are committed to provide a better alternative for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. An alternative that stands for development, welfare and social transformation,” he added. Sinha said it was the dream of Sardar Patel that whole India should not just exist as a political map, but also move forward together at the same time and conquer new milestones of development and progress. “To honour this dream, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’ on 31 October 2015, on the eve of National Integration Day. “This programme aims at increasing and encouraging cultural interactions among the different parts of the country, and motivates the people to engage more deeply with cultures other than their own. Under this programme, Jammu and Kashmir has been linked to Tamil Nadu. “I hope and wish that this endeavour to strengthen cultural relations is not restricted to a specific area, rather people of Jammu and Kashmir should forge strong relations with each and every region of the country. It is my strongest and cherished belief that Jammu and Kashmir will immensely contribute to the realization of our dream of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-on-a-new-journey-of-normalcy-and-development-says-l-g-sinha-in-i-day-speech/story-Y9UnKipmliH07DRFgZqFOK.html
15-08-2020||India||Vested interests have misappropriated peace dividends, says Nagaland governor in I-Day message||Nagaland Governor’s RN Ravi said on Saturday vested interests have misappropriated the dividends of peace and didn’t allow them to reach the people of the northeastern state. In an Independence Day message, Ravi, who is also the interlocutor for the ongoing Naga peace talks, mentioned how the “waves of positive change” sweeping all parts of the country seem to have bypassed Nagaland. “When the security forces and Naga armed groups agreed to suspend operations against each other paving way for a political settlement, the legitimate expectation of the people of Nagaland was dividends of peace—freedom from fear of guns, better health, better education, better infrastructure, better livelihood opportunities, an atmosphere to dream and an eco-system to pursue their dreams,” the governor said in his message. “Incongruously, a deep entrenched network of vested interests has emerged during the period which has misappropriated the dividends of peace and didn’t allow them to reach the people. There is mass-scale mayhem and miscarriage of dreams and expectations of the people of Nagaland. It is unendurable and unacceptable,” he added. Ravi’s message comes at a time when another round of meetings to thrash out a final agreement for the decades-old Naga political issue is set to begin in New Delhi from next week in which senior National Socialist Council of Nagaland-IM (NSCN-IM) and Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) leaders are expected to take part. The message also comes in the backdrop of a demand by NSCN-IM to remove Ravi as the interlocutor for the peace talks—something which the NNPGs, seven other outfits who are part of the talks, are opposing. The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with the government of India since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) in 2015, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long-pending Naga political issue. Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and the working committee of NNPGs concluded in Delhi on October 31, 2019, a formal deal to end the decades-old Naga political problem is still awaited. “Nagaland is endowed with one of the finest human and natural resources. Unfortunately, today it has the dubious distinction of the worst-performing state in the country including the northeast region on almost all the significant indicators of human development,” Ravi said. The governor mentioned that nearly 25% of the Nagaland’s children are not enrolled in schools and around 60% of youth have not been to high school. The poor investment climate, internet connectivity and lack of progress in agriculture and horticulture sectors were also highlighted in the message. “In India’s grand march forward, Nagaland cannot be left behind. We will have to break the vice-like grip of the vicious circle of the network of vested interests and make way for the virtuous circle of peace, prosperity and happiness for our people,” he said in the message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vested-interests-have-misappropriated-peace-dividends-says-nagaland-governor-in-i-day-message/story-oJAq5C9iNx7WGHa4zL7gVO.html
15-08-2020||India||Former PMs, key senior leaders likely to skip Independence Day ‘At Home’ event due to Covid-19||For the first time, no former Indian Prime Minister is likely to attend the ‘At Home’ reception at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday — an event that usually attracts the who’s who of the national capital. According to officials involved in the event, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Devegowda are unlikely to attend the event that will see a subdued gathering of 110 people at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Convention Centre. For the first time, the customary function will see no spouses of the invitees, no live food counters, no freedom fighters and no free interaction with VVIPs—several new rules of a new normal, protocol-wrapped ceremony, amid the pandemic. Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechApart from Singh and Devegowda, some other VVIPs may also skip the event. Union home minister Amit Shah, who has put himself in home isolation according to the advice will not come. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was recently admitted in the hospital is also unlikely to attend the event. She also did not attend the flag hoisting ceremony at the Congress headquarters on Saturday morning and in her absence, former defence minister AK Antony hoisted the flag. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who is still on a ventilator after a life-saving brain surgery, is another invitee who will be missing the event. According to officials, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, is likely to remain absent. According to his aides, Azad is avoiding large gatherings. He too, could not be seen at the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters. A total of about 100 guests, including 26 Corona warriors, have been invited for the programme that will start with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind hailing the Covid warriors. Also read: ‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’ - PM ModiRefreshment including traditional delicacies such as samosas, dhokla, along with tea, would be served by a limited number of waiters who have been tested negative for Covid-19. All guest tables would be named after rivers of India and each guest would be ushered into his or her assigned place. The guest list has been heavily pruned to a maximum 90 from the normal gathering of 1,500 dignitaries. The duration for the event is likely to be reduced to barely an hour from the normal schedule of two to two and a half hours, said an official. “There would be a minimum celebration for the sake of holding the event. We have applied a rationale or logic while selecting the limited number of guests, but as a large number of dignitaries could not be called, the selection might still look like a random choice,” said an official. As a result, no ministers of state (MoSs) have been invited. Even all cabinet ministers may not get a chance to enjoy the Rashtrapati Bhavan hospitalities on August 15. “Apart from the Prime Minister, the members of the cabinet committee on security (defence, home, external affairs and finance) and a select few senior cabinet ministers would be called. The list of ministers may not go beyond ten VVIPs,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pms-key-senior-leaders-likely-to-skip-independence-day-at-home-event-due-to-covid-19/story-pWNIcN9DU1Ja5KrFv7LvMM.html
15-08-2020||India||32 babies born in Odisha Covid-19 hotspot have no symptoms: Officials||Officials in Odisha’s Covid-19 hotspot of Ganjam have said 32 babies have so far been born to infected mothers in the district but the infants do not any symptoms of the coronavirus disease.Vijay Amrita Kulange, Ganjam district collector, said while 57 pregnant women had delivered in the Covid hospital, only 32 were diagnosed with Covid-19. The rest were housed in quarantine centres, but shifted to Covid hospital as the centres don’t have facilities for childbirth. “All the mothers have now recovered from infection and are healthy,” said Kulange. Officials said as pregnancy boosted the risk of serious disease from respiratory viral infections, they were apprehensive of the pregnant women testing positive for Covid-19.“Viral infections can be severe in pregnant women as the immune system is geared toward making sure not to create any immune response against the baby. So the mother’s immune defence system is partly compromised,” Dr J Parida, a Bhubaneswar-based immunologist, said.According to officials, 88 Covid-19 positive pregnant women have delivered babies during the pandemic with only one baby contracting the viral disease. While Ganjam accounted for 32, Balasore accounted for 15. All the mothers have recovered from the viral disease after undergoing treatment at various Covid hospitals in the district.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik took to Twitter on Friday to express his happiness over the delivery of healthy babies from mothers diagnosed with Covid-19.Meanwhile, the situation in Ganjam seems to be gradually improving with the sample positivity rate going below 15 from over 70% last month. The district has reported 14,122 cases so far from one lakh samples tested. A sero-survey to measure the Immunoglobulin G in the blood of people in Berhampur town of Ganjam district by the Regional Medical Research Centre found that as much as 31% have developed antibodies to Covid-19. The antibody formation is likely to be much higher now as the survey could measure the antibody formed 14 days ago.Besides, the recovery rate in the district increased from 68.8% on August 1 to 82.2% on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-babies-born-in-odisha-covid-19-hotspot-have-no-symptoms-officials/story-mMSeDgQEtxZD7V6rd6WB7M.html
15-08-2020||India||DDA Assistant Director, 2 other staff members arrested in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested three officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), including an Assistant Director, in connection with a bribery case.An upper division clerk and a security guard have also been arrested for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1 Lakh.The assistant director has been identified as Sudhanshu Ranjan, while the name of the upper division clerk is Ajeet Bhardwaj. The security guard’s name, according to the CBI, is Darwan Singh.The arrests were made on a complaint filed by a person who wanted to sell a plot he bought from one of the allottees. That person, known to the complainant, was allotted a plot by the DDA in place of his slum. The complaint was asked for a bribe of Rs 4 lakh for the sale of the plot.The CBI laid a trap after the complaint was registered and caught the public servant red handed while accepting Rs 1 lakh as part of the bribe. The other accused were also arrested subsequently.“Searches were conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused at Delhi and Noida which led to the recovery of incriminating documents,” the CBI said.The arrested accused will be produced before the court later on Satuday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-assistant-director-2-other-staff-members-arrested-in-bribery-case/story-y2eS7EIZJAeuyzHQSeFLNN.html
15-08-2020||India||BJP worker allegedly killed by TMC supporters in clash over hoisting tricolour on I-Day||A Bharatiya Janata Party worker was allegedly killed by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress after clashes broke out between the two rival parties over hoisting the National flag on Independence Day at Hooghly district in south Bengal. While the BJP alleged that Sudarshan Pramanik, 40, was beaten to death by TMC supporters, the ruling party has refuted the allegations. Police have detained eight people after the incident. The clash sparked off tension at Khanakul around 60 km west of Kolkata. Authorities deployed a large police contingent to bring the situation under control. “A clash broke out between locals over hoisting the Indian flag at Khanakul in the morning. A man was killed when he was attacked with bamboo sticks. We have detained eight persons for interrogation,” said Tathagata Basu, superintendent of police of Hooghly district. Locals said that workers and supporters of both parties had gathered at the same spot to hoist the flag as their offices are located in the same area. Clashes broke out after some heated altercation and soon the supporters of rival parties attacked each other. “Such incidents will continue till the TMC is in power. Till date 108 BJP workers and leaders have been killed,” said Sayantan Basu, general secretary of BJP. TMC leader and the party’s spokesperson in the district, Prabir Ghosal, however, said: “TMC doesn’t believe or support violence and bloodshed. I have heard that it was a fight between two factions of the BJP. Police are investigating.” On July 13, the body of BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy was found hanging in a market near his home at Hemtabad in North Dinajpur district. Police said he had died by suicide. Thereafter two more BJP workers were found dead in Bengal. Police said both had died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-allegedly-killed-by-tmc-supporters-in-clash-over-hoisting-tricolour-on-i-day/story-GShacYbgb1sMRMUkGNBIvL.html
15-08-2020||India||A slew of announcements in Kejriwal’s Independence Day address||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that schools in the national capital will not be opened until the Covid-19 situation is brought completely under control.Addressing officials and corona warriors who were invited by Kejriwal to be honoured during the Delhi government’s independence day function, the chief minister talked about the ‘Delhi Model’ and emphasised on how aggressive testing, home isolation and plasma therapy were the key game-changers in the national capital’s fight against Covid-19.“When I meet parents, they all request only one thing that schools should not be opened yet. We care for your children as much as you do. I want to assure all parents that we will not open schools in Delhi until we are fully convinced (about the city’s Covid-19 situation),” Kejriwal said during his Independence Day speech.Also read: New focus of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is ‘make for world’ - PM Modi in Independence Day speechUnlike previous years when the Delhi government’s independence day function used to be held at the Chhatrasal Stadium, this time, owing to the pandemic, the same was organised at the Delhi secretariat in ITO. Also, fewer people were invited due to prohibitions on large gatherings.The chief minister also announced that from next week, the Delhi government will start sending oxygen concentrators to the homes of Covid-19 patients even if they have recovered from the disease.“These days we are hearing cases where a Covid-19 patient tests negative, is declared recovered and is discharged from the hospital. But, within hours or a day or two, suddenly the person’s oxygen concentration decreases and the person dies. To prevent this, from next week we will be sending oxygen concentrators to all those who need it,” he said.Kejriwal had on June 22 announced the same while launching the scheme of distributing pulse oximeters to all Covid-19 patients under home isolation.Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechThe third announcement made by Kejriwal in his speech on Saturday was about re-launching Delhi government successful ‘10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute’ (10 weeks-10 ‘o’clock-10 minutes) programme against dengue, which was first launched in September last year against dengue and other mosquito-borne diseases. The drive, Kejriwal said, will be launched again from the first week of September wherein everyone will be expected to inspect their homes for stagnant water to prevent the spread of dengue, malaria, chikungunya, zika virus among others.Before his speech, Kejriwal also launched a video message in which he urged people to pledge on three things. “First, today take the pledge that neither will you give bribe or take one. Second, pledge against pollution. Do not contribute to pollution - be it air, water or land. Third, keep your city and environment clean. Do not litter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-slew-of-announcements-in-kejriwal-s-independence-day-address/story-HfEXnUmiEeenKHQ0rfhPvL.html
15-08-2020||India||What’s the difference between SP, BJP: Mayawati after Dalit village head’s murder, boy’s death||The Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP’s) national president, Mayawati, on Saturday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh over the murder of a village head and the death of a boy in subsequent violence in the state’s Azamgarh district.Three motorcycle-borne men shot dead the 40-year-old Satyamev Jayate aka Pappu Ram on Friday evening in Bansgaon, police said.“The report about the gruesome murder of the Dalit village head Satyamev Jayate ‘Pappu’ of Bansgaon village of Azamgarh on the eve of the Independence Day and death of one crushed to death (in an accident) is extremely sad. What is the difference between the previous Samajwadi Party government and present Bharatiya Janata Party government if Dalits are subjected to atrocities in this manner and murdered?” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.Hundreds of locals gathered at the spot as news of the village head’s murder spread on Friday. A huge crowd also gathered at Bongaria Bazar. A 12-year-old boy died after he came under the wheels of a vehicle.The incident instigated the people and they attacked Bongaria Bazar police outpost and set four motorcycles on fire and pelted the police personnel with stones. Nearly five police personnel were injured in the stone-pelting.When the police tried to control the crowd, the mob resorted to stone-pelting at the police personnel. A police officer said, “We took to firing in the air to bring the situation under control.”Subhash Chandra Dubey, deputy inspector general of police, said six teams have been deployed to find and arrest the assailants involved in the murder of village head. The police would act against them under the gangster act and National Security Act (NSA), Dubey said.Officials said the situation is under control now and that the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) has been deployed in the village as a preventive measure. The police administration has also suspended the Tarwan police outpost in-charge.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and announced Rs 5 lakh each for the families of the village head and the boy. Adityanath, who expressed deep grief, also instructed officials to attach the property of the assailants and ensure action under NSA against them.Vijay Vishwash Pant, Azamgarh’s divisional commissioner, said the district administration would also give Rs 4.25 lakh each to the families of the village head and the boy as both were Dalits after the post mortem examination reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-the-difference-between-sp-bjp-mayawati-after-dalit-village-head-s-murder-boy-s-death/story-W2LIO5Nh9weZxbBAOSAPtM.html
15-08-2020||India||Woman claims having child with Uttarakhand BJP MLA, demands DNA test||Dehradun police have initiated a probe in an extortion case against a married woman and her family members after Rita Negi, wife of BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi from Uttarakhand’s Almora, lodged a complaint. Mrs Negi has accused the woman of demanding Rs 5 crore by threatening her that she will lodge a false rape complaint against her MLA husband.Rita Negi lodged the complaint against the woman on Friday in Dehradun’s Nehru Colony police station. HT has a copy of the FIR comprising the complaint. Negi is a legislator from Dwarahat assembly segment of Almora. The accused woman later in the evening released a video on social media in which she accused MLA’s wife Rita Negi of lodging a false complaint and alleged the MLA of sexually harassing her for the last two years. She claimed to have a daughter with the MLA. She also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA to prove her claims.Also read: Uttarakhand commission recommends masterplan for summer capital GairsainMLA’s wife Rita Negi in her complaint stated, “The accused woman and family were residents of Dwarahat but later moved to Dehradun a few months ago. During her stay in Dawarahat she, along with her family members, often used to visit my husband with their problems.” “However, after some time when I got to know about her suspicious activities, I stopped her entry into my house as she would also try to seek my husband’s attention in the wrong way. Later she got married to a man from UP and settled in Dehradun with him and his parents,” said Rita in her complaint. She also stated that a few days ago on August 9, while she and her family were in Dwarahat, the accused woman called her son on his mobile phone and asked him to give the phone to her. “When I took the phone, she threatened me to give her Rs 5 crore else she would frame my husband in a false rape case and destroy his political career. Shocked, I came to Dehradun where I met her at a restaurant as planned. There she again repeated the same threats and demanded Rs 5 crore to which I said I could not give her such huge money,” said Rita. Next day again, the accused called her and met her in a different restaurant with her sister-in-law. “During the second meeting, she also threatened that if her demand is not met then she would frame me also in the false rape case by accusing me of helping her husband and get my son killed. When her extortion and blackmail calls didn’t stop, I decided to lodge the complaint,” she said adding, “The woman’s husband, mother and sister-in-law are also involved in this crime who too are mentioned in the complaint.” Meanwhile, the accused woman in her video message released later in the day on social media, refuted all the allegations levelled by Rita and accused MLA Negi of sexually harassing her for the last two years. “He has been sexually harassing me for the last two years and now I had a daughter out of it. All this while, I was afraid of taking action against him as he would threaten me of dire consequences citing his political status,” said the woman. Accusing Rita of framing her in a ‘false case’, she also demanded a DNA test of her daughter and the MLA. “I had already undertaken a DNA test of my daughter and husband in which the samples didn’t match which proves that Negi is her father. I demand a DNA test of my daughter and him which will prove my claims. If the samples match then I will seek all the rights for my daughter from him as her father,” said the woman. Meanwhile, despite several attempts, MLA Negi couldn’t be contacted for his comments. Deputy inspector general Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi confirmed the development. “We have received a complaint from the MLA’s wife and registered a case against the woman for extortion and putting a person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion under relevant sections of IPC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-claims-having-child-with-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-demands-dna-test/story-rhmqS2eMNYIgKhgkT3htWP.html
15-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand commission recommends masterplan for summer capital Gairsain||The Uttarakhand rural development and migration commission’s report has recommended that a masterplan be prepared for the development of Garsain, the recently declared summer capital of the state in Chamoli district. The report stated that Garsain was one of the areas in the hill district which saw significant migration of locals to other states. The migration commission’s 95-page report on Chamoli district was released by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat here on Friday. HT has a copy of the report. On June 8 this year, the hill town of Gairsain in Chamoli district officially became the summer capital of Uttarakhand. In a surprise move in his budget speech on March 4, chief minister Rawat had announced that Gairsain located about 260 km east of Dehradun, will be the summer capital of Uttarakhand. Gairsain as the state’s capital has been a hot political issue between the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress for a long time. The migration commission’s report apart from listing the details about migration in Chamoli has also come up with recommendations on how to strengthen the rural economy in the hill district to check migration of people, especially the need to combine the indigenous Himalayan skill sets with modern technology to enhance productivity and quality that will ultimately lead to the better profit earning. According to the report, in 10 years prior to 2018, around 32,000 people have migrated from the district’s 556 villages on a temporary basis while 14,289 people have migrated from 373 villages on a permanent basis. The report also points out that 42% of the people who have migrated were in the 26 to 35 age group. Some of the recommendations made in the report include efforts be made to strengthen the rural economy in the district, employment avenues be created at the local level to check migration, horticulture be promoted as the scope for traditional crops is limited, basic facilities like roads, electricity, water supply be ensured in villages, tourism be promoted in a big way in the district, including its bordering areas with China, locals be trained in various skill sets which can help them in finding employment and so on. The chief minister said the report will help the state government to provide basic facilities, increase employment opportunities and stop migration to other states. Rawat said stress should be laid on identifying people who can be provided jobs in their districts under Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana. He said the state government has already formed a cell for this. He said the focus of the government is to provide employment to people as a large number of people have returned to the state during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to SS Negi, vice chairman Uttarakhand rural development and the migration commission, this is the fifth report that they have come up with. “We have prepared detailed reports about four districts so far that include Tehri (June 2020), Almora (June 2019), Pithoragarh (October 2019) and Pauri (April 2018)”, he said. Migration from rural areas in Uttarakhand is a serious problem with a comparison between 2001 and 2011 census data showing a very slow decadal growth of population in most of the mountain districts of the state, according to the Commission. The data analyzed by the Commission points towards a positive rate of decadal increase in the population of districts like Dehradun, US Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar while negative in Pauri, Almora, Tehri, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-commission-recommends-masterplan-for-summer-capital-gairsain/story-GAwyoNKUX3DIepMy6TrQJL.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Andhra Pradesh govt decides to develop Amaravati again and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan government decides to develop the city againAs the Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday extended status quo on the shifting of executive capital of the state from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam till August 27, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government came out with a proposal to complete all the unfinished works in Amaravati and develop it as a metropolitan region. Read moreIndia’s Covid-19 tally over 2.52 million, recoveries cross 1.8 millionIndia’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared to more than 2.52 million after 65,002 fresh cases and 956 deaths were reported in a single day, the Union health ministry data showed on Saturday. The surge in numbers came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said three indigenous vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country and that the government is waiting for a nod from researchers. Read more‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’: PM ModiThere has been a peaceful resolution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the way the people of the country have behaved is not only unprecedented but will also serve as an inspiration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday during his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi. Read moreNew Zealand PM Ardern seen resisting call to delay September vote as Covid-19 flares upNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is set to decide by Monday whether a general election will go ahead on Sept. 19, with most analysts expecting her to resist opposition calls for a delay due to a flare up in coronavirus infections. Read moreFive companies keen on IPL title sponsorshipAfter Vivo’s exit as title sponsors from the upcoming edition of IPL, the Indian cricket board has received expression of interest from at least five companies to step in for the UAE edition, from September 19 to November 8. Read moreFacebook integrates Messenger chats on Instagram in new updateFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg last year said the company plans to unify Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. We’re seeing the first evidence of this plan as Facebook merges Messenger on Instagram. There’s a new update on Instagram that changes the in-app messaging feature and merges it with Messenger. Read moreMahindra Thar 2020 breaks cover, offers petrol engine and feature-rich cabinMahindra Thar 2020 was officially unveiled on Saturday after an eager wait in what is one of the cornerstone offerings in the Indian automotive calendar for 2020. Read moreKriti Sanon, Ankita Lokhande, sister Shweta lead global prayer service for Sushant Singh Rajput. See pics, videosSushant Singh Rajput’s friends and family have come together to offer prayers on the two-month anniversary of his death. Sushant died by suicide on June 14, at the age of 34. Sushant’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, shared a video of a prayer service being held at their family home in Patna, Bihar. Read moreHappy Independence Day 2020: Real history of Indian flag and significance of its tricolourDo you know how the tricolour or tiranga, as the national flag of India is popularly called, came into being before it was first hoisted at Red Fort on Independence Day? Do you really think that the saffron, green and white on our flag is divided on the basis of religions? Read moreFan asks Sonu Sood for better Internet speed on mobile. His reply is hilariousSonu Sood has won several hearts for going above and beyond to help those who reach out to him. On Twitter, the actor is seen replying to many people who post about what they need help with. Form assisting people to go home to offering them things to make their lives better, the actor has tugged at heartstrings of many with his actions. Read moreWatch| Ladakh: Clear message to China as soldiers hoist tricolour at Pangong lake||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-andhra-pradesh-govt-decides-to-develop-amaravati-again-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2K7Lc3asFZzxLsuiya5U8L.html
15-08-2020||India||Assam CM reiterates commitment to implementing Clause 6 of Assam Accord||Amid a Covid-19 pandemic and a slew of disasters including, floods, landslides, blow out of a natural gas well, among others, Assam on Saturday celebrated a low-key Independence Day.  Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal led the celebrations in Guwahati by unfurling the tricolour followed by the guard of honour ceremony. Similar celebrations were held at all 33 district headquarters which were attended by cabinet ministers.  With assembly elections due in 8 months, Sonowal reiterated the state government’s commitment to implementing Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, which pertains to safeguarding, preserving and promoting Assamese identity and heritage. “We are committed to implementing the Assam Accord and are taking steps to rid Assam of illegal foreigners. The high-level committee on Clause 6 has submitted its report and despite problems faced due to COVID and other disasters like flood, the state government and the Centre have initiated steps to ensure its implementation,” he said.  Stressing that the implementation of Assam Accord requires complete sealing of the Indo-Bangla border in Assam, the CM mentioned the steps taken since 2014 in that regard including composite fencing and use of technology to protect the riverine border points.   Also read: From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM says ‘India will realise its dream’“We have framed a new land policy and taken steps to provide land deeds to nearly 1 lakh landless people. To ensure preservation and propagation of Assamese language, a law has been enacted to include Assamese in all schools in the state except areas in the Bodo Territorial Area District (BTAD) and Barak Valley,” Sonowal added. The CM mentioned various steps taken by the government to provide succour to COVID affected people within the state as well as others stranded in other parts of the country and abroad.   “Every crisis brings opportunities as well. During this lockdown period from March to July, our farmers were able to sell fruits and vegetables worth Rs 852 crore to other states and export as well,” he said.  Sonowal announced few schemes especially targeting the agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and food processing sectors on the occasion. Also read: ‘Time to move away from ordinary’ - Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speechSetting up of rice clusters in Dhemaji and Baksa districts, opening of rice procurement centres in all districts, a centre of excellence for organic agriculture at Biswanath district, and setting up of cold storage chains in all districts are some of the new initiatives announced.  “This year besides COVID-19, Assam has faced annual floods, landslides, Japanese encephalitis, African swine fever as well as the blow out and fire at a natural gas well in Baghjan. I offer my condolences to families of those killed in these calamities,” said Sonowal. One major shift this year was the venue of the state’s main Independence Day event which was held at Judges’ Field in Guwahati after a gap of 12 years. Since 1947, the event was being held at this ground till 2008 when the state government decided to keep the venue exclusively for sporting events.  The venue was first shifted to the nearby Latasil Field and later to the playground of College of Veterinary Sciences at Khanapara. But since the Khanapara filed has been transformed into a COVID care centre, Judges’ Field was chosen as the venue this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-reiterates-commitment-to-implementing-clause-6-of-assam-accord/story-9wlGv3q55Sfvz9zJlAxCbN.html
15-08-2020||India||Why are our rulers scared of naming China, asks Congress||The Congress once again attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not naming China in his Independence Day speech on Saturday, asking the government to tell people how it proposes to push back Chinese forces occupying Indian territory.The opposition party also criticised the government for its ‘atmanirbhar (self reliant)’ slogan and questioned how it will keep the country’s freedom when it has sold 32 public sector undertakings, handed over the railways and airports to private hands and attacked Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Food Corporation of India (FCI).“We all are proud of our armed, paramilitary and police forces. We 130 crore Indians and all Congress workers are proud of them. Whenever there has been an attack on us, they have given a befitting reply to the attackers,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters after the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters in Delhi.Watch l ‘Why is govt scared of naming China?’: Congress on PM Modi’s I-day speech “But we must also think about why our rulers are scared of taking China’s name. Today, when China has occupied our territory we must ask the government how it proposes to push the Chinese forces back and protect our territorial integrity,” he said. In his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, the Prime Minister delivered a sharp message to China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with the two countries have given a fitting reply to those who sought to challenge India’s sovereignty. However, he did not take the names of the two countries.In his 90-minute speech, the Prime Minister extensively focused on the campaign to build a self-reliant India.Also read | Inspiring quotes from PM’s I-Day speech“Those who talk about ‘atmanirbhar’, the foundation of which was laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and other freedom fighters, we need to ask them will this government which has sold 32 public sector undertakings, handed over railways and airports to private hands and attacked LIC and FCI, keep the independence of this country secure,” Surjewala asked. “Today, we all should take a pledge to sound a bugle of a decisive battle against those who attack that freedom. The will be the true nationalism,” he added.Congress president Sonia Gandhi did not attend the flag hoisting ceremony and veteran leader AK Antony unfurled the tricolour at the party headquarters instead. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was among the party leaders present on the occasion but he did not speak to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-our-rulers-scared-of-naming-china-asks-congress/story-UVBTCDTBVFkg87HYF36bRI.html
15-08-2020||India||They would have died anyway: Goa health dept defends Covid-19 treatment record||Health authorities in Goa have defended their record of treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the coastal state, claiming they have the lowest fatality rate in the country.Speaking at a press conference Dr Uday Kakodkar, the nodal officer of the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital, said the death rate of admitted patients, those with severe symptoms and comorbidities, stood at 5.77% while the overall fatality rate was less than 1%.“Till date at the Covid hospital, we have had 1,126 admissions of which 65 persons have died. These are people who would have died Covid or no Covid. They had hypertension, diabetes, kidney disease and all the other morbidities and Covid put them in fast forward gear. Just because of Covid they came to us, else they would have gone to the many (private) hospitals and died over there,” Kakodkar said.“Importantly, we have been able to cure 75% of our critical patients, which is a very high number and we are on par with any hospital in India,” Kadodkar added.The hospital has also conducted 32 caesarean surgeries on pregnant women who had tested positive, seven normal deliveries, two orthopaedic surgeries and two general surgeries. Plasma therapy has also been given to a total of 14 critically ill patients of whom 2 have already recovered and have tested negative, he added.The Goa government has been under pressure from opposition parties over its handling of the pandemic in the state, where 93 people have succumbed and the number of cases registered has touched 10,970 of which 3,720 are active cases. There were 476 fresh cases on Friday.“Health minister Vishwajeet Rane has not only failed to control the spike in the pandemic in Goa but also has been lying consistently since March 2020 about his department’s preparedness to control the pandemic and the actual number of cases in Goa,” Girish Chodankar, the president of the Congress’ Goa unit, said.“The BJP should own up and admit to Goans for having lied to them that Goa was COVID-free and apologise for the spike in such a high number of cases despite claiming and parading on all media that Goa is Covid-free,” Chodankar said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, hit out the ruling government.“The government’s lack of vision to anticipate growth in the number of cases and total unpreparedness has resulted in such a chaotic situation that patients with several other ailments who need medical attention have been left to fend for themselves as they are shunned upon even in the GMC,” Pradeep Padgaonkar, the AAP’s secretary, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-would-have-died-anyway-goa-health-dept-defends-covid-19-treatment-record/story-wd4SJ2BsM36db4OJyV60iN.html
15-08-2020||India||13-year-old girl rescued in J-K, police say she was being forced to marry 35-year-old||The police in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday rescued a 13-year-old girl, who was being married to a 35-year-old man in Ramnagar area of Udhampur district.The cops have also arrested six people, including the parents of the girl.“We got information from the sarpanch of Katwalt village that a minor girl was being forcibly married at Gaghote with a 35-year-old man. A police team immediately raided the place and sought proof of date of birth of the minor girl in which it was found that the she was only 13,” Udhampur SSP Sargun Shukla said.The police team led by SHO Ramnagar immediately arrested six people including the girl’s parents, would-be husband and in-laws for solemnising the marriage of the minor girl.A case under Section 9/10/11 of the prohibition of child marriage act was registered at Ramnagar police station.“After being rescued, the girl was handed over to her maternal aunt Shano Devi through Child Welfare Committee in Udhampur because the girl requested to be sent with her,” said the SSP.Police lauded the sarpanch for playing the role of a responsible citizen and public representative and thanked him for his support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-girl-rescued-in-j-k-police-say-she-was-being-forced-to-marry-35-year-old/story-s5LzhQdAB43mYoS7Wxg4LJ.html
15-08-2020||India||After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan decides to develop it again||As the Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday extended status quo on the shifting of executive capital of the state from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam till August 27, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government came out with a proposal to complete all the unfinished works in Amaravati and develop it as a metropolitan region. Works worth thousands of crores which were under various stages construction in Amaravati had come to a halt after Jagan took over as the chief minister on May 30, 2019. These included an eight-lane seed access road connecting the highway with Amaravati, internal roads, trunk lines, building of culverts, buildings for secretariat, assembly and high court complexes, besides residential quarters for lawmakers, ministers, all-India service officers, state government employees and permanent permanent official buildings and quarters for judges.Jagan had proposed to form three capital cities with executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool, while retaining Amaravati only as a legislative capital.With farmers of Amaravati, who had given nearly 34,000 acres of land for the capital city, moving the high court challenging the Jagan government’s three capitals plan, the court on August 4 ordered a status quo on Amaravati till Friday and again till August 27. The petitioners pointed out that the previous government had spent more than Rs 10,000 crore on various projects in Amaravati and all this expenditure would go waste if the administrative capital is shifted to Visakhapatnam. The high court asked the Jagan government as to what the government would do with the already constructed buildings and infrastructure. On Wednesday, Jagan held a high-level meeting of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), formed in place of earlier AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) and directed that the authorities chalk out an action plan on Amaravati and mobilise financial resources to complete all the pending works. “The chief minister instructed that all the construction works be resumed. He asked them to prepare a development plan for Amaravati, which will be our legislative capital,” state municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana said. The AMRDA authorities told the chief minister that it would require at least Rs 14,000-Rs 15,000 crore to complete all the works. Jagan told them to find ways to mobilise additional resources in coordination with the finance department, so that all the building and road infrastructure works be completed. The minister said the farmers of Amaravati would get value for their developed plots which they had got in lieu of the lands they had given for the capital city. He appealed to the farmers and realtors who had invested in Amaravati to give up their apprehensions on the three capitals, as the government was keen on developing Amaravati as a metropolitan city. “It is our responsibility to develop entire Amaravati and no injustice would be done to any farmer,” he said. An official familiar with the development said the government was contemplating putting up all the completed building infrastructure and developed lands for sale to generate money. “One of the real estate projects - Happy Nest, a residential complex of 1200 high-end apartment units in 12 G+18 towers in 14.3 acres at Nelapadu village - will be completed at the earliest and put up for sale. This is expected to generate huge revenue,” the official said. Meanwhile, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu said on Friday that projects worth Rs 41,675 crore were grounded for developing the government and public infrastructure in Amaravati and various buildings were completed to the extent of 45 to 80 per cent. “The land bank available with the state government in Amaravati would bring a revenue of Rs 90 lakh crore to Rs one lakh crore. Once fully developed, Amaravati city would emerge into such a vibrant city where the government would have its wealth to the tune of Rs 2-3 lakh crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-abandoning-amaravati-for-14-months-jagan-government-decides-to-develop-the-city-again/story-sV1dBdr7E1Iiv1Wn2k55qM.html
15-08-2020||India||HC grants anticipatory bail to two IAS officers in NAN case lodged by ED||Chhattisgarh High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to IAS officers Anil Tuteja and Alok Shukla in a money laundering case related to the Chhattisgarh Civil Supply Corporation scam. The anticipatory bail order was passed on Friday. Justice Arvind Singh Chandel had reserved the order on separate pre-arrest bail pleas of Shukla and Tuteja on July 14. In 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had lodged an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, which was based on the FIR and charge sheet filed by the Chhattisgarh police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in the civil supply scam. Tuteja and Shukla were named as accused in the ED’s case. Also read: Chhattisgarh CM raises objection over draft EIA notification, writes to union environment minThe counsel of IAS officers, Avi Singh and Aayush Bhatia said that while the ECIR was registered by the ED at its sub-zonal office in Raipur, the summons were issued by the ED office in Delhi. The HC granted anticipatory bail saying that the charge sheet has already been filed, no recovery was made from anyone and no departmental proceeding has been initiated. “The ECIR case was registered against them last year and notice was issued to them for the first time in the case in March this year. The delay in the issuance of notice has not been explained,” the court said. Nan-Scam came into light in 2014 when the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids in various parts of the state and seized cash and documents. The ACB also recovered coded diary entries of pay-offs to officials and politicians. Then in opposition, Congress party claimed that the scam is worth about Rs 36,000 crore. In 2015, a PIL was filed by Sudeep Shrivastava in Chhattisgarh high court demanding an SIT investigation in the case. Shrivastava, in his PIL, alleged that the investigating agency saved few officers who were involved in the scam. The PIL which was filed by Shrivastava says that of total 254 samples of rice 111 samples and out of 185 samples of salts 64 samples were found to be sub-standard and unfit for human consumption but were cleared by officers. Shukla, then food secretary, and Tuteja, then managing director of the corporation, were not accused initially but were named in a supplementary charge sheet filed in December 2018, the lawyers said. The two had been granted anticipatory bail by the HC last year in the ACB/EOW case, the lawyers pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-two-ias-officers-in-nan-case-lodged-by-ed/story-5M6ZPRxyKueRn5ahbVnvYI.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi says ready to mass produce Covid-19 vaccine||India is ready to mass produce Covid-19 vaccines to distribute across the country when scientists give the go-ahead to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.“Not one, not two, as many as three coronavirus vaccines are being tested in India,” he said from the ramparts of the Red Fort in the old quarters of Delhi.“The country is also ready for mass production of those vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-ready-to-mass-produce-covid-19-vaccine/story-t4FGP83RRZ6dAnWcNW45wN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Peaceful resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi issue unprecedented’: PM Modi||There has been a peaceful resolution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the way the people of the country have behaved is not only unprecedented but will also serve as an inspiration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday during his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in New Delhi.Construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya has been a key poll promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) apart from the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir. Both promises were fulfilled last year after Parliament gave its nod to the reorganisation of J&K and reading down of Article 370 and a Supreme Court verdict cleared the decks for the construction of the Ram Temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. “Ten days ago the construction of the temple has begun. A peaceful resolution to Ram Janambhoomi issue is unprecedented. The peace and understanding that the people showed is not only unprecedented but will serve as an inspiration for us in the future,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister further said that this “peace, unity and goodwill would be the backbone of Atmanirbhar Bharat” in the coming days.He was present for the groundbreaking ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya on August 5 along with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. “Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be the best. Only then will we be able to realise the vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’,” the prime minister said.“Last year from the Red Fort I had said that the last five years were for the hopes of the people the next five years will be for their aspirations. In the last year, only the country has crossed many important landmarks and many important decisions were taken.”Further, the Prime Minister also said that the construction of the Kartarpur corridor in record time and appointment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in the armed forces were other moments that created history in the past one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peaceful-resolution-of-ram-janmabhoomi-issue-unprecedented-pm-modi/story-MN5nqHH5DZbphsYDISzcjI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Delimitation process on in Jammu and Kashmir, polls soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||A little over a year after the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir into union territories and the reading down of Article 370 and Article 35A, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday referred to it as a year of “a new development journey in Jammu and Kashmir.”“...this is a year of rights for women, it is also a year of dignified life of refugees in Jammu and Kashmir,” the PM said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.In August 2019, Parliament passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill that paved the way for the bifurcation of the state into two union territories; read down Article 370 that gave the state special powers and nullified Article 35A that defined citizenship rights that were essential for jobs and education. Article 35A also barred women married to non-state subject holders from passing on their inheritance to their children and was considered as discriminatory.Referring to the revival as a political process in Jammu and Kashmir, which has been without an elected government since 2018 when the BJP-PDP coalition government fell, the prime minister said that the process of delimitation is on; and when it is over there should be elections. “Delimitation process is underway in Jammu and Kashmir. Once it is completed, an election will be held in the Union Territory. Jammu and Kashmir will have its own chief minister and ministers. We are committed to this,” the PM said. “The true strength of democracy is in local units. It is a matter of pride for all of us that the public representatives of local units in Jammu and Kashmir are pursuing a new era of development with activism and sensitivity,” he said. Ladakh’s long-pending demand to be granted the status of a union territory has also been met, PM Modi said. “Ladakh is on the path to progress, a new central university is coming up an 7500 MW solar park is coming up and just as Sikkim has become an organic state, Ladakh should aim for that as well. Leh, Kargil and Ladkah can become carbon neutral regions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-process-on-in-jammu-and-kashmir-polls-soon-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-UB7Gp0PQ7YhIn4vCHdoDIL.html
15-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 2.52 million, recoveries cross 1.8 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared to more than 2.52 million after 65,002 fresh cases and 956 deaths were reported in a single day, the Union health ministry data showed on Saturday.The surge in numbers came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said three indigenous vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country and that the government is waiting for a nod from researchers. PM Modi said the government will produce the potential vaccine on a large scale.He also praised healthcare professionals who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.There are 668,220 active cases of Covid-19 and the number of people who have been cured of the viral disease has crossed the 1.8 million mark. With more than 57,000 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, India’s recovery tally is at 1,808,936 and rate is now 71.60%. The death toll in India, the third worst-hit country has climbed to 49,036.Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said the Covid-19 recovery rate is improving in the country with each day and also expressed hope that the war against the coronavirus pandemic will be won soon.“Remember the press conference when I said the recovery rate was 9%. Since then, there had not been a single day when the day’s recovery rate was not better than the previous day’s. Also, fatalities have also been decreasing with each passing day,” Vardhan said on Friday.He added that more than 800,000 patients, compared to 6,000 in April, have been tested so far. “Our Covid warriors are fighting very hard to control the pandemic. Am sure in the next two months the situation will be far better.”India is inching closer to its target of conducting a million tests a day even as infections of the viral disease have continued to mount steadily. According to experts, aggressive testing is crucial to control the outbreaks.India has seen 830,204 Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this month and has been reporting over 60,000 cases every day since August 7.India in July exported 23 lakh personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to five countries, including the US, UK and UAE, Senegal and Slovenia. “This has substantially aided India to position itself in the global export market of PPEs. The “Make in India’ spirit embedded in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan has resulted in providing resilience and self-sufficiency to the country for various medical equipment including PPEs,” the health ministry said on Friday.This was one of the points raised by PM Modi in his Independence Day speech on Saturday. PM Modi said that during the coronavirus pandemic, India started making this equipment while earlier these were not made in the country as the demand of ventilators and PPE kits surged.“India is now exporting ventilators and PPE kits while we were not even making these earlier. This is how we are becoming Atmanirbhar Bharat. Independent India should be vocal for local and stop our dependence on imports,” said PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-2-52-million-recoveries-cross-1-8-million/story-2wcwxgtLuPbe5stJzj9adK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘I’m sure he’ll hoist the tri-colour next year’: Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter shares emotional Independence Day post||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee took to Twitter on Saturday and revisited her memories with father. She said her father never missed hoisting the National Flag on Independence Day. Sharmistha posted images from last year’s Independence Day celebrations and hoped for her father to get better to hoist the tri-colour next year. “In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” her post read.  Also read: Pranab Mukherjee being closely monitored, medical condition unchangedIn his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/SX0CVO8lW6The former president’s health condition remains critical but stable. As per the statement issued by the hospital where he is being treated, Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator and is being closely monitored.“The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the Army (R&R) Hospital said in a statement on Saturday morning.On Friday, Sharmistha tweeted out saying that her father’s medical has not worsened. “Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from the last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues to remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light,” she had posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-sure-he-ll-hoist-the-tri-colour-next-year-pranab-mukherjee-s-daughter-shares-emotional-independence-day-post/story-3T6vfZDRiimgE7VUYVCcpJ.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Will gift masks to members who enter without them’: UP Assembly speaker on Covid-19 preparation||The session of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly will begin from August 20, and the legislative department has decided to use lobbies and galleries in order to keep a seat between two members vacant so that social distancing norms can be followed as per Covid-19 guidelines, speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit said.Speaking to Hindustan Times’ Umesh Raghuvanshi, Dikshit talked about handling the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease and how these norms will be enforced if members enter the well of the House.Here are edited excerpts from the interview:Q: What are the main challenges in holding the monsoon session amid the fight against Covid-19?HN Dikshit: Covid-19 is posing a big challenge to all. We are facing the challenge in following social distancing norms. A safe distance has to be maintained between members in the House. I have had a meeting with minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna and officers of the assembly secretariat on the issue.Q: What about the leaders of the political parties?HN Dikshit: Yes, we also had a meeting with leaders of major political parties to share our point on the issue with them. We discussed the issue and all of them have agreed to the steps being taken for protection.Q: What steps?HN Dikshit: We have decided to keep a seat vacant between two members. We do not have sufficient seats for this in the assembly hall. So, we are making arrangements for the seating of members in the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ lobbies as well. We will also use viewers’ galleries to accommodate the members.Q: But lobbies/galleries don’t have microphones?HN Dikshit: We will use cordless microphones for seats where the mikes are not available.Q: What else?HN Dikshit: There is also the challenge of using the existing central air-conditioning system. This AC system does not conform to the Union government’s guidelines. We need to close the existing system and have a new system with ultraviolet filters in place. In order to avoid crowding in the assembly complex, we have requested former members not to visit the assembly secretariat during the session. We have also requested the members not to bring any visitors with them.Q: What if members don’t come with a mask?HN Dikshit: If any member comes without a mask, we will gift them one.Q: How long will the session be?HN Dikshit: We have a three-day agenda for the House. On the first day, the House will mourn the death of its sitting members. On the second day, the state government proposes to table about 12 ordinances promulgated after the last session. The state government will also table bills to replace these ordinances. On the third day too, the state government may table some bills. As of now, we don’t have any information about any proposal to table the supplementary budget for 2020-2021.Q: Did you consider holding a virtual meeting of the House? HN Dikshit: We did consider the option of holding a virtual meeting of the House. But this could not be taken forward.Q: Why? Will this need an amendment to the Constitution?HN Dikshit: No, I don’t think so. This can be done by making amendment to the rules of procedure of the House.Q: How will it be ensured that social distancing norms are followed?HN Dikshit: We have held discussions with leaders of all the political parties. We will have another meeting on August 19. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also attend the all-party meeting. We will seek cooperation of all the parties in this meeting again.Q: How will social distancing be ensured when members enter the well?HN Dikshit: We are sure all the members will respect social distancing norms. Yes, members do come to the well. They have done so in the past. But we are sure they will not enter the well of the House. Q: The well of the house does not have sufficient space for social distancing?HN Dikshit: We are sure, the members will follow the social distancing norms. I will request the members not to enter the well of the house in this situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-gift-masks-to-members-who-enter-without-them-up-assembly-speaker-on-covid-19-preparation/story-o7zYKmu2bGSZMOV2tS1QdO.html
15-08-2020||India||Modi announces digital India health mission, Health ID for medical records||With coronavirus disease (Covid-19) brining health sector into focus, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the National Digital Health Mission will commence on the Independence Day. “From today, the national digital health mission will begin. It will revolutionise Indian healthcare sector. Every Indian will be issued a health ID that will act like a healthcare account, storing details of all the tests done, existing diseases, diagnoses, medicines prescribed,” said the pprime minister in his speech. It will also ease processes like booking appointments, making payments, or getting registrations done at hospitals, the PM said. Also read| ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech“Technology will be used to resolve various problems in the healthcare sector – whether it is getting an appointment, making payment, or queueing up to get the (registration) slip. People will be able to make informed decisions,” he said. This is a part of the government’s National Digital Health Blueprint aimed at using technology to improve healthcare delivery across the country. The objectives of the mission are to establish a core digital health database, creating a system of electronic health records based on international standards, establish data ownership pathways so that the patient is the owner their health records, and promoting health data analytics and medical research. Speaking of work done in the healthcare sector, the PM said that new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences and other medical colleges have been set up, increasing the number of MBBS and MD seats for medical students by 45,000 in the last five years. Also read| Farmers now have freedom to sell at best price: Modi says in his I-Day speechHe also said that over 1.5 lakh wellness centres are being set up across the country. “Around one-third of these are already functional and have helped in the Covid-19 fight,” he said. The PM also added that through initiatives such as Jan Aushadhi Kendras, over 5 crore poor women have been able to get sanitary napkins at the cost of R1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-announces-digital-india-health-mission-health-id-for-medical-records/story-SGeFkEQsVwCJ5zhosLMHgK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Former President Pranab Mukherjee being closely monitored, medical condition unchanged’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition remains unchanged, the Army (R&R) Hospital, where Mukherjee is undergoing treatment since Monday, announced on Saturday, adding that he continues to be on ventilatory support. “His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the statement added. On the occasion of Independence Day on Saturday, Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha took to Twitter and shared memories of last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father. She said her father never missed a year to hoist the tri-colour on Independence Day and hoped for him to do the same next year.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” her tweet read. The former president underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on Sunday. On Friday, Sharmistha said that her father’s condition remains critical but has not worsened.“Without getting into medical jargons, whatever I could understand from the last two days is that though my dads’ condition continues to remain very critical, it hasn’t worsened. There’s little improvement in his eyes’ reaction to light,” she said.Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-being-closely-monitored-medical-condition-unchanged-hospital/story-zhOx7uc50KD6CJubzQT3YJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh tops in automobile sale despite Covid-19 pandemic||Notwithstanding the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the sale of automobiles is climbing faster in Uttar Pradesh than any other state in the country, indicates the central government’s state-wise data on the registration of new vehicles. Uttar Pradesh, for the second consecutive month after the lockdown rules were relaxed, emerged as the leader in terms of both registration of new automobiles as well as revenue collection from the transport sector in July. Not only did the state register the highest number of automobiles in the country in July, it also improved its own tally over June by nearly 75%.“As per the state-wise data obtained from the central government’s records, UP is number one in registration of new vehicles and collection of revenue by way of tax accruing from such vehicles and activities, including driving license fee, fitness test fee etc,” said transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu.As per the data, as many as 2,01,528 vehicles were registered in UP in July. Of these, 1,96,086 were cars and two-wheelers and 5,442 transport or commercial vehicles like trucks and buses. Of the total new vehicles registered, 1,63,515 were two-wheelers and 18,905 four-wheelers; the rest 19,108 were commercial vehicles like buses, trucks, taxis etc.Distantly following UP in registration of new vehicles in the same month are Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, West Bengal, and Gujarat. In June, UP registered 1.5 lakh new vehicles.“Compared to July 2019, there is still decline in the registration/sale of vehicles by 35% in two wheelers, 10% in four-wheelers and 69% in transport or commercial vehicles,” Sahu said, adding, “But the good thing is that the gap is closing down every month.”Also, in terms of revenue earned from registration of new vehicles and other activities other than enforcement, UP was on the top in July. The state earned a total Rs 424.53 crore of which Rs 387.80 crore came from registration of vehicles alone.Maharashtra (Rs 347.12 crore), Karnataka (Rs 320.83 crore), Tamil Nadu (Rs 281.49 crore) and Rajasthan (Rs 278.01 crore) came second, third, fourth and fifth respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-tops-in-automobile-sale-despite-covid-19-pandemic/story-S2ktfRbK0FgMf8T7DMFnrN.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Global powers and good friends’: Mike Pompeo’s Independence Day greetings to India||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a statement congratulating India on the 74th Independence Day. Describing India and the US as “great pluralist democracies, global powers, and good friends”, Pompeo said the countries have shared close ties and democratic traditions since India’s independence. “Over the years, our relationship has grown into a Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, involving ever closer cooperation on issues vital to global security and prosperity in the 21st century,” the statement read. Pompeo added that the US and India will work together on defense, counterterrorism, trade, investment, energy, the environment, healthcare, agriculture, science and technology, education, space, the oceans, and much more.“As I remarked earlier this year, the United States and India see each other as great pluralist democracies, global powers, and good friends. I wish the people of India a happy Independence Day,” he added.Also read: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speechIndia woke up to its 74th Independence Day on Saturday. This year’s celebration is unique in a way as the big day comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the National Flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on Saturday morning and addressed the nation in a marathon speech that went on for about an hour and a half. PM Modi said that he is confident that India will realise its dream of becoming self-reliant (Atmanirbhar). “I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians,” the prime minister said.Also read: ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’ - PM Modi in Independence Day speech“In this decade of the 21st century, India will now have to move forward with new policy and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be best, should be the best,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-powers-and-good-friends-mike-pompeo-s-independence-day-greetings-to-india/story-ZWD35weTxfZWyDV2yvgGBL.html
15-08-2020||India||Independence Day: DRDO’s anti-drone system guarded Red Fort, had laser to bring down targets||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on 74th Independence Day, he was surrounded by a posse of security and state-of-the-art security apparatus.Among them was an anti-drone system developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation or DRDO which was stationed near the Red Fort.According to DRDO, as reported by news agency ANI, the anti-drone system can detect and jam micro drones up to three kilometres and use laser to bring down a target up to 2.5 kilometres.Unprecedented security ring was thrown around the Red Forst from where PM Modi delivered his Independence Day speech, listing his government’s past achievements and presenting the roadmap for the future.Security personnel were deployed both in plainclothes and uniform in the area. Facial recognition system was also been set up at vantage points to keep an eye on the attendees. The police said that all the necessary guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic were also enforced.Apart from this, the Delhi Police had also coordinated with other states and union territories - from Delhi’s neighbours like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to others namely Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar - and discussed security measures in the view of August 15.The personnel of National Security Guard (NSG), Special Protection Group (SPG) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were also present in the area.Over 300 cameras were installed for security and their footage was monitored round-the-clock, the police said.There were around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort who stood in adherence with social distancing norms, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-drdo-s-anti-drone-system-guarded-red-fort-had-laser-to-bring-down-targets/story-iKwyEr7JC4pR2nxSeqH69H.html
15-08-2020||India||‘From LAC to LoC, our jawans gave befitting replies to ones challenging our sovereignty’: PM Modi||Indian soldiers have given befitting replies to those challenging the sovereignty of the country, whether at the Line of Control or LAC (China border) or Line of Control or LoC (Pakistan border), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.“Those who challenge India’s sovereignty, be it LoC or LAC, have been given a befitting reply in their own language. They have been responded to in the language they understand. India stands committed to defeat forces that aid and abet terrorism & expansionism,” he said.Also read| ‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speechHe said that with their response to the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, the entire world has seen what Indian soldiers can do.“The entire country is moving forward with josh, inspired with a resolve and a belief in its capabilities,” the prime minister said.On the eve of the Independence Day on Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind had also sent out a clear warning that India is “capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” as he addressed the nation.Though Kovind did not name China, he slammed the neighbour’s “misadventure of expansion” at a time when the world needs to come together to fight against Covid-19, which he described as the “the greatest challenge before humanity”.Also read: PM Modi announces ‘revolutionary’ National Digital Health Mission on I-Day, says one ID will have all information“The world now realises what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam”. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” Kovind said.The bloody conflict in the Galwan valley on June 15 left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Since then, the two sides are locked in discussions to disengage and de-escalate but China has so far not moved back from some critical areas despite five rounds of top-level military talks between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-lac-to-loc-our-jawans-gave-befitting-replies-to-ones-challenging-our-sovereignty-pm-modi/story-q6EVQG6daUfXPzw178g3qI.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s marathon Independence Day speech on Saturday was a long one, studded with laurels of the past and aspirations for the future. Not only did the prime minister hailed India’s unsung heroes but also laid down his vision of a modern India that is powerful, self-reliant and a force to reckon with. PM Modi’s speech was inspiring, one that enthused millions of Indians, filling them with a resolve to take the country to greater heights. Here’s taking a look at the prime minister’s most inspiring quotes from his speech:• Respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme for us. What our brave soldiers can do for this resolution, what the country can do, the world has seen in Ladakh.Also read: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speech• Amid Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. I am confident that India will realize this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal.• It is now time for India to move forward with new policies and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be the best.• Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity, the middle class needs freedom from government interference.Also read: No one can challenge India’s sovereignty, says PM Modi on I-Day• How long will we see raw material getting exported and being imported as finished product coming back to our country? The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products, if we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged.• Our experience says that whenever there is an opportunity for women power in India, they have brought laurels to the country, strengthened the country. Women are everywhere, from underground coal mines to flying fighter jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-move-away-from-ordinary-5-inspiring-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-independence-day-2020-speech/story-teMUbB30aHpJUwzgzMP3rK.html
15-08-2020||India||Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a mantra for 130 crore Indians: PM Modi||New Delhi [India], Aug 15 (ANI): Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a mantra for 130 crore Indians and expressed confidence that the country will realise the dream.Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 74th Independence Day on Saturday, the Prime Minister said the dream of self-reliance is turning into a pledge.Also read| ‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speech“Amid Covid-19 pandemic 130 crore Indians took the resolve to be self-reliant and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) is on the mind of people. This dream is turning into a pledge. Atmanirbhar Bharat has become a ‘mantra’ for the 130 crore Indians today. I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence, and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal,” he said.The Prime Minister said that he was aware of the challenges posed by the competition on the global scale and asserted that the efforts of crores of Indians would provide solutions.“I agree that there are lakhs of challenges for Aatmanirbhar Bharat and they increase if there is global competitiveness. However, if there are lakhs of challenges then the country also has power which gives crores of solutions, my countrymen who give us the strength for solutions,” he said.Also read: ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in LadakhHe also said that this Independence Day was special as in the coming year India will enter the 75th year of its independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-has-become-a-mantra-for-130-crore-indians-pm-modi/story-0vC1CKXWpViXW56VyjhA1J.html
15-08-2020||India||On 74th I-Day, take pledge to fulfill PM’s dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat: Shah||On 74th Independence Day, all Indians should take a pledge to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday.“On this Independence Day, let us take a pledge to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of a self-reliant India and contribute to taking the country to new heights by using indigenous products. Best wishes on Independence Day,” Shah said in a tweet. आइये इस स्वतंत्रता दिवस पर हम प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के आत्मनिर्भर भारत के स्वप्न को पूर्ण करने का संकल्प लें और भारत में निर्मित स्वदेशी चीजों का अधिक से अधिक उपयोग कर देश को नई ऊंचाइयों तक ले जाने में अपना सर्वोच्च योगदान दें।स्वतंत्रता दिवस की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएँ।“Today we are very proud that the dream of independent, strong and capable India dreamt by our freedom fighters is being brought to reality by PM Narendra Modi. On one side poor and deprived classes were given homes, electricity, health insurance while on the other, India was made a stronger nation,” he added.In an earlier tweet, Shah had also saluted all the freedom fighters who had laid down their lives in the Independence struggle and those who had made the supreme sacrifice for its security and unity.Also read| ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speechEarlier, Modi also extended his greetings to the people of the nation on the occasion.“Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!” the Prime Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-i-day-take-pledge-to-fulfill-pm-s-dream-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-shah/story-EBDdRLmG01IwhY07EFKBWL.html
15-08-2020||India||Quoting Nehru, Rahul Gandhi wishes India on 74th Independence Day||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday extended greetings to the nation on the occasion of 74th Independence Day.Remembering a quote of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, he tweeted. “The only alternative to coexistence is destruction. Jawaharlal Nehru. Best wishes on Independence Day.”Also read| ‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speechExtending the wishes to the country on the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!”"The only alternative to coexistence is codestruction." Jawaharlal NehruBest wishes on Independence Day 🇮🇳🇮🇳🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/mRpySawwQEIndependence day celebrations are held in a different manner due to Covid-19 pandemic.The arrangements have been made keeping social distancing norms in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quoting-nehru-rahul-gandhi-wishes-india-on-74th-independence-day/story-sXoN816U5IPzUVaxH9L3fP.html
15-08-2020||India||Explained: What is National Digital Health Mission and how it will benefit people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a major digital initiative in the form of National Digital Health Mission in his Independence Day speech.He said that the project will provide a health ID to every person in the country, and benefir the poor. The prime minister said that whatever medicine a doctor prescribed, when was it prescribed, what were the reports - all this information will be linked to a person’s health ID.It is going to be another flagship initiaive of the government like Ayushman Bharat. What is National Digital Health Mission?The blueprint of the programme was launched last year. It seeks to provide an efficient and affordable health coverage through a wide-range of data and infrastructure services.The key feature of this mission is th technology part - it will leverage open digital systems to provide high-quality healthcare for all. It will integrate various digital health services to create an ecosystem which can assimilate existing health information systems.The government has said that it will ensure security and privacy of personal information.What is a health ID?Every person in the country will get a digital health ID which is basically a digital format of all his/her health records which will be linked to the registry of doctors and health facilities across the country.The platform has been planned to improve efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of health service delivery. The health ID will be in the form of a mobile application of website.The government had sought feedback and suggestions from various stakeholders who will be a part of the initiative. The government has said that enrollment in the initiave will be voluntary.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, while launching the blueprint last year, had said that the government made a mark in history by launching Ayushman Bharat Yojana and other IT-enabled schemes like Reproductive Child Healthcare, and NIKSHAY etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-what-is-national-digital-health-mission-and-how-it-will-benefit-people/story-qOKlv3rbkrvB0aR9ZQyvdK.html
15-08-2020||India||Farmers now have freedom to sell at best price: Modi says in his I-Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted key agricultural reforms taken by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in his speech on the occasion of the country’s 74th Independence Day on Saturday, pegging it to his atmanirbhar (self-reliance) campaign. The Prime Minister said the country had undertaken key initiatives to free the country’s agriculture sector which will help to increase farmers’ income and also exports. “We are self-reliant in agriculture and export commodities to whoever needs it. This is an example of Atma Nirbhar. We have brought laws to free the agriculture sector,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said the country will similarly adopt policies to export other goods and his government was set on a path of self-reliance on every field. “I admit there are lakhs of challenges for India to become atmanirbhar (self-reliant), and yes, there is fierce competition from the rest of the world. But I always say that if India faces lakhs of challenges, it also has 130 crore solutions,” Modi said.He was broadly referring to far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector. On June 4, the Union Cabinet had approved amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and cleared two other ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers. All these steps, which bring the full force of liberalisation to the farm economy, were announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 in the second of her series of briefings last month on proposed reforms.On May 12, in the middle of the lockdown, Modi had announced a package worth Rs 20 lakh crore to spur growth, calling for a self-reliant India.Modi’s reference to the freeing up of the agriculture sector included reading down provisions of The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, to allow for freer trade in farm commodities. The act was mainly used to curb inflation by empowering the Union and state governments to dictate quantities traders can store and also restrict the movement of any commodity deemed “essential”. Under the law, the government generally imposes stock limits to discourage hoarding of items such as pulses and vegetables.The law was handy during the 1980s when India was still a net importer of food items. The country’s increasing food surpluses have made the law archaic. India currently has over 80 million tonne of foodgrains in warehouses across India. The country’s annual requirement under various welfare programmes is 60 million tonne. “As said earlier, we are working to double farmers’ income. Some of you may not know this, but unlike any other business, where a businessman has the freedom to sell their product or service in any part of the country or the world and at a price they want, our farmers, till now did not have that freedom. They could only sell to who they were told to sell. Now, we have removed these restrictions and given farmers the freedom to sell at the best price, and to who they want,” Modi said.The agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians, hasn’t been generating enough revenues to keep farmers profitable for nearly two decades due to trade restrictions and an obsession with keeping food prices low to avoid inflation, according to the OECD-ICRIER study mentioned above.The NDA government also brought on June 4 ‘The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. The ordinance will effectively bring the curtains down on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce.APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where farmers reside, rather than in an open market, scuttling price discovery.These reforms in “agricultural marketing” have been a long time in the making and various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade.The government’s 2017 ‘Doubling of Farmers’ Income’ report had called for greater liberalisation of the farm sector by “removing laws that force farmers to sell to local monopolies”.The ordinance will pave the way for barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of farm goods outside the physical premises of markets notified under APMCs, the Cabinet note said. The Modi government also approved ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’, which effectively ushered new rules for contract farming and futures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-now-have-freedom-to-sell-at-best-price-modi-says-in-his-i-day-speech/story-Aho1S0oyA5K3JSLOnXto5I.html
15-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At 14,000 feet in Ladakh, ITBP personnel celebrate 74th I-Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in LadakhThe soldiers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) celebrated the country’s Independence Day on the banks of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh at 14,000 feet. The soldiers carried the tricolour of ITBP flags part of the celebrations. The ITBP also released a mashup of the popular patriotic songs sung by its soldiers. Read morePM Modi announces ‘revolutionary’ National Digital Health Mission on I-Day, says one ID will have all informationPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the National Digital Health Mission, which he said will bring a revolution in the country’s health sector during his delivered his Independence Day from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi. Read moreComputer science graduate, debate champion: Major Shweta Pandey, the army officer, who will help PM Modi hoist the tricolourMajor Shweta Pandey, an officer of the Indian Army, will help Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurl the national flag this year during the Independence Day ceremony at Delhi’s Red Fort on Saturday. Maj Pandey is the first woman officer to carry the national flag and lead a first-ever tri-services Indian Armed Forces Contingent during Russia’s Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow in June this year. Read morePandemic rumour-mongering led to deaths, injuries and violence: AnalysisThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has fed at least 2,000 rumours, conspiracy theories and stigmatizing posts that were shared in 25 languages across 87 countries, where they have led to hundreds of deaths, thousands of hospital admissions, and triggered acts of violence, according to an analysis published on Monday. Read moreCanadian federal agency launches probe into practices adopted by AmazonCanada’s federal Competition Bureau has launched a civil investigation into the practices adopted by global retail giant Amazon. The investigation was announced by the Gatineau, Quebec-based Bureau in a statement as it requested “market participants to provide input to inform” the probe into “conduct by Amazon.” Read moreUS Embassy to process student visas on limited basis from August 17The US Embassy is set to resume the processing of student and academic exchange visa application on a limited basis.“We are pleased to announce that consular sections at the US Embassy in New Delhi and our Consulates in Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata will begin processing of student and academic exchange visitor visa applications on a limited basis on August 17,” as per the Embassy. Read moreHow World Cup knock against Pakistan turned Tendulkar into Sachin ‘paaji’? Ashish Nehra explainsFormer India fast bowler Ashish Nehra has revealed how the word ‘paaji’ got to be associated with Sachin Tendulkar. Tendulkar, world cricket’s leading run getter, was affectionately called ‘paaji’ by his teammates, which means brother. Read moreIndependence Day 2020: Google celebrates Indian independence with Doodle dedicated to India’s musical legacyEvery year since August 15, 1947, Indians all over the world celebrate their independence from the rule of the British Raj. It was on this day that India became an independent, sovereign nation after almost a century of British rue. Read moreIndependence Day 2020: Here’s how Twitter is celebrating India’s 74 years of IndependenceIndependence Day, in India, is celebrated on August 15 each year. This day is celebrated to commemorate the country’s independence from the British Rule. This is a day which is filled with patriotic fervour and to show their love for the nation, especially this year, there are many who are now taking to Twitter to flood the social media platform with Independence Day related posts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-14-000-feet-in-ladakh-itbp-personnel-celebrate-74th-i-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Hk5sRBqSNS6947DDfI2YL.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that an India-made vaccine for the coronavirus disease, which has killed more than 48,000 people and affected over 2.4 million people in the country, will be out soon. In his Independence Day speech, PM Modi said that the government is waiting for a green signal from scientists.“All of us are waiting for a vaccine for Covid-19. I want to tell you that three vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country,” said the prime minister.“As soon as our experts and scientists give the green signal, a Made in India Covid-19 vaccine will be available soon,” he added.He also hailed the role of the healthcare professionals who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, the disease cased by the virus. PM Modi said that the government will produce the potential vaccine on a large scale.“We have prepared the infrastructure to provide the vaccine to every person in the country,” he said.The coronavirus disease rapidly spread across the world since its outbreak was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan. After China, the disease took Europe in its grip, killing millions and wiping off decades of progress.It then reached the United States, which remains the hardest hit country. Apart from the loss of lives, the economic impact was also brutal and many professionals became jobless due to the pandemic. The US saw one of its worst jobless rates due to the coronavirus disease.But as soon as the disease started spreading, efforts began to find a cure. Many pharmaceutical companies and governments announced the trial of their potential vaccine candidates. In fact, as many as 100 vaccine candidates were being tested across the world, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).In India, there were three vaccines which were at different stages of development. The clinical trials of these vaccine candidates were being done together with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at various sites acorss the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-soon-pm-modi-in-independence-day-speech/story-4vzvbCE1sBuB2ziLgq3UQP.html
15-08-2020||India||‘Mindset for free India should be vocal for local’: PM Modi pushes for self-reliance in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pushed for the need to be self-reliance, as he highlighted the country’s success in fighting the coronavirus disease.“Amid Covid-19 pandemic, 130 crore Indians took the resolve to be self-reliant and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ is on the mind of India. This dream is turning into a pledge. Aatmanirbhar Bharat has become a ‘mantra’ for the 130 crore Indians today,” PM Modi said in his Independence Day speech.The prime minister further said that abilities, confidence and potential of the countrymen will help it realise this dream. “Once we decide to do something, we do not rest until we achieve that goal.”Also read| ‘From LAC to LoC, our jawans gave befitting replies to ones challenging our sovereignty’: PM Modi“The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products. If we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged,” PM Modi said.“A few months back we used to import N-95 masks, PPE kits and ventilators. Today India is not only meeting its own requirements but it has also stepped forward to help other countries,” he added.The prime minster said that there are “lakhs of challenges for Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, but highlighted the demographic strength of the country which he said is capable of finding a solution to all such challenges. “If there are lakhs of challenges then the country also has power which gives crores of solutions, my countrymen who give us the strength of solution,” PM Modi said.Independence Day celebrations this year typified the ‘new normal’ in times of Covid-19. A kit containing a mask, a small bottle of hand sanitiser and a pair of gloves were kept on all chairs which were neatly separated to maintain the prescribed social distance.Known otherwise to witness bustling crowd across many age groups, the annual grand event at the historic Red Fort was scaled down this year in keeping with prescribed safety protocols to contain spread of the novel coronavirus that has wrecked havoc across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mindset-for-free-india-should-be-vocal-for-local-pm-modi-pushes-for-self-reliance-in-independence-day-speech/story-SOOqEaqmKTxEsoAYse2nwO.html
15-08-2020||India||From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM Modi says ‘India will realise its dream’: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the National Flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on Saturday, reinstating that independent India’s resolve to overcome all challenges is unshakeable. PM Modi said that he is confident that India will realise its dream of becoming self-reliant (Atmanirbhar). “I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians,” the prime minister said.On the occasion, the prime minister took to the stage and addressed the nation, paying homage to the contributions of all Indians who won the Independence and all members of the armed forces and personnel who guard our independence and keep us safe. Also read: ‘India has willpower to lead the world’ - PM Modi pushes for self-relianceHe lauded the nation’s corona warriors for their selfless act of fighting against the deadly contagion, helping hundreds and millions without caring for their lives. “Next year we will enter the 75th year of our independence. A big festival is in front for us,” he said. Here are the highlights from the prime minister’s Independence Day speech:• In the midst of the Corona pandemic, 130 crore Indians have pledged to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. I am confident that India will realize this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal.• India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey.• How long will we see raw material getting exported and being imported as finished product coming back to our country? The mindset of free India should be ‘vocal for local’. We should appreciate our local products, if we don’t do this then our products will not get the opportunity to do better and will not get encouraged.Also read: ‘India has the willpower to lead the world’ - PM Modi • I am confident that measures like opening up the SPACE sector, will generate many new employment opportunities for our youth and provide further avenues to hone their skills and potential.• Self-reliant India means not only reducing imports, but also increasing our skills, our creativity.• A big campaign is going to start in the country from today. This is the National Digital Health Mission. National Digital Health Mission will bring a new revolution in India’s health sector. Your every test, every disease, which doctor gave you which medicine, when, what were your reports, all this information will be contained in this one health ID.• Today, not one, not two but three vaccines of Corona are currently in testing phase in India. As soon as the green signal is received from the scientists, the country’s preparation is also ready for mass production of those vaccines.• Today, many big companies of the world are turning to India. We have to move forward with the mantra of ‘Make in India’ as well as ‘Make for World’.• Respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme for us. What our brave soldiers can do for this resolution, what the country can do, the world has seen in Ladakh.• There is a need to give a new direction to the overall infrastructure development of the country to move India towards modernity at a fast pace. This need will be met with the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project. The country is moving towards spending more than 100 lakh crore rupees on this. About 7 thousand projects of different sectors have also been identified. It would be like a new revolution in infrastructure.• The campaign of ‘Vocal for Local’, ‘Re-Skill’ and ‘Up-Skill’ will communicate a self-reliant economy in the standard of living of those living below the poverty line.• Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity, the middle class needs freedom from government interference.• Education of the country is of great importance in building self-reliant India, in building modern India, in building new India, in building prosperous and prosperous India. With this thinking, the country has got a new national education policy.• Our experience says that whenever there is opportunity for women power in India, they have brought laurels to the country, strengthened the country.• Just as Sikkim has made its mark as an organic state, in the coming days, Ladakh, as a carbon neutral zone, is also working fast in this direction.• A special campaign is also underway with a holistic approach to reduce pollution in 100 selected cities of the country.• National Cadet Corps will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal and border areas, one-third will be female cadets.• Ram Mandir issue was resolved peacefully, citizen’s commitment towards peace during the process was remarkable.• In this decade of the 21st century, India will now have to move forward with new policy and new customs. Now simple and ordinary will not work. Our policies, our processes, our products, everything should be best, should be the best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-the-ramparts-of-red-fort-pm-modi-says-india-will-realise-its-dream-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-independence-day-2020-speech/story-fNvKA5df3R1wRByeJWhdGO.html
15-08-2020||India||From Red Fort, PM Modi delivers one message to 2 neighbours, China and Pak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday delivered a sharp message to two of India’s neighbours, China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with the two countries have given a fitting reply to those who sought to challenge India’s sovereignty.Like in previous years, PM Modi’s 90-minute Independence Day address to the nation did not name Pakistan, or China. But as he wrapped up his speech that had extensively focused on the campaign to build a self-reliant India, the Prime Minister from the ramparts of the Red Fort underlined that the country’s sovereignty is supreme.“The world has seen in Ladakh what our brave soldiers can do to deliver on this resolve. From LoC (Line of Control) to the (Line of Actual Control), the country’s armed forces have given a fitting response to countries that threatened the country’s territorial sovereignty,” PM Modi said in his Independence Day speech.It was a reference to the standoff at the east Ladakh border that has continued for more than 100 days and violent scrap on June 15 when Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) soldiers blocked attempts by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to expand its territory.Also read | ‘Time to move away from ordinary’: 5 inspiring quotes from PM Modi’s Independence Day speechThe Prime Minister, who wore a white and saffron turban with a kurta, said India is connecting with its neighbours, whether they are connected to us through land or the sea, with the partnership of security, development and trust. “Today, neighbours are not only those who share the same geographical boundaries but also those who meet our hearts. Where there is harmony in relationships, there is amity,” he said.The Prime Minister also said Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India has become the mantra of the 1.3 billion Indians who he said have taken the resolve to transform the country even while facing several setbacks, including the coronavirus pandemic and natural disasters.“I am confident that India will realise this dream. I am confident of the abilities, confidence and potential of my fellow Indians. Once we decide to do something, we do not rest till we achieve that goal,” he said.“India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey,” he added.Several big companies of the world are turning to India and the will have to go ahead with the mantra of Make in India as well as Make for World, the Prime Minister stressed.PM Modi also launched the National Digital Health Mission, which he said will bring a revolution in the country’s health sector. “You will get information about every test, every disease, which doctor prescribed you which medicine and when and your reports under one health ID,” Prime Minister said.He had started his speech by paying his homage to all those who have laid their lives down in the line of duty, members of the armed forces and frontline workers amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister also pointed to the absence of the hundreds of school children who sit in front of the dais every year. He said the coronavirus pandemic has curtailed the celebrations as he also acknowledged the corona warriors and all those who have succumbed to the viral disease.Also read | ‘Made in India Covid-19 vaccine soon’: PM Modi in Independence Day speech“In this extraordinary time of Corona, our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ambulance personnel, sweepers, policemen, servicemen, many people, are working round the clock, regardless of their lives, with the spirit of Seva Parmo Dharma (service is the highest duty),” he said.In his Independence Day speech last year, PM Modi had talked about the decision to remove Jammu and Kashmir’s special rights and ban against triple talaq among the bold moves of the first 10 weeks of his second term.Modi also talked about his aim to turn India into a $5-trillion economy within five years and announced the creation of a new post of chief of defence staff to ensure better coordination of the army, navy and air force, along the lines of western military forces.A multilayered security ring, including snipers from the National Security Guard (NSG), elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, has been thrown in around the Red Fort. More than 300 cameras have also been installed and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock.Around 4,000 security personnel stood guard at the Red Fort in adherence with social distancing norms. There was heavy security deployment along the route taken by the Prime Minister to reach Red Fort as well.Eight roads—Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishadaj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBTand Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover—have been closed from 4am to 10am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-74th-independence-day-pm-modi-pays-homage-to-security-forces-covid-19-frontline-workers/story-09DOeFTqpyY90XtrdLpxmJ.html
15-08-2020||India||ITBP soldiers celebrate Independence Day at 14,000 feet in Ladakh||The soldiers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) celebrated the country’s Independence Day on the banks of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh at 14,000 feet. The soldiers carried the tricolour of ITBP flags part of the celebrations.The ITBP also released a mashup of the popular patriotic songs sung by its soldiers. The mashup has been released by ITBP on its social media handles.The force has recommended the names of its 21 personnel for gallantry medals for fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with the army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay amid the border standoff between the two countries over the last three months in Ladakh.Senior officials said on the condition of anonymity said that these incidents of face-off did not happen in the Galwan Valley but at half a dozen other places in eastern Ladakh.It further said that the soldiers were engaged in stand-offs, sometimes as long as 17 to 20 hours, but received minimum casualties and gave befitting reply to the stone palters of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The paramilitary force, which is responsible for guarding the 3,488-km de facto border between the two countries, or the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said its 294 personnel have been awarded the commendation disk of the ITBP’s director-general for their bravery in Ladakh.Six other soldiers of ITBP have been awarded for their courage in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh.A Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), the ITBP is deployed at the difficult high altitude Himalayan terrains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-soldiers-celebrate-independence-day-2020-at-14-000-feet-in-ladakh/story-iKkunqu9TzYhadqOf2z2PK.html
15-08-2020||India||‘I bow to martyrs’: Arvind Kejriwal tweets wishes on Independence Day||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wished the country on the occasion of 74th Independence Day on Saturday. Kejriwal posted his wishes on Twitter where he paid tributes to the martyrs.“I bow to those martyrs whose sacrifice made it possible for us to breathe in free atmosphere. I wish all the countrymen Happy Independence Day,” tweeted Kejriwal.He tweeted moments before Prime Minister Narendra Modi started his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort. This is PM Modi’s second speech of the second term in office.PM Modi will proceed to the Lahore Gate of Red Fort where he will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. He will then address the nation. The Independence Day function at Red Fort this year will be relatively muted in terms of participation of people in view of the situation created by Covid-19.Compared to the past years, only about 20 per cent VVIPs or other participants will be able to witness the Prime Minister’s speech.Multi-layered security arrangements and measures to ensure social distancing are in place for the -19.A security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, will be placed around the Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation.Over 300 cameras have been installed for security and their footage is being monitored round-the-clock, according to the police.There will be around 4,000 security personnel at the Red Fort and they will stand in adherence with social distancing norms, the police further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-bow-to-martyrs-arvind-kejriwal-tweets-wishes-on-independence-day/story-AJWDbGUFQ37Wj97zZVnU2N.html
15-08-2020||India||From the ramparts of Red Fort||Over the past 20 years, addresses by prime ministers on Independence Day have focussed on development goals, Pakistan-sponsored terrorism, the importance of Jammu and Kashmir and the bane of corruption.2000 Kashmir unbreakable from India Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and Jammu & Kashmir were the main themes of PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s speech in which he mentioned that J&K would remain an “unbreakable” part of India and Islamabad would not be able to secure anything through its “undeclared war” because the 21st century didn’t permit the redrawing of borders in the name of religion or by the strength of the sword. “This is the age of resolving differences, not for prolonging disputes,” he said. 2001 Warning to PakistanIn the backdrop of the failed Agra summit earlier that year, Vajpayee delivered a stern warning to Pakistan while striking a hopeful note for India’s development and future. “Let no one entertain any delusion that Pakistan can succeed in wresting Jammu & Kashmir through jehad and terrorism,” he said. He also said that his government was determined to stamp out corruption and bring the fruits of development to the poorest classes. “The sun has come out and a better tomorrow awaits us,” he added. 2002 J&K elections in focus The scheduled elections for Jammu & Kashmir occupied centre stage in the PM’s address with Vajpayee pledging that there would be a redressal of “mistakes of the past”. In a 25-minute speech, one of the shortest by any PM on Independence Day, Vajpayee said no one would be allowed to create any disturbances in the assembly elections. “For us, Kashmir is not a piece of land, it is a test case for the nation’s secularism,” he said. The PM also condemned the communal riots in Gujarat and announced 15 major initiatives, which included social security schemes and the induction of Agni missiles in the army.  2003 Opening doors to neighbourPakistan, Kashmir and development dominated the address as Vajpayee said the government was willing to work for peace with Pakistan if it agreed to shed its anti-India outlook and support for cross-border terrorism. “Let people travel across border. Let more and more elected representatives visit each others country. Let us open some new doors,” he said. The PM also unfurled a series of schemes for farmers, pledging to double their income in seven years. He also spoke of linking rivers and developing village roads. 2004 Promises to keep In his first Independence Day address as PM, Manmohan Singh emphasised the need for good governance and a code of conduct for political parties. Singh also identified seven priority sectors on which the government would focus. “On this solemn occasion, let us resolve to work together to develop a code of conduct in a consensual way so as to uphold the values enshrined in our Constitution,” he said. Singh made no promises and announced no big schemes, but said the national common minimum programme would guide his government. “Today, I have no promises to make, but I have promises to keep,” he said. 2005 Focus on Aam Aadmi Manmohan Singh explained his policy initiatives for the “aam aadmi” (common man) and invoked former PM Indira Gandhi’s name. His spin to her “Garibi hatao” slogan was about employment-oriented growth: “Garibi hatao, rozgar badhao”. Conceding that the fruits of first-generation reforms hadn’t fully reached the hinterland, the PM linked economic growth with social justice to mobilise the poor and disadvantaged classes. He took note of Pakistan’s half-hearted efforts to fight terrorism, and warned of a tough Indian response to violence in J&K. 2006 Stop terror and extremism As he unveiled his vision for a “new India”, Manmohan Singh said terrorism threatened economic prosperity in South Asia, and Pakistan must know that popular support for the peace process would be undermined unless it clamped down on terror infrastructure. “Terrorism anywhere is a threat to prosperity everywhere,” the PM said. He said the dream of a South Asian community where borders ceased to matter could not be realised if politics of hate cast a shadow. On the domestic front, the PM hinted at a possible rise in the prices of kerosene and LPG. 2007 Best is yet to comeIndia is moving in the right direction but Indians need to work harder for at least a decade to eradicate poverty and provide education and health care to the millions on the other side of the divide, Manmohan Singh said on the nation’s 60th Independence Day. In his 40-minute speech, the prime minister did not refer to the controversial Indo-US nuclear deal — or to Pakistan. “We are a nation of young people. Once unleashed, the energy of our youth will drive India onto a new growth path. I assure you that for each one of you…the best is yet to come,” he said. 2008 10% growth needed “Let’s Make Peace” was the underlining theme of Manmohan Singh’s speech. He also said “terrorists and those who support terrorism” are enemies of people and countries must collectively “defeat them”. He mentioned the nuclear deal with the US saying the pact would “spur” economic growth. Singh said modern silence should “find solution to our energy problem”. He also announced a special skill development mission and launching of a new space aircraft. “Our economy must grow at the rate of at least 10 per cent every year to get rid of poverty and generate employment for all,” Singh said. 2009 Restoring growth biggest challenge Manmohan Singh explained the slowing down the economic growth in the wake of global financial crisis. The economy grew at a rate of about 9% from the year 2004-05 to the year 2007-08. This growth rate came down to 6.7% in 2008-09 due to the crisis. “It is only a result of our policies that the global crisis has affected us to a lesser extent than many other countries,” Singh said, and maintained that restoring growth rate to 9% is the greatest challenge at hand. Reflecting on the deadly terror strike in November 2008, Singh spoke about the efforts his government was putting in place for national security. He also said that the nation-building is the “highest duty” for everyone. 2010 Discussion and dialogue ways to peace Manmohan Singh made a fresh appeal to young people in Kashmir and Naxals and said discussion and dialogue was the only way to resolve issues. On the economy, he accepted that inflation was on the rise and hurting the common people, while he cited subsidy burden to explain why the government had to increase prices of petro products (auto fuel was regulated at that time). But Singh spoke of agricultural reforms not only as a solution to high inflation but also to ensure development of rural India. This was the year of the Commonwealth Games, and they found a mention in his speech. 2011 Hunger strikes won’t solve corruption Manmohan Singh’s seventh speech as Prime Minister reflected the growing allegations of corruption against his government. The Commonwealth Games scam and the 2G scam were already making headlines and Singh said that one single step cannot root out corruption, hunger strikes are not a solution but a multipronged effort is required to control it. In this context, he mentioned a Lokpal legislation, Judicial Accountability Bill and a legislation for public procurement. “Now only Parliament can decide… I also believe that they (those who don’t agree with this bill) should not resort to hunger strikes and fasts-unto-death,” he said. He mentioned corruption 16 times in his speech. 2012 Slow growth national security threat Concerns about slowing growth and high inflation were evident in Manmohan Singh’s Independence Day speech in 2012. The PM made an explicit connection between slow growth and national security. Singh blamed the global economy as well as lack of political consensus as major roadblock for increasing the pace of growth. “You are aware that these days, the global economy is passing through a difficult phase … Also there have been domestic developments which are hindering our economic growth,” Singh said. He also spoke about the need to create more employment opportunities in the country and in that context laid down the idea of a National Skill Development Authority. 2013 No place for narrow sectarian ideologies Manmohan Singh’s last speech as Prime Minister was a recap of the achievements of the past United Progressive Alliance and Congress years. As growth slumped, concerns were evident in Singh’s speech as he spoke about effort to expedite stuck projects, remove bottlenecks of environmental clearances. He ended his speech with an appeal towards creating a tolerant society that celebrates communal harmony. “If in the future we can achieve the same kind of progress as in the last decade, the day is not far off when India will be rid of poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance,” he said. 2014 Ten-year moratorium on communalism, casteism In Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi’s first speech from the rampart of the Red Fort, he announced a moratorium of 10 years against promoting communal and caste tensions. “Enough battles have been fought, enough people have died… no one benefits from this,” said the PM. Calling himself the Pradhan Sevak, or prime servant, he spoke at length about Swachh Bharat and the need to make more toilet in schools; he also spoke of financial inclusion and announced a scheme for MPs to adopt model villages. “We will replace the Planning Commission with a new institution having a new design and structure, a new body, a new soul, a new thinking, a new direction,” Modi said. 2015 A corruption-free India In his second speech, Modi made a strong pro-poor, pro-farmer and anti-corruption speech. On one hand, he announced Start-up India, Stand-up India to appeal to the young and as a mode of job creation; on the other hand, he rolled out a slew of social welfare schemes on pension and insurance. He spoke against corruption, mentioning it 19 times during his speech, and said that there has not been any allegation during his term. “There is not an allegation of corruption of even a single paisa,” he said. Modi also said that in 1,000 days all non-electrified villages would be given a power connection. 2016 Thank you, Balochistan The highlight of Modi’s 86-minute speech was his reference to Balochistan—a sensitive topic for Pakistan administration. He said he is grateful to people of Balochistan, Gilgit and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who had wished India on Independence Day. “I want to specially thank some special people from the Red Fort. In the last few days, people of Balochistan,Gilgit and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir had conveyed good wishes and gratitude to me,” Modi said Modi also used the address to highlight the government’s social goals - including medical aid of up to ₹ 1 lakh for people below the poverty line - and reach out to middle class by saying they would be spared the tyranny of the tax authorities. 2017 Kashmir needs to be embraced At a time when Kashmir continues to face unrest, PM Modi adopted a conciliatory approach and said the Kashmir problem will be solved neither by gaali (abuses), or goli (bullets), but by embracing all Kashmiris. “I am clear in my belief on how to win the war against separatism, which is spread by a handful of people,” Modi said. He also condemned violence in the name of faith, and said the slogan before Independence was “Bharat Chhoro” but now it should be “Bharat Jorro”. He empathised with Muslim women who suffered Instant Triple Talaq - which would become a key political theme of his government - and said they are with their struggles. He continued his strong messaging against corruption and said that the government wants to create job givers not job seekers 2018 An Indian in space Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised that an Indian would be in space before 2022 and reached out to key constituencies --farmers, the poor, women—and touched upon key issues (development, corruption, reforms, security) even as he targeted the Opposition by comparing the present with what it was like in 2014,when he took over. Modi’s fifth speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort lasted 82 minutes. The PM reached out to multiple classes and communities by projecting his government’s “vast development canvas”; highlighted its ability to take difficult decisions, battle corruption and improve delivery; and spoke of the steps taken to create a more equal and gender-sensitive India and a more secure India. 2019 Article 370 move hailed In the first speech of his second term, Narendra Modi highlighted the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, ending the practice of instant triple talaq among Muslims, strengthening of laws to fight terror, and moving towards “one nation, one Constitution” as some of the key accomplishments of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in less than 70 days of its second term. The work that was not done in the last 70 years has been accomplished within 70 days...The removal of Article 370 and Article 35A is an important step,” he said. Modi, after decades of the proposal being in limbo, also announced the creation of a Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) for more effective coordination between the three armed forces. The PM outlined the journey of India from 2014 to 2019 as one from disappointment to hope; urged citizen participation in a range of new environmental initiatives, from water conservation to ending single-use plastic; and in a move that could have policy implications in the future, flagged population explosion as a key concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-the-ramparts-of-red-fort/story-NY16hfzJwwOiJ18LdrAgAM.html
15-08-2020||India||Jai Hind: PM Modi tweets ahead of Independence Day speech at Red Fort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended his greeting to all Indians on the 74th Independence Day before hoisting the tricolour from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi.“Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!” PM Modi posted on Twitter minutes before his speech at the Red Fort.The Prime Minister will hoist the national flag and deliver his Independence Day speech shortly. Before that, he will receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Delhi Police. In his Independence Day speech last year, PM Modi had talked about the decision to remove Jammu and Kashmir’s special rights and ban against triple talaq among the bold moves of the first 10 weeks of his second term.Modi also talked about his aim to turn India into a $5-trillion economy within five years and announced the creation of a new post of chief of defence staff to ensure better coordination of the army, navy and air force, along the lines of western military forces.A multilayered security ring, including snipers from the National Security Guard (NSG), elite SWAT commandos and kite catchers, has been thrown in around the Red Fort. Several other leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, also tweeted their wishe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-hind-pm-modi-tweets-ahead-of-independence-day-speech-at-red-fort/story-8zgIc0YlOlEElb4PiTvlgO.html
15-08-2020||India||From inspecting the guard of honour to Independence Day speech: PM Modi to hoist tricolour today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hoist the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Delhi’s iconic Red Fort on Saturday.The Prime Minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist PM Modi in unfurling the national flag.Here is how the 74th Independence Day ceremony will take place:* PM Modi will be received by defence minister Rajnath Singh and defence secretary Ajay Kumar as he arrives in front of Red Fort’s Lahore Gate at 7.18am from Rajghat.* Kumar will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC) of Delhi area, Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, to the Prime Minister. * Lt Gen Mishra will then conduct PM Modi to the saluting base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present the general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, positioned directly in front of the tricolour across the moat below the ramparts.* This year, the Indian Army is the coordinating service and the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. The army contingent will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the navy contingent by Lt Commander KVR Reddy, Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the air force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by additional deputy commissioner Jitender Kumar Meena. * PM Modi will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort after inspecting the Guard of Honour and will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. * Lt Gen Mishra will conduct the Prime Minister to the dais to unfurl the national flag after which the National Guard will give ‘Rashtriya Salute’ to the tricolour. The unfurling of the tricolour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand.* The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police will present ‘Rashtriya Salute’ at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The naval contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, IAF contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by additional deputy commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama. * PM Modi will address the nation after unfurling the tricolour. The cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will sing the national anthem after the Prime Minister’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-inspecting-the-guard-of-honour-to-independence-day-speech-pm-modi-to-hoist-tricolour-today/story-a43UZ9DMM0co6d3nifHeMP.html
15-08-2020||India||Computer science graduate, debate champion: Major Shweta Pandey, the army officer, who will help PM Modi hoist the tricolour||Major Shweta Pandey, an officer of the Indian Army, will help Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurl the national flag this year during the Independence Day ceremony at Delhi’s Red Fort on Saturday.Maj Pandey is the first woman officer to carry the national flag and lead a first-ever tri-services Indian Armed Forces Contingent during Russia’s Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow in June this year.Last year, three women Indian Air Force (IAF) officers had assisted PM Modi during the Independence Day ceremony. Flying Officer Preetam Sangwan had assisted the Prime Minister in the unfurling of the national flag, while flight lieutenant Jyoti Yadav and flight lieutenant Mansi Geda were positioned on either side of the saluting dais.Here is more about the officer:* Maj Pandey was commissioned in the army in March 2012 from the Officers Training Academy (OTA) in Tamil Nadu’s Chennai. * Pandey is an Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) officer at the Indian Army’s 505 base workshop.* She won the Garhwal Rifles medal for topping in tactics in the academy.* She is posted with 505 Army Based Workshop (ABW) in Delhi Cantonment.* The officer is a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) expert and has completed both basic CBRN and staff CBRN courses from the College Of Military Engineering (CME) in Maharashtra’s Pune.* Maj Shweta holds a degree in computer science and has done her advance course in radars. She has won more 75 medals and 250 certificates in various national and international events such as speeches, debates, extempores, etc in school and college. * She is an alumnus of the City Montessori School (CMS) in Lucknow. * Her father Raj Ratan Pandey served as an additional director (finance) in the Uttar Pradesh government and her mother Amita Pandey is a professor of Sanskrit and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/computer-science-graduate-debate-champion-major-shweta-pandey-the-army-officer-who-will-help-pm-modi-hoist-the-tricolour/story-w5U3soB0mo67E9DZTMsPDL.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s 74th I-Day speech highlights: ‘Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth’||Vice President Naidu lauds PM for ‘passionate’ I-Day speechVice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his passionate Independence Day speech at the Red Fort and said that it creates confidence among the people in their endeavours to revive the economy.JP Nadda hoists flag at BJP headquartersBJP national president JP Nadda hoisted the national flag at the party’s headquarter in New Delhi.Priyanka Gandhi lauds soldiers, healthcare workers, farmers on I-DayCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lauded soldiers, healthcare workers, farmers in her Tweets on the occasion of Independence Day. “India got independence after a long struggle in which people laid down their lives. Crores of Indians fought together for the truth and won. We have to protect our freedom by putting our lives at stake. On this occasion of Independence Day, salute to the soldiers, healthcare workers, sanitation workers, farmers and labourers,” her tweet read.President Ram Nath Kovind pays tribute at National War MemorialPresident Ram Nath Kovind paid tribute at National War Memorial. Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind pays tribute at National War Memorial on #IndependenceDay. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh & Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria present. pic.twitter.com/M7io7HL6C1LK Advani unfurls national flag at residenceBJP leader L K Advani unfurled the tricolour at his residence in New Delhi to mark the nation’s 74th Independence Day.Chinese envoy wishes for ‘peace and prosperity’ for India and China“Congratulations to the Indian government and people on Independence Day. Wish China and India, two great nations with ancient civilization prosper together in peace and develop with closer partnership,” tweeted Sun Weidong, Chinese Ambassador to India.PM Modi continues ‘safa’ tradition; opts for saffron, cream turbanPrime Minister Narendra Modi wore a saffron and cream headgear at the 74th Independence Day celebrations. He paired the ‘safa’ with a half-sleeve kurta and a fitted churidar.Day to remember all those who lost lives at border: Delhi CM“Today is also the day to remember those who sacrificed themselves at the border in last 73 years, to keep the nation independent and safe. Our 20 jawans lost their lives at India-China border. Innumerable soldiers have laid down their lives like this, in last 73 years,” tweeted Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.On I-Day, CPI(M) pledges to continue its fight to defend constitution“We pledge to continue our fight in defence of the constitution and against attack on fundamental rights. This freedom was hard-earned and any attempt to curb it will be fought back,” CPI (M) Tweeted.Congress leader AK Antony hoists flag at party headquartersSenior Congress leader AK Antony hoists the National Flag at Congress party’s headquarters. Delhi: Senior Congress leader AK Antony hoists the National Flag at Congress party's headquarters, today on #IndependenceDay today. Rahul Gandhi, Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal also present. pic.twitter.com/QnMXXs0ruj‘Best wishes for more progress’: Nepal PM wished India on I-Day“Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” Prime Minister of Nepal, KP Sharma Oli tweeted.Australian PM Scott Morrison wishes India happy Independence Day“Warm wishes to PM Narendra Modi and the people of India on their Independence Day. The deep friendship and partnership between Australia and India is founded on bharosa (trust), samman (respect) and shared values. Happy Independence Day!,” Australian PM Scott Morrison Tweets. Rahul Gandhi extends wishes to nation on Independence DayRemembering a quote of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Rahul Gandhi tweeted. “The only alternative to coexistence is destruction. Jawaharlal Nehru. Best wishes on Independence Day.”RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hoists national flag in NagpurRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat hoisted the national flag at the Sangh headquarters in Nagpur as part of the Independence Day celebrations.‘I bow to martyrs’: Arvind Kejriwal tweets on Independence Day“I bow to those martyrs whose sacrifice made it possible for us to breathe in free atmosphere. I wish all the countrymen Happy Independence Day,” tweeted Kejriwal on Independence Day.Middle class needs freedom from government interference: PM“Professionals coming out of India’s middle class make their mark in the whole world not only in India. The middle class needs opportunity and freedom from government interference,” said PM Modi.DRDO-developed anti-drone system was deployed near Red FortDRDO-developed anti-drone system deployed near Red Fort today. The system can detect and jam micro drones up to 3 kilometres and use laser to bring down a target up to 1-2.5 kilometres depending on the wattage of laser weapon, according to news agency ANI.Development work in over 1,300 islands in country underway: PM“There are more than 1,300 islands in our country. Keeping in mind their geographical location and their significance in the development of the nation, work to begin new projects in some of these islands is underway,” said PM Modi.Our hearts meet with India’s neighbours: PM Modi“Today, neighbours are not only those with whom we share our geographical boundaries but also those with whom our hearts meet,” said PM Modi.‘Ram Temple construction started 10 days ago’: PM Modi says conduct of people ‘inspirational’“Construction of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya started 10 days ago. Ramjanmbhoomi issue that prevailed for centuries, has been resolved peacefully. The conduct of people of the country has been unprecedented and is an inspiration for future,” said PM Modi in his Independence Day speech.PM Modi ends Independence Day speechPM Modi has concluded his Independence Day speech which ran for over 1 hour 30 minutes.Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth: PM Modi“Covid-19 is not an obstacle big enough to hamper self-reliant India’s growth,” says PM Modi.India’s policies, processes and products should be the best: PM Modi“Our processes, policies, products should be the best. That is how India will be at the top of the world,” says PM Modi.NCC will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal, border areas, one-third will be female cadets: PM“National Cadet Corps will select 1 lakh cadets from coastal and border areas and one-third of these will be female cadets,” says PM Modi.Working with maritime neighbours to ensure peace and stability in Southeast Asia: PM“We are working with our maritime neighbours to ensure peace and stability in Southeast Asia,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech. India is thankful to all nations who extended help during Covid-19 struggle: PM ModiPM Modi thanked all nations who extended help to India during her struggle with coronavirus.Ladakh showed how India responds to those who threaten her territorial integrity: PM Modi“From LOC to LAC, whoever dared to cross the line and threaten the territorial integrity of India was met with an appropriate response from our brave soldiers,” says PM Modi.Decreasing carbon footprint will be done on a war-footing: PM Modi“Decreasing our carbon footprint and conservation of biodiversity will be done on a war-footing,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech. J-K has completed one year of independence from Article 370“This one year is a year of the new journey of development for Jammu and Kashmir. This one year is the year of the rights received by the women and the Dalits in Jammu and Kashmir. This one year is also the year of a life of dignity for the refugees in Jammu and Kashmir,” says PM Modi.3 vaccines candidates are at different stages of testing in India: PM Modi“All of us are waiting for a vaccine for Covid-19. I want to tell you that three vaccine candidates are at different stages of testing in the country. A made in India vaccine will be out soon,” says PM Modi. PM Modi announces National Digital Health MissionPM Modi announces National Digital Health Mission, says it will bring a revolution in India’s health sectorWe have worked for women empowerment: PM Modi“We have worked for women empowerment- Navy and airforce are taking women in combat, women are now leaders, we abolished triple talaq, got sanitary pads to women for just 1 rupee,” says PM ModiOptical fibre network will reach all 6 lakh villages of India: PM“All 6 lakh villages on India will be connected via optical fibre within 1,000 days,” says PM Modi National Education Policy will equip kids for global competition: PM“Education plays an important role in new India, and we have introduced the National Education policy, which will help our children grow and be equipped for global competition,” says PM Modi.Rs 90,000 crore directly transferred to bank accounts of poor: PM“About Rs 90,000 crore directly transferred to bank accounts of poor; over 80 crore people provided free food grains,” says PM Modi.Middle class will benefit most from ease of living, says PM Modi“Middle class will benefit most from a better ranking in ease of living and we are striving for it,” says PM Modi.Jal Jeevan Mission empowered spirit of cooperative competitive federalism, says PM Modi“Jal Jeevan Mission has empowered the spirit of cooperative competitive federalism,” says PM Modi. Economic clusters will be formed in villages: PM Modi“We need to strengthen agrarian businesses. Economic clusters will be formed in villages for this purpose,” says PM Modi. We will have to work extra hard for upliftment of all: PM Modi“Some areas tend to be left behind in journeys of development. There are 110 districts in India that have to be brought back in the narrative of development. We will have to work extra hard for upliftment of all,” says PM Modi.India’s progress seen in all fields in past 6 years: PM Modi“Be it providing every household with electricity, cooking gas, creating bank accounts for the poor or building toilets in all houses, India has progressed a lot in every field in the last 6 years,” says PM Modi.Opening up space sector will generate employment: PM Modi“I am confident that measures like opening up space sector will generate many new employment opportunities for our youth, said PM Modi.Record FDI investment reflects world’s confidence in India: PM Modi“India’s record FDI investment shows the world’s growing confidence in our nation,” says PM Modi.Make in World should also be a key slogan like Make in India: PM Modi“Make in World should also be a key slogan like Make in India is,” says PM Modi in his address to the nation.Humanity must be centre of economic growth: PM Modi“While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process,” says PM Modi.Vocal for local should be key slogan of independent India: PM Modi“Vocal for local should be the key slogan of independent India,” says PM Modi at Red Fort.We have to provide for hungry in our nation, world: PM Modi“We have to strengthen our agriculture industry, to provide for the hungry in our nation as well as the world,” says PM Modi in Independence Day speech.India has to utilise its human resource: PM ModiPM Modi says India has to focus on its human resources and skill development. India has to stop exporting raw material, importing finished goods: PM“India has to stop exporting raw material and importing finished goods. We have to become self-reliant,” says PM.‘I have faith in India’s approach’: PM Modi on India becoming self-reliant“India has vowed to be self-reliant amid Covid-19. Self-reliance is compulsory for families and for the nation. I have faith in India’s approach,” says PM ModiPM lauds nation’s ‘unwavering spirit’“India’s soul has been attacked several times, but our nation’s unwavering spirit conquered all,” says PM Modi in his Independence Day speech.I salute the corona warriors: PM Modi“I salute the corona warriors who have worked relentlessly for the nation. I extend my condolences to families that have lost loved ones in this battle against coronavirus,” says PM at Red Fort.We owe this freedom to those who fought for Independence: PM Modi“We owe this freedom to those hundreds who fought for our Independence,” says PM Modi. PM Modi begins address to nationPM Modi has begun his address to the nation from the Red Fort.PM Modi unfurls national flagPM Modi unfurled the national flag at Red Fort and national anthem was played.PM Modi receives guard of honourRajnath Singh and defence secretary Ajay Kumar received the PM at Red Fort. The PM received the guard of honour. PM Modi pays tributes at RajghatPrime Minister Narendra Modi pays tributes at Rajghat.  Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tributes at Raj Ghat. #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/TRm6QVDxqFAmit Shah stresses on self-reliance in I-Day TweetHome Minister Amit Shah stressed on the need for a self-reliant India in his Independence Day tweet for the nation: “On this Independence Day, let us take a pledge to fulfil PM Narendra Modi’s dream of a self-reliant India and contribute to taking the country to new heights by using indigenous products.PM Tweets: Happy Independence Day to all fellow IndiansPM Tweets: Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!Rajnath Singh to receive PM at red fort at 7.18amDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar will receive the PM at Red Fort ahead of his speech and flag hoisting.PM Modi to address nation from Red FortPM Narendra Modi will address the nation from Red Fort today. This will be his second Independence Day speech of his second tenure as PM.PM Modi to visit Rajghat at 7amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will pay his tributes at Rajghat before proceeding towards the Red Fort.India celebrates 74th Independence DayThe country is celebrating 73 years of independence from the British rule today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-74th-independence-day-speech-2020-live-updates-august-15-red-fort/story-HBzUwFUTt2NAyqjfw9E89I.html
15-08-2020||India||Watch Live: PM Modi leads the nation in celebrating 74th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation on the occasion of India’s 74th Independence Day as he reached the Red Fort a while ago. Prime Minister Modi inspected the guard of honour and then unfurled the tricolour to mark this joyous occasion before he began his address to the nation. The nation will celebrate the Independence Day mostly indoors as the world remains under the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic.  #स्वतंत्रतादिवस के पावन अवसर पर सभी देशवासियों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। जय हिंद!Happy Independence Day to all fellow Indians. Jai Hind!The Prime Minister has wished the 130 crore people of the nation on the 74th Independence Day. He offered his reverence and gratitude at Rajghat, the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial, where the eternal flame of non-violence keeps burning. 4000 attendees are attending the Independence Day ceremony. As coronavirus numbers grow, all precautions have been taken to maintain social distancing. The celebrations will be held following the Prime Minister’s clarion call against the invisible enemy - Do Gaz ki Doori. The infantrymen, navy and airmen who will be present in the guard of honour have remained in quarantine for the last 15 days. The defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria will be present with the Prime Minister during the event. WATCH Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation from the Red Fort:  The Prime Minister thanked the key workers who have been vital in the nation’s fight against the coronavirus in his speech. He is also expected to thank and applaud the gallant soldiers who fought the recent Chinese intrusion in Galwan Valley in Ladakh. The Prime Minister’s speech will focus on self-reliance as India battles along with the entire world to stave off the economic effects the pandemic has brought along with it. The invitees have already reached the venue. The guests, with masks and ensuring social distancing, are set to celebrate nation’s 74th Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-independence-day-speech-watch-live-pm-modi-leads-the-nation-in-celebrating-74th-independence-day/story-zfDCuCMyJIKGjhulQOMtNK.html
15-08-2020||India||Marking the country’s tryst with destiny||On the midnight of August 14, 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru addressed the Constituent Assembly, delivering his famous ‘Tryst with Destiny’ speech. In his address, Nehru evoked the country’s long freedom struggle and chalked out a path for its future. Here is an excerpt from his landmark speech: “Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially. At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom. A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance. It is fitting that at this solemn moment we take the pledge of dedication to the service of India and her people and to the still larger cause of humanity.At the dawn of history India started on her unending quest, and trackless centuries are filled with her striving and the grandeur of her successes and her failures. Through good and ill fortune alike she has never lost sight of that quest or forgotten the ideals which gave her strength. We end today a period of ill fortune and India discovers herself again. The achievement we celebrate today is but a step, an opening of opportunity, to the greater triumphs and achievements that await us. Are we brave enough and wise enough to grasp this opportunity and accept the challenge of the future ?Freedom and power bring responsibility. That responsibility rests upon this Assembly, a sovereign body representing the sovereign people of India. Before the birth of freedom we have endured all the pains of labour and our hearts are heavy with the memory of this sorrow. Some of those pains continue even now. Nevertheless the past is over and it is the future that beckons to us now.That future is not one of ease or resting but of incessant striving so that we might fulfil the pledges we have so often taken and the one we shall take today. The service of India means the service of the millions who suffer. It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and disease and inequality of opportunity. The ambition of the greatest man of our generation has been to wipe every tear from every eye. That may be beyond us but as long as there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over.And so we have to labour and to work and work hard to give reality to our dreams. Those dreams are for India, but they are also for the world, for all the nations and peoples are too closely knit together today for anyone of them to imagine that it can live apart. Peace has been said to be indivisible, so is freedom, so is prosperity now, and so also is disaster in this one world that can no longer be split into isolated fragments.To the people of India, whose representatives we are, we make appeal to join us with faith and confidence in this great adventure. This is no time for petty and destructive criticism, no time for ill will or blaming others. We have to build the noble mansion of free India where all her children may dwell.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marking-the-country-s-tryst-with-destiny/story-tKMT6OJSKCW4szKPzCE9MP.html
15-08-2020||India||India’s review of China’s Confucius Institutes to focus on Kolkata, Mumbai centres||The Indian government, which launched a review of Indian chapters of Confucius Institutes in the country, has narrowed its focus to two centres operating out of Kolkata and Mumbai, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. The review was launched earlier this month after security agencies on July 15 sounded out the government about their concerns around the growing Chinese influence in higher education and culture.On August 13, the US designated the HQ of the Confucius Institutes in the US, in Washington as a foreign mission of the People’s Republic of China citing the “opacity of this organisation and its state-directed nature” as the reaons for the designation. China has insisted all along that these institutes, present around the world, are mainly vehicles to propagate Chinese culture and language, although many countries believe they have other far more sinister objectives. Australia, for instance, had cracked down on the institutes last year. The Confucius Institutes are directly funded by the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China.The Indian review exercise covered 54 agreements signed by Indian universities and colleges with Chinese institutions. The initial assessment has revealed that many Indian educational institutions entered into agreements with universities in China without mandatory approvals from the central government.At the first high-level meeting held at the education ministry on August 5, officials said two Confucius institutes associated with the Mumbai university and Kolkata’s School of Chinese Language came in for particular attention as they were involved in elaborate student exchange programme. “There is a proposal to take a close, hard look at the activities of the two institutes,” said a government official, one of the people familiar with the matter. “There are some facts that came to our attention during the review which we feel require deeper scrutiny,” said the official. A second official said the matter needed further probe before any action can be initiated.Vibha Surana, director of the Confucius Institute at the University of Mumbai, was unavailable for a comment on the review. She had earlier said the institute hasn’t faced any trouble in its functioning. “The Institute first started eight years ago with a grant that came from the Chinese government of about ₹90 lakh. Ever since there’s been no additional grants, we have managed to keep the Institute up and running by increasing courses. We have six levels of the course and five of those are functioning well. More and more students are approaching the Institute as learning the language has opened many job prospects for students in the past,” Surana had said.A representative of Kolkata’s School of Chinese Language also did not respond to queries for a comment.India put the spotlight on the Chinese educational institutes against the backdrop of the 100-day-long stand-off between armies of the two countries in East Ladakh. The face-off, triggered by Beijing’s aggressive moves along the Line of Actual Control, coincided with Beijing’s provocative statements in context of its disputes with its other neighbours over South China Sea that have prompted retaliatory steps by the United States.In one such move, the Donald Trump administration on Thursday tightened the screws on Confucius institutes in the United States, ordering that they should be treated as a foreign mission and not an academic institution.“The United States wants to ensure that students on US campuses have access to Chinese language and cultural offerings free from the manipulation of the Chinese Communist Party and its proxies,” US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. There are currently 75 Confucius Institutes operating in the United States of America, 65 of which are active on US university campuses, with the rest functioning as stand-alone organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-review-of-confucius-institutes-to-focus-on-kolkata-mumbai-centres/story-rDbgkQDs0cXbHVf2QtvkOI.html
15-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the tale of three cities, Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai, which were the first major hot spots of the coronavirus disease in India, and were responsible for most of the cases in the country in the early days of the pandemic’s run. Even in early July, these three cities were accounting for at least one in every four diagnosed cases of Covid-19, and by then, they were already starting to come off their peaks — as indicated by a declining positivity rate with increased testing. The positivity rate is simply the proportion of tests returning a positive result.Yet, their trajectories present some interesting insights.First, Mumbai. Over the past two-and-half months, Mumbai has upped its testing game. From around 3,000-4,000 tests a day in early June, it scaled up numbers to around 10,000 tests in late July, and even now, with the crisis seeming to have passed (the new hot spots in Maharashtra are the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Pune), is doing around 7,000-8,000 tests a day on average.The worrying thing for Mumbai is that its positivity rate has fluctuated wildly — from 46% on June 1 when it was doing very few tests (just a bit over 3,000), to 6.8% on July 28 when it conducted around 10,200 tests, to 10% on August 11 when it did around 9,200, to 16.3% on August 12 when it performed around 7,000 tests. This volatility shows that the city’s administrators have been inconsistent when it comes to testing intensity. It also means that the testing in Mumbai is perhaps inadequate. They should be conducting more tests every day, perhaps at least 10,000 — every time they have exceeded this benchmark, the positivity rate has fallen to 10% or even lower.Second, Chennai. HT’s dashboard has Chennai’s testing data only from July 3. The city has been more consistent when it comes to testing than Mumbai. The number of tests it has conducted in this period has never gone below 8,000, and the modal value is closer to 10,000. Its positivity rate shows an interesting trend. The consistency and adequacy of testing in Chennai meant that the city’s positivity rate touched around 10% in mid-July, and has largely stayed at the same level. For the past week, it has ranged between 7% and 9%. Interestingly, this has happened without any appreciable decline in the number of daily cases (once the positivity rate reached the 10% mark). Clearly, Chennai is going through a long plateau.Third, Delhi. The Capital’s journey has perhaps been the most interesting. It definitely wasn’t testing adequately in June, and its positivity rate in the second week of June actually hovered around the mid-30s — which meant one in every three people being tested was found to be infected. The city ramped up testing rapidly, though, and by late June, the positivity rate fell to below 20%. By mid-July, with testing numbers continuing to remain high, the positivity rate came down to 6% and it has largely stayed at that level since. Like in Chennai, the number of daily new cases has remained rangebound (with a mode of around 1,000) since the positivity rate reached the 6% level. Delhi, too, it is evident, is seeing a long plateau.Both Chennai and Delhi have to guard against the plateau becoming an upward slope. And Mumbai has to test adequately and consistently to get to the plateau, although it is almost there. Data on available hospital capacity in all three cities seems to suggest that the worst is behind them (there are beds available, even in critical care units).All three cities do a mix of molecular (RT-PCR and NAAT) and antigen tests. The mix is skewed in favour of molecular tests in Chennai and Mumbai and antigen tests in Delhi. Given that all three cities are seeing (or beginning to see) a plateauing of cases, they should try and use molecular tests to the extent possible, especially if they have the capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jRUQEWl7jOMxp0vsKHY9uN.html
15-08-2020||India||US advisory hints at 3-month immunity||People who have recovered from Covid-19 need not quarantine themselves for up to three months after they have recovered, the American Centers for Disease Control (CDC) said in recently updated advisories for their citizens, the first time public health officials anywhere have expressed confidence in some duration of immunity infected people develop.The advisory was available on the website of US CDC which, according to New York Times, appeared to suggest that it was safe for people to mingle with others for three months.“People who have tested positive for Covid-19 do not need to quarantine or get tested again for up to three months as long as they do not develop symptoms again,” said the guidance on cdc.gov. If someone does develop symptoms – such as cough, fever or difficulty breathing – they “may need to be tested again if there is no other cause identified for their symptoms”, the advisory added. Scientists around the world are yet to conclusively determine the question of how long immunity may last after a Covid-19 infection, which first began infecting humans a little over eight months ago. In this period, studies have indicated the antibodies – proteins in the human body that can prevent a re-infection with a pathogen – wane over two to three months. At the same time, there are also studies – including one from Wuhan published on Thursday – that showed antibodies lingered on for over six months. People may also be protected by something known as memory T cells, a part of the immune system that learns how to fight infections. T cell memory may not necessarily prevent an infection but can quickly ramp up the production of antibodies and killer immune cells that can prevent a serious bout of Covid-19 second time around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-advisory-hints-at-3-month-immunity/story-NItq1xFXRDZSwaBGpFTtkN.html
15-08-2020||India||Pandemic rumour-mongering led to deaths, injuries and violence: Analysis||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has fed at least 2,000 rumours, conspiracy theories and stigmatizing posts that were shared in 25 languages across 87 countries, where they have led to hundreds of deaths, thousands of hospital admissions, and triggered acts of violence, according to an analysis published on Monday.India, the United States, China, Spain, Indonesia, and Brazil, were the countries where such phenomena were most prominent, said the peer-reviewed study published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Some rumours were harmless. They included the ones that propagated drinking cow urine, or camel urine spiked with lemon juice, to prevent Covid-19. Others were not. Like the one that prescribed drinking methanol to cure Covid-19; it has been linked to 800 deaths, some 5,876 hospital admissions and 60 cases of “complete blindness”, the study found. Stigma against healthcare workers and people of Asian ethnicity were linked to at least 26 violent attacks until April 5, said the report on the tide of misinformation that the World Health Organisation has called an “infodemic”.The study analysed 2,276 Covid-19-related reports on news websites and social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter between December 31, 2019 and April 5 2020, and found 1,856 claims to be false (82%), 204 correct (9%), 176 misleading (8%), and 31 unproven (1%).“The most common media platforms were Facebook and Twitter. We did not analyse whether they vary by media platforms across regions or countries,” said lead author Mohammed Saiful Islam of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, and School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, on email.Managing rumours, dispelling misinformation and conspiracy theories are essential to pandemic response,  experts. “Countering misinformation requires quick and easily comprehensible clarifications communicated by credible figures through a variety of channels. Conventional as well as social media must be utilised for crisp expert communication. Regulatory measures must also be used to curb the spread of malicious misinformation even while correcting misguided persons,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Among rumoured Covid-19 prevention and cures were eating garlic, Vitamins C and D and medicinal herbs, keeping the throat moist, and avoiding spicy food. Popular drinking cures that were propagated were bleach, alcohol, tea, cow urine (India), and camel urine with lime (Saudi Arabia). Holding one’s breath for more than 10 seconds to self-diagnose Covid-19 infection was also suggested in a widely shared post.“Health communication must be simple in wording, transparent in adhering to available evidence, willing to accept uncertainty where it exists but building confidence in science as a trustworthy resource to resolve uncertainty and find solutions. Public health experts must also be open to new evidence and self correction, so that they are not seen as doggedly dogmatic,” said Dr Reddy.Conspiracy theories were more common in China, Iran, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States, the study found. The theories that went viral included one according to which Covid-19 being a bioweapon made in China, a virus manufactured by international agencies to sell vaccines, and a conspiracy against the culture of some religious cities in Iran and the Middle East, found the study.Infodemics in the past led to violence, mistrust, and social disturbances. Health workers were accused of deliberately spreading Ebola and attacked in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2019; AIDS denialism led to 330,000 deaths in South Africa in the early 2000s; and the Zika virus was called a biological weapon during the 2015–2016 outbreaks in Brazil.“The government should run media surveillance to identify misinformation in real-time and correct that information with scientific evidence… Since social media is the platform through which misinformation spreads so quickly, policymakers should also use this platform to spread correct information. Health agencies should engage the local community, particularly young people, to spread correct information,” Islam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-rumour-mongering-led-to-deaths-injuries-and-violence-analysis/story-JylvrbHC9olphq9vE5tWwJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Lav Agarwal tests positive for Covid-19||The joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Lav Agarwal, who has been the face of the government’s fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has tested positive for Covid-19.“Dear All,Just to inform that I have tested positive for Covid 19 and initiating home isolation as per guidelines. Requesting all my friends, colleagues for self monitoring. Contact tracing will be done by Health Team. Hoping to see everyone soon,” Agarwal tweeted on Friday evening.A 1996-batch IAS from Andhra Pradesh cadre, 48-year-old Agarwal has been a permanent feature in the government’s press briefings. He was present during Tuesday’s briefing also. Sources in the ministry said that all persons who had come into contact with Agarwal recently will be closely monitored and people showing symptoms will be tested. Contact tracing will be initiated by department concerned soon, said officials.With his daily Covid-19 press briefings, Agarwal had managed to connect with the masses, carving out a unique public presence for an Indian administrative service official. Many people would keep the 4pm slot free to listen to his detailed updates on Covid-19. In the initial stages of the pandemic, especially, when people had several queries about the disease, Agarwal used to answer all doubts patiently. The briefings had made him a household name and that could be gauged by the fact that minutes after he tweeted about testing positive for Covid-19, his followers on Twitter and users of the social media platform began wishing him a speedy recovery from the infection. “Get well soon Sir. Good wishes and prayers. Your afternoon updates have been instrumental in many of us not panicking and getting a better understanding of COVID19 and it’s initial spread,” read a tweet from the handle guyfromvalley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lav-agarwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-fPaPOWQNKKsCovS9A9wgUN.html
15-08-2020||India||SC seeks details of spectrum users of insolvent firms||The Supreme Court on Friday asked bankrupt telecom companies, including Reliance Communications Ltd (RCom), Aircel Group and Videocon Telecommunications Ltd, to furnish details of those using spectrum with insolvent firms. This came after RCom told the apex court that Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd has been using its spectrum.A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked Shyam Divan, counsel representing the resolution professional of RCom, that if Reliance Jio has been using the spectrum with RCom and whether Jio can pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR)-related dues of RCom. While Reliance Jio is owned by Mukesh Ambani, RCom is led by his younger brother Anil Ambani.Divan said RCom is in asset-sharing agreement with Reliance Jio since 2016, and the DoT has been informed about the pact along with payment of required fee to use the spectrum. The bench said spectrum is government property and no debtor can come in the way of public interest. The next hearing in the case is on 17 August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-details-of-spectrum-users-of-insolvent-firms/story-Tt0bcBR5TQuSAoQLCqUkFN.html
15-08-2020||India||Amit Shah tests negative for Covid, to remain in home isolation||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said that he has tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) infection and will follow home isolation, on the advice of doctors. “Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing for my speedy recovery. I will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” Shah tweeted. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had tested positive for the Covid-19 disease earlier this month after showing initial symptoms of the viral infection. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on August 2. After testing negative, Shah thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital for treating him and helping him fight off the infection. A senior government official, who requested anonymity, said that the home minister is at his residence at present. The home minister, the official cited above said, has been continuously working from hospital and will continue to do so from his residence as well. As Shah is in home isolation, he will be watching the Independence Day celebrations and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech live from his home on Saturday, a second official said. Shah was supposed to attend the ground breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, but could not do so after testing positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, Union AYUSH minister Shripad Naik, who was in home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, was shifted to a private hospital in Panaji of Goa, his family members said on Friday.The 67-year-old BJP member of Parliament from North Goa was shifted to the hospital on Thursday night. He complained of fever, after which he was taken to the hospital on Thursday night. His fever has subsided now, Naik’s eldest son, Sidhesh, told PTI.The minister and his wife had both tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and they were in home isolation.Sidesh said that his mother has also been admitted to the hospital and is under medical observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tests-negative-for-covid-to-remain-in-home-isolation/story-jDrZRypD6jy6WwtVsdRSbI.html
15-08-2020||India||PM Modi to address nation from Red Fort on 74th Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the iconic Red Fort on Saturday.According to a Defence ministry statement, the prime minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist the prime minister in unfurling the National Flag.On his arrival at 7.18 AM in front of the Lahore Gate of the Red Fort, the prime minister will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar.The defence secretary will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC), Delhi Area, Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra to the prime minister. The GoC Delhi Area will then conduct the prime minister to the Saluting Base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, the statement said.The Guard of Honour will be positioned directly in front of the National Flag across the moat below the ramparts.This year, Army being the coordinating Service, the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. Army contingent in the prime minister’s Guard will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the Navy contingent by Lt Commander K V R Reddy, while Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the Air Force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jitender Kumar Meena. After inspecting the Guard of Honour, the prime minister will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort where he will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. The GoC Delhi area will conduct the prime minister to the dais on the rampart to unfurl the National Flag. After the tri-colour is unfurled by the prime minister, the National Guard will give ‘Rashtriya Salute’ to the National Flag, the statement said. The unfurling of the tri-colour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand.The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police will present ‘Rashtriya Salute’ at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The Naval Contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, Air Force contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sudhanshu Dhama. After unfurling the National Flag, the prime minister will address the nation. After the speech of the prime minister is over, the National Cadet Corps cadets will sing the National Anthem. A total of 500 NCC cadets (Army, Navy and Air Force) from different schools will be taking part, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-from-red-fort-on-74th-independence-day/story-pci3JowEagedJ7MErLGHkL.html
15-08-2020||India||Does lower testing in Delhi point towards a lowering of guard?||Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi appears to have dropped from its peak levels, raising questions about whether the Capital is lowering its guard too soon in its efforts to contain the pandemic, after becoming the first major hot spot in the country to successfully rein in the outbreak last month.Delhi conducted 21,660 daily tests at an average for the week ending July 9, what has been the city’s highest recorded rate of testing till date. Since then, this number has dropped to 18,491 in the past week — down by around 15%. In the same period, the national average of daily tests has increased from 246,677 a day on July to 700,860 — up by around 184%.The government attributes this dip to factors such as inclement weather and public holidays. “The number of tests done on some days is lower. This is mainly because people do not come to the dispensaries or hospitals. For example, yesterday it was raining for most of the day and people did not come. Or, there were holidays like Rakshabandhan or Eid during which people do not want to step out. We are prepared, no one is refused a test if they need it,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Indeed, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, in an interview to HT on July 1, said the city was heading to 40,000 tests a day. “This is the benefit of rapid testing — you can do it at a large scale. You cannot scale up RT-PCR to that level. We are moving towards 40,000 tests a day. And, the day we do that, it is possible that 4,000 people will test positive, I am prepared for that,” he said. Delhi had started scaling up the tests mid-June. In the first week of June, Delhi was testing 5,500 samples a day.Instead of scaling up, however, the data suggests that Delhi’s testing number is dipping. Daily testing in the rest of the country has touched at an all-time high, particularly since Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s decision to set a target of testing a million samples a day. HT reported on Friday that the national scale-up of testing appears set to meet the target in 12 days.To be sure, Delhi has consistently had one of the highest testing rates in the country. The city has conducted over 63,000 tests per million residents against the national average of 20,778.The Capital was the first major hot spot in the country to have successfully reined in the outbreak last month. At the end of June, the city was reporting over 3,400 cases every day at an average, which has since dropped to 1,100 as of last week.“Scaling down testing is not an option for Delhi as the cases remain high. For testing to be scaled down, you should have a positivity rate of 5% or below for a prolonged period of time,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.Experts also questioned the city’s increasing share of antigen, or rapid tests, which are not as reliable as the gold-standard RT-PCR tests, in the city’s total testing numbers. And they believe that the city should use its spare RT-PCR testing capacity instead of over-relying on antigen tests. “Yes, we have a capacity to do more tests, but it is like saying I have a capacity to treat 14,000 people. If there are no cases in Delhi, who should admit on these beds? Similarly, the positivity rate of the infection has gone down from 30% to 6%, so we don’t need as many RT-PCR tests,” said Jain. A senior district official said that RT-PCR tests are largely being used for confirmation only. The first test to be done is a rapid antigen, the official said on condition of anonymity. “This is part of a planned strategy agreed upon by a joint committee on Covid-19 management. Those who are symptomatic and test negative on rapid antigen test are tested using RT PCR,” said a senior official from the health department.“The tests in Delhi are being conducted strictly as per ICMR guidelines. RT-PCR tests are readily available at all flu clinics, laboratories and hospitals. Anyone who has Covid-like symptoms can visit any of these centres and easily get an RT-PCR test. No problems have been reported where a person who wants to get an RT-PCR test done has been unable to do so,” a Delhi government spokesperson said. “Earlier, when the cases were high more people were visiting these centers to get themselves tested. Now since the number of cases has dipped, the number of RT-PCR tests has also fallen down accordingly.” The recent stagnation in Delhi’s daily tests is also reflected in a plateau the weekly average positivity rate — the fraction of tests that come back positive — in the Capital. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, has not gone down further. Around 6.2% of tests have come out positive in the Capital for the week ending August 13. Overall, 11.8% of all tests in Delhi have come back positive (the national average is 8.9%).According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least 14 days before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%. Antigen tests generally provide results within hours and are relatively cheap, but they are not as reliable as the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. The latter is the most definitive test currently available for Covid-19 and experts say should be used to the extent possible, especially if authorities have the capacity to do so.In Delhi, over 72% of all tests in the past week have been antigen. This is a higher share of antigen tests than what is done elsewhere in the country. Three other states release daily breakup of testing data other than Delhi — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal. Antigen tests have been roughly half the tests in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in the last week, while in West Bengal a third of all tests were antigen. On August 5, senior ICMR officials had said during a media briefing that antigen tests constituted between 25-30% tests of the total tests done in the country till then.In absolute numbers RT-PCR tests have dropped much below the peak capacity exhibited by city authorities towards the end of June. On June 29, 9,619 RT-PCR tests were conducted in Delhi, the highest single day RT-PCR test count recorded. On August 13, the number of RT-PCR tests was 5,721.“What is the problem with using antigen testing? No other state is testing as many samples, we are doing well. So people want to find loopholes. What is the problem with antigen testing? Some people say rapid antigen tests are not as sensitive and miss out some positive cases, so does RT-PCR. My first test was negative. In the case of rapid test too, if someone is symptomatic, then an RT PCR test is done for confirmation,” said Jain. “It is so easy to get a test done in Delhi that people from other states are also coming here and getting tested.” Experts say RT-PCR remains the gold standard as it gives fewer false negatives, but that authorities end up picking test type based on whether they want accuracy or speed. “RT-PCR is the gold standard of testing because it has higher sensitivity, which means false negatives are less. In containment zones, RT-PCR should be ideally done, and rapid antigen is better suited for cold zones where you don’t expect too many cases. Having said that, rapid antigen testing is more useful for faster results, so there’s no hard and fast rule in this accuracy-verses-speed challenge,” says Dr Kant.To be sure, the Delhi government has warned against complacency right through, and cautioned residents not to stop using measures such as wearing marks and practising social distancing even though the cases have fallen off their peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-lower-testing-in-delhi-point-towards-a-lowering-of-guard/story-AjDBiE9z5puV9WadPdQn9K.html
15-08-2020||India||India-China military talks hit a roadblock||Military talks with China on reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) have hit a roadblock, with the Indian Army taking the hard line with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as it (the former) seeks to restore the status quo ante of early April in eastern Ladakh. According to top officials who spoke to HT on Friday on the condition of anonymity, the Indian Army has asserted that the sanctity of the LAC is non-negotiable. The comments came on a day when defence minister Rajnath Singh assured the armed forces that India will not hesitate to deliver a “befitting reply” to any attacks from a foreign power. Five rounds of top-level military talks have failed to break the deadlock due to serious differences between India and China that flared following transgressions by the PLA earlier this summer. “Talks are stuck in a stalemate because of the India Army’s insistence that the PLA must withdraw to positions held by it as of April 2020, and the Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some areas,” said one of the officials cited above.  The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. “The Indian Army has clearly told the PLA that shifting of the LAC in any area is not acceptable. This was most recently conveyed on August 2, when corps commanders from the two sides met. There is no question of us budging,” said a second official. There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. “The PLA is facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s strong response. It will ultimately have to look for a face-saving exit strategy. We have made preparations for a long haul,” said a third official. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. On Friday,a day ahead of Independence Day, defence minister Singh delivered a radio message to the armed forces, saying that the country believes in winning hearts and not land. “But it does not mean we will let our self-esteem be hurt. If enemy country attacks us, then we will give a befitting reply like every time,” he added.The Union external affairs ministry separately said that several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and corps commanders had discussed the implementation of the disengagement process and “further steps to ensure it is completed at the earliest”. Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava noted both sides had made “some progress” after reaching agreement on the broad principles of disengagement, but more needs to be done. He said “translating these principles on ground is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. On August 10, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat informed a committee of lawmakers that de-escalation in Ladakh could be a long-drawn process but the Indian military is prepared for this and has made all arrangement for the long haul through the harsh winter. “Our position is unambiguous – status quo ante has to be restored and we will not accept any shifting of the LAC. The ball is in China’s court now. Achieving our goal will take time and we will have to be patient,” said Lt Gen (retired) Vinod Bhatia, a former director general of military operations. The August 2 military negotiations between corps commanders came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. Sun’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger Area. Before PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8 km apart. During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains a concern, with Beijing yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-talks-hit-a-roadblock/story-N4Hnn3bXNjbxQ2da3kq7kJ.html
15-08-2020||India||Move to cancel exams not political, SC told||The University Grants Commission (UGC) should not read politics behind Delhi and Maharashtra’s move to cancel final year exams because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a three-judge Supreme Court bench hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the July 7 directive of the higher education regulator asking universities to compulsorily hold examinations by September 30 was told.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the petitioners, told the court that there was nothing political about the decision of Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel the examination. He said the state governments took a collective decision after taking stock of the ground realities and consulting the vice-chancellors of their respective universities.“Besides Maharashtra and Delhi, states of Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha have informed the ministry of human resource Development (MHRD) that it is not possible to conduct exams as per the July 6 directive. There is no politics involved but it is the convergence of states. These are responsible governments. They are not mad to affect the students’ future,” Singhvi said.He said this is a time when the pandemic is at its peak and both fresh cases and deaths due to Covid-19 are rising. “The National Disaster Management Act is applicable throughout the country as these are not normal times. States have been issued guidelines by the Centre asking them to stringently follow lockdown rules, breach of which will invite punishment under the Act,” Singhvi said. During such times, he wondered why the MHRD did a “volte-face” by pressing for mandatory conduct of exams when its past directives of April 15, May 1, and June 29 made it optional for universities to hold exams.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who represented Yuva Sena, the student wing of Shiv Sena, said that in Maharashtra most colleges and hostels have been converted into quarantine facilities. Intra-city and inter-city transportation is not provided and communication in far-flung areas is still a challenge.The Union government has given relaxations to colleges and universities across the country and allowed them to open for the conduct of final-year examinations, which will be held in accordance with an order issued by UGC, the Union home ministry said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-to-cancel-exams-not-political-sc-told/story-LtQECj0lfSp5Hxyo1QVQGP.html
15-08-2020||India||Two cops killed in J&K terrorist attack||Two policemen of the Indian Reserve Police (IRP) were killed and another injured when unidentified militants attacked a police party at Nowgam Bye Pass at the city outskirts.According to the police, on Friday morning, militants fired at the police party deployed at Nowgam and injured three of them. They were admitted to a hospital where two of them succumbed to their injuries. The militants escaped after the attack.The attack came a day before Independence Day, when security was already on high alert. The police have established fresh checkpoints within the city.A spokesperson for the police confirmed that three personnel were injured in the attack and two of them succumbed to their injuries. Soon after the attack, the top brass rushed to the spot. The third injured policeman is said to be stable. All three men were from the IRP 20 battalion. The deceased policemen were identified as Ishfaq Ahmad and Fayaz Ahmad.Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar blamed Jaish-e-Mohammad militants for the attack on the policemen.“We are trying to identify the militants responsible. There were inputs that an attack could take place anywhere in the city. The policemen were wearing bulletproof gear, but were still fatally shot.’’After the attack, a search operation was launched in the area. No group has claimed responsibility so far.Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) strongly condemned the attack. In a statement, a party spokesperson termed the attack “inhuman”. “Violence is not a solution but a gigantic impediment that spreads hatred. In any of its manifestations, violent extremism is unacceptable in a civilised society, regardless of political, ideological or religious motivations,” the spokesperson said.The BJP and the PDP also condemned the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-cops-killed-in-j-k-terrorist-attack/story-OYSD1GXpIxQKOvmuuUgcxO.html
15-08-2020||India||Need to work jointly to end tension: India||India on Friday called on China to work jointly for “complete disengagement and de-escalation” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the disputed frontier.The external affairs ministry emphasised the need to complete the disengagement process “at the earliest” shortly after Indian envoy Vikram Misri met a senior general of China’s Central Military Commission (CMC) in Beijing to brief him on New Delhi’s views on the situation along the border in eastern Ladakh.Misri’s meeting with Maj Gen Ci Guowei, director of CMC’s office of international military cooperation, came two days after the envoy met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee’s foreign affairs commission. The meetings are part of India’s outreach to the Chinese leadership to resolve the standoff.President Xi Jinping heads CMC, which is responsible for the administration of the armed forces. Misri briefed Maj Gen Ci on “India’s stance vis-à-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT (union territory)”, the Indian embassy tweeted without giving details.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing that several meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs and corps commanders had discussed the implementation of the disengagement process and “further steps to ensure it is completed at the earliest”. More meetings are likely “in the near future”, he said.“We, therefore, expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas as agreed by the Special Representatives,” Srivastava said.“This is also necessary and essential in the context of the overall development of our bilateral relationship. As external affairs minister [S Jaishankar] had noted in a recent interview, the state of the border and the future of our ties cannot be separated,” he added.Srivastava said completing the disengagement as soon as possible will require the two sides to work together. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides,” he said.The process of thinning out tens of thousands of troops deployed by both sides has run into problems at some friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, people familiar with developments said.Srivastava noted both sides had made “some progress” after reaching agreement on the broad principles of disengagement, but more needs to be done. He said, “Translating these principles on the ground is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC.”He added, “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions.”Engagements through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement are in line with the agreement of the Special Representatives on the border issue – National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign minister Wang Yi – that “early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”, Srivastava said.The Indian envoy’s two meetings in Beijing this week followed several rounds of diplomatic and military negotiations held since June. They also came against the backdrop of experts suggesting political intervention at the highest level is required to end the impasse.The Indian embassy hasn’t shared details of the two meetings, or, for that matter, why they were held as the Communist party hierarchy and the Chinese government are aware of India’s stance on the border. The Chinese side too has been silent on the meetingsAt the top of the hierarchies of CPC and the government is President Xi, who is the general secretary of CPC and chair of CMC.Chinese troops are said to have pulled back from the Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties, and some friction points, but the troop withdrawal hasn’t moved forward in the Finger Areas of Pangong Lake, Gogra and Depsang.Sameer Patil, a fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the Indian envoy’s meetings in Beijing reflected a fresh effort by the leadership in New Delhi to push forward the disengagement after discussions at the diplomatic and military levels failed to yield results.“Between the bad and worse options available to India, the best way out is political intervention at the highest level. However, if the Chinese side doesn’t show any inclination to disengage even after this, that is a signal with significant implications and it could further jeopardise the entire relationship,” he said.“India has very little manoeuvring room left as domestic opinion is completely anti-China. It is now a game of who blinks first,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-work-jointly-to-end-tension-india/story-LhcPN61fSZ0qrQ6THxj9yN.html
15-08-2020||India||Mosque in Ayodhya likely to be named Masjid Dhannipur||A proposed mosque coming up on a five-acre site outside Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh is likely to be named after the village of Dhannipur where it is located, and not Babri Masjid, senior officials overseeing the construction of the complex announced on Friday.Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the 15-member trust in charge of the mosque and other utilities, said the name Masjid Dhannipur was at the top of the list of proposed names. Other suggestions included Aman (Peace) Masjid and Sufi Masjid. “We are getting suggestions regarding the name of the mosque. But, of the many, the name ‘Masjid Dhannipur’ tops our priority list. Most probably, the mosque would be named ‘Masjid Dhannipur’,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF). The complex is likely to include a mosque, a hospital, a community kitchen, and an educational centre.The Uttar Pradesh government handed the plot, currently occupied by rice fields 20km from Ayodhya town, to the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) earlier this month in accordance with the Supreme Court’s November 2019 verdict that cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya. The court also ordered the government to award five acres of land at an alternative site for the construction of a mosque. But the trust, helmed by the UPSCWB, made it clear that they didn’t want to associate the new mosque to the disputed 16th century structure that was demolished by a mob on December 6. 1992. “The board has maintained its stand since Day One that the mosque would not be named after Mughal emperor Babur,” said Hussain.A senior official of the trust explained that the trust wanted to steer clear of any controversy and therefore was not in favour of naming the mosque after any emperor. “In any case, it is an established tradition that mosques are often named after the locality or region,” said Hussain. The trust has received a number of pledges for donation and other commitments, and specifications and dimensions of the mosque would be decided in the days to come, he said. “So far, we have only invited applications from architects all across the country to help with the design of the mosque that would be on the Indo-Islamic theme,” added Hussain.The trust has faced significant opposition from within the Muslim community with a section of people saying that a mosque cannot be constructed on land given by the government. On Friday, the All India Muslim Women’s Personal Law Board joined the ranks of those against the construction of the mosque. Shaista Amber, AIMWPLB chief, said, “I truly respect the Supreme Court verdict, but I personally believe that a place of worship should not be on disputed land or on given land. I don’t think the mosque should be constructed on the allotted five-acre land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mosque-in-ayodhya-likely-to-be-named-masjid-dhannipur/story-Pbqm8CVLzmI06pmcHFfbJM.html
15-08-2020||India||SC holds Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for his tweets||Advocate Prashant Bhushan’s tweets of June 27 and June 29 , one criticising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and the other raising questions about the conduct of former CJIs and the court are based on distorted facts and have the effect of destabilizing the foundation of the Indian judiciary, the top court ruled on Friday, holding the activist lawyer guilty of criminal contempt of court in a decision that provoked extreme reactions. In a strongly worded judgment, a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said that the allegations levelled in the tweets against the court and CJI are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalize the court and such conduct is not expected from Bhushan, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing at the Bar.“The Indian judiciary is not only one of pillars on which the Indian democracy stands but is the central pillar. An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said. The quantum of punishment — contempt could mean a fine and up to six months in prison — will be decided on August 20. While some supported the court’s actions, pointing out Bhushan’s own support for such actions in 2017 when the court took high court judge from Tamil Nadu, Justice CS Karnan, to task for making allegations against Supreme Court judges, others said the court was being a tad touchy in seeing comments against individual judges as those against the court. “The view aired by Bhushan is not different from the views held by many people. That the court had to pick out two of Bhushan’s tweets and hold him guilty of criminal contempt smacks of insecurity from the realisation that the image of court in public eyes is very low. It seems like an attempt to scare people into respecting the court,” senior resident fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Alok Prasanna Kumar, who is also a member of Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms, of which Bhushan is a convener, told HT.“There is a world of difference between an allegation that Supreme Court is a poor defender of democracy and a statement alleging corruption or collusion with other arms of state. The former is protected by freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution while the latter can be penalised by a law protected under Article 19(2) which provides for exceptions to free speech. The tweets in question fall under the latter category,” Supreme Court lawyer Kanu Agrawal said.Bhushan himself was unavailable for comment but in his defence to the court in his affidavit filed on August 2 had said that “I am entitled to form, hold, & express (opinion) under Article 19(1)(a)”.The court observed that Indian judiciary is considered by the citizens as the last resort when they fail to get justice elsewhere. An attack on the Supreme Court will hamper not just the confidence that the public has in the Supreme Court but will also shake the confidence that judges of other courts in the country have in the Supreme Court. Further, if a malicious attack against the highest court is not dealt with the requisite degree of firmness, “it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations”, the court added.Bhushan who is part of the institution of administration of justice should have protected the majesty of law; instead he indulged in an act which tends to bring to the institution of administration of justice, the court noted.India’s contempt of court law is derived from British law, but in 2013, the United Kingdom abolished ‘scandalizing judiciary’ as a form of contempt of court on the grounds that this went against the freedom of expression while retaining other forms of contempt like behaviour causing disruption or interference with court proceedings.The court had also initiated contempt proceedings against Twitter but the same was closed on Friday after the court was satisfied with the social media platform’s explanation that it is only an intermediary and had also suspended the controversial tweets immediately after the top court initiated the case.Bhushan posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29. Mehek Maheswhari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. As per law, a contempt petition filed by a private individual should have the consent of the Attorney General before it can be listed before the Supreme Court for hearing.Maheswari’s petition did not have such consent but the court decided to proceed suo motu (on its own) with the contempt case after the registry brought the petition to the notice of the court on the administrative side. The court listed the case for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.Bhushan’s first tweet, reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second referred to the Bobde and was also cited in the order. It said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan refused to apologise for his tweets, contending they are protected by the freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. He cited the speeches on dissent made by Supreme Court judges DY Chandrachud on February 15 and Deepak Gupta on February 24 to buttress his case.In defence of his perception that the Supreme Court aided in destruction of democracy, Bhushan referred to the press conference held by four judges – justices Jasti Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph -- of the Supreme Court in January 2018 against the manner in which cases in Supreme Court were being assigned to selected benches.Regarding the tweet of June 27, the apex court held that tweet is directed against the Supreme Court and gave an impression that the apex court and its four CJIs had a major role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years.“There is no doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of judiciary. The tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI,” the court said.Regarding the June 29 tweet, the court said that it was intended to give an impression that the CJI kept the Supreme Court shut denying fundamental rights to citizens even though the court was functioning through video conferencing.However, this, the court, held was patently false because the court was functioning through video conferencing though physical functioning of the court was suspended due to Covid-19.“Immediately after suspension of physical hearing, the Court started functioning through video conferencing. The total number of sittings that the various benches had from March 23 till August 4 is 879. During this period, the Court has heard 12748 matters. In the said period, this Court has dealt with 686 writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution,” the judgment highlighted.Thus, the two tweets were not fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary, or made in good faith or public interest, the court held.“In our considered view, the said tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI and directly affronts the majesty of law…. The tweets which are based on the distorted facts, in our considered view, amount to committing criminal contempt,” it ruled.Another suo motu contempt petition is pending before the same bench against Bhushan for calling past chief justices corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine.Bhushan, in that case, had offered an explanation for his statements but the Supreme Court refused to accept it and ruled, on August 10, that it will proceed with the case. That case is now listed for hearing on August 17.Minutes after he was held guilty of contempt of court on Friday, Bhushan along with senior counsel Dushyant Dave appeared before another bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao in a public interest litigation seeking inquiry into the alleged non-transparent manner in which the central government handled the Covid crisis.That matter was adjourned for detailed hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-holds-bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-for-his-tweets/story-DJ6BavieLqfM7JPlozEQhM.html
15-08-2020||India||ITBP personnel who aided army in Ladakh recommended for medals||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Friday said it has recommended the names of its 21 personnel for gallantry medals for fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with the army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay amid the border standoff between the two countries over the last three months in Ladakh.The paramilitary force, which is responsible for guarding the 3,488-km de facto border between the two countries, or the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said its 294 personnel have been awarded the commendation disk of the ITBP’s director-general for their bravery in Ladakh.An officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, clarified ITBP’s statement on Friday detailing how its troops have responded to the Chinese in Ladakh relates to over half-a-dozen smaller incidents there since May in which ITBP and the army responded collectively. The statement is not just about the June 15 Galwan Valley clash in which 20 Indian and unspecified Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldiers were killed, the officer added.Tensions between India and China escalated when Indian soldiers were attacked with rocks and clubs in the worst clash in decades between the troops of the two countries on June 15. Five rounds of top-level military talks have since failed to break the deadlock.The ITBP statement said its troops responded fiercely to the PLA’s advancing soldiers and brought the situation under control. “With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” the statement said. “Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving a befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA.”The statement said due to their high altitude training and manoeuvre experience in the Himalayas deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay. It added due to the all-out and befitting response of ITBP jawans at almost all fronts, many areas were safeguarded in the hypersensitive areas.The statement is the first official account of the force of its role in Ladakh.ITBP said it has also awarded the commendation disk to its personnel for their courage in anti-Maoist operations in Chhattisgarh. It has recommended the names of 318 of its personnel and 40 troopers from other paramilitary forces for the home minister’s special operations medal for their dedicated services in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“The names of 318 ITBP personnel and 40 other CAPF (central armed police force) personnel have been sent for the award of Union Home Minister special operations medals for their dedicated services in the fight against the COVID-19,” it said.The force is operating over 10,000-bed Covid-19 Sardar Patel hospital, the country’s largest such facility, at the Radha Soami Beas in Delhi’s Chhattarpur since July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-personnel-who-aided-army-in-ladakh-recommended-for-medals/story-da4t5BkquV1YROhNgZLJ0N.html
15-08-2020||India||J&K cops, CRPF troopers win most medals for ops||Jammu & Kashmir police and paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel have bagged a bulk of gallantry medals this Independence Day--81 and 55 out of 215--on the back of successful counter-insurgency operations in the Union Territory, the home ministry said on Friday.Naresh Kumar, an assistant CRPF commandant who has led quick action teams of the paramilitary force during gunbattles, has received his seventh gallantry medal within four years. Officials said Kumar, 35, has taken part in many operations in which terrorists were gunned down. CRPF spokesperson M Dhinakaran described Kumar as “an officer with the sharp tactical acumen and indomitable courage”. Indian Police Service (IPS) officers Sandeep, Gurinderpal Singh, and Atul Kumar Goel, who are posted in Jammu & Kashmir insurgency-hit South Kashmir, have got the medal for gallantry for the first time. Two other IPS officers from the Union Territory, deputy inspector general Vidhi Kumar Birdi, who is on deputation with the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and Tejinder Singh, have been awarded the medal for a second and third time.Goel arrested suspended police officer Davinder Singh in January this year while he was ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in his car to Jammu. Davinder Singh has since been charge-sheeted for anti-India activities.“Among the majority of the 215 gallantry awards, 123 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in Jammu & Kashmir, 29 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas and eight personnel for their gallant action in the north-east region,” the ministry said in a statement.Security forces have eliminated over 130 terrorists till July end this year. The recruitment of locals in terror ranks has come down due to action against terrorists.As many as 23 Uttar Pradesh police personnel have also got the gallantry medal. They include seven members of an inspector general Asim Arun-led team that killed terror suspect Saifullah in Lucknow in March 2017. The Delhi police have 16 awardees, Maharashtra (16) and Jharkhand (12). The remaining recipients are from the other states, union territories, and central armed police forces.As many as 80 officers from across the country have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished services while 631 have received the Police Medal for meritorious services. In all, 926 police personnel have been given medals in three categories.CRPF’s deputy inspector general, Annie Abraham, who has served in Jammu & Kashmir, is among the recipients of the medal for distinguished service. Eight Intelligence Bureau (IB) and six Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers have also received the medal. Among 631 officers awarded the medal for meritorious services, 26 are from CBI and 28 from IB.Abdul Rashid Kalas has been awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously while deputy inspector general Amit Kumar of the Jammu & Kashmir police has been decorated with Shaurya Chakra. The two were involved in a counter-insurgency operation following the 2019 Pulwama attack. Three Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists were killed in the operation.Central Industrial Security Force officers Mahaveer Prasad Godara, Eranna Nayaka, Mahendra Kumar Paswan and Satish Prasad Kushwaha have also been awarded Shaurya Chakra posthumously. They died while trying to douse fires in Delhi in March 2019 and in Mumbai in September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cops-crpf-troopers-win-most-medals-for-ops/story-THzWVB3N57IZfvMTIhczfN.html
15-08-2020||India||84 security personnel to get top gallantry awards||A Jammu and Kashmir police constable, a Special Forces officer and an Indian Air Force pilot are among the 84 security personnel whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of Independence Day, according to a government release issued on Friday.While head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas of JKP has been posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra — India’s second-highest peacetime gallantry award — for outstanding bravery, nine security personnel have earned the Shaurya Chakra for valour. The latter is the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award.The Shaurya Chakra awardees are Lieutenant Colonel Krishan Singh Rawat, Major Anil Urs, Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey, Wing Commandeer Vishak Nair, JKP DIG Amit Kumar, CISF sub-inspector Mahaveer Prasad Godara (posthumous), CISF head constable Eranna Nayaka (posthumous), CISF constable Mahendra Kumar Paswan (posthumous) and CISF constable Satish Prasad Kushwaha (posthumous).  The other decorations awarded are five Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 60 Sena Medals (Gallantry), four Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and five Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry). Lieutenant Colonel Rawat, 1 Para (Special Forces), has been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for an operation near the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir. Rawat and his team waited in ambush for 36 hours before they engaged a group of terrorist infiltrators. Four terrorists were killed in the operation. His citation praises his resolute leadership and conspicuous gallantry.Major Urs also led an operation along the LoC in which five terrorist infiltrators were killed. His citation says he displayed “raw courage, marksmanship and rare combat leadership, while ensuring safety of his team.”During a counterterrorism operation in Kashmir, Havildar Dubey killed a Category A++ terrorist at short range. “His courageous action prevented the escape of the terrorists and eventually resulted in the elimination of all four terrorists,” his citation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-security-personnel-to-get-top-gallantry-awards/story-75AVdxRah0VRwCIjRpFmyK.html
15-08-2020||India||23 AI crash rescue op members test +ve||: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his seven ministerial colleagues on Friday self-quarantined themselves after 23 state government officials, who were part of the rescue operation after a plane overshot the runway in heavy rain near Kozhikode last week, were tested Covid-19 positive. Vijayan, governor Arif Mohammad Khan were among those who visited Kozhikkode after the accident claimed 18 lives. Governor is yet to announce his decision. In a statement, Vijayan’s office said the chief minister will be unable to unfurl the Tricolour on Independence Day on Saturday and tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran will preside over the ceremony in his place.Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan and police superintendent U Abdul Kareem are among the 23 tested positive for the disease. They supervised the rescue work with local people on Friday last.Health minister K K Shaialaj and police chief Loknath Behra are among others who have self-quarantined themselves. Some district officials were put under quarantine after some of those injured in the accident tested positive for Covid-19.“Some symptoms were there since yesterday and later it was confirmed positive. This is part of our job. I am relieved we could limit the death toll to 18,” said Gopalakrishnan, who reached the spot in 20 minutes and took command of the rescue work.The Central Industrial Security Force earlier on August 11 asked its personnel, who were part of the rescue operation, to go into quarantine. Kondotty, where the airport is situated, was a containment zone when the accident took place. Several residents rushed to the scene to help in the rescue work. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Air India have lauded their efforts.Kerala reported 1,569 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths on Friday, which took the toll from the disease to 140. The state’s infection tally has gone up to 41, 246.Shailalja has said the cases were likely to peak by next month and experts have warned daily cases will go up to 15,000. Kerala was the first to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-ai-crash-rescue-op-members-test-ve/story-BsUZQpNsGE1ulkixiaq3aN.html
15-08-2020||India||26 Corona crusaders will attend ‘At Home’ event||A nursing officer who organised ICU care for patients in the most difficult working conditions, a laboratory technician who conducted RT-PCR and rapid antigen Covid-19 tests in high-risk areas and a Delhi Police head constable who distributed food packets among the poor and migrant workers are some of the 26 “Corona Warriors” who will sit in a special enclosure at the “At Home” function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Independence Day. Among those who have been invited for the function, four people will represent the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and three will represent the Safdarjung Hospital. Out of the 26 special guests, eight are women, according to the list of invitees accessed by HT.About 100 guests, including the “Corona Warriors”, are expected to attend the programme which will begin with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind to honour the frontline workers. Dishes such samosa, tea and dhokla will be served by a limited number of waiters amid social distancing guidelines over the Covid-19 pandemic. All waiters have tested negative for Covid-19, a person aware of the developments said. All guest tables will be named after rivers of India and each guest will be ushered in to his or her assigned place, the person added. From senior and junior doctors to nursing officers, technicians, pharmacists, midwives and Asha workers, nursing orderlies, security guards, sanitation workers and housekeeping staff — a wide range of people involved in India’s prolonged battle against Covid-19 will be honoured at the event. The list also includes three members of the Delhi Police and a wood-cutter at the Nigambodh Ghat, where funerals are conducted. While all of the 26 “Corona Warriors” have shown exemplary work in their line of duty, head constable Manish Kumar, posted at the Community Policing Cell, Dwarka, established a community kitchen to feed 800 needy people daily, provided dry ration kits to workers who lost their jobs during the lockdown and helped install hands-free sanitiser machines. He also distributed 4,400 washable cotton gloves among police personnel and more than 1,375 litres of sanitiser to them, according to an official note.Kumar arranged refreshments, face shields and gloves for police patrols and pickets and was engaged in regular announcement of guidelines and sensitisation people, the note added. Also a poet, he distributed milk food for newborns and arranged water, food and fresh fruits for migrant workers. While nursing officer Asha Shabarwal of GTB Hospital worked hard to organise ICU care for patients, Kriti Sharma, a laboratory technician has been credited with “outstanding work by doing RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test in most high risk areas during Covid-19.”Pharmacist Vinod Rohilla arranged drugs and other items even late at night without hesitation, even when his grandmother was hospitalised.Amar Singh, a wood-cutter at the Nigambodh Ghat, helped people at the cremation ground in maintaining social distancing and was always “alert when bodies arrived at cremation ground for cremations regarding less number of people should be at the time of performing rituals and must have to wearing PPE kit so that infection should not spread to others,” the official note said. Dr Rahul Tyagi and Dr Ankesh Gupta, senior and junior residents, nursing officer Rekha Kumari and Naresh Kumar, an OT technician, have also been selected from AIIMS to attend the prestigious function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-corona-crusaders-will-attend-at-home-event/story-F0z7g2SUbFU9i205pkr3MO.html
15-08-2020||India||In message on I-Day eve, President hails Galwan heroes, Covid warriors||Exactly two months after the fierce clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley, President Ram Nath Kovind sent out a clear warning on Friday that India is “capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression” as he addressed the nation on the eve of 74th Independence Day.Though Kovind did not name China, he slammed the neighbour’s “misadventure of expansion” at a time when the world needs to come together to fight against Covid-19, which he described as the “the greatest challenge before humanity”. The bloody conflict in the Galwan valley on June 15 left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Since then, the two sides are locked in discussions to disengage and de-escalate but China has so far not moved back from some critical areas despite five rounds of top-level military talks between the two sides.“The world now realizes what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family; “Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam”. However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity, some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” Kovind said. The President also spoke about India being at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the Covid pandemic, and said that timely and “superhuman efforts” contained the pandemic in the country and saved many lives. He touched upon the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, describing it as a “moment of pride for all”.Paying respect to the Indian soldiers who lost their lives defending the borders, Kovind said “Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley.” He added: “Their bravery in combat has demonstrated that while we believe in peace, we are also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression,” expressing pride in Indian armed forces, paramilitary forces and police personnel “who protect the borders, and ensure our internal security”. As India gears up to an unprecedented subdued celebration of Independence Day, Kovind hailed Covid warriors as national heroes, said the pandemic has taught “tough lessons” of life and “demolished the illusion that human being is the master of nature”. He appealed to the humanity to “correct its course and live in harmony with nature” and said he crisis offered opportunities for economic revival. Even as the Modi government’s handling of the Covid situation has come under immense criticism in the political circle, the President said that the Centre, “while anticipating the tremendous challenge, responded effectively and well in time” and added that it requires “superhuman efforts for a country so vast and diverse with high population density” to meet these challenges. Kovind said India’s committed efforts that “succeeded in containing the magnitude of the pandemic and saving a large number of lives” is worth emulating by the wider world. The pandemic, like climate change, has awakened the global community to our shared destiny, said Kovind as he saw more importance in “human-centric collaboration” than ”economy-centric inclusion”. He also appealed to rise above all man-made differences, strengthen virtue in conduct, expand public health infrastructure and accelerate developments in science and technology—a reminder on how India built Covid-related medical items such as ventilators or PPE kits almost from a scratch, and is now able to export them to other countries. Kovind’s speech, just 10 days after the “bhoomi pujan” of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, dubbed the event as “a moment of pride for all” as he mentioned how people maintained “restraint and patience” for a long time and reposed “unflinching trust in the judicial system”. “The issue of Ram Janmabhoomi was resolved through judicial process. All concerned parties and the people respectfully accepted the verdict of the Supreme Court and displayed before the world, Indian ethos of peace, non-violence, love and harmony,” he said on Thursday. In the backdrop of the pandemic, the President narrated all welfare interventions such as the “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana” to help the poor and daily wage-earners — the worst-hit people in the pandemic — and enabled millions to earn their livelihood, and mitigate the impact of job losses. He also spoke about the largest free foodgrain distribution programme to help about 800 million people every month, while “Vande Bharat Mission” brought back more than 1 million Indians through the Indian Railways. “In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic. The overwhelming support India got at the elections for the non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council is a testimony to the goodwill we enjoy internationally,” said Kovind. With India embarking on a new Atmanirbhar policy boost its internal economic potential, Kovind sent a message that India’s tradition has always been not to live for ourselves, “but work for the well-being of the entire world”. “India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. It implies that India will continue to engage with the world economy while maintaining its identity,” the President said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-hails-galwan-heroes-covid-warriors/story-H1LV1RbUOeffOZBOHmyFYK.html
