16-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh govt launches ‘Gandgi Bharat Chhodo’ campaign to free state of trash||The Madhya Pradesh government on Sunday launched a special campaign to make the state garbage-free.Launching the “Gandgi Bharat Chhodo Madhya Pradesh” (Free India and Madhya Pradesh from garbage) drive from Sagar, Urban Administration and Development Minister Bhupendra Singh said accumulation of garbage is a big problem in cities.During the 15-day campaign, urban bodies will be ranked as per their performance and the best ones will be awarded by chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-launches-gandgi-bharat-chhodo-campaign-to-free-state-of-trash/story-h4efCEiSzbWkUoB80NsizO.html
16-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman accused of blackmailing BJP MLA says he raped her||The Uttarakhand woman accused of blackmailing and trying to extort Rs 5 crore from BJP MLA from Almora’s Dwarahat constituency, Mahesh Singh Negi, has lodged a police complaint accusing Negi of raping her at different hotels in Nepal, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The woman lodged the complaint in Dehradun to deputy inspector general, Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi, and marked the same to the station house officer of Nehru Colony where an extortion case against her was registered on a complaint filed by Negi’s wife on August 14. HT has a copy of the five-page complaint lodged by the woman. The woman’s complaint states that she first came in contact with Negi in 2016 as both used to live in the same neighbourhood. “That time my mother used to remain sick and the doctor had advised her to take steam for which I was going to take her to a hospital. But Negi came to know about it and asked me not to visit the hospital as he has a steam machine in his home only. Believing him, I took my mother to his house for the same and one day, he called me outside the room on the pretext of having a selfie and then forcibly grabbed me,” said the woman. She further alleged in her complaint that Negi raped her again in a hotel in Mussoorie a few days before her marriage.She further stated that she kept mum and got married on the scheduled date fearing Negi’s clout. She claims Negi again called her and pressured her to come to her parent’s home in Almora. “Due to this pressure and threats, I then came to my parent’s home after a few weeks. He then asked me not to go back to my in-laws and forced me to lodge a false complaint of dowry harassment against my husband and in-laws. When my husband asked the reason behind it, I narrated my ordeal to him, following which he ended all relations with me,” said the complaint. Further in the complaint, she alleged that Negi then raped her on various occasions by taking her to hotels in Delhi, Nepal, Himachal Pradesh, Nainital, Almora and even to his friend’s farmhouse in Haldwani. She then got pregnant, she alleged. “When I informed him about my pregnancy, he assured me that he would give his name to the child and take care of me. He even accompanied me for medical examinations in a Dehradun hospital before my delivery on May 18 this year,” she says in her complaint.She alleges that she got a DNA test conducted after delivering a girl, which revealed that her husband was not the father. “After that, I informed Negi about it but he refused to accept her as his daughter,” said the woman. She accuses Negi’s wife Rita Negi of offering her Rs 25 lakh for ‘forgetting the incident’ and says she “won’t back-off and want her daughter to have her rights”. The woman claims that she was framed by Negi’s family in a false extortion case.She is now demanding a DNA test to confirm if Negi is indeed the father of her child. She also wants to fight him legally.“I also request the police to provide protection to me and my family as Negi could harm us,” she said. Superintendent of police, Dehradun (city) Shweta Chaubey said, “The complaint has been given to DIG but is yet to be received by us. Once we get it, appropriate action would be taken on it.” Meanwhile, when contacted, MLA Mahesh Singh Negi refuted the allegations of the woman and termed it a conspiracy by the Opposition to malign his image. “She has submitted the false complaint after getting booked in an extortion case. The Opposition Congress is using her to malign my image with false accusations. Investigations in the extortion case will reveal everything,” said Negi. The Congress, however, said it has nothing to do with the woman or her allegations. “We have nothing to do with the incident. The woman is taking action on her own. But having said that, the allegations have been made against a ruling party MLA, which is a serious matter. If Negi is innocent then why is he not agreeing to the DNA test,” said Congress party vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-accused-of-blackmailing-bjp-mla-says-he-raped-her/story-Q96Sb8qExmvaeliW1YB0pI.html
16-08-2020||India||Religious places re-open in Jammu and Kashmir||Religious places were re-opened in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday after a gap of about five months, officials said.The religious places were shut due to the lockdown imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.On August 4, the Jammu and Kashmir administration decided to open the religious places and places of worship from August 16, but religious processions and large religious gatherings remain prohibited.The religious places re-opened across the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, the officials said.They said people as well as the management committees of all the religious places have been directed to strictly follow the guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place in view of the pandemic.Any deviation from the SOPs would attract penal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, they added.The officials said the administration has issued various guidelines and the devotees will be required to follow all the norms, including the one on the use of the Aarogya Setu mobile application.The guidelines also say that the visitors will not be allowed to touch the statues, idols or holy books at the religious places.There will be restrictions on the number of pilgrims visiting shrines like Mata Vaishno Devi in Katra till September 30.While the major mosques and shrines in the Kashmir valley remained shut due to the lockdown, some people offered prayers at the local mosques. However, the gatherings were smaller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-re-open-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-XbUou6c0wFow1QJFNV6UKI.html
16-08-2020||India||Places of worship reopen after five months in Kashmir||Some prominent religious places including shrines opened in Kashmir on Sunday for prayers after they were closed for over five months to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.People offered daily prayers in some shrines and mosques of the Valley but took precautions like maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Though small mosques in the mohallas and interior areas had already opened sparsely in the last few weeks but for the first time in the past five months people offered congregational prayers in prominent shrines like Dastigeer Sahib in Old City. People also said that they visited Khankah-e-Moula shrine on the banks of Jhelum.“We offered congregational prayer for the first time since mid-March in the afternoon today. Alhamdulillah all SOPs were followed. People gave good response and took precautions,” said Syed Khalid Geelani, Sajadah Nasheen (one of the caretakers) of Dastigeer Sahib Shrine.People were upbeat. “Everybody is aware of the importance of precautions during this pandemic. Though we used to offer prayers in our local mosques for the last few weeks but opening of these shrines fills us with hope and gives us solace,” said Bilal Ahmad, a resident of Old City.However not every mosque opened today. Kashmir’s biggest mosque Jamia Masjid in Nawhatta was still closed. “In coming couple of days the mosque will be opened after a cleanliness drive,” said a caretaker of the mosque. Some urged fellow citizens not to indulge in ‘blind fatalism’. “Blessed are we that these places have opened. I am so happy. But at the same time people should continue to take precautions. Their opening does not mean that the pandemic is over. People should continue to wear masks, take their own prayer rugs to the mosques, avoid handshakes, use sanitizers and maintain social distancing. Only then they should leave it to God,” said Yaqoob Ahmad, an Imam of a local mosque in Srinagar.Officials also urged people not to lower guard. “Community response holds the key to fighting Pandemic. Glad to see observance of SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) as religious places opened today after 5 months. Hopeful about industry, business & transport to follow the pursuit,” wrote Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Chaudhary on twitter.On August 4, the govt announced to re-open all religious places and places of worship from August 16 but detailed Covid-19 SOPs to be followed like no large gatherings and no touching of statues.In the run up to the August 16 opening, the district administration has reached out to managing committees of places of worship of all faiths and held meetings with over 3000 religious heads to sensitise them about do’s and don’ts to prevent spread of COVID-19.The total Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir have crossed 28,000 mark with over 21,000 of them in Kashmir alone. 527 people have died due to the pandemic – 486 of them in Kashmir valley.Markets to reopen againThe officials said that from Monday markets will reopen and public transport services will resume operations as per a regulated schedule in Srinagar.In an order issued here the District Magistrate Srinagar Shahid Iqbal Choudhary has lifted restrictions on business and transport operations allowing a regulated resumption.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had re-imposed lockdown restrictions in Srinagar from July 13 and rest of the valley from July 27 as the Corona cases had shown an increase. After State Executive Committee order on August 4, the officials have permitted reopening of 50 percent shops in all markets and resumption of public transport operations with a boarding of 50 percent passengers in minibuses and up to a maximum of 4 passengers in 10-seater maxi-cabs and 2 passengers in taxicabs and auto-rickshaws.In all markets, alternate shops will open so as to prevent crowding and to enable queuing of customers as per the advised distancing norm. “The district administration has full faith in the business and trading communities of the district and is sure that there will be strict compliance with all SOPs and guidelines like wearing of face masks and observance of distancing while going about their businesses,” Chaudhary said.To reduce footprint, not more than a third of the total number of vehicles will be allowed to operate on a particular route. There are around 80 designated public transport routes in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/places-of-worship-reopen-after-five-months-in-kashmir/story-W25y8XQPmXJHyeKaip3NNI.html
16-08-2020||India||Joe Biden pledges closer ties with India, fairer H-1B norms||WashingtonJoe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, on Saturday pledged closer ties with India and a better deal for Indian Americans in a short, policy-laden Independence Day message. He will stand with India in confronting “new threats its faces in its own region and along its own border”, he said.Kamala Harris, his running mate, struck a personal note. She spoke of her visits to “Madras” (as Chennai was called then), stories she heard from her grandfather of heroes of Indian independence and her mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris’s efforts to instill in her “a love of good Idli”.Biden’s campaign had earlier in the day issued an expansive agenda on relations with India and the welfare of Indian Americans if he wins in November. The Biden administration will not allow China to threaten its neighbors with “impunity” and will have “no tolerance” for cross-border terrorism.Biden built on it n a pre-recorded message played at a virtual outreach to the Indian American community to celebrate Indian Independence Day. Recalling his leading efforts to ratify the civil nuclear deal in 2008 as a senator, he said he had held then that if India and the United States “became closer friends and partners the world would be a safer place”“If elected president, I will continue to believe it,” he went onto says and added that he will “continue what I have long called for — including standing with India in confronting new threats it faces n its own region and along its border.”The former vice-president covered an entire range of issues for cooperation in the future over the next few minutes, such as trade, climate change and public health. And also have “honest conversations on all issues as friends”, which is diplomatese for discussing disagreements and difficult issues.Biden spoke disapprovingly of rising hate crimes and crackdown on legal immigration in recent years — “the sudden and harmful actions on H-1B, which for decades made America stronger and brought our nations closer”.The expansive agenda, address by Biden and Harris, and the participation of senior members of the campaign former deputy secretary of state Tony Blinken, former National Security Adviser to former vice-president Biden Jake Sullivan, speechwriter Vinay Reddy and Seema Sadanandan was part of the campaign efforts to woo 1.2 million Indian American voters who can help in closely fought swing states. Former US ambassador to India Rich Verma and former assistant secretary of state Nisha Biswal also participated in he discussions,Harris spoke largely in personal terms. She spoke of her grandfather P V Gopalan and grandmother Rajam, and the values that her mother Shyamala Gopalan learnt from them — “if you see injustice in the world you have an obligation to do something about it”.Growing up, Gopalan would take Harris and her sister Maya Harris to “what was then called Madras” so that they could understand where she came from what was their ancestry. “And, of course, she wanted to instill in us a love of good Idli,” said the presumptive vice-presidential nominee.Harris has faced criticism among some Indian Americans — and a section of Indians — for not embracing her Indian-ness enough, and for projecting herself more Black. She wrote in her autobiography she and her sister were raised by their mother to be “confident, proud black women”. On Saturday, Harris may have checked a few boxes for her critics as she spoke also of stories her grandfather told her about the heroes who were responsible India’s independence. “He would explain to us that it was on us to pick up where they left off,” she said, adding, “those lessons are a big reason why I am who I am today.”Blinken, who is expected a top portfolio in a Biden administration such as secretary of state or national security adviser, took the vice-president’s pledge of closer ties with India further and suggested that cooperation between the two countries should “extend even beyond the region to the world as large”.Blinken went to say the Biden administration will support a larger role for India in international institutions — including a permanent seat in a reformed UN security council. The US first extent support for India’s claim to a permanent during President Barack Obama’s first visit to India in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-pledges-closer-ties-with-india-fairer-h-1b-norms/story-RGj8CQ8elaksr55guhpThO.html
16-08-2020||India||Nothing disturbing in the clauses of draft EIA 2020: RP Gupta||New Delhi: The environment ministry has been swamped by nearly 200,000 objections to and comments on the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2020, but doesn’t intend to hold further discussion on the concerns raised in the feedback it received. RP Gupta, secretary in the environment ministry, said the priority for the ministry is both EIA notification and a notification on monitoring and compliance of projects with environmental clearance conditions, which is being drafted. Edited excerpts from an interview:How will you read so many comments on draft EIA 2020 and how will the responses be incorporated in the final draft?We have formed a committee to sort out all the mails. They are sorting issuesm not looking at each mail. Almost 95% of the 17 to 18 lakh emails we have got are repetitive mails.Why do you think there was such a massive public and political outcry against draft EIA 2020? What is so disturbing or contentious about the clauses?I don’t think there is anything disturbing in the clauses. You are right about political issues. Maybe it has nothing to do with an environmental agenda, but more to do with a political agenda.Why does the environment ministry see draft EIA 2020 as an important regulation?We must see it in an overall context rather than looking at it in isolation. We are a country that takes a lot of time in issuing environmental clearances. We have very poor enforcement and monitoring of projects. No amount of scrutiny can substitute for the monitoring. You can scrutinize a project for 5 to 6 years and delay it but if you don’t monitor it, then it will remain environmentally unfriendly. We need to switch this equation. We should be quick in giving clearances. There should be very strict and regular monitoring and we should come down heavily on non-compliance. This notification is only the first part. We are developing a monitoring mechanism, which will be the second part.By taking more time, it increases project time and cost and we force industry to construct without obtaining clearances. To discourage violations, the best way is to ensure fast tracking of clearances.But the draft is talking about regularizing these violations.Post-facto scenario happens when someone has started a project without taking prior approval, which is the norm. So if an industry is in violation, what is the punishment? Will it have to be closed down and cannot be appraised? There is nothing in law which says you will not appraise it on merit. After appraisal, if you find a project cannot be approved then you close it down. If it can be approved, approval will be effective from the date we give approval. For the past period which is a violation, a penalty is to be imposed as per law.Why have you exempted so many projects from public hearing in the draft?It’s been 14 years since EIA 2006 was introduced, we have to use the experience gathered to further rationalise the clearance process. Every project doesn’t need to come for public hearing for environmental clearance. A small project or industry need not come {for a hearing} unless they are very polluting. These projects will still have to meet the air and water norms laid down. Let’s focus on bigger projects now.Will there be any space for discussion on draft EIA 2020?Concerns will be considered on merit. There is no requirement for discussion. That will open another Pandora’s Box. Then nothing will happen in future. Everything can be stifled.When can we expect a notification on monitoring of projects?Soon. Statutory clauses are being worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-disturbing-in-the-clauses-of-draft-eia-2020-rp-gupta/story-Xx76kMgX5ExoowBcrhFYCL.html
16-08-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 tally now 4,569, death toll rises to 16||Manipur recorded three more deaths due to Ccoid-19 and other co-morbid health conditions on Sunday, taking the toll to 16, the health department said.”Today, three males aged 73 years (Imphal West district),44 years (BSF personnel) and 94 years (Thoubal district) expired at JNIMS and RIMS (2 persons) respectively due to Covid-19 and other co-morbid health conditions,” Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of health department said in a statement. The first death in the pandemic in Manipur was reported on July 29 after the state detected its first Covid-19 case on March 24.“In the past 24 hours, 68 (42 males, 26 females) persons from the general population and 111 from the central armed police force (CAPF) were confirmed as new Covid-19 positive cases,” the statement said.Eight of those tested positive on Sunday had returned from other states while the remaining 60 are locals without any significant travel history. “All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place,” it said.In the last 24 hours, 194 people were discharged from CAPF, RIMS and seven Covid care centres including a district hospital, it said.Manipuir’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 4,569 including 1,192 CAPF personnel while a total of 2,632 people have been discharged so far. The number of active cases is 1,921 including 944 CAPF personnel. The recovery rate is 57.60 per cent, the statement said.As of Sunday, a total of 3,31,726 people have been screened at various entry points of the state while 1,15,041 people have been tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-tally-now-4-569-death-toll-rises-to-16/story-CM1smrW4HcbvYNkMNPj2VJ.html
16-08-2020||India||Dispose of cases in timely manner: Top court to panel||Murali KrishnanNew Delhi The Supreme Court has urged the National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (NCDRC) to ensure timely disposal of cases before it after the top court’s attention was drawn to a matter adjourned by the NCDRC for nearly a year. The apex court did not pass any concrete directions to the NCDRC, leaving it to the administrative authority of the president of the body, justice (retd.) RK Agrawal to ensure that allocation of work and disposal of cases take place in a streamlined manner.“We consider it proper and appropriate to request the president of the NCDRC to look into the grievance and to take an institutional decision on the administrative side,” a division bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud said on Friday.The NCDRC is a body established under the Consumer Protection Act to hear consumer complaints. It hears appeals against various State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commissions. The NCDRC, as per the Consumer Protection Act of 2019, is also empowered to hear cases directly if the value of the good or services involved is more than Rs 10 crore. Appeals against decisions of NCDRC go to the Supreme Court.The top court was on Friday hearing one such appeal filed by an Uttar Pradesh-based jewellery retailer, LM Jewellers, against an order passed by NCDRC on February 28, 2020 adjourning a complaint filed by it to January 5, 2021. The petitioner submitted that the adjournment of the case for nearly a year defeats the purpose of the Consumer Protection Act which is to ensure speedy resolution of consumer cases.The petitioner’s counsel, Nikhil Jain, contended that such orders were being passed by the NCDRC as a matter of routine and a pattern had emerged of granting long adjournments. He pointed out another case in which the NCDRC, on February 26, 2020, adjourned the hearing of a case to March 3, 2021, when a request for adjournment was made on the grounds that the arguing counsel was unwell.The Supreme Court noted that the functioning of various tribunals has been hampered by lack of adequate infrastructure and judges, prompting such tribunals to order long adjournments.“This court is cognizant of the fact that several tribunals suffer from a lack of adequate infrastructure including of judges to discharge adjudicatory functions. Hence, the presiding judges allocate dates on the basis of a realistic assessment of when cases can be disposed of when they are listed for final disposal,” the bench, which also comprised justice KM Joseph, observed.But it allowed the petitioner to raise the issue before the president of NCDRC so that appropriate steps can be taken to ensure speedy disposal of cases. “This is an issue on which it is only proper and appropriate that this court (Supreme Court) should defer to the administrative authority of the president of the NCDRC to ensure that the allocation of work and disposal of cases takes place in a streamlined manner,” the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispose-of-cases-in-timely-manner-top-court-to-panel/story-uqJf5mJgF6my0tNcerMU0H.html
16-08-2020||India||PM, Prez pay tributes to Vajpayee||Amandeep ShuklaNew Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate an expressway built in Madhya Pradesh after late former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) organized a special event in his honour and top leaders paid tributes to the memory of Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tribute to Vajpayee . They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at Sadaiv Atal, the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital.President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated a portrait of Vajpayee at the ICCR and described him as a “widely accepted” leader. Vajpayee served as the ex-officio president of the ICCR from March 1977 to August 1979 when he was the foreign minister.Modi said India will always remember Vajpayee’s contributions to the nation. “Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation’s progress,” Modi tweeted.Home minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw “good governance” being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee, who was the first non-Congress politician to serve a full term as prime minister. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the proposed 300-km long expressway, named Chambal Progress Way, would be named after Vajpayee. Chouhan, after paying tributes to Vajpayee on his second death anniversary at the state BJP headquarters, also announced that a statue of the former PM would be installed in Bhopal.The six-lane Chambal Progress Way, which is proposed to be developed at a cost of about Rs 6,000 crore, will connect the boundaries of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh through Sheopur, Morena and Bhind districts of Madhya Pradesh.Chouhan also said the state government will observe December 25 as Sushasan Diwas (good governance day) every year to mark Vajpayee’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-prez-pay-tributes-to-vajpayee/story-2S3pjqEls6roXcVqxmITuK.html
16-08-2020||India||2 men held for rape, murder of UP girl||LUCKNOW/ LAKHIMPUR KHERI Two men have been arrested for the rape and murder of a 13-year-old girl in a village in Lakhimpur Kheri district, police said on Sunday. While some reports had suggested that the accused had gouged out the girl’s eyes and cut her tongue, district superintendent of police Satendra Kumar denied these claims. According to police, the incident took place on Friday afternoon, when the two accused dragged the Dalit girl into a sugarcane field on finding her alone. “Initial investigation revealed that the assailants dragged the girl into the sugarcane field after finding her alone on Friday afternoon. The duo raped and strangled her to conceal the crime. We zeroed in on the duo on the basis of the statement of the girl’s family members and other witnesses,” Abhishek Pratap, Dhaurahra area circle officer (CO) said. The post mortem report established strangulation after rape as the cause of death, the officer said. The scarf used to strangle her was found near the spot, he added.Kumar said that there was no mention of mutilation of the girl’s body in the post-mortem report. Sections of rape and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act have been added to the FIR, was earlier filed under IPC section 302 for murder and a section of SC/ST Act (for atrocities against person belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe), the SP said.The process of slapping National Security Act against the two accused has also been initiated, the SP added. Meanwhile, a political controversy has erupted in the state after the crime came to light, with opposition parties hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state government for the alleged rise in atrocities against women and children.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, UP Congress president Lallu Singh, former Congress MP Jitin Prasada and several other leaders condemned the incident. Taking to Twitter, Yadav said, “The rape and murder of a teenage girl in Lakhimpur Kheri is an incident which has shaken humanity. In the BJP rule, atrocities on children and women are at an all-time high.” “Why is the BJP government shielding those who are involved in rape, kidnapping, murder and other crime,” the former state chief minister asked. Prasada said: “The inhuman act with a girl has put humanity to shame. This is an extremely saddening incident. In this episode, the police must initiate such a strong action that it becomes a deterrent for criminals.” In a tweet in Hindi, Prasada asked, “What was the police doing that such a big incident took place. Action must be taken against the guilty persons. The safety of the family (of the girl) should be looked into”. Mayawati demanded strict action against the guilty. “What is the difference between the SP government and the present BJP government... The BSP demands that the government should initiate strong action against the guilty in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and also in the Azamgarh incident.” She was referring to the murder of village head in Azamgarh recently. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-men-held-for-rape-murder-of-up-girl/story-vRjxg08l1MqSlc81hSwSDM.html
16-08-2020||India||Coast Guard team from Goa part of mission to contain oil spill in Mauritius||Coast Guard teams from Goa will be part of the Indian Coast Guard’s rapid response contingent that is being dispatched to Mauritius to contain the damaging oil spill caused by a Japanese registered oil tanker running aground and breaking apart off the coast of Mauritius. The team which will join others from Mumbai is en route to Mauritius aboard an Indian Air Force aircraft.“The specialist Indian Coast Guard team is qualified in pollution response operations at sea and is capable of undertaking pollution response and clean up operations. The various pollution response equipment such as Ocean and River Booms, skimmers, salvage barges were dispatched to combat oil spill,” the Coast Guard said in a statement. “The Indian Coast Guard pollution response team in coordination with Mauritius, experts and teams from various other countries and specialised International experts from organisations like IMO and ITOPF will work in tandem to safeguard the pristine ecological sensitive environment and mitigate the effects of spilled oil at sea and ashore,” the Coast Guard, said. Also Read: India sends equipment, personnel to Mauritius to contain oil spillThe Coast Guard has deputed a 10-member specialist pollution response team along with Pollution Response equipment to Mauritius for supplementing ongoing efforts to contain an oil spill from bulk carrier MV Wakashio on its South Eastern coastline.The decision comes after Mauritius sought India’s help in containment of oil spread in a sensitive marine environment consisting of coral reef, mangroves and endangered marine species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-team-from-goa-part-of-mission-to-contain-oil-spill-in-mauritius/story-W4WgSiC3WCb793N9fCrXbM.html
16-08-2020||India||Speculations rife on role allotment in Bengal BJP after meetings in Delhi, Kolkata||Two back-to-back meetings of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi and Kolkata on Sunday within hours of each other, led to speculations that the party’s central leadership may re-allot organizational roles to some leaders in its West Bengal unit for the crucial 2021 assembly polls. BJP national general secretary and the party’s in-charge of West Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya flew down to Kolkata on Sunday and met Mukul Roy, the national executive member who was put in the charge of the Lok Sabha election in 2019. On the other hand, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh flew to Delhi and met party president JP Nadda on Sunday night. “Nadda Ji wanted to meet me,” said Ghosh while Roy did not take calls. The meeting between Vijayvargiya and Roy led to speculations that the BJP central leadership may find a new role for Roy who is known to be disgruntled at not being given a higher post in the state unit during the recent organizational changes. “Roy expressed his unhappiness before central leaders such as national joint general secretary Shivprakash during his last visit to Delhi. It is an open secret in the party that he and Ghosh have differences on issues relating to accepting defectors from Trinamool Congress (to which Roy belonged) and selection of candidates during elections. Roy feels that he should be given more independence for handling the 2021 elections. In our organizational structure such decisions largely depend on the state president,” said a Bengal BJP vice-president who did not want to be identified. Another vice-president, who is known to be close to Ghosh, said, “One should not read too much into this meeting. Vijayvargiya did not get the opportunity or time to come to Bengal since March this year. He will be staying for three days and hold several meetings.” Before meeting Nadda in Delhi, Ghosh dismissed speculations that he had been called to explain some of his public statements and organizational decisions. “Dilip Ghosh always bats on the front foot. I am president of the state unit for four and a half years now and during my leadership the party won 18 (of 42) Lok Sabha seats in Bengal. I was elected president once again after the polls. BJP does not change leaders at random. As far as I know, Mukul Roy was with the BJP and still is with the BJP. Our party allots roles according to a leader’s capability. I think some people are spreading rumours with vested interest,” said Ghosh while talking to reporters before meeting Nadda. BJP leaders in Bengal said Nadda and Ghosh discussed some important issues relating to the coming elections for more than one and half hours. The party did not make any official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculations-rife-on-role-allotment-in-bengal-bjp-after-meetings-in-delhi-kolkata/story-qkr6qQGEoK6EdynL6lHahO.html
16-08-2020||India||TMC worker killed in Bengal while making bombs, party denies link||Humayun Kabir, 40, a Trinamool Congress (TMC) worker, died in an explosion while making crude bombs on the roof of his house in the Shamsergunj area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday night. His ten-year-old son also sustained some injury. TMC however claimed that no party worker was involved in the incident. Sub-divisional police officer (Jangipur) Prasenjit Banerjee said, “Preliminary investigation shows that Kabir was making bombs on the roof of his house. One of the bombs went off accidentally and he was fatally injured. His minor son was also injured. We have started an investigation but no arrest has been made yet.” Local people told the police that Kabir used to work as a part time labourer in a bidi factory. They said they heard a loud explosion around 9 pm on Saturday. They rushed to Kabir’s house and found him lying in a pool of blood. Kachinur Bewa, mother of the deceased, said, “Kabir went to the roof after having dinner. There was an explosion within a few minutes.” Officers at Shamserganj police station said Kabir had been arrested a few times in the past and had a criminal record. They alleged that the family removed the bomb making materials to wipe out the evidence. The mother of the deceased denied the allegation. “My son was not associated with any criminal activity. We suspect that someone hurled a bomb at our house,” she said. Also Read: Raj Bhawan under surveillance, Maoism returning to Bengal: Governor DhankharGoutam Ghosh, TMC spokesperson in Murshidabad, said, “No one in our party is associated with the incident. We have requested the police to probe the matter impartially.” On July 3, two men died while making bombs in Suti, located next to Shamserganj. District police officers suspect that local criminals have started hoarding bombs and firearms before the coming assembly polls. Polls in the district have always been marked by violence. At Khanakul in Hooghly district, where a Bharatiya Janata Party worker was killed on Saturday allegedly by TMC workers, the opposition party observed a bandh on Sunday. The BJP worker was killed when he and his party colleagues were trying to hoist the national flag. Six people were arrested in the case till Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-worker-killed-in-bengal-while-making-bombs-party-denies-link/story-oX9Kkc9r70d2EsmS8aYEOJ.html
16-08-2020||India||Third parties to report high value transactions to identify tax evaders, says govt||Finance ministry officials have refuted media reports that claimed that government was considering modification of income tax returns forms for an expansion of statement of financial transactions (SFT) to ensure that the high value financial transactions are filled in the ITR by the taxpayers themselves.The officials called the reports “totally misleading”, while clarifying that the taxpayer doesn’t need to mention high value transactions in the return filed and reporting of such transactions will only be done in the most non-intrusive way by the third parties under the Income Tax Act.Further clarifying, the official said that reporting of high value transactions is done chiefly for identifying people spending big bucks on luxuries such as business class air travel, foreign travel, expensive hotels, expensive schools and yet not paying taxes claiming to be earning less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum and also for identifying those under reporting their earnings.The chief purpose is to attain the widening of the tax base in a country where only a fraction of the population pays taxes, a fact highlighted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while launching ‘Honoring the Honest’ taxation platform on August 13. The exercise of collective information on high value transactions from third parties is in line with the government’s stated principle of honouring the honest, the official said.“The Income Tax Department is relying more and more on voluntary compliance and therefore it has become essential to identify tax evaders and for that purpose expenditure data collected from third parties through SFT is the best and most effective non-intrusive method. Any purported extension in the present list of SFTs, as reported in the media, is certainly not going to impact or affect the taxpayers as they are not required to file details of high value transactions in their ITRs,” the official said.The official added that the information will be used to identify those who are either not filing the returns or the income disclosed in the returns are not proportionate to the pattern of expenditure reported in the SFTs. Such exercise will be done through data analytics and artificial intelligence. There will be no manual intervention in such exercise.The official stressed that with the changing facets of taxation in India towards a faceless approach, it has now become even more imperative for the I-T Department to have broader SFT reports by third parties about those persons who undertake high value transactions but still do not pay income-tax.Identifying such persons evading tax is important for delivering justice to the honest taxpayers and the widening of the tax base will allow government fiscal space for lowering the tax burden of the honest taxpayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-parties-to-report-high-value-transactions-to-identify-tax-evaders-says-govt/story-0hFNIswunVmdraaPfMzoyK.html
16-08-2020||India||Odisha to hold monsoon session of Assembly before September 30||Days after opposition parties in Odisha demanded the legislative Assembly be convened, Speaker Surya Patro said the monsoon session of the Assembly would be held before September 30.The last session was held on March 30 in the convention hall of the state secretariat to pass the Appropriation Bill. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, discussion on Demands of Grants of all the departments could not be taken up.Patro said as per the rule, the next session should be held within six months. Accordingly, the House should be in session before the deadline of September 30, he said.“I have spoken to my Rajasthan and Karnataka counterparts over holding of the Assembly session during Covid-19 pandemic. I also consulted the Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha secretary in this regard. All raised the concern on maintaining social distancing in the House. Therefore, we are calculating whether the session could be held by maintaining social distancing in the Assembly. During the period, we will fix the date for the session after consulting with the chief minister and Governor of Odisha,” he said.Patro, however, said the venue of the session is yet to be decided as the seats in the Assembly may not be enough for the 147 members if social distancing measures are followed.Earlier this month, the opposition BJP and Congress had demanded holding the monsoon session of the Assembly to discuss the Covid-19 situation and other problems faced by the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-hold-monsoon-session-of-assembly-before-september-30/story-JwY7iMWkvxfEQnjQlPWJuK.html
16-08-2020||India||Hindu family in Gwalior claims Muslim man’s body, cremates it, hospital orders probe||A hospital in Gwalior handed over the body of a Muslim man on Saturday to a Hindu family which did not remove the plastic to take a look even after he had tested negative for Covid-19 and cremated it, the Madhya Pradesh police said Sunday. The family members of the Muslim man have lodged a complaint with the police over the goof-up . This incident came to light on Sunday morning when family members of Irtaza Mohammed, 64, reached the hospital to bring the body. Earlier, on Saturday evening when they wanted to take the body for burial, the staff in the hospital showed them a different body and then asked them to return in the morning. Gwalior superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi said, “On August 13, Suresh Batham, 70, a resident of Bohadapur area in Gwalior and Irtaza Mohammed, 64, a resident of Morena died during their treatment at Jayarogya Hospital. The hospital refused to hand over the bodies to the families of both the deceased as Covid-19 test reports were awaited. Irtaza’s test report came back negative on Saturday. Hence, his nephew Akram Khan and others went to the hospital to collect the body in the evening. The staffers showed them the body of Suresh Batham but Akram told them that it was not Irtaza’s body.” “Later, staffers asked them to come on Sunday morning. Akram reached the hospital on Sunday morning with some of his relatives where they were informed that Irtaza’s body had been handed over to Suresh Batham’s family on Saturday morning. Later, it came to be known that Batham’s family which took Irtaza’s body had already cremated it ,” said Sanghi. The hospital superintendent RKS Dhakad blamed Batham’s family for the goof-up. Both the bodies were covered in plastic sheets because they had died before testing negative for Covid-19 and Batham’s family members did not bother to check whether they were taking his body.“When Batham family members came to the hospital they were asked to identify him but they took Irtaza’s body instead which was covered in plastic as he was a suspected patient of Covid 19. As Batham’s test report had also come negative they should have removed the plastic cover at home at least to identify the body,” said Dhakad. He said an inquiry has been ordered and action would be taken against the staffers concerned if they are found guilty.The family members of Batham who collected his body from the hospital on Sunday refused to talk to reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-family-in-gwalior-claims-muslim-man-s-body-cremates-it-hospital-orders-probe/story-zrvJWBqHbTSmheEDCUTXrM.html
16-08-2020||India||10,000 ‘Rise Schools’ in MP to be equipped with e-books, skill centres||Samskar (etiquette), moral science and personal development would be taught in 10,000 schools in Madhya Pradesh in this academic year itself as part of the state government ‘Rise schools’ concept, said the state education minister.MP school education department’s action comes days after the Central government introduced the new education policy (NEP). “The state’s school education department, which has already completed the work on the new education policy of the state as per South Korea education model, will now merge it with the NEP. The 10,000 government schools will be upgraded as Rise schools to secure the future of kids. These schools will be equipped with all advanced technology including e-books, interactive boards, projectors, skill centres, art classes and other advanced infrastructure in one year. With quality education and skill training a major focus will be on overall development of students in these schools of MP so that they could emerge as samskari, self-reliant and skilled persons,” said Inder Singh Parmar, school education minister. “The teachers are being trained under a CM Rise training programme for imparting education in these schools. The future recruitment of teachers will also take place as per the qualification, including digital efficiency, required under new education policy,” said the minister. A school education department officer, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “In these schools, there will be dedicated periods during the studies for the students for arts & culture, personality development, moral science and etiquette. Special educators and speakers will be invited to motivate the students. Study materials and books based on life and deeds of great personalities will also be made available for the students.” “The classes of sports and yoga will also be made compulsory for strengthening students mentally and physically so that they are able to face future challenges efficiently,” said the officer. The school education department has a target of upgrading 30,000 schools as Rise Schools in the next three years. Social activists working in the field of education and opposition Congress have raised doubt on implementation of this system. Education activist Pankaj Prajapati said, “The central government has come up with a good education policy and the South Korean model is one of the best education models in the entire world but MP government needs to put in a lot of efforts to even implement 10% of it as MP lacks in basic infrastructure. We have doubts on implementation of it as the school education system is in a very bad shape.” Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “We will feel good if these things don’t remain confined to the files only. It is more like a dream to implement it as the BJP-led state government utterly failed in improving the condition of the school education system in the past 15 years of its rule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-000-rise-schools-in-mp-to-be-equipped-with-e-books-skill-centres/story-50QONvvwlBfzr8UFCjp3qK.html
16-08-2020||India||Liquor outlets to reopen in Chennai after nearly 5 months||After a gap of nearly five months, State-run TASMAC retailliquor outlets would reopen here and in suburbs from August 18,the Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday.The liquor shops would be open from 10 am to 7 pm and only 500 tokens shall be issued per day to consumers, a government release quoting Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), the sole retailer of Indian made foreign liquor in the state, said.“All those visiting the liquor shops must compulsorily wear face masks and maintain social distancing,” it said adding outlets located in containment zones and malls would not be opened.Barring shops in Chennai and other suburban areas falling under the jurisdiction of Greater Chennai Police, liquor outlets in the rest of Tamil Nadu were reopened on May 7.Liquor outlets were not opened here in May in view of a relatively high number of Covid-19 cases during that period of time.The announcement comes at a time when the state capital has been witnessing a drop in coronavirus cases.TASMAC shops were closed on March 24 evening across Tamil Nadu including Chennai when the lockdown was imposed for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-outlets-to-reopen-in-chennai-after-nearly-5-months/story-ABa5cu6l1hrPweNTPkECwN.html
16-08-2020||India||Patanjali will step in if no other Indian company bids for IPL title: Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev on Sunday clarified that his business venture Patanjali Ayurvedic Ltd. will only step in to sponsor the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL) if other Indian companies don’t come forward and said that he will not allow Chinese firms to dominate the Indian market. Refuting the claim that Patanjali has made a bid for IPL title sponsorship at Patanjali Yogpeeth in Haridwar on Saturday, Ramdev said “it is too early to talk about it as Patanjali will only come to the forefront (for IPL title sponsorship) if other Indian corporate houses don’t make any bid for the IPL title sponsorship”. Ramdev also stated that no paper work or financial assessment has been done from Patanjali side regarding IPL title sponsorship. “Patanjali will only make bid when no other Indian company comes out or is in the fray for IPL title sponsorship deal,” Ramdev said. He added that voices are being raised across the country urging his business to lay claim to IPL title sponsorship after Board of Control for Cricket in India suspended title sponsorship deal with Chinese mobile handset maker.“There are many Indian firms, corporates and companies that have been investing, sponsoring and associated with international cricket and IPL. People do not want Chinese products or firms to be associated with cricket and other sports, which clearly indicates Indians being vocal for local,” he said. “After Doklam, India-China relations have soured and Indians have realised the nefarious designs of China, so it is imperative we opt for localised indigenous products only,” said Ramdev. BCCI has invited expression of interest for the title sponsorship rights of IPL season 2020, which will be played in the United Arab Emirates from September 19 to November 10 with final bid deadline being August 18, 2020 as per the official IPL T-20 website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-will-step-in-if-no-other-indian-company-bids-for-ipl-title-ramdev/story-GIGJXnJ0uTGDrTlEoTDmhM.html
16-08-2020||India||Not aware, says minister Shyam Rajak after Nitish Kumar sacks him from cabinet, party||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday evening sacked industry minister Shyam Rajak from the cabinet while the ruling Janata Dal (United) also expelled the senior minister from the party. The action came soon after reports surfaced that Rajak is all set to join the rival Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Monday. Sources said the chief minister sent a recommendation to Governor Phagu Chauhan to dismiss the industry ministry from the state cabinet in the evening and the same has been accepted by the Raj Bhawan. “Rajak has been expelled from the party for being found involved in anti-party activities,” said JD(U) state president Basistha Narayan Singh.When HT contacted the sacked minister for comments, Rajak said he was not aware about being sacked from the state cabinet or from the party. “I am not aware of it. I have not received any formal notification or communication from the party,” he said. He, however, evaded any questions about joining the RJD. “I will not comment on it. I have never compromised on my dignity and respect,” he said.Earlier in the day, there was a strong buzz in Patna that Rajak is all set to resign from the post of minister and also as MLA on Monday and likely to move back to the RJD. Sources said the dismissal of Rajak from the state cabinet and expulsion from the JD(U) today was done more as a face saving exercise by CM Kumar, knowing full well that Rajak could have earned some political points by resigning from ministership.Rajak has been unhappy with the JD(U) leadership, said people aware of development, for not being given much prominence as a minister. Incidentally, Rajak had switched to the JD(U) in 2009 after leaving the RJD and had won from the Phulwari seat as a JD(U) nominee in the 2010 election. In another development, the RJD on Sunday expelled three sitting MLAs, including son of former union minister MA Fatmi, for six years on charges of anti-party activities.The three MLAs expelled from the RJD are Faraz Fatmi , Maheshwar Prasad Yadav and Prema Choudhary.“We have expelled the party MLAs on charges of being involved in anti party activities as per provisions of the party’s constitution. The decision was taken by RJD chief Lalu Prasad,” said Alok Mehta, RJD’s state general secretary. Mehta, however, did not comment on reports that the three sitting MLAs facing the axe were all likely to join the JD(U). “The party took the decision based on their activities in recent times,” he said. Faraj Fatmi, an MLA from Keoti in Darbhana, is son of former union minister M A Fatmi who had switched to the JD(U) before the 2019 parliamentary polls.Faraj has been vocal against the RJD for sometime even as Maheshwar Yadav, MLA from Gaighat in Muzaffarpur, has slammed the RJD leadership, including leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on many occasions in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-aware-says-minister-shyam-rajak-after-nitish-kumar-sacks-him-from-cabinet-party/story-z1Irk6k9GAE5FUOMmtztyM.html
16-08-2020||India||4G internet services to be restored in two J-K districts after more than a year||High speed 4G internet services will be restored in two districts in Jammu and Kashmir beginning midnight on trial basis, said officials.The services will be restored in Ganderbal and Udhampur districts of the Union Territory and it will be the first time when high speed internet services will return to the region after restrictions were clamped following abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories last year on August 5.The restoration of 4G services is being done on the recommendation of a panel constituted by the Supreme Court of India to review the restrictions vis-à-vis the security situation in the Union Territory.This will be for the first time in the past 12 months that JK will witness high speed mobile internet in any areaThe committee has decided that the restoration of 4G will be done on a trial basis from tonight while the rest of the 18 districts in the Union Territory will continue to have 2G services.The decision is in line with Centre’s assurance to the Supreme Court that the 4G ban will be lifted in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions from August 16.The assurance was given while the Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, seeking the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J-K administration for the failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the Union Territory.The top court had asked Centre to explore the possibility of restoring 4G mobile internet services in view of former J&K Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu’s endorsement of the restoration. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-internet-services-to-be-restored-in-two-jk-districts-after-more-than-a-year/story-KcR5XfapyDYZ7iZbc73UPO.html
16-08-2020||India||Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken in panel to resolve Pilot-Gehlot differences||Congress has announced the names of the three members of a committee tasked to resolve the issues raised by Sachin Pilot in his meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra before returning to the Congress fold and ending a month long political crisis in the party’s Rajasthan unit earlier this month.The party has appointed party stalwart Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken as members of the panel. Maken has replaced Avinash Pande as the new general secretary in charge of Rajasthan.The committee has been formed in line with assurances given to Sachin Pilot for a time bound resolution of his grievances around the functioning style of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and some other party-related issues.Pilot and 17 other legislators supporting him had met Ahmed Patel, Priyanka Gandhi and KC Venugopal apart from Rahul Gandhi to let the party high command know of their differences with Ashok Gehlot government and seek an amicable resolution of the same.Also Read: Rajasthan political crisis ends but differences remain as senior leader hits out at Gehlot loyalistsSachin Pilot was removed as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after he and his loyalists decided to skip Congress legislative party meeting called in the aftermath of allegations that some Congress MLAs were hand in glove with BJP leaders, plotting the downfall of Ashok Gehlot government.Sachin Pilot’s camp had publicly stated that the special operation group’s decision to issue notice to Sachin Pilot under sedition charges for questioning in the alleged horse-trading case proved to be the proverbial last straw that broke the camel’s back.Sachin Pilot told Hindustan Times in an interview that he had issues with the working style, the functioning and the governance style of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and it needed altering since Rajasthan was due for assembly elections in three years time.Pilot also said that the objective of his perceived rebellion was to bring the grassroots feedback to the leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmed-patel-kc-venugopal-and-ajay-maken-in-panel-to-resolve-pilot-gehlot-differences/story-4VEQKvrRN2DKzUUFkt6ntJ.html
16-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Parliament readies for monsoon session with tool to kill viruses and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Tool to kill viruses, 10 screens’: Parliament readies for monsoon sessionUltraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate name of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking Houses — an overhaul in logistics and infrastructure will support the Indian Parliament when it meets for the monsoon session amid Covid.Read more. ‘Anguished’: PM Modi condoles Chetan Chauhan’s demise, calls him a ‘wonderful cricketer, diligent political leader’Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the death of former cricketer and UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan who succumbed to Covid-19 related complications.Read more. Minister Shyam Rajak in Nitish cabinet denies reports of leaving party ahead of pollsThere’s a strong buzz in Patna that the industry minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet may resign ahead of the upcoming state polls, however the minister maintains that he is with the party.Read more. Ravi Shankar Prasad says Rahul Gandhi’s attack on RSS, BJP relies on a myth, asks a counter questionSenior BJP leader and Union minister for electronics and information technology and communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, on Sunday launched a counter attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for alleging that the BJP and RSS spread fake news and hatred using social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate.Read more. Heavy rain floods parts of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, rivers burst banksHeavy rain in Telangana and parts of Andhra Pradesh since Friday has left many villages marooned with overflowing streams and rivulets while several colonies in the urban areas witnessing heavy water logging on Sunday.Read more. Dhoni: The first hero of ‘real India’It’s not easy to capture what MS Dhoni means to cricket — he was not the greatest of batsmen, but could be the most effective; he wasn’t the safest of wicketkeepers, but came up with game-changing dismissals; nor was he, despite his phenomenal success, the most talismanic of captains.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-parliament-readies-for-monsoon-session-with-tool-to-kill-viruses-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jlWIQPIoOz5wzk7XQOTVxN.html
16-08-2020||India||Darjeeling, Kolkata zoos to host virtual tour to live stream its animals||Animal lovers would now be able to see where the red panda of the Padmaja Naidu Zoo in Darjeeling is hiding or what the chimpanzee is doing in its enclosure at the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata, courtesy a live streaming. The two main zoos of West Bengal took the digital route on Sunday. This would allow people to watch some of the big animals live on Facebook, while sitting in their homes at least for two hours every day. All they need to do is to log in at the zoos’ Facebook page and enjoy. “As of now we would be showing some of the major attractions of the two zoos every day live for two hours – one hour each in the morning (9 am – 10 am) and in the afternoon (3 pm – 4 pm). The duration could be increased depending upon the response,” said Rajib Banerjee, state forest minister, after launching the facility. While the Alipore Zoo – the oldest in the country – has many endangered and exotic species such as the tiger, elephant, lion, kangaroos, giraffes, anaconda and chimpanzee, among others; the Darjeeling Zoo, which specializes in conservation of Himalayan species, has the red panda, snow leopard, blue sheep, Tibetan wolf and the salamander as some of its major attractions. “There are 12 zoos in West Bengal which attract around 50 lakh visitors round the year. The Alipore Zoo and the Darjeeling zoo together attract more than 40 lakh visitors. The zoos have been closed since March 17 due to the pandemic,” a senior zoo official said. The authorities are also planning to add a voiceover during the live sessions with some description about the animal that is being shown to make it more informative. People will be able to have a 360-degree view of the animals in the live session The authorities launched a mobile app in April to host virtual tours. The Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai was the first zoo in India to start live streaming of animals in their enclosures, almost two years back. The zoo now has live streaming of 14 species including tiger, lion, and hippos with the help of 180 cameras installed in the zoo. For the lockdown period, the authorities have added a special feature in which they are focusing one animal at a time to show some particular activity of the animal - for example an elephant enjoying a shower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-alipore-zoos-to-host-virtual-tour-to-live-stream-its-animals/story-RqxqG0Lwj9J774mUI2i1bI.html
16-08-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally nears 6-lakh mark, death toll crosses 20,000||Maharashtra reported 11,111 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday to take its tally to 5,95,865 while the death toll crossed the 20,000 mark, the state health department said.Among Sunday’s new cases, 1,010 were from Mumbai which now has a tally of 128,726.There were 288 casualties on Sunday taking the death toll in the state to 20,037. Forty-seven of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll has climbed to 7,133.At the current rate of growth, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally is expected to cross the 6 lakh mark on Monday, Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.On July 29, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally stood at 4,00,651. The state added one lakh new cases in 10 days to cross the 5 lakh mark on August 8.The Maharashtra government has so far carried out 31,62,740 tests. The state now has 1,58,395 active cases while 4,17,123 people have recovered from Coid-19 including 8,837 who were released from hospitals on Sunday.On Saturday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the process of lifting the lockdown in the state would be done in a stepwise manner because the threat of Covid-19 still persists.Last month, the Maharashtra government had extended the lockdown in the state till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tall-nears-6-lakh-mark-death-toll-crosses-20-000/story-PZDvCeTjkp8f01kk9PyLbK.html
16-08-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis ends but differences remain as senior leader hits out at Gehlot loyalists||The political crisis in Rajasthan may have ended with Sachin Pilot’s return to the Congress fold with his loyalists but the differences between the two sides remain. Senior Congress leader in the state, Hemaram Choudhary, who stood with Sachin Pilot during the standoff with the Gehlot camp, has lashed out saying the 101 MLAs, who had camped with Gehlot, were not the true loyalists of the Congress party.He alleged that the MLAs seen to be in Gehlot’s camp were trying to safeguard their own personal interests while those supporting Sachin Pilot and branded ‘rebels’, were actually fighting for the betterment of the party. Choudhary was talking to the media at his residence in Barmer.Taking a dig at chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Choudhary said that Gehlot had stated that Congress is his mother but it is not correct. He said that Congress is the mother of all Congressmen and Gehlot is not the only son of Congress. He further said that when one son is trying to capture the mother and the others remain hungry, then the other sons have to plead before the mother for their rights and they did the same.Choudhary said that they have pleaded before the Congress leadership. He added that several things were not right since the party came to power in the state and added that when they tried to raise issues related to the party and the public, they were ignored after which they were forced to take such a step.Choudhary claimed that the party high command has heard and sorted out their issues with an assurance that such a situation will not continue. He expressed faith that the three member committee formed by the party brass will sort out their issues.Choudhary said he was shocked with the language used to target him. He said Gehlot had stated that those leaders who had not accepted money should return back to the Congress fold. Choudhary said Gehlot should now explain his allegation, now that they have returned. “I have a forty-years long political life with a clear image and I have never faced any allegation. My people already knew this and now, I hope that even the CM is satisfied,” he said. Referring to Sachin Pilot, Choudhary said the leader who revived the party in the state was criticised badly. “It is unfortunate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-ends-but-differences-remain-as-senior-leader-hits-out-at-gehlot-loyalists/story-41W5EUkTb128bMyOQXSgvN.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Tool to kill viruses, 10 screens’: Parliament readies for monsoon session||Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate name of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking Houses — an overhaul in logistics and infrastructure will support the Indian Parliament when it meets for the monsoon session amid Covid. While ministers, former PMs and floor leaders will get preference in the main chamber, many party MPs — even from the ruling sides — will be adjusted in the galleries, as per a plan prepared by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu.To be sure, the 100-year-old building is no stranger to facelift and modifications in its long journey. But the pandemic has prompted the authorities to make unprecedented amendments to a well-established system to ensure safety and adherence to health norms as the average age of MPs in Rajya Sabha is 63.39. The average age of Lok Sabha MPs is 54 but half of them are 56 years or above in age. As both the House proceedings will spread across the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and their galleries, there will be four large and six small display screens in the chamber and galleries of the Upper House, “audio consoles in the galleries, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation, special cables connecting the two Houses for transmission of audio-visual signals, polycarbonate sheet separating the Official Gallery from the chamber of the House”, according to an official note, amid a slew of new measures. The first of its kind arrangements, overseen by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, also includes a quota of seats for different parties in the chamber and galleries of Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, based on their respective strengths. The remaining lawmakers will be seated in the Lok Sabha, divided in two blocks—ruling NDA and other parties. A similar practice will be followed by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who will also use the Central Hall to accommodate excess members as the Lok Sabha would need a bigger space. Naidu has decided that in the Rajya Sabha chamber, seats will be earmarked for the Prime Minister, Leader of the House, Leader of the Opposition and floor leaders of other parties. “Former Prime Ministers and former Leaders of the House Dr Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda. Ramvilas Paswan and Ramdas Athawale, being ministers and Rajya Sabha MPs -- will also have earmarked seats in the chamber of the House. Other ministers will be seated in the seats meant for the ruling party. The seating arrangements will be in strict compliance with the social distancing norms. “Special cables are being laid connecting the two Houses of Parliament for transmitting audio-visual signals of the proceedings both ways without any time lag to enable real time participation of members seated in the two Houses,” said an official communique. The Upper House would also see polycarbonate sheets—widely used in government offices now—to separate the officials gallery from the chamber as both are in proximity. A maximum of 15 officials and as many number of journalists would be allowed in the respective galleries. In the Lok Sabha press gallery, 20 journalists would be allowed. While the RSTV and LSTV will telecast live proceedings through their existing arrangements, Naidu and Birla have instructed the secretariat to minimise the physical handling of various papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tool-to-kill-viruses-10-screens-parliament-readies-for-monsoon-session/story-FglBGXo3WY3WEkCv7PvYbM.html
16-08-2020||India||Heavy rain floods parts of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, rivers burst banks||Heavy rain in Telangana and parts of Andhra Pradesh since Friday has left many villages marooned with overflowing streams and rivulets while several colonies in the urban areas witnessing heavy water logging on Sunday. The Indian Meteorological Department’s bulletin on Sunday afternoon said the heavy rain was the result of a low pressure area over north coastal Odisha and adjoining areas of northwest Bay of Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 9.5 km above mean sea level. “It is very likely to move west-north westwards and weaken gradually during the next 48 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal around August 19,” the bulletin said. Two major rivers Krishna and Godavari, along with their tributaries, have been in spate forcing the irrigation department authorities open sluice gates of some dams and barrages to discharge water, resulting in inundation of low-lying areas. In Telangana’s Warangal town, several colonies had been submerged due to heavy rain since Friday night. The district received heavy rainfall ranging from 10 cm to 27 cm during this period. Following an SOS message from the Warangal (urban) administration, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation sent three disaster response force teams to Warangal on Sunday along with boats and other equipment to rescue people caught in the flood water and shift them to safer areas. “We shall take part in the rescue operations along with Warangal (Urban) district machinery,” Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management director Viswajit Kampani said. A statement from the chief minister’s office said the government had established two control rooms in Hyderabad to monitor the situation and also pressed two helicopters into service for rescue and relief operations. The Godavari river has been in full spate inundating several villages all along its course. At the temple town of Bhadrachalam in Telangana, the authorities issued a second level warning as the water level in the river reached 52.50 feet at 1 pm on Sunday. “The water level continues to rise,” the statement from the CMO said.Taliperu and Kinnerasani rivers, the tributaries of Godavari, are also overflowing, forcing the authorities to open the reservoir gates to discharge excess water. The CMO said due to the continuous rains, several streams and rivulets were in full spate across the state. In several districts, breaches to bunds of many water bodies were reported. Similarly, drainage canals were overflowing and water-logging continued on the roads in urban areas at many places. “Under the current conditions, there is a severe threat of inundation due to overflowing tanks and streams especially in the erstwhile districts of Warangal and Karimnagar where very heavy rain was reported,” he added. In Mulugu district of Telangana, hundreds of people were evacuated from villages on the banks of river Godavari. Heavy flood water inflow was reported at Sammakka barrage in Tupakulagudem of Mulugu district. In the Krishna basin too, massive inflows were reported with Jurala, Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar receiving flood water from upper regions. Inflow to Nagarjuna Sagar Project increased to 42,378 cusecs. The water level in the project touched 566.7 feet as against the full reservoir level of 590 feet. Considering the forecast of more rains for a few more days the disaster management department has advised people not to venture out except in emergencies. In Hyderabad too the GHMC authorities have advised people to vacate dilapidated residential buildings because of heavy rain. The water level in Godavari at Kunavaram and Polavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district has also been rising alarmingly with every passing hour. At Dowleshwaram in East Godavari, the authorities opened the gates of the barrage and to discharge 14.63 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs) of water into the sea. The exercise left several island villages in teh Konaseema area submerged. The Andhra Pradesh government has put its state and national disaster response force teams on high alert. “We are keenly monitoring the situation in 27 flood-prone blocks in East Godavari district,” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-floods-parts-of-telangana-andhra-pradesh-rivers-burst-banks/story-znpZZu0Q4wfMW8CT0fqB3O.html
16-08-2020||India||Chetan Chauhan’s political innings blossomed during Mandal-Mandir times||Former cricketer Chetan Chauhan had an equally successful political career which started during the times of Mandir- Mandal politics in the country in late 1980s.Born in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly on 21 July 1947, Chauhan moved to Pune in Maharashtra in 1960 with his father, who was transferred there as an officer of Indian Army. He graduated from Wadia College in Pune, where his cricketing acumen was honed, but returned to UP for the second innings of his life in politics.He was fielded as a BJP candidate from Amroha Lok Sabha seat in the general elections in 1991-- also referred to as Mandal-Mandir elections—due to the highly polarized and charged atmosphere over two main issues of Ram Janmabhoomi movement for the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya and of Mandal commission, pertaining to reservations for the marginalized castes. Chauhan won the elections with 58.96% votes defeating Janata Dal’s Har Govind, who returned with nearly 31.64% votes. He represented the seat for the next five years, while the Centre was ruled by PV Narasimha Rao led Congress government supported by the left parties. However, in 1996 elections, Pratap Singh Saini from Samajwadi Party won the Amroha seat, located north-west of Moradabad about 130 km away from Delhi and known for its mangoes.Chauhan made a comeback in 1998 by defeating BSP’s Alley Hasan from Amroha. He polled more than 37% votes to defeat Hasan who could only muster little over 29% votes. A year later in 1999, he lost the elections to BSP’s Rashid Alvi.During his tenure as Lok Sabha MP in 1998-99, Chauhan also served as a member on the parliamentary committee on finance and on the consultative committee for the ministry of human resource and development (HRD). He also served as chairman of National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) from June 2016 to June 2017.In 2017, he won the assembly elections for Naugawan Sadaat seat by defeating SP leader Javed Abdi and was presently serving as the home guards minister in UP cabinet led by Yogi Adityanath.He is the second minister in the UP cabinet to have succumbed to coronavirus disease after the death of Kamla Rani Varun on August 2.Chauhan also proved his mettle as an administrator while serving the Delhi and Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) in various capacities. He was also appointed manager of the Indian Team during their tour of Australia.73 year old Chauhan is survived by his wife Anita Chauhan and son Vinayak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chetan-chauhan-s-political-innings-blossomed-during-mandal-mandir-times/story-QzhuQvHJUBRJiyyFbcJkuM.html
16-08-2020||India||Upset over not getting a salary hike, man stages robbery to take revenge from employer||Upset with his boss for not giving him a salary hike and slapping him in public, a man working at a construction company staged a robbery to settle scores, police said on Sunday. Vijay Pratap Dixit, who himself reported the matter to the police, has been arrested. The Faridabad resident is employed with the company for a very long time.On August 13, police received a call from Dixit about a robbery near Bara Pulla Flyover here. During an enquiry, he told them that around 1.30 pm he collected Rs 2 lakh in cash and a cheque of Rs 10 lakh from his employer Nitin and on his instructions, he handed over the cash to company manager Ramesh Bhatia. He later handed over the cheque to Mahesh at Model Town here and collected Rs 10 lakh in cash from him and kept it inside his bag. When Dixit was on his way to Faridabad at around 6 PM, a man in Sarai Kale Khan area came from behind, threatened him with a blunt object and sat behind his two-wheeler, he told police. He said two other men on another motorcycle also followed him. When they reached near Bara Pulla Flyover, the three men robbed Rs 10 lakh from Dixit’s bag and fled with his mobile phone.Based on a complaint lodged by Dixit, a case was registered under IPC section 392 (Punishment for robbery) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and an investigation was initiated, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said.During the investigation, Dixit’s employer was examined. When Dixit was taken to recreate the scene of the crime at the place of incident, he started changing his statement and tried to frequently convince the investigators. On finding contradictions in his statements, Dixit was examined again and during cross-questioning, he confessed to committing the crime to take revenge from Nitin, he added. “Dixit disclosed that he has been serving his employer for a very long time. Despite that, his employer is not increasing his salary and the earnings didn’t meet his needs. Once, his employer had slapped him and also let him down publicly. In revenge, he decided to teach him a lesson by usurping the collection money of his company and concocting a story of robbery before police and his employer,” the DCP said. On his instance, the entire looted cash of Rs 10 lakh was recovered from his house, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-over-not-getting-a-salary-hike-man-stages-robbery-to-take-revenge-from-employer/story-OMGyK6w4mHLitj6d3sXAbM.html
16-08-2020||India||Conman who impersonated IPS officer runs out of luck at toll plaza in Ujjain||A 46-year-old man who allegedly impersonated an IPS officer and influential political leaders of Madhya Pradesh, defrauded people and travelled in an expensive SUV was arrested in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of Bhopal, on Sunday, said an officer of the special task force (STF) of Madhya Pradesh police. The man who was identified as Jyotirmayi Vijayavargiya, a resident of Shalimar Township in Indore, had several mobile phone numbers. These numbers on different mobile phones were saved in different names including ‘IPS’, certain influential political leaders etc to convince people about his ‘credentials’. The person whom he called from any of these mobile phone numbers used to see his fake name on a particular App which is used to identify the names of unknown callers, said the officer. Police said he acquired the SUV fraudulently a couple of years back. He gave a cheque of Rs 14 lakh to the owner of the car to “buy” it but the cheque bounced. He is facing at least three criminal cases in Mumbai and Indore for committing fraud. Superintendent of police, STF Geetesh Garg said, “We got information from a toll plaza employee in Ujjain that a man in a Fortuner car was not paying the required toll tax while introducing himself as IPS officer Vipin Maheshwari. On this, a team of STF was sent to the toll booth and detained the man to find that he was impersonating an IPS officer. During questioning we found that he had also cheated several people by telling that he was a relative of a BJP leader. He bought the car from one Rajiv Arya who is also from Indore for Rs 14 lakh but the cheque he gave Arya bounced.” The officer said more than 100 cheque books were seized from the residence of the accused. He was operating through the bank accounts of his servants also. “An FIR under sections 170, 419 and 420 of IPC has been registered against him. We are trying to find out how many persons have been victims of this man”, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conman-who-impersonated-ips-officer-runs-out-of-luck-at-toll-plaza-in-ujjain/story-lsBynZhhrMT4iLkC3MUW5K.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Anguished’: PM Modi condoles Chetan Chauhan’s demise, calls him a ‘wonderful cricketer, diligent political leader’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the death of former cricketer and UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan who succumbed to Covid-19 related complications. “Shri Chetan Chauhan Ji distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and later as a diligent political leader. He made effective contributions to public service and strengthening the BJP in UP. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted. Shri Chetan Chauhan Ji distinguished himself as a wonderful cricketer and later as a diligent political leader. He made effective contributions to public service and strengthening the BJP in UP. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.Former cricketer and UP cabinet minister Chauhan died on Sunday due to Covid-19 related complications, his brother Pushpendra Chauhan said.Leaders across the political spectrum paid tribute to Chauhan, who played 40 Test matches for the country and also served as a cabinet minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. He held the portfolios of Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, PRD and Civil Security. The BJP leader was earlier elected to Lok Sabha twice. He is the second UP minister to have succumbed to coronavirus.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said he is deeply saddened by the untimely demise of Chauhan and recognised his efforts of raising issues related to land and public.उ.प्र. सरकार में मंत्री और पूर्व क्रिकेटर चेतन चौहान जी के असामयिक निधन से मुझे गहरा दुःख पहुँचा है।अपनी राजनीतिक पारी के दौरान उन्होंने हमेशा ज़मीन और जनता से जुड़े मुद्दों को उठाया।वे एक नेकदिल और भले व्यक्ति के रूप में जाने जाते थे।उनके शोकाकुल परिवार के प्रति मेरी संवेदनायें।Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath took to Twitter to condole the demise of his Cabinet colleague and said, “The disturbing news was received of the untimely demise of Shri Chetan Chauhan, a former international player, my colleague in the Cabinet. Lord Shree Rama, the family of Shri Chauhan Ji have the power to bear this immense grief and give the departed soul a place at your Shri feet. Om Shanti.”पूर्व अंतरराष्ट्रीय खिलाड़ी, मंत्रिमंडल में मेरे सहयोगी, श्री चेतन चौहान जी के असामयिक निधन का व्यथित कर देने वाला समाचार प्राप्त हुआ। प्रभु श्री राम, श्री चौहान जी के परिजनों को इस अपार दुःख को सहने की शक्ति एवं दिवंगत आत्मा को अपने श्री चरणों में स्थान प्रदान करें।ॐ शांतिVice-President Venkaiah Naidu lauded Chauhan’s “immense contribution towards development of cricket” and also noted his political run as Member of Parliament for two terms.Deeply saddened by the passing away of former cricketer and UP minister, Shri Chetan Chauhan ji.He made immense contribution towards development of cricket and also served as the Member of Parliament for two terms.My condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti! pic.twitter.com/tbTnAELXTgChauhan is the second UP minister to have succumbed to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anguished-pm-modi-condoles-chetan-chauhan-s-demise-calls-him-a-wonderful-cricketer-diligent-political-leader/story-26bZVBK2rDwCgabKrmMSQN.html
16-08-2020||India||Minister Shyam Rajak in Nitish cabinet denies reports of leaving party ahead of polls||There’s a strong buzz in Patna that the industry minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet may resign ahead of the upcoming state polls, however the minister maintains that he is with the party.Shyam Rajak, a sitting MLA from the reserved Phulwari assembly constituency in Patna district, is likely to join the RJD, say reports. Rajak, in his mid sixties, is likely to resign from the post of industry minister and also as a MLA on Monday before he formally switches sides, said people familiar with the development.When contacted by HT, Rajak said he was very much in the JD(U) and denied the reports that he was joining any other party. “I am still in JD(U). But, yes, I will never compromise on my dignity and respect,” he said, indicating a possible political manoeuvre for the polls scheduled in October-November,.Rajak has been unhappy with the JD(U) leadership, say the people quoted above, for not being given much prominence as a minister. Him representing a constituency having a sizeable Muslim population is said to be another reason for which he wants to leave the JD(U)-BJP combine, said people in the know of development.Incidentally, Rajak had switched to the JD(U) in 2009 after leaving the RJD and had won from the Phulwari seat as a JD(U) nominee in the 2010 election. The possible exit of the minister from the JD(U) will be viewed as a setback to the CM and the NDA ahead of the polls.In another development, the RJD on Sunday expelled three sitting MLAs, including son of former union minister MA Fatmi, for six years on charges of anti-party activities.The three MLAs expelled from the RJD are Faraz Fatmi , Maheshwar Prasad Yadav and Prema Choudhary.“We have expelled the party MLAs on charges of being involved in anti party activities as per provisions of the party’s constitution. The decision was taken by RJD chief Lalu Prasad,” said Alok Mehta, RJD’s state general secretary. Mehta, however, did not comment on reports that the three sitting MLAs facing the axe were all likely to join the JD(U). “The party took the decision based on their activities in recent times,” he said. Faraj Fatmi , a RJD MLA from Keoti in Darbhana, is son of former union minister M A Fatmi who had switched to the JD(U) before the 2019 parliamentary polls.Faraj has been vocal against the RJD for sometime even as Maheshwar Yadav, MLA from Gaighat in Muzaffarpur, has slammed the RJD leadership including leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on many occasions in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-in-nitish-cabinet-denies-reports-of-leaving-party-ahead-of-polls/story-JGrZN3W1Q56uglLNxJfe4H.html
16-08-2020||India||Kerala: Over 350 prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in T’puram central jail||Coronavirus pandemic has hit the central jail here with more than 350 inmates testing positive in the last one week and a murder accused succumbing to the virus, a top prison official said.The undertrial prisoner was the first to test positive for the virus in the prison at nearby Poojapura and in the last one week 359 more cases, including a staff, have been reported, its superintendent Santhosh S said.As many as 145 cases were detected on Sunday alone, he said adding barring three, shifted to hospital, others have been kept in a special isolation area within the prison.“An undertrial prisoner in a murder case, Manikandan, who was lodged here since 2016, passed away at the medical college hospital here. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10,” he told PTI.After he was admitted to hospital, the officials had been carrying out tests in the prison, where more than 970 people are lodged.The superintendent said a total of 197 tests were done on Wednesday and Thursday and of this 100 found to be positive followed by another 113 in the next two days.“Today, we tested 298 prisoners out of which 145 were tested positive,” he said, adding besides them, one positive case was found among the over 300 jail staff.Two of the infected had been shifted to hospitals and the others, all asymptomatic, were being given adequate treatment, the official said.Since May, the prison department in Kerala has been screening new remand prisoners for Covid-19 and only those who test negative were being lodged in various jails. Prisons in the state can accommodate 6,250 inmates and have over 1,600 staff, officials said. Kerala’s Covid-19 case tally stood at 42,885 and the death toll was 146 as of Saturday. PTI RRT VS VS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-over-350-prisoners-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-t-puram-central-jail/story-GkEMzIDVkT2rD4B5VXbapN.html
16-08-2020||India||Locked for five months, shrines in J-K finally reopen||Some prominent religious places including shrines opened in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday for prayers after remaining closed for over five months to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.People offered daily prayers in some shrines and mosques in Kashmir Valley but took precautions like maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Small mosques in the mohallas and interior areas had already opened up in the last few weeks but few devotees were showing up for prayers. On Sunday, for the first time in five months people offered prayers in congregation in prominent shrines like Dastigeer Sahib in the Old City. People also said that they visited Khanqah-e-Moula shrine on the banks of Jhelum.“We offered congregation prayer for the first time since mid-March in the afternoon today. Alhamdulillah all SOPs were followed. There was a good response from the people and they took precautions,” said Syed Khalid Geelani, Sajadah Nasheen (one of the caretakers) of Dastigeer Sahib shrine.People were upbeat. “Everybody is aware of the importance of precautions during this pandemic. Though we used to offer prayers in our local mosques for the last few weeks but opening of these shrines fills us with hope and gives us solace,” said Bilal Ahmad, a resident of Old City.But not every mosque opened on Sunday. Kashmir’s biggest mosque Jamia Masjid in Nawhatta was still closed and will open on August 18. “In coming couple of days the mosque will be opened after a cleanliness drive,” said a caretaker of the mosque. Some urged fellow citizens not to indulge in ‘blind fatalism’. “Blessed are we that these places have opened. I am so happy. But at the same time people should continue to take precautions. Their opening does not mean that the pandemic is over. People should continue to wear masks, take their own prayer rugs to the mosques, avoid handshakes, use sanitizers and maintain social distancing. Only then they should leave it to God,” said Yaqoob Ahmad, an Imam of a local mosque in Srinagar.Officials also urged people not to lower their guard. “Community response holds the key to fighting Pandemic. Glad to see observance of SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) as religious places opened today after 5 months. Hopeful about industry, business & transport to follow the pursuit,” wrote Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Chaudhary on Twitter.On August 4, the government had announced that all religious places and places of worship would be reopened from August 16 but detailed Covid-19 SOPs would have to be to followed like no large gatherings and no touching of statues.In the run up to the reopening of religious places, the district administration had reached out to managing committees of places of worship of all faiths and held meetings with over 3,000 religious heads to sensitise them about do’s and don’ts to prevent spread of Covid-19.The Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir crossed 28,000 on Saturday evening. Kashmir valley alone has over 21,000 of the cases. That pandemic has taken the lives of 527 people in the union territory out of which 486 casualties have been in Kashmir. Markets to reopen Officials said that from Monday markets will reopen and public transport services will resume operations according to a regulated schedule in Srinagar.In an order, Deputy Commissioner Chaudhary lifted restrictions on business and transport operations allowing a regulated resumption.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had re-imposed lockdown restrictions in Srinagar from July 13 and rest of the valley from July 27 as Covid-19 cases surged.After a State Executive Committee order on August 4, officials have permitted reopening of 50 per cent shops in all markets and resumption of public transport operations with a boarding of 50 per cent passengers in minibuses and up to a maximum of 4 passengers in 10-seater maxi-cabs and 2 passengers in taxicabs and auto-rickshaws.In all markets, alternate shops will open so as to prevent crowding and to enable queuing of customers as per the advised distancing norm. “The district administration has full faith in the business and trading communities of the district and is sure that there will be strict compliance with all SOPs and guidelines like wearing of face masks and observance of distancing while going about their businesses,” Chaudhary said.As for transport, not more than a third of the total number of vehicles will be allowed to operate on a particular route. There are around 80 designated public transport routes in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locked-for-five-months-shrines-in-kashmir-finally-reopen/story-bTxBOwgezh7TXvRBsdZbhL.html
16-08-2020||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad says Rahul Gandhi’s attack on RSS, BJP relies on a myth, asks a counter question||Senior BJP leader and Union minister for electronics and information technology and communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, on Sunday launched a counter attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for alleging that the BJP and RSS spread fake news and hatred using social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate.Prasad said that Gandhi’s party had no locus standi to question the BJP given previous allegations of Congress having used online platforms to influence elections in India.“Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP and RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook to weaponise data before the elections and now have the gall to question us?,” Prasad tweeted in response to Gandhi.In 2018, UK based Cambridge Analytica was at the centre of a controversy linked to Facebook data breach of around 50 million users in the US to benefit Donald Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016. Christopher Wylie, the Cambridge Analytica whistleblower had told British lawmakers that he “believed” the Congress party in India was a client of the company at the regional level.Earlier, Rahul Gandhi had referred to a WSJ report quoting unnamed sources to claim that the social media giant had been lenient on alleged hate speeches by BJP leaders in order to protect their business prospects in India.Also Read: Report on Facebook’s leniency to BJP members’ communal posts causes row“BJP and RSS control Facebook & Whatsapp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Rahul’s tweet had said.The WSJ cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to suggest that the company’s senior official and India policy executive Ankhi Das had intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting the Muslim community.The report claimed that Das, “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”.Facebook has, however, denied the claims made in the WSJ report and stated that it adopts a uniform policy on hate speeches across the world irrespective of the party, position or stature of the individual or organization involved.The BJP, too, responded to the report and said the party didn’t approve of the comment made by Telangana MLA and disassociates itself with comments that call for violence or are not in line with the party’s official stance.Prasad in fact asked Rahul Gandhi if he had condemned the recent communal violence in Bengaluru? “The fact is that today access to information and freedom of expression has been democratized. It is no longer controlled by retainers of your family and that is why it hurts. Btw, haven’t yet heard your condemnation of the Bangalore riots. Where did your courage disappear?,” Prasad asked in his second tweet addressed to Gandhi.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi lands another jibe over China, it’s a comment on PM ModiMembers of the minority community were involved in incidents of violence late on August 7 in Bengaluru over an offending social media post allegedly put out by Congress MLA Srinivasa Murthy’s kin, who has since claimed that his account was hacked. Three people had died and scores were injured in the Bengaluru riots that also included an attack on the local Congress MLA’s house. He had to flee to save his life from rioters. The BJP has accused the Congress of appeasing one community by not condemning the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-says-rahul-gandhi-s-attack-on-rss-bjp-relies-on-a-myth-asks-a-counter-question/story-TH9ROcnyIz4nTDbBdnvbWM.html
16-08-2020||India||Rlys generates more than 5.5 lakh mandays of work under PM Modi’s jobs scheme in 6 states||Indian Railways has generated more than 5.5 lakhs mandays of work under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the railways ministry said in a statement on Sunday.It said railways minister Piyush Goyal is closely monitoring the progress of these projects and generation of work opportunities for the migrant labours of these states under this scheme. “Around 165 railway infrastructure projects are being executed in these states worth Rs 2,988 crore. Till August 14, 2020, 11,296 workers have been engaged in this Abhiyaan and the payment of Rs 1,336.84 crore has been released to the contractors for the projects being implemented,” the statement said.The railways has appointed nodal officers in each district as well as in the states to establish a close coordination with the state governments. It said Goyal has directed railway administration at zonal level to act proactively to ensure migrants are engaged in projects and paid accordingly.The railways has identified a number of works which are being executed under this scheme. “The works are related to (i) construction and maintenance of approach roads for level crossings, (ii) development & cleaning of silted waterways, trenches and drains along the track, (iii) construction and maintenance of approach road to railway stations, (iv) repair and widening of existing railway embankments / cuttings, (v) plantation of trees at extreme boundary of railway land and (vi) protection works of existing embankments/ cuttings/bridges,” it said.On June 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in areas/villages where a large number of migrant workers had returned during the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The Prime Minister announced that an amount of Rs 50,000 crore would be spent for building durable rural infrastructure under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan.The scheme which is for 125 days, is being undertaken in mission mode, and involves focused implementation of 25 categories of works/ activities in 116 districts, each with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in 6 states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. “Public works being undertaken during this campaign will have a resource envelope of Rs. 50,000 crore,” the Railways said.The scheme is a convergent effort involving 12 different ministries and departments to expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-generates-more-than-5-5-lakh-mandays-of-work-under-pm-modi-s-jobs-scheme-in-6-states/story-jzXznzutkTUkrmXcLxbGkJ.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Responsible and responsive’: Solicitor General lauds PM for Covid fight||The “responsible and responsive” leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has helped India fight the Covid crisis with minimal damage, said solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta on Sunday, adding it is unimaginable as to what would have transpired if the country was under any other leadership.Mehta, the Centre’s second senior-most law officer, said each and every step to deal with Covid-19 was taken by the government in a methodical and scientific manner. He further said that there were guidelines in place to deal with every aspect of the epidemic.“But for the responsible and responsive leadership of our prime minister, I don’t think we could have passed through this international crisis with the minimum damage which was unavoidable. Shudder to even imagine what would have happened under any other leadership,” Mehta said while speaking at a virtual session organised by Akhil Bhartiya Adhivakta Parishad. As the face of the Central government before the Supreme Court in various Covid related petitions, Mehta said he has witnessed first hand the ways in which the government has tackled coronavirus.“I have gone through each and every aspect of the Covid management undertaken by this government and I can tell that you will not be able to identify or pinpoint any particular area where the government did not touch upon and warn (beforehand), those who were supposed to manage the situation. Each and every ministry, including commerce, finance, telecom, agriculture, health and home had guidelines in place,” Mehta said.Whenever petitions used to come before court, I used to find that the government had specific guidelines in place in the context of Covid, he added.Mehta underscored that he was not making political statements to curry favour but was speaking as a citizen and a lawyer who had the opportunity to witness the functioning of the government and the steps taken by them to counter the pandemic.To detractors, Mehta said the judiciary was accessible to each and every citizen even during lockdown, adding if there is still criticism it showed deliberate indifference and ignorance by such persons about the situation.The Supreme Court had come under fire during the initial months of the lockdown for its refusal to entertain cases related to Covid and the government’s handling of the same. Former judges, the members of the civil society and many senior lawyers had faulted the top court for accepting the government word on Covid management, particularly the adversities faced by migrant workers, without verifying the government claims. Mehta was the government lawyer in many of these cases and some of his arguments in those matters had also come under scrutiny. “I don’t think there would be any democracy as large as India in the world where the judiciary has functioned on a daily basis giving access to justice to everyone in the country – right from trial court to Supreme Court and I can vouch for the Supreme Court,” Mehta said.The Supreme Court, he said, functioned on a daily basis throughout the lockdown starting from March 25.“The judges of the Supreme Court, many of whom are more than 60 years old, have not taken a single day off. They could have said that their age may not permit them to expose themselves to Covid. But they worked with all precautions which could have been taken. Many petitions before the Supreme Court were avoidable ones and the court had the freedom to impose fine (on the petitioners) but it refrained from doing (so) considering the circumstances,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/responsible-and-responsive-solicitor-general-lauds-pm-for-covid-fight/story-7vTBHQc4NH1ADo8nivqsjP.html
16-08-2020||India||Vistara likely to start flights from India to UK, Germany, France||Private carrier Vistara is likely to start flight operations between India and the UK, Germany and France under the bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with these countries, sources in the aviation industry said on Sunday.Earlier this month, India and the UK signed a bilateral air pact, under which the airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. India had signed similar bilateral pacts with Germany and France in July.Vistara got its second B787-9 wide-body aircraft on Saturday. It had received its first B787-9 aircraft in February.“Vistara has already got the slots at the Heathrow airport in London. The flights between Delhi and London are likely to be announced in the next few days,” an industry source told PTI.The Delhi-London flight is likely to operate thrice a week, the source added.A wide-body aircraft has a bigger fuel tank that allows it to operate long-haul flights. Vistara has 43 planes in its fleet, of which 41 are narrow-body aircraft like A320neo and B737-800NG.The full-service carrier is also likely to operate flights between India and Germany and India and France, another aviation industry source said, adding that the probable destinations for these flights are Frankfurt and Paris respectively.It is not clear which Indian cities will be connected to Frankfurt and Paris by Vistara.The private carrier did not respond to the queries sent by PTI on the matter.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic.The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. All airlines in India have opted for cost-reducing measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash.India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months. The airlines have been allowed to operate a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.However, the occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vistara-likely-to-start-flights-from-india-to-uk-germany-france/story-mihfvkcj7UBcBpWIzBJ3GL.html
16-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala CM looks back at state’s fight with Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Keep hope alive, we shall overcome’: Kerala CM looks back at state’s fight with Covid-19Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said that the Covid-19 crisis has not just been a period marred by despair and loss but has also been a time of courage, compassion, resilience and survival. The chief minister lauded the people of Kerala for their “unflinching spirit”. Read moreIndia sends equipment, personnel to Mauritius to contain oil spillIndia has sent equipment and personnel to help Mauritius contain an oil spill after a Japanese bulk carrier ran aground on a reef on its south-east coast last month, the ministry of external affairs said on Sunday. Read moreThe grand celebration of the British-Caribbean community at the Notting Hill Carnival is going online this year, thanks to Covid-19Each year, during the last weekend of August, the streets of west London are amok with people in brightly coloured costumes and extravagant decorations for the celebration of the famed Notting Hill Carnival. Read morePM Modi, HM Shah pay tributes to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on 2nd death anniversaryNation remembered former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led tributes to Vajpayee and remembered his ‘outstanding service’ to the nation. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu paid tributes to Vajpayee at Delhi’s Raj Ghat. Read moreBrother surprises sister at her graduation. Sweet video may melt your heartMany may agree with us when we say that milestone moments in one’s life are best celebrated with those closest to them. Read moreGoogle Messages has a cool trick that reroutes RCS message via SMSGoogle has been steadily rolling out RCS chats in its Messages app around the world, which has greatly improved the functionality of the company’s chat app. Read moreMS Dhoni retirement | ‘He groomed Virat Kohli’: Sunil Gavaskar explains why Dhoni is a ‘legend’India batting legend Sunil Gavaskar believes that there is no doubt that MS Dhoni is a legend of the game. Read moreDilip Kumar’s brothers Eshan Khan and Aslam Khan test positive for Covid-19, admitted to hospitalOctogenarian brothers of veteran Bollywood actor Dilip Kumar have been detected with Covid-19. Their oxygen saturation has dropped below 80%. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-cm-looks-back-at-state-s-fight-with-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kN1OLgoNuGfl4l8xL2DEhK.html
16-08-2020||India||Incessant rains in Chhattisgarh cause disruptions, villages cut off in South Bastar||Incessant rains continued to lash parts of Chhattisgarh, especially districts in South Bastar region since Saturday, resulting in flooding of major rivers in the state.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has directed all district collectors and superintendents of police (SPs) to remain alert in view of the continuous rainfall.“The chief minister has asked the official to assess damage caused due to rains and provide immediate necessary assistance to the affected people. All necessary medical arrangements should be ensured in view of water-borne diseases due to the rains. Adequate availability of medicines and antidotes for water borne diseases, gastroenteritis and snakebite should be ensured in health centers. Disaster management teams must be prompt and ensure all necessary arrangements before time,” a press note issued by the directorate of public relations of Chhattisgarh stated.Officials claimed that Bijapur and Sukma districts of South Bastar region were the worst affected and water-level of local rivers there was continuously rising.Also Read: Flood situation improves in Assam; 13,300 in 3 districts affectedDue to the incessant rains in South Bastar for the last three days, the river drains are in spate cutting off villages from district headquarters. The water level in Indravati and Chhot river has increased in Bijapur district due to which around two hundred villages are cut off from the district headquarters, said officials.Traffic is blocked between Gidam to Bijapur, Bijapur to Bhopal Patnam, Bijapur Awapalli, Basaguda, Gangalur, due to increased water level in the rivulets.Bijapur superintendent of police Kamalochan Kashyap said the district administration was continuously monitoring the flood situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incessant-rains-in-chhattisgarh-cause-disruptions-villages-cut-off-in-south-bastar/story-BsmmYsdwVtz5YrQcs96dGN.html
16-08-2020||India||Andhra Irrigation department warns people of flooding in low-lying areas||Irrigation department officials of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday has appealed people of low lying areas to be on alert as 70 gates of Prakasam Barrage in Vijaywada has been lifted to release the floodwater.“River Krishna is overflowing at Prakasam Barrage in Vijayawada. The floodwater level is increasing at a fast pace. A huge amount of water is accumulating at the barrage due to rains in upper areas. The irrigation department has lifted 70 gates and leaving the flood water into the sea,” said the officials.The officials added that a warning has been issued to the people of low lying areas to be on alert for the possibility of floods.Earlier on Saturday, the Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz had said that over 1 lakh cusecs are expected in the Prakasam barrage and appealed to people living in low-lying areas of the district to be alert about the possibility of flooding caused by heavy rains.“Around 82,000 cusecs of water has been received at the Prakasam barrage today and 10,000 cusecs of it is released to the canals. The remaining water has been released downwards. 70 gates of the barrage are lifted for release of the water. Over 1 lakh cusecs are expected to accumulate so people are expected to remain vigilant,” Imtiaz said.He added that control rooms were made available at every Mandal and the National Disaster Relief Force and the State Disaster Relief Force teams are also available for any emergency. Control rooms have been made available at every Mandal.The heavy rains have caused the Krishna river to overflow at Keesara. Floodwaters hampered traffic at Damuluru junction and transportation between Veerulapadu and Nandigama Mandals was obstructed.“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places very likely over Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana during the next 2 days,” the India Meteorological Department tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-irrigation-department-warns-people-of-flooding-in-low-lying-areas/story-yIx1oL2UT8FnCKU8N9VT5N.html
16-08-2020||India||Kafeel Khan’s detention under NSA extended by 3 months||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the detention of Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act by a period of three months, an official statement said.Khan has been in jail since January 29 for allegedly delivering a provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University on December 10, 2019 during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests.In an order dated August 4, 2020, the UP Home Department said the National Security Act (NSA) was invoked against Khan on February 13, 2020 on the orders of the Aligarh District Magistrate. After this, the matter was sent to the advisory council, which in its report, said there are “enough reasons” to keep Khan in jail.As a result, on May 6, orders were given to extend his detention under the NSA by another three months.“According to the report of the UP advisory council and the report obtained from District Magistrate Aligarh, Governor Anandiben Patel using the powers vested in her, directed that the detention of Kafeel Khan be extended by three more months,” the order said.“As a result, Kafeel will remain in jail till November 13, 2020,” it said.Khan hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, in which several kids died due to lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later, faced action, along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kafeel-khan-s-detention-under-nsa-extended-by-3-months/story-IJQIWMM3mWfW34U5acgZbP.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Keep hope alive, we shall overcome’: Kerala CM looks back at state’s fight with Covid-19||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said that the Covid-19 crisis has not just been a period marred by despair and loss but has also been a time of courage, compassion, resilience and survival. The chief minister lauded the people of Kerala for their “unflinching spirit”.“We are into the 200th day of #COVID19 crisis. Looking back, we can say with pride that this has not been just a period of despair & loss. It has also been a time of courage, compassion, resilience & survival. People of Kerala responded to the crisis with an unflinching spirit,” Vijayan tweeted on Sunday.  Also read: US clears emergency use of new saliva test for faster detection of Covid-19Kerala is often cited as an example for inclusive development and social harmony, and it will remain so, but from now, it will also be an argument for hope. Keep Hope Alive, We Shall Overcome.The chief minister lauded state health workers for pulling off a remarkable job. “We can’t congratulate them enough,” he said. The chief minister urged everyone to continue fighting and keep the hope alive. “Kerala is often cited as an example for inclusive development and social harmony, and it will remain so, but from now, it will also be an argument for hope. Keep Hope Alive, We Shall Overcome,” his tweet read.  The story of 105 years old Asma Bheevi, who recently survived the disease, is just one example. She is not alone, there are many like her. Our health workers have done a remarkable job and we can't congratulate them enough.Kerala was the first state in India to report a case of Covid-19 earlier this year. Thereafter, the state witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases and kept a steady fight to quickly take the situation in control. Kerala’s Covid-19 model was praised across the country and abroad for turning the tide and curbing the spread of the infection in a short span of time. At present, the state has a total of 14,944 active cases of coronavirus. Over 27,000 Covid-19 patients have beaten the contagion in Kerala while the death toll here stands at 146.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-hope-alive-we-shall-overcome-kerala-cm-looks-back-at-state-s-fight-with-covid-19/story-BIsSGV2ewcbkOl5phcC5IL.html
16-08-2020||India||Carcass of wild elephant found in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district, probe ordered||The carcass of a wild elephant was found in the jungles of Surajpur district in Chhattisgarh on Sunday, a forest official said. “The villagers have spotted the body of tusker in Pratapur forest range of Surajpur forest division. Experts and senior forest officials have been sent to the spot and an investigation has started,” additional principal chief conservator (APCF), wildlife, Arun Kumar Pandey told Hindustan Times. The officer added that the body has been sent for autopsy. “The cause of death is yet to be known and we will be able to tell anything only after an autopsy report,” said Pandey. This is the eighth elephant death in the state in the last three months.In June, six elephants died in four districts of the state. While the carcasses of two tuskers were recovered from the Pratappur forest range in Surajpur district, another elephant was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district. Two elephants were electrocuted in Dharamjaigarh under Raigarh district and a calf died after getting stuck in a marshland in Dhamtari district. One elephant died in July in Jashpur district of the state. Following the fatalities, the state forest department in July issued orders to divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh district, where maximum elephants were electrocuted in the last ten years, to take necessary steps to contain such incidents. The order said that the forest department should ensure that the 11 KV electric line, which has been instrumental in causing the deaths, should be 7.5 meters above the ground-level and insulated electric wires should be used in these areas. The department also directed the forest officers to coordinate with Chhattisgarh State Power Corporation and find out each and every illegal connection or live wire in these areas. As per the Chhattisgarh forest department, in the last decade the state has recorded an increase in the wildlife population including elephants, whose number rose from 225 to 290. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel recently issued necessary guidelines for the monitoring of wild animals in the state forests and improving measures for their conservation. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts have surfaced in the last few years in the region. A Union environment ministry report released last week said at least 500 people and 100 elephants die in India due to human-elephant conflict annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-wild-elephant-found-in-chhattisgarh-s-surajpur-district-probe-ordered/story-HVTLu9GTOoMF0b2awXp66M.html
16-08-2020||India||India raises drugs smuggling; misuse of darknet at BRICS meet||India raised the “misuse” of darknet and modern technology being used for drug trafficking by the international criminals in a meeting of BRICS nation last week, according to a statement issued by the government. The anti drugs enforcement agencies of five BRICS nations – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – also discussed steps to keep a check on smuggling of drugs through maritime route, it said. “The 4th Session of the BRICS Anti-Drug Working Group comprising of Brazil, Russia, China, South Africa and India was held this week. The Indian delegation was led by Rakesh Asthana (Director General, Narcotics Control Bureau) and comprised of B. Radhika, Deputy Director General (Ops), NCB, Vrindaba Gohil, First Secretary (Trade) - Embassy of India, Moscow; Dr. Vaibhav Tandale, Under Secretary (Multilateral Economic Relations), MEA and KPS Malhotra, Deputy Director (Ops), NCB,” statement by Press Information Bureau read. The session, held over video conference on August 12 was chaired by Russia this year. “Fruitful exchange of opinions concerning the drug situation in the BRICS states, the international and regional trends of illegal trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors, as well as the impact of various internal and external factors on the situation took place during the summit,” the PIB said. “The common points emerged during the discussions include need for real time information sharing among the member states and need to curb increased drug trafficking through maritime routes. Misuse of darknet and other advanced technologies for drug trafficking was one of the key focal areas of the meeting,” it added. The government further added that “the member nations adopted a communiqué that covered all the points discussed in the meeting”. BRICS is an informal group of states comprising the Federative Republic of Brazil, the Russian Federation, the Republic of India, the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of South Africa. “The growing economic might of BRICS countries, their significance as one of the main driving forces of global economic development, their substantial population and abundant natural resources form the foundation of their influence on the international scene and are the driving forces behind the grouping. Among other areas of collaboration, matters pertaining to drug trafficking is an important area of cooperation among the BRICS member states,” the PIB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-raises-drugs-smuggling-misuse-of-darknet-at-brics-meet/story-YV66Jay3J2pqXHWH3gsJvK.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Russia has shown it is aatmanirbhar, India just talking about it’: Sanjay Raut||Russia has shown that it is aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) by producing the first coronavirus vaccine, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday.In India, there is only talk of being self-reliant, Raut said in his weekly column Rokhtokh in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana.Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday announced his country has developed the first vaccine against Covid-19, adding one of his daughters has already been vaccinated.There is a lot of skepticism about Russia’s vaccine among international experts, who say it has not gone through the rigorous process of human trials.The World Health Organisation has said the Russian vaccine is not among the nine it considers in advanced stages of testing.It is encouraging countries to join the COVAX facility designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to vaccines worldwide.“When there was a global movement to prove the Russian vaccine illegal, Putin used the vaccine as a trial on his daughter and created self-confidence in his country,” Raut said.“Russia gave the first lesson of being aatmanirbhar to the world. We are just preaching about being aatmanirbhar,” Raut said.Noting that Ram temple trust head Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has tested positive for coronavirus, Raut sought to know if Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who shook hands with Das during the temple’s ground-breaking function in Ayodhya on August 5, will quarantine himself.Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who has tested coronavirus positive, is in a critical condition and some ministers and bureaucrats in the Modi government have also tested positive for the viral infection, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-has-shown-it-is-aatmanirbhar-india-just-talking-about-it-sanjay-raut/story-EVl5DyBT35iSCqmc2XFPhL.html
16-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator support: Hospital||The condition of former president Pranab Mukherjee remained unchanged on Sunday and he continued to be on ventilator support, doctors attending to him said. They said his vital and clinical parameters are stable. The doctors at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment said the health of the former president is being closely monitored by a team of specialists. His son Abhijit Mukherjee said he visited the hospital on Saturday and his father “is much better and stable than the preceding days”. “Yesterday, I had visited my father in Hospital. With God’s grace and all your good wishes, he is much better and stable than the preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable and he is responding to treatment. We firmly believe that He will be back among us soon. Thank You (sic),” he said on Twitter. “With all your prayers and good wishes, I firmly believe that he will be back among us soon and in good health,” he tweeted. The 84-year-old former president was admitted to the hospital on Monday and was operated upon for removal of a clot in the brain. He is also Covid-19 positive. The hospital, in a statement, on Sunday said, “There is no change in the condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee. His vital and clinical parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilator support.” “The health condition of the former president who also has multiple old co-morbidities is being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” it said. Pranab Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-opunMANakEPDMVtfPvLyfI.html
16-08-2020||India||Gujarat seeks male Great Indian Bustard chicks from Rajasthan||With only female Great Indian Bustard (GIB) remaining, Gujarat has once again indicated the need for the re-introduction of male chicks from Rajasthan but the government is not in the position to translocate male chicks at present, a top official said.The GIB, the state bird of Rajasthan, figures as critically endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) list, 2011, and Schedule-I that accords it the highest level of legal protection under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. WI). Surveys show that the number of GIB has reduced by 75 percent in the last 30 years.Also read: 875 fresh cases take Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to over 60,000To conserve the critically endangered GIB, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) launched the project, ‘Habitat Improvement and Conservation Breeding of Great Indian Bustard: An Integrated Approach’, during March 2016 in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), Rajasthan forest department and NGOs with the financial support from the National Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority Funds.An official familiar with the project said that the temporary conservation breeding centre (CSC) at Sam (Jaisalmer) is functioning well and till date 10 eggs of GIB have hatched.Meanwhile, Gujarat has recently placed a demand for GIB male chicks.“Yes, during the recent review of the GIB’s conservation efforts through video conferencing, we had made such a proposal before the MoEFCC officials. In 2016, there were 25 GIB individuals in Gujarat but now only 5-7 GIB individuals (all females) are being reported. Gujarat needs permission for re-introduction of male GIB chicks from Rajasthan, but no decision was taken on it so far,” said Sanjay Sisodia, additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Gujarat.Will Rajasthan consider Gujarat’s demand? At present, according to officials, the answer is “no” and it will depend on the future results of conservation breeding.“We do not have male chicks available right now, so we cannot respond to it right now. Conservation breeding of the GIBs is going on in the state, making the founder population. Our focus is on the next generation, a reproduction of the founder Population, for which we will have to wait for five years. If the next generation’s production is as expected, then we will be able to consider Gujarat’s demand, Karnataka’s or any other state,” said Arindam Tomar, additional principal chief conservator and chief wildlife warden of Rajasthan.He added, as per the project design of conservation breeding, we cannot share the founder population with anyone. Not everyone will be able to take care of it. After the production of the next generation, we will not mind giving any chick in favourable condition, because it is a national asset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-seeks-male-great-indian-bustard-chicks-from-rajasthan/story-FqE28O7kfC2ccNETy7o4fK.html
16-08-2020||India||2 arrested in connection with Bulandshahr topper’s death case in UP||The Bulandshahr police have arrested two people in connection with the death of US scholar Sudeeksha Bhati, 19, who died in a road accident on August 10. The suspects were identified as Deepak Solanki, a resident of Gulaothi, and his accomplice Raju, a resident of Bulandshahr dehat. The police have recovered the Royal Enfield motorcycle used in the accident. The police said its investigation revealed this was a case of road accident and not of harassment. Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police, Bulandshahr, said on Sunday the police scanned over 350 bikes from nearby areas and questioned over 1000 persons before zeroing in on them. “The police scanned 12 CCTV cameras and found Sudeeksha and her cousin going on a bike at 8.25 am. The same camera captured an Enfield rider Solanki at 8.17 am on the same route. About 150 metres ahead, Solanki picked up his accomplice Raju from near Arif Hospital. The duo stopped at a petrol pump for fuel and Sudeeksha’s bike crossed the way,” he said. “The two bikes were moving in the same direction. The two motorcycles travelled 10.5 kilometres in 9 minutes on a busy road. This shows that both the motorcycles were speeding,” he said. Solanki admitted that he was riding the motorcycle on August 10 when the accident took place, said police. Solanki said that a tempo traveller going ahead suddenly applied brakes because a bullock cart was in its way. The bullock cart owner Kamal Singh was also traced who said that he was going with his wife Saroj to sell wheat in the Aurangabad Mandi. “We have seized the Royal Enfield motorcycle used in the accident. The suspect had also modified the motorcycle’s number plate, silencer, indicator, etc,” said police. On August 10, Bhati, who was due to return to the United States, had gone to Bulandshahr with her uncle Satyendra and cousin on a motorcycle to meet her relatives. Sudeeksha Bhati, a tea seller’s daughter, was a district topper in Bulandshahr in 2018. She had scored 98% in her Class 12 examination in 2018 and was awarded a scholarship to study at Babson College, Wellesley, Massachusetts.The family had alleged that she was harassed by two men before she died in a tragic road accident. Her uncle Manoj Bhati earlier told reporters that the two men started “performing stunts near them” and would overtake them, then let them pass. At one point, the men stopped their bike just in front of their two-wheeler. Manoj Bhati said he applied the brakes but nevertheless, lost control. Sudeeksha sustained injuries and died later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-in-connection-with-bulandshahr-topper-s-death-case-in-up/story-1MxyIA4vYD23BikZhtWZVN.html
16-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu woman cop puts father’s funeral on wait mode, leads I-Day parade||Despite the death of her father, a police inspector led the Independence Day parade in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli, giving primacy to duty and putting his funeral on wait mode. Suppressing her grief, N Maheswari, an Armed Reserve police inspector led the parade presenting the guard of honour to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish and Police Superintendent N Manivannan at the Palayamkottai VVC grounds here. “Though she learnt of her father’s death on August 14 night, she went for the funeral only after completing the parade (on Saturday morning) with a sense of patriotism,” a police release said. The police department said it was proud of her for placing duty for the country above personal sentiments and grief. Through the parade ceremony, the young officer did not exhibit any emotions of personal loss and led the contingent of police personnel with grace and dignity. The inspector’s 83-year old father Narayanasamy died in Dindigul district, over 200 kilometres from here and she left for his last rites after completing her duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-woman-cop-puts-father-s-funeral-on-wait-mode-leads-i-day-parade/story-TP7WOIe4iODhcGZfxjJCYJ.html
16-08-2020||India||No idol immersion, community celebrations this Ganesh Chaturthi: Delhi pollution body||There will be no large congregations, community celebrations or idol immersion at public places on Ganesh Chaturthi in the national capital this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee.A fine of Rs 50,000 will be imposed on violators, it said.This year, the festival will be celebrated on August 22.Idol immersion in the Yamuna river was banned following an order by the National Green Tribunal in 2015.Last year, the Delhi government had created artificial ponds at public places for people to immerse idols on Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja.“Idol immersion in artificial ponds, too, is not allowed this time as large gatherings will increase the risk of virus transmission,” a DPCC official said.Community celebrations cannot happen as large congregations are prohibited by the government in view of the pandemic, he said.The pollution control body has asked residents to perform the idol immersion ritual in a bucket or container at home.The Delhi Police and civic bodies have been directed to check the entry of vehicles carrying idols into the city.Idol makers and sellers have been directed to use natural material “as described in the holy scripts” like traditional clay to make idols.“The use of baked clay and plaster of Paris is prohibited,” the DPCC said.“Painting of idols should be discouraged. In case idols are to be painted, only water-soluble and non-toxic natural dyes should be used,” it said.Paints, colours and dyes used in making idols contain hazardous chemicals such as mercury, zinc oxide, chromium, lead and cadmium which harm aquatic life and can cause cancer, respiratory ailments and skin infections among humans.Several studies conducted to assess the impact of idol immersion have revealed deterioration of water quality in terms of conductivity, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and heavy metal concentration.BOD is the amount of oxygen required by bacteria to decompose organic matter in water. Clean water has a BOD value of less than 5 ppm, whereas highly polluted water has a BOD value of 17 ppm or more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-idol-immersion-community-celebrations-this-ganesh-chaturthi-delhi-pollution-body/story-mipTpH3yy5jj9xBScByFfL.html
16-08-2020||India||India sends equipment, personnel to Mauritius to contain oil spill||India has sent equipment and personnel to help Mauritius contain an oil spill after a Japanese bulk carrier ran aground on a reef on its south-east coast last month, the ministry of external affairs said on Sunday.The ministry said more than 30 tonnes of technical equipment and material on board an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) has been sent to the island country “to supplement the country’s ongoing oil spill containment and salvage operations.”“The specialized equipment, consisting of Ocean Booms, River Booms, Disc Skimmers, Heli Skimmers, Power packs, Blowers, Salvage barge and Oil absorbent Graphene pads and other accessories, is specifically designed to contain the oil slick, skim oil from water, and assist in clean up and salvage operations,” MEA said in a statement.It also said that a 10-member technical response team, consisting of specially-trained Indian Coast Guard (ICG) personnel to deal with oil spill containment measures, has also been deployed to Mauritius to “extend necessary technical and operational assistance at the site”. MV Wakashio struck a coral reef on July 25, spilling about 1,000 tonnes of fuel oil and endangering corals, fish and other marine life in what some scientists have called the country’s worst ecological disaster.Authorities said on Saturday that the Japanese vessel has broken apart. The condition of the MV Wakashio was worsening early on Saturday and it split by the afternoon, the Mauritius National Crisis Committee said.“India’s assistance is in line with it’s policy to extend humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to its neighbours in the Indian Ocean region, guided by the Prime Minister’s vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region),” according to the statement.The urgent assistance reflects the close bonds of friendship between India and Mauritius and India’s abiding commitment to assist the people of Mauritius in need, MEA said.India had recently sent essential medicines, a special consignment of Ayurvedic medicines as well as a medical assistance team as part of SAGAR to help to Mauritius in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-equipment-personnel-to-mauritius-to-contain-oil-spill/story-I3NtjaMPJT1Wso85ljTmlN.html
16-08-2020||India||Supreme Court urges consumer forum to look into grievance of year-long adjournments||The Supreme Court has urged the National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (NCDRC) to ensure timely disposal of cases before it after the top court’s attention was drawn to a matter, which was adjourned by the forum for nearly a year.The top court did not pass any concrete directions to NCDRC and instead left it to the administrative authority of the forum’s president, justice RK Agrawal, to ensure that allocation of work and disposal of cases take place in a streamlined manner.“We consider it proper and appropriate to request the president of the NCDRC to look into the grievance and to take an institutional decision on the administrative side,” a division bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud said on Friday.NCDRC is a body established under the Consumer Protection Act to hear consumer complaints. It hears appeals against various State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commissions established at the state level. The NCDRC, as per the Consumer Protection Act of 2019, is also empowered to hear cases directly if the value of the good or services involved is more than Rs 10 crore. Earlier, it was Rs 1 crore as per the Consumer Protection Act of 1986. Appeals against decisions of NCDRC go to the Supreme Court.The top court was hearing one such appeal filed by an Uttar Pradesh-based jewellery retailer, LM Jewellers, against an order passed by the forum on February 28, 2020, adjourning a complaint filed by it to January 5, 2021. The petitioner submitted that adjournment of the case for nearly a year defeats the purpose of the Consumer Protect Act which is to ensure speedy resolution of consumer cases.Petitioner’s counsel, Nikhil Jain, said such orders were being passed by the forum as a matter of routine and a pattern had emerged of granting long adjournments. He pointed out another case in which NCDRC, on February 26, 2020, adjourned the hearing of a case to March 3, 2021, when a request for adjournment was made on the ground that the arguing counsel was unwell.The Supreme Court noted that the functioning of various tribunals has been hampered due to lack of adequate infrastructure and judges, prompting them to give long adjournments.“This court is cognizant of the fact that several tribunals suffer from a lack of adequate infrastructure including of judges to discharge adjudicatory functions. Hence, the presiding judges allocate dates on the basis of a realistic assessment of when cases can be disposed of when they are listed for final disposal,” the bench, which also comprised justice KM Joseph, observed.But it allowed the petitioner to raise the issue before the president of NCDRC so that appropriate steps can be taken to ensure speedy disposal of cases.“This is an issue on which, it is only proper and appropriate that this court (Supreme Court) should defer to the administrative authority of the president of the NCDRC to ensure that the allocation of work and disposal of cases takes place in a streamlined manner,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-urges-consumer-forum-to-look-into-grievance-of-year-long-adjournments/story-eIouknROhojIcV0b1XB7TO.html
16-08-2020||India||PM shared stage with Ram temple Mahant, will he quarantine himself? asks Raut||After Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, head of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, recently tested positive for Covid-19, Shiv Sena on Sunday asked if Prime Minister Narendra Modi will go under quarantine as he came in close contact with the Mahant during the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. In his weekly column RokhThok in Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, MP Sanjay Raut questioned if the PM will follow the quarantine regulations.“75-year-old Mahant Nritya was present on the stage on August 5 at the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram Temple. It was clearly seen that he had not covered his face with a mask. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat came in contact with the Mahant. PM Modi held his hand with reverence. So, will our PM will also be quarantined,” Raut asked in his column published on Sunday.Also read: PM Modi leads tributes to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on second death anniversaryRaut also took potshots at the BJP union minister of state Arjun Ram Meghwal, who had made claims that a particular brand of the ubiquitous Indian snack, ‘papad’, had a role in boosting the immunity and antibodies that could help cure Covid-19. “India is stuck in the wave of Bhabhiji Papad, while in Russia a vaccine has been found for Covid-19... This is a lesson on atmanirbharta (self-reliance) shown by Russia. We, on the other hand, will keep giving speeches on Atmanirbharta,” the Sena leader said in a veiled jibe referring to PM Modi’s speech on Atmanirbhar Bharat.The Sena leader, who recently visited New Delhi after a gap of few months said that the capital is in the grip of Covid-19. “At present, Amit Shah is also in isolation after contracting the infection. Even former president Pranab Mukherjee has been tested positive for the virus and his health is also in a worrisome state. At present, all cabinet members, bureaucrats, parliament members are vulnerable to falling prey to the lethal infection. Even during riots and war, Delhi was not so frightened as it is today. The city seems to be a bit more scared now. Although the fear of PM Modi and Shah was already mongering, but the fear of coronavirus is more,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-pm-modi-quarantine-himself-asks-sanjay-raut-after-head-of-ram-temple-trust-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JgCm7WLYsBIJAteLPJjQiN.html
16-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bengal governor hits out at Mamata Banerjee over I-Day event and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Bad precedent’: Bengal governor hits out at Mamata Banerjee over I-Day eventHours after criticising West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for skipping a tea party at Raj Bhavan on Independence Day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed his displeasure again on Sunday. Read moreIndia not to give in to any PLA demand over disengagement and de-escalation. Restore status quo ante is the mantraWith the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) drawing up optical fibre cables to the transgressions spots at Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs, the Indian Army has decided to stay put at dominant positions on the ridge-lines of the Kugrang River till such time China does not restore status quo ante on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read moreMS Dhoni second only to Virat Kohli, and ahead of Sachin Tendulkar, in elite ODI listFor the great batsmen, who took the art of batsmanship in one-day cricket to a higher pedestal, wielding the willow in limited overs cricket was about skill and technique, just like it was in Test cricket. Read moreCovid-19, Cold, Flu or Allergy: Know the symptomsAmid the coronavirus pandemic, any fevers, aches, and pains can be scary. Do you have the virus? Should you be getting tested? Read moreDangerous review: Bipasha Basu-Karan Singh Grover attempt to cook up a storm, but serve it coldBipasha Basu joins husband Karan Singh Grover on screen again after a five-year sabbatical for a thriller and nothing short of a nail-biting drama would do. Read more‘He was around just yesterday’: Smriti Irani pays tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 2nd death anniversaryUnion Minister Smriti Irani, just a few hours ago, took to Instagram to pay her respects to and remember India’s former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary. Read moreMS Dhoni retires: Jharkhand CM urges BCCI to host farewell match in RanchiJharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren urged BCCI to host a farewell match for MS Dhoni in Ranchi. The legendary cricketer’s childhood coach Chanchal Bhattacharya reiterated CM Soren’s idea. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bengal-governor-hits-out-at-mamata-banerjee-over-i-day-event-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eUsJMu2On3KRHNt3qLFUqL.html
16-08-2020||India||Missing for 8 months, army jawan’s body found buried under snow near LoC||The body of an Indian army jawan, missing since January, was found on Saturday near the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir. Havaldar Rajendra Singh Negi’s family was subsequently informed about it later that night. He was 36.Negi, who was attached to Indian Army’s 11 Garhwal Rifles, had gone missing in January this year after accidentally slipping into heavy snow while on duty near LoC in Gulmarg area of Kashmir. Failing to find his body, the army had declared him a ‘martyr’ in June and communicated the same to his family in a letter on June 21. However, his wife Rajeshwari Devi had refused to accept him as a martyr saying she won’t do so until she “sees his body with her own eyes”.On Saturday, on the occasion of Independence Day, Negi’s army unit informed his family members about finding his body.Negi’s uncle Raghuveer Singh Negi, who received the call from the army unit, said, “I received the call about the tragic news from his unit on Saturday late evening. They said that his body was found under heavy snow during the search operation.”“They also informed that Negi’s body has been taken to the military hospital in Srinagar, Kashmir, where doctors are conducting the mandatory medical procedures before handing it to us,” said Raghuveer. He said earlier the army authorities informed that the body will reach Dehradun by Sunday evening, but later said it may take ‘two to three days’.“They said, as the body had been under the snow all this while, it may be damaged if it’s suddenly exposed to outer elements. Hence, the doctors would be carrying out some medical process after which it will reach us by August 19,” said Raghuveer. Initially, Negi was feared to have slipped towards the Pakistani side across the LoC after being reported missing on January 8, but later it was denied by the Indian army authorities. Negi, who had joined the army in 2001, hailed from Chamoli district, 147 km from Dehradun, and is survived by his wife and three children. He had shifted to Dehradun about three years ago with his family while his parents still live in their village in Chamoli. His parents would reach Dehradun by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-for-3-months-army-jawan-s-body-found-buried-under-snow-near-loc/story-5wGiZlUF2C4lOrrmJ6K8KI.html
16-08-2020||India||Vaishno Devi pilgrimage resumes, 2,000 people to be allowed every day||After a gap of nearly five months, the Vaishno Devi Yatra--one of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism – resumed on Sunday morning at around 7 am. The pilgrimage was suspended on March 18 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The first lot of pilgrims chanted religious slogans before embarking upon the pilgrimage. So far around 200 pilgrims have embarked upon the pilgrimage,” said an official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board.The board has put in place a number of safety measures to deal with the Covid-19 including online registration and social distancing.During the first week of pilgrimage, the Board has fixed a ceiling of 2,000 pilgrims a day--1,900 from within Jammu and Kashmir and remaining 100 from outside the Union Territory.“The situation will be reviewed thereafter and a decision will be taken accordingly. Pilgrims will be allowed to undertake the yatra only after online registration,” said the Board CEO, Ramesh Kumar.Pilgrims are required to install the Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones before proceeding for the yatra. It will be mandatory for them to wear face masks. Children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, persons with co-morbidities and persons above the age of 60 years have been advised to avoid the yatra in the interest of their own safety.Later as and when the situation normalises, the advisory for this group shall be revisited.The CEO added that the yatra is being allowed to move in a unidirectional manner. “The traditional route from Katra to Bhawan via Banganga, Adhkuwari and Sanjichhat is being used for going up and Himkoti route-Tarakote Marg will be used for coming back from the Bhawan,” he said.The Covid test reports of the pilgrims from outside J&K and red zones of J&K are being checked at the helipad and yatra entry points at Darshani Deodi, Banganga and Katra.“Only those with negative reports are being allowed to move towards the Bhawan. Ponies, pithus and palkis will not be allowed to ply on the tracks, initially,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-pilgrimage-resumes-2-000-people-to-be-allowed-every-day/story-hQ8YiU2cHjUQsCwhNg4R8N.html
16-08-2020||India||‘Bad precedent’: Bengal governor hits out at Mamata Banerjee over I-Day event||Hours after criticising West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for skipping a tea party at Raj Bhavan on Independence Day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed his displeasure again on Sunday.Banerjee had called on Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan in the morning along with senior bureaucrats and police officials soon after attending the Independence Day parade at the Red Road, which she later termed as a “courtesy visit”. The chief minister had also said she will not be able to attend the Raj Bhavan programme scheduled to be held in the evening.After posting four tweets along with photographs and videos from the event late on Saturday, a miffed Dhankar took to Twitter again on Sunday morning.“Glimpses of ‘At Home’ reception hosted on Independence Day at Raj Bhavan. CM and executive @MamataOfficial set bad precedent by not attending. Another painful instance of distancing from Constitution. Law & order further nosedived with rise in political violence & killing,” the governor tweeted.He also said the Raj Bhavan “At Home was well attended” and wrote about the guest list which included Calcutta High Court chief justice TN Radhakrishnan, justice Sanjib Banerjee, justice Indra Prasanna Mukerji, Congress’ Abdul Mannan, left leader Sujan Chakraborty, top brass from defence and para military and dignitaries among others.In his earlier tweets, the governor said Banerjee’s absence from the event had “stunned” him. “Absence of CM and officials @MamataOfficial on occasion of Independence Day celebration at Raj Bhawan has like many startled and stunned me. We need to rise to occasion as respect to freedom fighters who gave their all to secure for us freedom and democracy. I am at a loss for words,” Dhakhar had tweeted after the party.“The vacant seat meant for CM @MamataOfficial at celebration of Independence Day at Raj Bhawan speaks volumes -has created unwholesome situation that is not in sync with rich culture and ethos of WB.“There is just no rationale for this unbecoming stance,” Dhankhar tweeted along with a photograph where he was seen sitting next to the vacant chair meant for Banerjee.He said that the traditional “At Home” programme was organised keeping in mind the Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distance and less than 35 people were invited. “...It would have been befitting if CM and officials @MamataOfficial had participated. Their action not in sync with sanctity of occasion,” he tweeted.The Banerjee-led government and the governor have crossed swords on several occasions before this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-precedent-bengal-governor-hits-out-at-mamata-banerjee-over-i-day-event/story-wntZti13ZZ6AyVDnF4LIGI.html
16-08-2020||India||Age is just a number: 98-year-old war veteran beats Covid-19||Age is just a number, 98-year-old war veteran and retired sepoy Ramu Laxman Sakpal proved the same after recently winning the battle against Covid-19. A resident of Nerul, Navi Mumbai, Sakpal was admitted to Naval Hospital Ship Asvini in a critical state and was diagnosed with Covid-19-induced pneumonia a few weeks ago. The Indian Navy said his condition was successfully managed which led to his recovery. Sakpal was accorded a warm farewell at INHS Asvini. The facility is the primary naval healthcare centre for Covid-19 and looks after managing the care of serving and retired Covid-19 patients from the armed forces. Sakpal is among India’s many elderly people who successfully managed to defeat the deadly contagion. Experts have said that the elderly population, especially those above 65 years of age, are more susceptible to contracting the virus.  Also read: Meet India’s strong-willed centenarians who beat Covid-19Sepoy Ramu Laxman Sakpal (Retd) was accorded a warm farewell at INHS Asvini, the primary naval healthcare centre in the war against COVID-19 & managing the care of serving & retired COVID-19 patients from Navy, Army, Air Force & Coast Guard: Indian Navy https://t.co/2CwfjMdrlwJust last month, a similar report made headlines when a 100-year-old woman resident of Huvina Hadagali town in Karnataka’s Bellary district recovered from Covid-19. Hallamma described the infection as nothing more than a common cold. “Doctors treated me well. Along with regular food, I was eating an apple a day. The doctors are giving me tablets and injection, and I am healthy now. Covid-19 is like a common cold,” she told news agency ANI. Experts and scientists are still trying to learn more about the coronavirus disease and the virus that poses such a severe threat to human health. Multiple studies have linked a patient’s immune response to the severity of Covid-19 symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/age-is-just-a-number-98-year-old-war-veteran-beats-covid-19/story-DdOMDKOO0cjcPGFHs5FzpL.html
16-08-2020||India||India not to give in to any PLA demand over disengagement. Restore status quo ante is the mantra||With the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) drawing up optical fibre cables to the transgressions spots at Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs, the Indian Army has decided to stay put at dominant positions on the ridge-lines of the Kugrang River till such time China does not restore status quo ante on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Even though PLA’s air activity over Ladakh and occupied Aksai Chin has become negligible, the Chinese army is present in strength across the 1,597-km LAC in Ladakh and showing no signs of any de-escalation. “ While we can see the Chinese intent to turn transgressions into intrusions in both the friction spots, the Indian Army has been directed to foil this PLA design even if it means sitting on the forward positions for time to come,” said a senior military commander.National security planners are quite clear that the May transgressions by PLA in the Ladakh sector had the approval of Chinese Central Military Commission (CMC), headed by General Secretary Xi Jinping, as it involved both the Tibetan as well as Xinjiang Military district with troops being inducted from outside the Western Theatre Command.Deciding to put an end to Chinese unchecked expansionism, the Indian Army draws parallel to the 1984 Operation Meghdoot to claim Saltoro Ridge and Siachen Glacier. “We are used to sitting on heights since 1984. Even 36 years later, a full Indian brigade is sitting on the heights and guarding all the ingress points to Siachen glacier from any Pakistani attack. Any unilateral change in ground position on LAC is unacceptable to the Indian Army,” said an Indian diplomat.While Chinese diplomats talk about peace and tranquillity on the LAC, their interlocutors are making unacceptable demands on the Indian Army like asking removal of an old administrative base in Pangong Tso or coming down from heights in Kugrang ridgeline. It is these demands that are couched in diplomatic jargon of meeting India “half-way.”Despite a number of meetings at both military and diplomatic level, the Xi Jinping regime is adamant on its positions and posture on LAC with all dialogues showing hardly any progress.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech virtually made it clear that India was ready for two front aggression—from the Line of Control with Pakistan to LAC expansion by China. The speech was also signal to both the neighbours that India will not back down and stand up to aggression on its own. And in both the cases, the border flare-ups have been coupled with the progress (in this case regress) in bilateral ties.“Whether China wants the $80 billion bilateral trade with India which is hugely tilted in favour of Beijing to steadily come down is a call that Xi Jinping’s military ambition has to take. The ball is in the Chinese court,” summed up another Indian diplomat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-to-give-in-to-any-pla-demand-over-disengagement-and-de-escalation-restore-status-quo-ante-is-the-mantra/story-2GR8fbhawl8SjAGUX7eQbN.html
16-08-2020||India||Authorities float tender for shooters to deal with stray pigs menace in MP’s Shivpuri||Authorities in Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri district have invited tender for killing about 15,000 stray pigs in the municipal limits of the city, according to an official.“A large number of people are involved in pig farming in the city. They have been warned many times but they are not ready to shift pigs in a closed area. Now the tender to invite shooters to kill pigs has been floated to end the menace on August 13,” said KK Pateria, chief municipal officer (CMO), Shivpuri. “As per counting being done ward wise, there are about 15,000 pigs and it can’t be controlled without killing,” he added. According to district collector Anugraha P, the action was being taken as the animals were attacking people and causing road accidents as well.“For the past few months, we have been making many efforts to control the population of pigs which is attacking people and is also responsible for many road accidents in Shivpuri. We have asked the people, who are breeding pigs, to shift the pigs as they can’t be allowed to do pig farming in the city. They are not acting properly, so we have to kill them. The MP high court had also issued an order in 2014 for killing if pigs were found straying in the city,” he said. However, a local activist said that to control the stray pig menace, authorities should take action against the breeders as well.“Killing is not the long term solution. It had happened earlier too but again, the population has increased a lot and creating trouble in every corner of the city. The local administration has to take action against those who are involved in pig farming,” said Ravi Goyal.It is the second time when the administration has invited tender for mass killing of pigs, which has been a menace for locals for the past one decade. Earlier in 2014, professional shooters had killed about 15,000 pigs in Shivpuri after the Gwalior bench of the MP High Court had ordered to keep pigs outside the area of municipal council or destroy the pigs. The order had followed a PIL in 2012 filed by Dr Rajendra Gupta against the pig menace, citing the dense population of pigs as a danger of various diseases to the residents of Shivpuri. (With inputs from Ranjeet Gupta in Shivpuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/authorities-float-tender-for-shooters-to-deal-with-stray-pigs-menace-in-mp-s-shivpuri/story-z35VJ2xDkctfap526EV7SN.html
16-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee responding well to treatment, son says ‘he will be back soon’||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s son and ex-Congress MP Abhijit Mukherjee on Sunday said that his father is doing “much better and stable than the preceding days”. Mukherjee took to Twitter and posted that his father’s vital parameters are stable and he is responding well to the treatment. “Yesterday, I had visited my Father In Hospital. With God’s grace & all your good wishes , He is much better & stable than D preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable & he is responding to treatment ! We firmly believe that He will be back among us soon Thank You,” he tweeted. On Sunday morning, the hospital where the former president is being treated stated that his medical condition remained unchanged. In a statement, the Army (R&R) Hospital announced that Mukherjee continues to be on ventilatory support. Also read: PM Modi leads tributes to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on second death anniversaryYesterday , I had visited my Father In Hospital . With God's grace & all your good wishes , He is much better & stable than D preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable & he is responding to treatment ! We firmly believe that He will be back among us soonThank You🙏“He has multiple old co-morbidities. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the hospital added. Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, on Saturday tweeted an emotional post, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father. She said her father never missed a year to hoist the tri-colour on Independence Day and hoped for him to do the same next year.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.The former president underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence last Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-responding-well-to-treatment-son-says-he-will-be-back-soon/story-EHWr8Nzg9W8VkpubqO5ZrL.html
16-08-2020||India||Face masks, social distancing: Vaishno Devi shrine opens for devotees after 5 months||Pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi in Jammu resumed on Sunday, nearly five months after being suspended on March 18 due to coronavirus pandemic.However, there will be some restrictions including a cap on the number of people allowed to visit the shrine every day, keeping in view the safety guidelines to curb the spread of Covid-19 disease. In the first week of the pilgrimage, 2,000 pilgrims will be allowed of which 1,900 will be from Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining 100 from outside the Union Territory. The pilgrims will be allowed to undertake the yatra only after online registration. “The government has come out with a detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and the pilgrims are requested to follow the guidelines for their own safety and the safety of others,” Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar told ANI. He added that those from Covid-19 red zones will be given permission for the pilgrimage only if they provide negative test reports. It will be mandatory for the pilgrims to wear face mask and install the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones before proceeding for the yatra.The CEO added that the yatra will move in a unidirectional manner. “The traditional route from Katra to Bhawan via Banganga, Adhkuwari and Sanjichhat will be used for going up and Himkoti route-Tarakote Marg will be used for coming back from the Bhawan,” he said on Saturday.Expressing happiness at the reopening of the temple for devotees, a pilgrim said that it was important to follow rules during the Covid-19 pandemic.“I’m happy that people can visit the temple once again,” Prashant Sharma, one of the first pilgrims to visit the shrine was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“The shrine management has laid out the rules clearly, and pilgrims are also following them properly. It is important to follow rules during the COVID-19 pandemic. If rules are not followed then the darshans will be closed soon,” added Sharma.A massive sanitisation campaign was launched by the shrine board right from Katra to Bhawan before the resumption of the pilgrimage.The shrine board has said that the cap on the number of visitors to the temple will be reviewed after the first week and a decision will be taken accordingly.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-reopens-for-devotees-after-5-months-covid-19-curbs-in-place/story-l4x9KreEhkyyIEhTnBJZ5O.html
16-08-2020||India||Goa Police bust ‘underground’ rave party, seize drugs worth Rs 9 lakh||The Goa Police busted a late-night ‘rave’ party on Saturday at a hotel in Vagator, a coastal village, and seized drugs worth Rs 9 lakh and arrested 23 people, including foreigners, officials said on Sunday.The police raided the Firangpani Villas after receiving information that an underground rave party was being organised at the hotel.“Upon thorough search, narcotics drugs - Cocaine, MDMA, Ecstasy Tablets and Charas- were detected in sizable quantities and worth over ₹9 lakh. Three of the accused are foreigner women,” the police said in a statement.The police have booked the organisers and the attendees for endangering public safety, organising the party during the coronavirus pandemic as well as violating sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. The party was organised by foreigners.Earlier an ‘underground’ party organised by ‘rich kids’ in Goa came to light after a brawl spilled onto the streets prompting the police to book the organisers.Tourism in Goa which has taken a huge hit on account of the coronavirus pandemic and which has brought the party scene to a halt has gone underground at a smaller scale. Tourists too have begun to return since the state has reopened for visitors but in limited numbers and mainly those who are willing to drive down for fear of contracting the virus while travelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-bust-underground-rave-party-seize-drugs-worth-rs-9-lakh/story-EnWSeMTxxefC4Gelw1yduK.html
16-08-2020||India||With over 374,000 Covid-19 cases in a week, India infection tally soars to 2.58 million||India added 374,608 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 5,594 deaths in a week, pushing its tally to over 2.58 million, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday.There were 63,490 Covid-19 cases and 944 deaths between Saturday and Sunday morning as the country has reported more than 60,000 infections for the ninth time in 10 days, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.India’s recovery rate is now 71.91% after 1,862,258 people, 53,322 in the last 24 hours, were discharged across the country. The country saw a record of highest single day recoveries on Saturday after 57,381 Covid-19 patients were cured. “To further build on this achievement, 32 States/UTs have exceeded the 50% mark. 12 States/UTs have exceeded the national Recovery Rate,” the government said on Saturday.The gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has increased further and crossed 11 lakh with 1,184,814 on Sunday. Also read | Once India gets vaccine, Covid-19 warriors will get first doses: MinisterData showed 49,980 people have succumbed to the viral disease. The government said the mortality rate is low in India “because of aggressive testing and early detection coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol”.According to the government, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) is on a “continuous positive slide” and currently stands at 1.94%.CFR is the proportion of incident patients dying because of a disease or injury in a certain time window.The total tests conducted in the previous 24 hours stood at 868,679, taking the cumulative tests to more than 28.5 million, according to Union health ministry data on Saturday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said three Covid-19 vaccine candidates were being tested in India and the country is awaiting the go-ahead from scientists to begin their mass production. He added that a road map for the distribution of the vaccine to every single Indian in the least possible time was also ready.India is the third worst-hit nation in terms of number of infections — only the US and Brazil have recorded more cases and have substantially higher death tolls from the viral illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-374-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-india-infection-tally-soars-to-2-58-million/story-8jqIQQtnL9CmwHM5fPfdqM.html
16-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi lands another jibe over China, it’s a comment on PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has led his party’s relentless attack on the government over the border stand-off with China, hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue on Sunday once again.“Everybody believes in the capability and valour of the Indian army. Except the PM: Whose cowardice allowed China to take our land,” Gandhi tweeted.Gandhi and the Congress have been critical of the government over the handling of the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China after 20 Indian Army soldiers, including an officer, were killed on June 15 by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. He and his party have been questioning the government over its claim that China did not occupy or intrude into India.Congress had criticised PM Modi for not naming China in his Independence Day speech on Saturday, asking the government to tell people how it proposes to push back Chinese forces occupying Indian territory.“We all are proud of our armed, paramilitary and police forces. We 1.3 billion Indians and all Congress workers are proud of them. Whenever there has been an attack on us, they have given a befitting reply to the attackers,” Congress’ chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, told reporters after the flag hoisting ceremony at the party headquarters.“But we must also think why our rulers are scared of taking China’s name. Today, on the Independence Day, when China has occupied our territory, every Indian should ask the government how it proposes to push the Chinese forces back and protect our territorial integrity. Why are those who are sitting in power scared of mentioning China’s name?” he asked.Surjewala’s comments came after the Prime Minister, in his Independence Day speech, delivered a sharp message to China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with the two countries have given a fitting reply to those who sought to challenge India’s sovereignty. However, he did not name the two countries.On Friday, Gandhi had claimed that the country will have to pay a “huge price”.“GOI is scared to face up to Chinese intentions in Ladakh. Evidence on the ground indicates that China is preparing and positioning itself. PM’s personal lack of courage and the media’s silence will result in India paying a huge price,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-lands-another-jibe-over-china-it-s-a-comment-on-pm-modi/story-TVS8wcJKExz4TEU9u2ddXI.html
16-08-2020||India||Canada’s Niagara Falls illuminated in colours of Indian flag on Independence Day||The Indian tricolour was illuminated at the iconic Canadian landmark of Niagara Falls and car rallies were held in multiple cities as members of the Indo-Canadian community celebrated Independence Day amidst the restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The flag-hoisting at Niagara Falls was officiated by India’s Consul General in Toronto, Apoorva Srivastava, at an event organised by the Indo-Canada Arts Council. The Falls, one of the natural wonders of the world, was illuminated in the colours of the Indian flag at the evening ceremony. The special illumination was conducted with the cooperation of the Niagara Falls Illumination Board and Niagara Parks Commission, with the support of the city of Niagara Falls.The Indian flag was also raised at Toronto’s City Hall, while another attraction, the three-dimensional Toronto sign, was lit in the hues of the Tricolour.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau greeted the Indo-Canadian community on the occasion. In a statement released by his office, Trudeau said, “Canada and India have a strong, longstanding, and vibrant relationship built on our shared traditions of democracy and pluralism, and deep cultural and people-to-people ties. The over one million Canadians of Indian heritage have made – and continue to make – many important contributions to our country.” Messages were also issued by the Premiers of the provinces of Ontario and Alberta, while Indo-Canadian Minister of Public Services and Procurement Anita Anand joined in singing India’s national anthem Jana Gana Mana at a virtual event organised by the community in her constituency of Oakville.The Indian flag was raised at the High Commission in Ottawa by envoy Ajay Bisaria and also at the consulates in Toronto and Vancouver. The Indo-Canadian community also turned out for a series of car rallies, with the flag fluttering upon their cars, in several cities in the country including Ottawa, Vancouver, Calgary and Brampton, while the traditional India Day Parade took on a digital form this year.Given the adverse impact of the coronavirus crisis, India’s diplomatic missions also marked the day by contributing to the relief efforts. The High Commission joined Ottawa’s Mayor Jim Watson and Indo-Canadian MP Chandra Arya in donating meals to those in shelter homes. The mission in Toronto collaborated with community group Canada India Foundation to deliver meals to seniors in a long-term care facility in Mississauga, a city in the Greater Toronto Area.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-s-niagara-falls-illuminated-in-indian-tricolour-on-independence-day/story-7LJfiJ12JD29kmiR6IXOQK.html
16-08-2020||India||13-year-old girl gang raped in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, two men booked||Two men have been arrested in the case of sexual assault on a 13-year-old girl in Isanagar of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered on Friday, later her body was recovered from a sugarcane field in Isanagar. Satyendra Kumar, Superintendent of Police (SP), Lakhimpur Kheri said the men have been booked under offences of murder and gang rape and strict action will be taken against them under the National Security Act (NSA). Kumar said that the postmortem report of the minor confirmed it was a case of rape.  The post mortem report of the 13-year-old girl (whose body was found in a field in Isanagar), confirms rape: Satyendra Kumar, SP Lakhimpur Kheri https://t.co/6peOBSa0vO pic.twitter.com/SRAKCnJ8PE“Body of a 13-year-old was found from a sugarcane field in Isanagar. An FIR has been registered. Post mortem report has confirmed rape. Two men Santosh Yadav and Sanjay Gautam have been arrested and sent to jail,” Kumar told reporters on Saturday. The SP added that the men have been booked under Section 302 (murder) and Section 376 (D) (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-girl-gang-raped-in-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri-two-men-booked/story-Ur0HgkmZ98nC6xvJKHM2pK.html
16-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kamala Harris wishes India on I-Day, says our people have made in the fight for justice and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kamala Harris wishes on India’s Independence Day, talks about ‘our people’Kamala Harris, the US vice-presidential candidate, on Saturday congratulated India on the progress “our people have made in the fight for justice” as she extended her wishes on the country’s 74th Independence Day. Read moreChhattisgarh CM announces fund for contribution towards Ram Van Gaman projectChhattisgarh will create a dedicated fund for contributions from people towards the development of the state government’s ambitious ‘Ram Van Gaman Tourist Circuit’ project. Nine sites have been selected in the first phase of the project, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Saturday during his address at the Independence Day function in capital Raipur. Read moreKolkata housing societies come up with logistics to tackle Covid-19 crisisWith news of Covid-19 patients dying after being refused by hospitals and not getting ambulances on time hitting the headlines, several housing societies in Kolkata have come up with their own infrastructure to provide their residents with the basic care and facilities during the crises. Read moreAmid Covid-19 pandemic, flu shot makers see record US productionGlobal influenza vaccine makers have produced a record number of doses for the coming flu season, as authorities try to ease the burden on hospitals ahead of an expected Covid-19 resurgence.In the US, pharmaceutical companies plan to make around 196 million doses to serve the population of 330 million, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Read moreMS Dhoni: Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, ByeMahendra Singh Dhoni was digging into a plate of noodles sitting on the stairs of the Eden Gardens lobby. He had just hit a double hundred in a P Sen Trophy match playing for Shyambazar Club against George Telegraph on a sweltering afternoon. Read moreRude Food by Vir Sanghvi: The bake up in the lockdownUnless you know North India well, you won’t be familiar with the town of Hoshiarpur. Nor am I as familiar with Hoshiarpur as I would like. But that’s not for want of trying. Last year, I was invited to the Hoshiarpur Literary Festival to interview Captain Amarinder Singh about his latest book on military history. Read moreCall of Duty Mobile Season 9 available for download with Shipment 1944 map, new ranked series, and lots moreCall of Duty Mobile Season 9 is finally here. The latest update brings new content, modes, bug fixes, and improvements among others. The CoD Mobile Season 9 update is available to both Android and iOS users. Read moreAnupam Kher says Sushant Singh Rajput wasn’t one to let depression ‘overrule life’, recalls his interest in HollywoodActor Anupam Kher, commenting on his MS Dhoni: The Untold Story co-star Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has said that the young actor wasn’t someone who would let depression overrun his life. In an interview to Times Now, the actor also recalled Sushant’s interest in Hollywood, and how he would ask him questions about the foreign film industry. Read moreElderly couple singing love song to baby laughing uncontrollably: 5 viral videos of the weekIf you’re a regular user of social media, chances are you’ve come across such videos which can instantly make you smile – and some of them may even melt your heart. If you haven’t, then let these videos show you the way. Read more‘Sushant’s post-mortem report doesn’t mention time of death’: Vikas SinghVikas Singh, lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh, raised suspicion over the actor’s post-mortem report. Vikas said that Sushant’s post-mortem report doesn’t mention the ‘time of death’. Vikas added that this detail is crucial in Sushant’s death probe. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kamala-harris-wishes-india-on-i-day-says-our-people-have-made-in-the-fight-for-justice-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9E3SPrHRnuVXdpk28XuOwM.html
16-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM announces fund for contribution towards Ram Van Gaman project||Chhattisgarh will create a dedicated fund for contributions from people towards the development of the state government’s ambitious ‘Ram Van Gaman Tourist Circuit’ project.Nine sites have been selected in the first phase of the project, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Saturday during his address at the Independence Day function in capital Raipur. The sites selected are Sitamarhi-Harchaika (Koriya), Ramgarh (Ambikapur), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Baloda Bazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariaband), Sihawa-Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar) and Ramaram (Sukma). “Chhattisgarh is ‘nanihal’ (maternal place) of Lord Ram. He had also spent most of his time in Chhattisgarh during his exile. For the memories, the state government is going to develop RamVan Gaman Tourism Circuit. In order to give an opportunity to the people of the state to contribute towards this sacred work, we have decided to set up the Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath Vikas Kosh,” Baghel said. He also launched the ‘Padhai Tuhar Para’ scheme under which school students will be able to study in their localities in view of the suspension of classes due to coronavirus outbreak. “The online education platform ‘Padhai Tunhar Duar’ scheme launched by the state government earlier during the lockdown yielded better results and around 22 lakh children are getting its benefit. Subsequently, we are now starting the ‘Padhai Tuhar Para’ scheme to teach children with the help of community in their localities and villages,” said Baghel. The chief minister further said that the ‘Mukhyamantri Slum Swasthya Yojana’ will be launched in urban areas of the state, under which people will be provided health facilities at their doorstep through 70 mobile medical units in all 14 municipal corporations. Similarly, the Radhabai Diagnostic Centre Scheme will also be introduced under which pathology and other testing facilities will be provided at concessional rates, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-announces-fund-for-contribution-towards-ram-van-gaman-project/story-LP9a2Li4p8E4WaN824uVCM.html
16-08-2020||India||Kolkata housing societies come up with logistics to tackle Covid-19 crisis||With news of Covid-19 patients dying after being refused by hospitals and not getting ambulances on time hitting the headlines, several housing societies in Kolkata have come up with their own infrastructure to provide their residents with the basic care and facilities during the crises. While some societies have turned their community centres and gyms into ‘safe homes’ equipped with isolation beds and oxygen cylinders, others have tied up with private hospitals to ensure that residents who test positive get admission and ambulance service. “We have turned our community centre into a six-bedded ‘safe home’ with oxygen cylinders and other equipment such as sphygmomanometer and pulse oximeters. A Covid-19 positive resident can use it as a quarantine facility. We have tied up with a super-speciality hospital so that critical patients can be hospitalized without any hassle. The hospital will provide ambulance,” said Sanjay Kumar Goel, vice president of Suncity a housing society in north Kolkata with around 300 flats.Also read: Mamata pays visit to Governor on I-Day; Dhankar flays her for skipping ‘At Home’ functionRecently chief minister Mamata Banerjee had urged large housing societies to keep pulse-oximeters handy so that the oxygen saturation level of residents could be measured. Hospitalization is needed if the oxygen level drops below 90 percent.“The union health ministry had issued some guidelines for gated residential complexes in July which said that residential societies can come up with Covid19 care facilities following guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. We have already developed a five-bedded facility with round the clock doctors and caregivers for our residents in the housing society. The state health department officials had come for a check. We are waiting for an approval. A few other housing societies in New Town have also developed such facilities. Some of the housing societies have also come together to form a network of doctors who can provide help,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of Greenwood Sonata housing in New Town. In a small housing society in east Kolkata, the resident welfare committee has tied up with a local nursing home so that they can get a doctor and nurse on call to check Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms. They have also developed a quarantine centre with four beds in one of the vacant twin-bedroom flats. The nursing home would give them telemedicine services twice in a day. An attendant has also been engaged who would go to the local market and buy all necessary items for the patients. After news report poured in over the past few months that some patients died as they didn’t get any ambulance on time while others were charged with exorbitant amounts by ambulance drivers, a housing society in Salt Lake decided to tie-up with an agency that would provide an ambulance on call.“We have tied up with a local agency which has two ambulances. They would provide us with an ambulance at a fixed price round the clock,” said Radhagobinda Sil, president of Baisakhi housing society in Salt Lake. Residents said that whenever a community centre or the gym is being turned into a quarantine centre, they are taking the expert help from local doctors and medical experts of the civic body. “Some housing societies have developed their own infrastructure like safe homes. This a very good initiative as these would help us keep the hospital beds free for critically ill patients. Even though there is no shortage of beds in government-run Covid-19 hospitals at present, there are more patients in hospitals with mild and no symptoms than critically ill patients. Mild and asymptomatic patients can easily be treated at home and safe homes,” said a senior official of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-housing-societies-come-up-with-logistics-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis/story-ntb54DITTSky8ZKAqIUM1J.html
16-08-2020||India||Loans given to tribals in violation of rule declared zero by CM Chouhan||The loans given to poor people and tribals by moneylenders in violation of rules were declared zero by Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday. In his address on the occasion of Independence Day from Motilal Nehru Stadium in Bhopal, Chouhan said, “The loans given by moneylenders to the poor people against the rules and at higher rates of interest till August 15, 2020, are being declared zero.” “Similarly, the government has decided that the scheduled tribes living in scheduled areas don’t have to repay the loans given by moneylenders till August 15, 2020, contrary to the rules, said Chouhan. Also read: Wanted UP MLA Vijay Mishra arrested from Madhya Pradesh districtThe chief minister also announced that all the government programmes will now begin necessarily with puja of girls in the state as welfare and safety of the girls is the priority of the government.   “At least 1,000 new Krishak Utpadak Sangathans will be created in the state in the next three years and will be given a capital grant, credit guarantee and training under the Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh campaign. A large number of food processing units will be set up in the state,” said Chouhan. “Start Your Business in Thirty Days” scheme will be started for easy establishment of new industries in the state. A ‘Pharma Park’ will be developed in the state under the Pharma Park scheme of the Government of India,” he added. Chouhan also said under ‘vocal for local’ campaign, ‘Ek Jila Ek Pehchan’ Yojana will be launched for the development of each district in the state. “Under this, the major product and speciality of each district will be developed and information about it will be disseminated globally,” he added.   Chouhan also unveiled the statue of Bharat Mata at the Shaurya Smarak built in Bhopal in honour of those who have sacrificed their lives for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loans-given-to-tribals-in-violation-of-rule-declared-zero-by-cm-chouhan/story-5IOEdobTaecwaKHWWIlPEN.html
16-08-2020||India||Manipur CM announces ex-gratia scheme for residents killed while serving in central forces||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Saturday announced an ex-gratia scheme of Rs 5 lakh for the families of those killed in the line of duty while serving in the Indian Army and paramilitary forces.Biren Singh made the announcement while addressing the 74th Independence Day celebration at 1st Manipur Rifles parade ground in Imphal.“The new scheme is called Major Laishram Jotin Singh ex-gratia scheme.The state cabinet also took a formal decision in this regard. The scheme is instituted for its implementation in future,” the chief minister said.The scheme for the state’s residents has been named after Major Laishram Jotin Singh, a doctor with the Indian Army from Manipur, who died in fighting a suicide bomber in Kabul on February 26, 2010. He was also conferred the country’s highest peacetime gallantry medal, Ashok Chakra, posthumously in 2011.During the Independence Day celebration in Imphal, Biren Singh handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the widow of riflemen Ratan Salam of 4th Assam Rifles under the newly-instituted ex-gratia scheme. Ratan, a resident of Kakching district in Manipur, along with two other Assam Rifles personnel lost their lives in an attack by insurgents near Khongtal area of Chandel district on July 29 this year.Deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar, ministers, legislators, chief secretary and director general of police and other top officials of civil and security agencies attended the 74th Independence Day celebration in Imphal amid a boycott call and total shutdown by insurgents groups in the northeastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-announces-ex-gratia-scheme-for-residents-killed-while-serving-in-central-forces/story-r5CyGap321wor90SlikHnJ.html
16-08-2020||India||President Kovind to virtually unveil ex-PM Vajpayee’s portrait on 2nd death anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind will virtually unveil the portrait of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary at Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Azad Bhawan in New Delhi on Sunday.ICCR in a tweet said that the President will unveil the portrait in the presence of Minister of State (MoS) for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and ICCR president Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe at 11 am on Sunday.“Few Hours To Go! Hon’ble President of India @rashtrapatibhvn in presence of @MOS_MEA & @vinay1011 will virtually unveil portrait of Late Sh. A.B.Vajpayee on his 2nd Death Anniversary at ICCR, Azad Bhawan at 1100 IST tomorrow 16Aug. Watch live here.#AtalBharatKiAtalTasveer,” ICCR said in a tweet.Born on December 25, 1924, in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior, Vajpayee was the first-ever person from the BJP to become the Prime Minister. He served as Prime Minister thrice -- briefly in 1996, from 1998 to 1999 and then for a full five-year term between 1999 and 2004.Apart from politics, Vajpayee was a prominent writer, penning a number of poems. After resigning as the Prime Minister in 2004, the BJP stalwart retired from active politics owing to his feeble health.The veteran BJP leader passed away on August 16, 2018, at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi after a prolonged illness.December 25 is celebrated as Good Governance Day in honour of Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-virtually-unveil-ex-pm-vajpayee-s-portrait-on-2nd-death-anniversary/story-O0GDbcx1IuValX8KZBnd0H.html
16-08-2020||India||Indian Railways to run Ganpati Special trains between Gujarat, Maharashtra||The Indian Railways will run additional Ganpati Special trains in co-ordination with Western Railway and Central Railway between Ahmedabad/Vadodara and Ratnagiri/Kudal/Sawantwadi Road stations to clear extra rush of passengers.Train number 09416 Ahmedabad Junction - Kudal Weekly Special on Special Fare will leave from Ahmedabad Junction at 09:30 hours on August 18 and 25. The train will reach Kudal at 04:30 hours on the next day (2 Trips), the Indian Railways said in a release.Train number 09415 Kudal - Ahmedabad Junction Weekly Special on Special Fare will leave from Kudal at 05:30 hrs on August 19 and 26. The train will reach Ahmedabad Junction at 00:15 hours on the next day (2 Trips), it added.The train will halt at Vadodara, Surat, Vapi, Vasai Road, Panvel, Roha, Mangaon, Veer, Khed, Chiplun, Sawarda, Aravali Road, Sangameshwar Road, Ratnagiri, Rajapur Road, Vaibhavwadi Road, Kankavali and Sindhudurg station.Trains will also be run between Ahmedabad and Sawantwadi Road, Vadodara to Ratnagiri as Weekly Specials on Special Fare.All the above trains are fully reserved. Passengers may book their tickets at Passenger Reservation System (PRS) Counters and IRCTC Website. Bookings for the above trains will open from August 17.All passengers must adhere to travel guidelines by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW), Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and SOPs of the Government of Maharashtra and Government of Gujarat, the Indian Railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-ganpati-special-trains-between-gujarat-maharashtra/story-xerKgiru4Mr8KZVN4bM9BK.html
16-08-2020||India||Subdued I-Day celebrations across states amid Covid-19 outbreak||India celebrated its 74th Independence Day on Saturday amid the coronavirus pandemic with the revelries and crowds missing as state leaders urged people not to fear the disease and called for a mass awareness movement to combat it.Official celebrations in most states were restricted to unfurling of the national flag and chief ministers and governors addressing the people, with fewer guests in attendance.In Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the government has started the process of unlocking the state “cautiously in a staggered manner”, Thackeray also noted that Maharashtra has increased Covid-19 tests on a “big scale”.He further observed that schools could not be reopened in the state due to the Covid threat, but the government took steps to see education is being imparted to students through Google Classroom initiative. The chief minister hailed Covid-19 warriors, such as doctors, nurses, policemen and others for and also extolled cops who have been announced the Presidents Medal and bravery awards. In Kolkata, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee exuded confidence that the country will overcome the challenge posed by coronavirus. Only a few ministers and government officials were present at the event.A song composed by her – ‘Corona chole jabe ek din, COVID joddhader mone rekho’ (coronavirus will be defeated one day, but remember the COVID warriors) – played in the background during the felicitation.Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who recently recovered from Covid, asked people not to be afraid of the disease.“I too was infected with coronavirus, and I have fully recovered. I would like to send a message on this occasion that the people need not worry or be afraid of this infection,” he said. In Uttar Pradesh, CM Yogi Adityanath remembered Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for India’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-i-day-celebrations-across-states-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-9iyIt84ImzrtWGe28qWbeN.html
16-08-2020||India||PM Modi stresses on women issues||Addressing the nation on India’s 74th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke on a range of women’s issues including the government’s scheme to provide sanitary napkins at Rs 1 and setting up of a committee to deliberate on the minimum age for marriage. “We have worked for women empowerment. Navy and Air Force are taking women in combat. Women are now leaders, and we abolished triple talaq, got sanitary pads to women for just 1 rupee,” said PM Modi in his speech. “In 6,000 Jan Aushadi Kendras, more than five crore sanitary napkins have been provided to women in a short period of time,” he said. Laying emphasis on women empowerment, the Prime Minister said, “My dear countrymen, our experience says that whenever there is an opportunity for women power in India, they have brought laurels to the country, strengthened the country. Today, women are not only working in underground coal mines but also flying fighter planes, touching new heights in the sky.” In his address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi said, “We have set up a committee to deliberate on the minimum age for marriage of our daughters. We will take appropriate decisions after the committee submits its report.” The minimum age of marriage for women is 18 years and 21 for men. Discussing the role of women in the forces, the prime minister said India is among the countries of the world where women are involved in combat roles in the Navy and the Air Force. “We are expanding NCC in border areas; special training will be provided to about one lakh new NCC cadets, out of which we will try that one-third of them are our daughters,” he said. On the economic front, the PM said that 22 crore of the 40 crore Jan Dhan accounts belonged to women and about ₹30,000 crore have been deposited in these accounts during the pandemic. “Out of Mudra loans worth ₹25 crore, 70% of them have been taken by our mothers and sisters. Under the PM Awaas Yojna, most registrations are under the name of women,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-stresses-on-women-issues/story-54WmwPRubxx2GOOtIbjKXP.html
16-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee still on ventilator, being closely monitored: Hospital||The condition of former president Pranab Mukherjee remained unchanged on Saturday and he continued to be on ventilator support, doctors attending on him said. They said his vital and clinical parameters are stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists.The 84-year-old former president was admitted to the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on Monday and was operated upon for the removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19. “The condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged . He continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” the hospital said in a statement.Mukherjee’s office also posted pictures of the former president unfurling the national flag on Independence Day in the past and wishing fellow citizens on the day. “On behalf of #CitizenMukherjee, his office recalls some of the recent Independence Day celebrations, he so enthusiastically participated in and would have never missed.”His daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee also tweeted pictures of Mukherjee unfurling the national flag in the past. “In his childhood, my dad and my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist the tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home.,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-still-on-ventilator-being-closely-monitored-hospital/story-ftnQplPXeG47t21GaGFOhK.html
16-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 death toll hits 50,000 mark||The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India exceeded 50,000 on Saturday, making it the fourth country — after the United States, Brazil and Mexico — to cross this bleak milestone as infections mount world over.However, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths to the total recorded infections — at 1.9% is lower than the global average of 3.5%, indicating that the country has controlled deaths better than other nations with similar or higher caseload.India is ranked third in the number of infections — only the US and Brazil have recorded more cases than India and have substantially higher death tolls from the viral illness. As of Saturday, India recorded a cumulative 2,587,872 cases and 50,079 deaths. The US saw 171,999 deaths from over 5.4 million cases, (CFR of 3.1%) and Brazil 106,608 fatalities from over 3.2 million infections (CFR of 3.2%). Mexico appears to be among the hardest-hit by the pandemic in the number of deaths, with an exceptionally high death rate, or CFR, of 11%. The country has 55,908 fatalities from just over 511,000 Covid-19 cases. India also took longer than the three countries in recording its 50,000th fatality: 156 days after reporting its first fatality linked to Covid-19 on March 12.In comparison, the US — the country worst affected by the public health crisis — took 23 days to breach this mark, Brazil 95 days and Mexico 141 days, according to data by worldometers.info.India, in the early stages of the outbreak, enforced a 68-day nationwide lockdown starting March 25, when the country had around 602 confirmed cases and 12 deaths. Most curbs have slowly been relaxed in the months since, with the government announcing a phased “unlock” plan from June.“We do not know yet what the reasons are for fewer deaths in India. However, there are some educated guesses. One, India has a relatively young population... Two, Indians get common cold from other coronaviruses that might be providing cross immunity against Sars-CoV-2,” said Dr Sanjay K Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. A study published in journal Nature on July 15 hinted that previous exposure to other coronaviruses — such as the one causing common cold — may boost a patient’s immunity to Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. “Third, now there is evidence emerging that BCG [Bacille Calmette-Guerin] vaccination given to prevent tuberculosis is protective against Covid-19. We [India] have universal BCG vaccination...” he added. Although India’s death rate has been lower than other nations, public health experts have cautioned that the toll has been on a steady rise with the increase in daily new infections across states. In the seven days to August 14, India added an average of 934 deaths daily — about 34% hike from the average 615 fatalities added in the week ending July 19.This steady rise in the death toll is in line with the trajectory of the epidemic in the country. The virus first found a foothold in India in metropolises such as Delhi and Mumbai — which scaled up testing and other precautionary efforts in response — it has in recent weeks spread to rural areas as restrictions on movement gradually eased, and workplaces and businesses reopened.While Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Delhi were the initial epicentres of the disease, states such as Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, and Uttar Pradesh are emerging as new hot spots, adding thousands of Covid-19 cases daily. These eight states account for over 74.8% of the country’s total tally.Scientists believe that until a vaccine is developed, retaining a low death rate while focusing on boosting health care infrastructure and widespread testing remain crucial to controlling the disease’s impact in the country. “A vaccine will help in preventing deaths in high-risk individuals. This infection is unlikely to just disappear... unlike other pandemics, Covid-19 is highly infectious and the spread is truly global... And if re-infection starts happening then we will need to immunise everyone,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a Delhi-based public health specialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-death-toll-hits-50-000-mark/story-GcEGRlHivveuLSxfqlqmhJ.html
16-08-2020||India||Strong, self-reliant India stands for greater good of world: PM Modi||A strong, confident and “aatmanirbhar” (self-reliant) India is essential not just for itself, but for the sake of larger global good, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday in the course of a wide-ranging speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort to mark India’s 74th Independence Day. His 86-minute long speech also focused on the two other issues most Indians are worried about now -- the coronavirus pandemic (where Modi said his government has a plan ready to distribute a vaccine once it is found) and China (where, without naming the country, he referred to the country’s resolve to defend its sovereignty). And like some of previous speeches on Independence Day, this one too had a target -- connecting each of India’s roughly 600,000 villages through optic fibre cable within 1,000 days. But self-reliance, the corner stone of the NDA government’s policy response to the coronavirus disease, was theme of the speech. The PM outlined the contours of this new self-reliant India across all spheres — education, health, agriculture, manufacturing, infrastructure, trade, defence, foreign policy, environment, digital connectivity; for all segments of society — the poor, the middle class, women, young, entrepreneurs, labour; and in all regions — from Kashmir to the North-east, from urban to rural areas.In the backdrop of Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and his past references to Chinese behaviour as “expansionist”, the PM also framed India’s freedom struggle as one against an “expansionist mindset”, which had devastated the world. In what could be seen as an attempt to weave the past and the present, the PM said history was witness to how India had posed a challenge to this expansionism, resisting all attempts to crush its spirit.The PM also reiterated India’s united resolve to defend its sovereignty. He paid tributes to security personnel who lost their lives and said those who had sought to challenge India at either the LAC or Line of Control got a response in the language they understood. Modi promised a new cyber security policy, a more self-reliant defence framework, continued upgrade of border infrastructure, an expansion of the National Cadet Corps to include young men and women from both border and coastal areas, and emphasised the importance of India’s ties with both the immediate and extended neighbourhood.In his address, the PM acknowledged the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on society, economy and everyday life. He praised citizens for battling it and spoke of India’s successful efforts to increase testing, and produce and even export masks, personal protective equipment and ventilators; declared that the country has a plan for the rapid production and dissemination of the vaccine once it is ready; and announced a national digital health mission where every Indian will have a health identity card.Focusing specifically on digital connectivity, the PM mentioned how from just five dozen gram panchayats being connected before 2014, 150,000 panchayats were now connected with optical fibre cable, and another 100,000 would soon be connected. In the changed circumstances, given the accelerated push towards digital after the pandemic, the PM said, that all of India’s over 600,000 villages would now be connected with optical fibre cable within 1,000 days. Among contentious domestic issues, the PM spoke of Kashmir — of what he saw as achievements of the past year, praised elected local representatives and committed to elections after the process of delimitation — and Ayodhya, where he appreciated the peaceful resolution of the issue and restraint showed by citizens.The PM’s speech — his seventh consecutive address from the Red Fort — was criticised by the Opposition. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a statement on Saturday, said the government is “standing contrary to the country’s democratic structure, constitutional values and established traditions”.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee too said people must do all it takes to preserve the basic principles on which the country was founded. “We salute all those who sacrificed their lives to make the dream of a ‘free nation’ come true. Our freedom was hard-earned, and we must do all it takes to preserve the basic principles on which this country was founded,” she tweeted. On infrastructure, PM Modi referred to the ₹110 lakh crore investment announced for the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project and said that 7,000 projects had already been identified. “In a crisis, investing in infrastructure boost employment and benefits many new sectors.”On agriculture, the PM said that farmers have now been freed of all restrictions with the changes in the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee mechanism. “If you make clothes or soap, you can sell it anywhere. But a farmer could not sell his produce anywhere, it was within a restricted framework. He can, now, breathe an air of freedom and sell his produce anywhere at the best price.” On manufacturing and trade, the PM spoke of India’s tremendous natural and human resources, and underlined the need to add value to it. “How long will we keep selling raw materials and buying finished products? How long will this game continue?”, he asked. It was time to reduce imports, enhance India’s own products, go vocal for local, innovate, and not just “make in India” but “make for the world”, the PM said. On environment, the PM spoke of making the new union territory of Ladakh a carbon-neutral zone, with a 7500 MW solar power plant. The PM also spoke, in detail, about battling pollution — a key environmental and public health crisis -- and announced an holistic, integrated, participatory and technology-based approach to tackle pollution in 100 selected cities of the country. On education, the PM referred to the new National Education Policy as a framework that would make Indian students both rooted in their own setting as well as equipped to become global citizens. In particular, he highlighted the importance of the National Research Foundation and the role of research and innovation for progress. Besides thematic issues, the PM also underlined the role of various demographic segments, and steps being taken to boost their quality of life, employment prospects and incomes. On labour, the PM said it was the source of progress and it flowers when obstacles are removed. In this regard, he outlined steps taken to improve lives of citizens — through bank accounts where money is transferred directly, construction of houses and toilets, provision of regular electricity, the availability of health insurance through Ayushman Bharat. “Everyone who is poor, without any discrimination, can benefit from these measures.” The PM said during the pandemic, these instruments had played a key role in enabling the welfare programmes of the government. On migrant workers in particular — who had to bear tremendous hardship during the pandemic — the PM spoke of the government’s Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana for migrant workers who had returned home; their skilling; and the government’s plans to construct housing for them in cities where they work away from their homes to ensure they can remain productive without any worries. On the middle class, which he categorised as India’s strength, the PM said that once it gets the right opportunities, it can do “miracles” and professionals from the middle class have made a place for themselves in the world. “The middle class wants liberation from government restrictions. It wants an open field.” He spoke of how the government’s steps — through low cost air connectivity, highways and information ways, cheaper home loans, a fund for stalled real estate projects to ensure middle class home buyers get their homes, reduction of taxes, bringing cooperative banks under the regulatory umbrella of the Reserve Bank of India to protect savings, reforms in micro, small and medium enterprises — will help the middle class. On women, the PM said the country was committed to providing them equal opportunities. He spoke of how women today were working both in coal mines, below ground level, and flying fighter planes in the sky; the “freedom” Muslim women have got due to the triple talaq legislation; the enhanced maternity leave and benefits to pregnant women; the provision of direct income assistance in the bank accounts of women; and the provision of over 50 million sanitary napkins for women, at just ~1 each, through Jan Aushadi centres. Besides substantive policy themes and demographic segments, the third pillar of the PM’s speech rested on balanced regional development. In this, he referred to the government’s initiatives in eastern India in particular, the development pathway in Kashmir, and the focus on 110 aspirational districts where socioeconomic indicators have been below the national average and which have received priority in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-self-reliant-india-stands-for-greater-good-of-world-modi/story-DxSPQDcuxkDXtkI2R7yh1J.html
16-08-2020||India||Kerala CM Vijayan, ministers remain in quarantine||Kerala observed a low-key Independence Day on Saturday, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and seven other ministers in quarantine over fears of the coronavirus disease. In a first, collectors in some of the districts in the state unfurled the national flag to mark the occasion.At many district headquarters, ceremonies were held with strict containment measures and a limited guest list. At several places, only the state government officials and police personnel, attended the events. In state capital Thiruvananthapuram, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran hoisted the national flag in the absence of the chief minister. “Pandemic situation has thrown many challenges before the country. We will overcome this with unity and hard work. In such trying situations we have to ensure that people won’t starve. The state government has taken enough measures to check this and it has become a model for others,” the CM said in a Facebook post to greet the people on the occasion.Vijayan and seven of his cabinet colleagues have been under quarantine after they came in contact with district officers, involved in the rescue operations at the Air India Express plane crash site, who tested positive for Covid-19. Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan, SP Abdul Kareem and many senior officers tested positive on Friday, a week after they took part in rescue operations. The Dubai-Kozhikode repatriation flight overshot the runway and crash landed, claiming 18 lives, on August 7. While Governor Arif Mohammad Khan also visited Kozhikkode last Saturday, he did not go under quarantine and hoisted the national flag at Raj Bhawan. In a statement, the Raj Bhawan said that his interaction with the infected officials was minimum. Meanwhile, the state government lifted the lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Thiruvananthapuram after 39 days. The restrictions will continue in containment zones. At least one-third of the state’s total active cases (14,094) are from the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-ministers-remain-in-quarantine/story-wDPucDyMBCtFYWwuyKINYK.html
16-08-2020||India||Vested interests hit peace: Nagaland governor||Nagaland governor R N Ravi on Saturday blamed “vested interests” for misappropriating dividends of peace and not allowing them to reach the state’s people. He said “waves of positive change” sweeping other parts of the country seem to have bypassed Nagaland. “When the security forces and Naga armed groups agreed to suspend operations against each other paving way for a political settlement, the legitimate expectation of the people of Nagaland was dividends of peace—freedom from fear of guns, better health, better education, better infrastructure, better livelihood opportunities, an atmosphere to dream and an eco-system to pursue their dreams,” said Ravi, who is also the interlocutor for the ongoing Naga peace talks, in his Independence Day message.Ravi’s message came days before another round of meetings to thrash out a final agreement for the decades-old Naga issue are scheduled to begin in New Delhi next week. National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah), or NSCN-IM, and Naga National Political Groups (NNPG) leaders are expected to take part in the meetings.NSCN-IM on Tuesday demanded Ravi’s removal as the interlocutor while accusing him of creating hurdles in the final settlement of the issue. It said the peace process is in a state of “simmering tension” and reaching “tipping point” because of Ravi. In June, Ravi wrote to chief minister Neiphiu Rio, saying armed gangs have been running extortion rackets and spreading fear while the state machinery has failed to rein them in. He was referring to the various rebel outfits in the state including NSCN-IM, which have been accused of collecting taxes. NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah on Friday reiterated the demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution. He said as per the 2015 Framework Agreement signed between the outfit and the Centre, Nagas can co-exist with India, but will not merge with it. Muivah cited the agreement and said the Nagas will share sovereign powers as agreed in it and defined in the competencies.NSCN-IM, which is the biggest and oldest Naga rebel outfit, declared a ceasefire and has been in peace talks with the Centre since 1997. It signed the agreement, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long-pending Naga political issue. NSCN-IM fought for an independent Nagaland for decades. But with signing of the agreement, they gave up on that demand but sought inclusion of all Naga-inhabited areas in northeast under one administration as well as a separate Naga flag and constitution. The Centre has rejected the demands.“Nagaland is endowed with one of the finest human and natural resources. Unfortunately, today it has the dubious distinction of the worst-performing state in the country including the northeast region on almost all the significant indicators of human development,” Ravi said.Ravi said nearly 25% of the state’s children are not enrolled in schools and around 60% of youths have not been to high school. The poor investment climate, internet connectivity, and lack of progress in agriculture and horticulture sectors were also highlighted in the message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vested-interests-hit-peace-nagaland-guv/story-b5a4sMyqpkDCOGSPvi0N2I.html
16-08-2020||India||Oppn parties hit out at Centre||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the government, saying it is standing contrary to the country’s democratic structure, constitutional values and established traditions. In a statement, she also said the biggest tribute to the soldiers killed in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley will be to protect the country’s territory and thwart Chinese incursions. The Congress president did not attend the Independence Day flag-hoisting ceremony and instead veteran leader AK Antony unfurled the tricolour at the party headquarters in Delhi. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was among the leaders present on the occasion but he did not speak to the media. The Congress also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not taking China’s name in his Independence Day speech. “We all are proud of our armed, paramilitary and police forces. We 1.3 billion Indians and all Congress workers are proud of them. Whenever there has been attack on us, they have given a befitting reply to the attackers,” Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, told reporters after the ceremony at the party headquarters. “But we must also think why our rulers are scared of taking China’s name. Today, on the Independence Day, when China has occupied our territory, every Indian should ask the government how it proposes to push the Chinese forces back and protect our territorial integrity. Why are those who are sitting in power scared of mentioning China’s name?” he asked. In his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a sharp message to China and Pakistan, declaring that the armed forces deployed along the borders with them are capable of giving a fitting reply to those trying to challenge India’s sovereignty. However, he did not take the names of the two countries. “Today is the 60th day when our Colonel Santosh Babu and 20 other soldiers sacrificed their lives for the nation’s security in Galwan Valley (in a deadly clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh). I salute their bravery and urge the government to remember their valour and give due recognition to them. Our biggest tribute to them would be protecting the motherland and thwarting Chinese incursions,” Gandhi said in her statement. “Today every countryman needs to look within and think what does freedom mean? Are they free today to write, to speak, to ask questions, to disagree, to seek accountability? As a responsible opposition this is our responsibility to keep India’s democratic freedom intact,” she said. “We have tested our democratic values from time to time in the last 74 years of independence. Today, it seems that the government is standing contrary to the country’s democratic structure, constitutional values and established traditions. It is also a test for Indian democracy,” added Gandhi. The Congress president expressed confidence that India will unitedly defeat the Covid-19 pandemic and overcome the economic crisis. On the 74th Independence Day, the Congress also launched a web-series titled ‘Dharohar’. “Congress has been at the forefront in the efforts to create an India, which is a global leader in the industry, agriculture, science, technology, health, military, culture and all this without ever compromising on its secular and democratic nature,” Surjewala and party’s social media department head Rohan Gupta said in a statement. ‘Dharohar’ will showcase the history of the Congress and its contributions to India – right from the freedom struggle to the emergence of India as a superpower in 70 years of its independence, added the statement. In Kolkata, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the people must do all it takes to preserve the basic principles on which this country was founded. “We salute all those who sacrificed their lives to make the dream of a ‘free nation’ come true. Our freedom was hard-earned, and we must do all it takes to preserve the basic principles on which this country was founded,” she tweeted. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) said it will continue its fight to defend the Constitution of India, which was “under severe strain”. “We pledge to continue our fight in defence of the Constitution and against attack on fundamental rights. This freedom was hard-earned and any attempt to curb it will be fought back,” the CPI(M) tweeted. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “Today is the day to renew our pledge to secure all types of freedoms — economic, social, political — for Indians of all regions, faiths, languages, genders and beliefs, especially in these times when our Constitutional Republic is under severe strain.”Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy hoped the Centre would have a change of heart, if not today in the future, and accord special category status (SCS) to his state in accordance with the promise made in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-parties-hit-out-at-centre/story-JG7dNi7DzH77h8P7kKAIHJ.html
16-08-2020||India||Prepared to produce vaccines, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said three Covid-19 vaccine candidates were being tested in India and the country is awaiting the go-ahead from scientists to begin their mass production. He added that a road map for the distribution of the vaccine to every single Indian in the least possible time was also ready.“...our scientists are dutifully engaged in the laboratories. They are putting in great efforts. At present, testing for three vaccines is in different stages in the country. Once we get a green signal from our scientists, we will launch a massive production of the vaccine. We have made all the preparations,” Modi said in his Independence Day speech. Indian biotech companies have developed two of the three vaccine candidates that have entered the human trial stage in India. The vaccine candidate Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology (Pune) uses an inactivated strain of the virus to trigger an immune response. The vaccine has entered phase II trial to examine its immunogenicity, or the ability to produce an immune response.Zydus Cadila has developed the second DNA-based vaccine candidate called ZydCov D, which, too, is in phase II trial.The third vaccine is by Oxford University in collaboration with the Swedish-British biotech company AstraZeneca. Serum Institute of India, which will produce 1 billion doses of the vaccine if it is successful, will conduct its larger phase III trial.At least four other vaccine candidates have reached advanced pre-clinical stages and are soon scheduled to enter the human trials stage. The Department of Biotechnology, which is the nodal agency for vaccine development in India, is supporting the development of the four vaccines.A national expert group on vaccine administration has been formed to decide protocols for the procurement and administration of the Covid-19 vaccine. Government think-tank NITI Ayog member Dr VK Paul heads the group.Former Union health secretary K Sujatha Rao said that a Covid-19 vaccine is the need of the hour to help in preventing infections. “But the availability of a safe and effective vaccine will depend on the data generated from the phase III trials. The pace at which we are going, a vaccine should be available by March or April next year. When will it reach you or me is another question.”Rao said health care workers and high-risk populations such as the elderly will get the vaccine first. “The government should study the deaths from the infection to see who is dying to inform this strategy.”Dr T Jacob John, a former virology professor at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said this is the right time to answer questions like who gets the vaccine. “Whether it will be licensed for sale or controlled by the government, how will the vaccines be delivered to the people, and who pays for it. The government needs to create a platform for vaccine delivery. The universal immunisation programme is for the children and there is not an adult vaccine delivery mechanism in the country just like the flu vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prepared-to-produce-vaccines-says-modi/story-Pt3cae0x8Jdo2M23VE7vqL.html
16-08-2020||India||Digital record of health to revolutionise sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday unveiled an ambitious National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) under which every Indian will get a health ID that he said will act “like a healthcare account” and make access to medical services easier.“From today, the national digital health mission will begin. It will revolutionise Indian healthcare sector. Every Indian will be issued a health ID that will act like a healthcare account, storing details of all the tests done, existing diseases, diagnoses, medicines prescribed,” said Modi in his Independence speech from Red Fort.It will also ease processes such as booking appointments, making payments, or getting registrations done at hospitals, he said. “Technology will be used to resolve various problems in the health care sector – whether it is getting an appointment, making payment, or queuing up to get the (registration) slip. People will be able to make informed decisions.”The National Health Authority (NHA), the agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), has been asked to design, build, roll-out and implement the project. Six Union Territories where the mission was rolled out through a pilot launch are Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep, NHA said in a statement.The programme is a part of the government’s National Digital Health Blueprint aimed at using technology to improve health care delivery. The objectives of the mission are to establish a core digital health database, create a system of electronic health records based on international standards, and establish data ownership pathways so that a patient is the owner his/her health records, among others.Experts said the move will be beneficial for ensuring continuity of treatment and expediting emergency care.“A nationwide health ID will ensure three things – continuity, connectivity, and portability of treatment. If a patient goes to a different doctor or someone else fills in for their doctor, all the medical records will be available to them ensuring continuity of their treatment. When a patient has to go to a secondary or tertiary centre, all the basic information will already be there in the record. This is particularly helpful in the emergency department where knowing the blood group or what a person is allergic to can save a lot of time. It will also save cost of repeat tests. The third is portability, which will enable me to have my entire healthcare record when I move from one city to the other without carrying several files,” said K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India.However, the he said there are challenges involving exhaustive electronic record-keeping and issues of privacy.“Take for example, the US system, which is highly litigious and (where) defensive medicine is practiced; doctors tend to spend a lot of time in detailed record keeping. This can be solved either by simplifying the records to be maintained in a less litigious society or by training physician assistants who are trained to take medical notes and maintain records. However, the privacy needs to be ensured even if anonymised data is provided for research or else there will be telemarketers pushing medicines to people,” said Reddy.Deepak Agarwal, who headed the initiative to digitise patients’ records at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said it was a great initiative but impractical at the moment.“Accessing all medical records of a patient with just one click is a doctor’s dream. However, when we started implementing a similar system at AIIMS we faced several challenges. One is actually digitising the records for which every doctor has to input the records digitally, otherwise it will not work. Second, and more importantly, is finding a unique identifier. If we just enter the patient’s name as Ramu, there will be thousands of records with the same name and many people do not even use second names, making identification of people difficult. The only unique ID that most of the population has is Aadhaar card, but with a Supreme Court judgment no one can legally demand that it be linked. We had tried to do it before the judgment and there was a lot of resistance; now less than 1% patients give the details,” said Agrawal.Speaking of work done in the health care sector, the PM said that new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences and other medical colleges have been set up in the country, increasing the number of MBBS and MD seats for medical students by 45,000 in the last five years.He also said over 150,000 wellness centres are being set up across the country. “Around one-third of these are already functional and have helped in the Covid-19 fight,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-record-of-health-to-revolutionise-sector/story-RyvlxMC7iT1FsStYuW1LuL.html
16-08-2020||India||Centre to launch projects for lion, dolphin conservation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the Centre will soon launch Project Lion and Project Dolphin for the biodiversity conservation of these species on the lines of and to replicate the successes of Project Tiger launched in 1973.In his Independence Day speech, Modi underlined commitment to the promotion and conservation of biodiversity and said India is one of the very few countries where the forest cover is expanding. “We have successfully carried forward Project Tiger and Project Elephant. The Tiger population has increased in India. In the coming days, we are starting Project Lion for the Asiatic lions. And under Project Lion, the work on the required infrastructure for the protection and security of Indian lions and in particular the special type of health infrastructure required will be undertaken. And emphasis will be laid on Project Lion.”Modi said Project Dolphin will focus on both river and sea dolphins. “This will also give a boost to biodiversity and also create employment opportunities. This is also a centre of attraction for tourism.”Asiatic lions are confined to Gir National Park and its surrounding environs in Gujarat’s Saurashtra. The Gujarat forest department in June suggested their population has increased by 29%— from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. It said the distribution area of lions in Saurashtra has increased by 36% from 22,000 sqkm in 2015 to 30,000 sqkm. Experts have called for the reintroduced of the species outside Gujarat for the long term conversation of the Asiatics lions.The Gangetic dolphin is an indicator species, whose status provides information on the overall condition of the ecosystem and of other species in that ecosystem, for the Ganga ecosystem and is extremely vulnerable to changes in water quality and flow. It is categorised as endangered on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Red List.Union environment ministry officials said the projects Modi announced are new and different from previous ones for Asiatic Lions and Gangetic Dolphins. The ministry launched the Asiatic Lion Conservation Project in February last year. Vaccination of livestock, control of cats and dogs in lion habitat, identification of wildlife corridors, improvement of habitat, legal aid, wildlife forensic systems, and attractive relocation packages for pastoral communities were the highlights of this project.Additional director general (forests) Soumitra Dasgupta said it is a proud moment for them that Modi has announced the projects to conserve Dolphins, which are an indicator species, and Asiatic Lions a flagship species. “The Prime Minister referred to a long-term plan. It will involve the conservation of lions and their habitat in a holistic manner. There will be a focus on conflict mitigation and technology for management. Reintroduction... we have to see what are the possibilities. Last year, only some financial measures were announced but this project is new and long term,” said Dasgupta. He was referring to reintroduction of lions to other habitats apart from Gir Sanctuary in Gujarat. For example, Kuno Palpur Sanctuary in MP is being considered by the ministry for reintroduction of lions.Dasgupta said Project Dolphin will also be new, focusing on dolphins in the oceans and rivers. “Dolphin tourism is being prompted by other countries but we have not explored it very much. This will also help secure livelihoods...”World Wide Fund For Nature India (WWF India)’s program management director Diwakar Sharma said lions in India face most of the issues that other large carnivores face. “These include habitat loss and fragmentation, human-wildlife conflict, and illegal trade. The Asiatic lion is confined only to the Gir protected area and its surrounding environs,” he said.Sharma said the current Asiatic lion population is built from a very small number in the early 20th century and thus faces the additional threat of genetic homogeneity, which makes the species susceptible to diseases like canine distemper. “It is thus in the interest of long term Asiatic lion conservation that the species be reintroduced to other places in and outside Gujarat.”A WWF-India and the Uttar Pradesh forest department assessment in 2012 and 2015 recorded 1,272 dolphins in the Ganga, Yamuna, Chambal, Ken, Betwa, Son, Sharda, Geruwa, Gahagra, Gandak and Rapti. “The Ganges river dolphin is threatened due to habitat degradation as a result of water development projects [dams, barrages and dredging operations], sand mining, overfishing, and pollution. The incidental catch of dolphins in the fishing gears, specifically gillnets are key causes of dolphin mortality in the Ganga,” said WWF India’s river basin management associate director Nitin Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-launch-projects-for-lion-dolphin-conservation/story-r1MGb3SQgFV3Z3GDzCmFlO.html
16-08-2020||India||Self-reliant India to focus on ‘make for world’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cited a robust inflow of foreign direct investment (FDI) during the last financial year and said it reflects how global firms were looking at India as a major investment destination. He said the country is shifting its focus from Make in India to Make for World through the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India campaign)In his Independence Day speech, Modi said a series of economic reforms like one nation-one tax, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, and the bank merger have caught attention of the global investors. He credited the reforms for attracting huge FDI last year.According to the Reserve Bank of India data, there was about $74.4 billion FDI flow in 2019-20 and marked a 20% jump compared to the previous year.Modi said India should be “vocal for local” and asked citizens to glorify Indian products to promote Atmanirbhar Bharat. He referred to N-95 masks, personal protective equipment, and ventilators. Modi added Indian entrepreneurs manufactured them to meet the domestic demand amid the Covid-19 pandemic and also exported them.Modi said India is striving to achieve overall economic growth and become self-reliant, but humanity remains its ethos. “India has always believed that the entire world is one family. While we focus on economic growth and development, humanity must retain a central role in this process and our journey,” he said. “When we talk about becoming self-reliant, we do not merely refer to decreasing import demands. ...it is about our skills, our human resources. When we start sourcing things from abroad, then our capabilities start depleting and consequently, they get completely destroyed over generations. We need to preserve them and enhance that calibre of ours.”Modi said the government has launched over Rs 110 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) to boost the economy and create jobs. “In order to rapidly modernise India, there is a need to give a new direction to overall infrastructure development,” he said. He added over 7,000 projects under NIP have been identified.“This will be, in a way, a new revolution in the field of infrastructure. This is the time to end silos in infrastructure. There is a plan to connect the entire country with multi-model connectivity infrastructure.” He said NIP will play a crucial role in overcoming the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the economy and trigger higher growth.The Covid-19 pandemic and 68-day nationwide lockdown to check its spread adversely impacted the economic growth, which was already sluggish. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the lowest in 11 years. It followed precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories, and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record.India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect the economy to contract by at least 5% this year (2020-21) especially because of the hard lockdown for two full months of the quarter (April and May).The government on December 31 last year unveiled the NIP with an aim to make India a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25. The focus of the infrastructure pipeline is to accelerate growth and create employment in both urban and rural areas. The NIP is already under execution as 40% of the projects worth Rs 44 lakh crore are at various stages of implementation, officials said requesting anonymity.Modi emphasised the need to import raw material and export value-added products to make India a manufacturing hub. “How long can the raw material be sent out of our country and finished products imported?. Atmnirbhar Bharat does not mean only reducing imports, it means enhancing our capacity, our creativity, our skills.”Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP, said Modi called for Make in India in his first Independence Day speech in 2014. He said Modi has rebranded it to Make for the World to make India as a manufacturing powerhouse, which China did exceptionally well over the years. “It is high time that this strategy should be in place. India has already missed opportunities during the start of the trade war between the US and China. But Covid-19 and China’s attitude towards other nations have presented one more opportunity to take advantage of the negative perception of China.”Deepak Sood, secretary-general of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry, called Modi’s address a morale booster for the nation braving the health pandemic and making all-out efforts to turn it into an opportunity for making India self-reliant. “When the Prime Minister talks about reforms...it is a loud signal to the world how the country’s top leadership is committed to creating economic opportunities for the investors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliant-india-to-focus-on-make-for-world/story-vRXXOiVdJL6bbdcohWKngN.html
16-08-2020||India||PM hails country’s agriculture sector||On the occasion of the country’s 74th Independence Day on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country needed to replicate the “self-reliance” of the country in agriculture in other sectors of the economy, underscoring the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign. The prime minister said his government had freed the country’s agriculture sector by abolishing archaic regulations, which will help to increase famers’ income. “The last few years have seen pioneering changes and futuristic reforms in agriculture. Farmers now have access to more markets, better financial support,” the PM said. Making the traditional address to the nation from the Red Fort, Modi said the country would adopt policies to reduce imports, just as it had done for food commodities. “There was a time when we used to import wheat from abroad; but our farmers have done a wonderful job. And now India is self-reliant in the agricultural sector.” The prime minister referred to steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector. On June 4, the Cabinet had approved amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and cleared two other ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers.“Some of you may not know this, but unlike any other business, where a businessman has the freedom to sell their product or service in any part of the country or the world and at a price they want, our farmers, till now did not have that freedom. They could only sell to who they were told to sell. Now, we have removed these restrictions, and given farmers the freedom to sell at the best price, and to whom they want,” Modi said.Modi’s reference to the freeing up of the agriculture sector included reading down of provisions of The Essential Commodities Act 1955 to allow for freer trade in farm commodities. “I admit there are lakhs of challenges for India to become atmanirbhar (self-reliant), and yes, there is fierce competition from the rest of the world. But I always say that if India faces lakhs of challenges, it also has 130 crore solutions,” Modi said.The agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians, hasn’t been generating enough revenues to keep farmers profitable for nearly two decades due to trade restrictions and an obsession with keeping food prices low to avoid inflation, according to the OECD-ICRIER study mentioned above.The NDA government also brought, on June 4, ‘The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. The ordinance will effectively bring the curtains down on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce.These reforms in “agricultural marketing” have been a long time in the making and various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade. The ordinance will pave the way for barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of farm goods outside the physical premises of markets notified under APMCs, the Cabinet note said. The Modi government also approved ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’, which effectively ushered new rules for contract farming and futures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-hails-country-s-agriculture-sector/story-fRrLGjPUAsDGORaE4ng2ZN.html
16-08-2020||India||From LoC to LAC, forces are ready to respond: PM Modi||In the midst of a border row with China in eastern Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday India’s sovereignty was supreme and if anyone threatened it — from the Line of Control (LoC) to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — the armed forces would respond to them “in the same language”.In his 86-minute Independence Day address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, he said: “The world saw what our brave soldiers can do to protect the country’s sovereignty in Ladakh…I bow to India’s soldiers from Red Fort.” The PM also said India was dealing firmly with terrorism (a reference to Pakistan’s covert warfare) and expansionism (a reference to China’s aggression).His Ladakh reference was to the brutal skirmish in the remote Galwan Valley where Indian soldiers fought off numerically superior Chinese troops on June 15. Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in the seven-hour conflict near Patrolling Point 14, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered.The PM’s comments on securing India’s sovereignty from LoC to LAC are a stern and clear message of the country’s resolve and political will to defend its frontiers, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).“The military’s capability and operational readiness to respond to any misadventure or threat has already been exhibited in a recent engagement (Galwan Valley). The PM’s message also directly addresses the leadership of powers that have played negotiations as cover for aggressive posturing and repeated violations of the sanctity of our boundaries,” Lamba said.Military talks with China on reducing tensions along the LAC have hit a roadblock with the Indian Army taking the hard line with the PLA. India seeks to restore status quo ante of early April in eastern Ladakh.The PM’s speech covered the significance of self-reliance in the defence sector and steps being taken to attain the goal. He said the government imposed an import ban on 101 types of weapons and ammunition on August 9 — from missiles to transport aircraft and assault rifles to light combat helicopter — to provide a push to self-reliance in the defence sector. He said advanced variants of the locally produced Tejas light combat aircraft were also getting ready.Modi also spoke of continued upgradation of border infrastructure, naming Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh in particular (regions where China has been aggressive and made expansive claims); and spoke of the development of islands (India has 1300 islands), referring to the laying of submarine optical fibre in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and announcing that within, 1000 days, this would happen in Lakshwadeep too.With the country turning increasingly digital, the PM said India was aware and cautious of threats. In the backdrop of the government banning 59 China-linked apps, he said India was taking decisions to safeguard itself, developing new technologies and would soon announce a new cyber security policy.And finally, the PM spoke of India’s foreign policy achievements, highlighting its election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council by an overwhelming majority. He made a special appeal to leaders in South Asia to work with the spirit of peace and fraternity, and spoke of the idea of an “extended neighbourhood”. With West Asia, India shared special links due to energy cooperation and the large pool of migrant workers — the PM specifically thanked countries in the region for taking care of these workers during the pandemic. With Southeast Asia, the PM spoke of how India shared old cultural, civilisation and religious ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-loc-to-lac-forces-are-ready-to-respond-modi/story-d8fwP6ujyIVRDiDlvbT9HM.html
16-08-2020||India||Report on Facebook’s leniency to BJP members’ communal posts causes row||A report suggesting Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by members of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party became the subject of a political controversy on Saturday, with the Congress saying it had met and flagged similar concerns to a senior executive of the social media company who has been named in the story.In an article published late on Friday, the Wall Street Journal cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting the Muslim community.Also read | BJP spreading virus of communal hatred: Sonia GandhiDas, the report added, “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Facebook denied the allegation and said it was still reviewing whether it had to act against Singh. Das did not respond to requests for a comment.“We had met Ankhi Das over the issue and raised our concerns regarding these matters,” said a senior member of Congress’s media team, who asked not to be named.“This expose on Facebook comes as a shock because one expects companies like Facebook to be professionally run and managed. New facts are emerging exposing the close ties of important officials of Facebook India with the BJP. Democracy needs to be insulated from being sabotaged by such unholy collusion,” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera.Facebook said its policies on such matters are unbiased. “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” a Facebook spokesperson said on queries relating to the claims in the WSJ story.Also read: 3 die after violence erupts in Bengaluru over Facebook postA BJP spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. A party functionary, who asked not to be named, said the BJP does not subscribe to the views of Singh and has distanced itself from comments that call for violence or are not in line with the party’s stance.India is one of Facebook’s fastest growing markets and the company is estimated to have close to 350 million users by June this year. Instagram and WhatsApp, both owned by the California-based company, have hundreds of millions more users from India.Social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter have been under increasing pressure because there are concerns that they are not doing enough to crack down on fake news and hate speech. The controversy has particularly played out in the United States, where Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has previously said that the company cannot be “an arbiter of truth” in response to criticism over the type of political content, which at one point also triggered a staff walk-out.Shortly after the WSJ report was released, Ajit Mohan, the head of Facebook India, wrote an internal memo to the company’s India operations staff defending Das. “This article does not reflect the person I know or the extraordinarily complex issues we face everyday that benefits from Ankhi and the Public Policy team’s expertise,” he said in the note, a copy of which has been seen by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communal-postsreport-on-leniency-to-bjp-causes-row/story-43fWgMtLZQw1HUKlwnGPoM.html
16-08-2020||India||Kerala plane crash: Cabin crew granted special leave to recover from tragedy||The cabin crew members of Air India Express flight IX1344, which operated from Dubai to Kozhikode on August 7, have been granted a special paid leave for a month. The ill-fated flight with 190 on board overshot at Kerala’s Karipur’s table top runway and dropped about 35ft into a gorge, killing 18 people. An airline source said that the crew members have been given the special leave so that they can rest and recover from the tragedy. The flight had four cabin crew members and two cockpit crew (pilots) on board. While the two pilots lost their lives in the accident, the cabin crew members were rescued. Top sources from the airline said that the cabin crew, who were stationed on their seats while landing at the airport, had started taking off their seat belts when the mishap took place. One of the crew members, Akshay Pal Singh, sustained a fracture on his leg along with multiple injuries. He is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital and his condition is said to be stable. Another crew member, Shilpa Katare, had sustained minor injuries and was discharged after treatment from a hospital. Two other cabin crew members, Abhik Biswas and Lalit Kumar, escaped unhurt in the mishap. The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Wednesday announced that a team of five officials have begun their investigations on the cause and the contributory factors leading to the mishap. The team has been asked to complete the investigations in five months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-plane-crash-surviving-cabin-crew-members-granted-special-leave-to-recover-from-tragedy/story-FuiW9IAnYRyocoivgs9DuO.html
16-08-2020||India||At Home event Prez Kovind hails 26 Covid warriors||President Ram Nath Kovind hailed 26 Corona warriors at an otherwise subdued At Home reception at the Rashtrapati Bhavan which lasted just around 25 minutes and, for the first time, saw no former Indian Prime Minister attending the event. Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla sat at the main table; other dignitaries included BJP president JP Nadda, defence minister Rajnath Singh, NSA Ajit Doval, union ministers Hardhvardhan, S Jaishankar, Nirmala Sitharaman and Modi’s principal secretary PK Mishra. The event was held in Rashtrapati Bhavan’s convention centre, with portraits of former Presidents adorning the walls. The three service chiefs along with CDS Bipin Rawat and a few ambassadors were also present. A total of about 100 guests, including 26 Corona warriors, were invited for the programme that started with a brief speech by President Ram Nath Kovind hailing the Covid warriors (PM Modi led a round of applause for them). Refreshment including traditional delicacies such as samosa and dhokla. To drink, there was tea (green and normal), coconut water and orange juice. While hot samosas were served to guests, by waiters who were not just masked, but also sported a face visor, the dhokla, enchilada, and the tricolour sweet that is customary in many independence day celebrations, were already kept on shrink wrapped plates. There was designated seating, at tables named after rivers. Guests were ushered to their tables the minute they entered, although there was a bit of the usual networking seen at such events before the event started. With just around 30 tables, there was no special VVIP area like there usually is. According to officials involved in organising the event, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Devegowda decided to skip the event due to the Covid situation. Similarly, Union home minister Amit Shah, who is in home isolation after he tested negative for Covid and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was recently admitted in the hospital, also didn’t attend the event. For the first time, the function saw no spouses of the invitees, no live food counters, no freedom fighters and no free interaction with VVIPs—new rules of a new normal, protocol-wrapped ceremony, in the times of a pandemic. People were allowed in after their temperatures were taken; everyone was asked to show their status on the Aarogaya Setu contac-tracing app; and those not wearing N95 masks without valves, were provided them. The guest list was heavily pruned to maximum 90 from the normal gathering of 1500 dignitaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-home-eventprez-kovind-hails-26-covid-warriors/story-TV2GY2f4KL7I1SFC9KhxgP.html
16-08-2020||India||Record 869k coronavirus tests conducted in a day||As many as 57,381 people recovered from Covid-19 on Saturday across the country and marked the highest number of recoveries so far, which crossed the 1.8 million mark, with India achieving another peak in the total tests conducted in 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.Over 70% of those infected by the disease have recovered so far. The total tests conducted in the previous 24 hours stood at 868,679 on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests to more than 28.5 million, the ministry said.The recoveries in 12 states are higher than the national average, with Delhi leading the way. The data shows that almost 90% of the people in Delhi have recovered from the infection, followed by Haryana (84%), and Tamil Nadu (82%).Officials credited the Delhi model for the decline in the number of new infections and deaths. The model involved ramping up testing and the number of beds for Covid-19 treatment, isolation of those with no symptoms or mild symptoms at home, providing pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators, plasma therapy, and surveys and screening. Delhi was the first to start a convalescent plasma bank. The state has decided to conduct serological surveillance every month to check the prevalence of antibody levels in the population.Officials said India is focusing on a test, track, treat strategy to prevent the spread of the infection. Dr Puneet Mishra, a community medicine professor at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said now the testing strategy needs to evolve in places such as Delhi and Mumbai. “In these areas, we have to focus on reducing mortality and for that hospitals and health centres have to keep an eye on those who are symptomatic, especially among the high-risk group. Ensuring that these people reach hospitals on time is important.”Officials said the focus is now on improved and effective treatment in hospitals, supervised home isolation, use of non-invasive oxygen support, improved services of ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment. The government is also working on the upgrade of clinical management skills of doctors. Doctors from AIIMS are providing active technical guidance through teleconsultation.The ministry said this has also resulted in a declining case fatality rate, which is well below the global average. The national case fatality rate, or the proportion of people who die among those diagnosed with the infection, is 1.94%.Dr Sanjay K Rai, a community medicine professor at AIIMS, said they do not know yet what the reasons are for fewer deaths in India. “However, there are some educated guesses that scientists have made. One, India has a relatively young population – just 8 or 9% of the population is above the age of 60 as compared to about 25% in the European countries. Old age puts people at higher risk of severe disease and mortality. Two, Indians get common cold from other coronaviruses that might be providing cross-immunity against Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19,” said Rai. “Third, now there is evidence emerging that BCG vaccination given to prevent tuberculosis is protective against Covid-19. We have universal BCG vaccination, the European countries do not.”He said the mortality rate is unlikely to increase as the infection spreads to smaller cities. “From the sero-surveillance in Delhi and Mumbai, we know that in 90% cases there are no symptoms or very mild symptoms and no medical care is needed. For most of the others, it is just oxygen support that seems to be helping; there is no evidence to suggest that the experimental drugs reduce mortality.”Rai said this is why they have suggested that only availability of oxygen needs to be ensured in primary and secondary level healthcare facilities. “Even if the government does provide ventilators, who will operate them? In the absence of trained professionals, it will do more harm than good.”Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health specialist, said a vaccine will help in preventing deaths in high-risk individuals as the infection is unlikely to just disappear. “Broadly, every pandemic infects many people initially because the entire population is susceptible and as people start getting immunity, the infection disappears in about 18 months to two years. However, unlike other pandemics, Covid-19 is highly infectious and the spread is truly global... if re-infection starts happening, then we will need to immunise everyone, especially the healthcare workers constantly at risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-869k-tests-conducted-in-a-day/story-Hjqhvw5QEm1XrPmrkKkPDL.html
16-08-2020||India||In a 1st, menstruation talk in PM’s Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mention of sanitary pads in his Independence Day speech sends a powerful message to India’s 1.3 billion population that menstruation is a natural, biological process like eating and sleeping, and should be treated as such.Yet, the stigma around menstruation and female hygiene products lead to women talking about it in whispers, girls dropping out of school, advertisers replacing blood with sky blue ink, and embarrassed pharmacists and shopkeepers selling sanitary napkins shrouded in used newspapers and opaque bags. “This government has been always concerned about the health of our daughters and sisters. Through 6,000 Jan Aushadhi centres, about 50 million women have got sanitary pads at Re 1. We have worked for women’s empowerment. Navy and Air Force are taking women in combat roles… women are now leaders,” Modi said in his address from the ramparts of Red Fort.Since last year, Jan Aushadhi Suvidha Sanitary Napkins are being sold at a subsidised price of Re 1 at 6,550 Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana Kendras across the country. The cost of production of each of these oxo-biodegradable pads is Rs 2.50, but is sold for Re 1 each with the government subsidising the retail discount from August 29, 2019.Centuries of stigma has made menstruating women temporary pariahs in some communities, which consider them impure and exclude them from religious, social and community participation. Menstrual blood, which consists of a mix of blood and cells and tissue from the uterine endometrial lining that is shed during menstruation, is as safe as blood from any other part of the human body.But we can’t just blame tradition. Even in modern societies, menstruating women are considered physically and biologically weak, less competent, and more emotional and high-strung. Such prejudices add to gender polarisation, which for generations has been used to exclude women from education, voting, owning property and participating in economic activity.Female workforce participation in India was 21% in 2019, which is comparable to the Arab world and is amongst the lowest in the world, according World Bank data modelled on International Labour Organisation estimates released on June 21, 2020. The global average of women in the workforce is 47%, with neighbouring Nepal having 83% working women, Bangladesh, 36%, and China, 60%.As women move from low-wage unskilled jobs to productive employment and better wages in the services and manufacturing sectors, they need employers to regard them as productive workers who won’t have an emotional or physical breakdown each time they menstruate. Equitable access to opportunities can be created by implementing policies that promote women employment, investing in economic sectors more attractive to women, and monitoring gender disparity in employment patterns.In a competitive workplace, laws with inherent gender biases create deeper unexpressed resentment and carry a high-risk of penalising women, both in terms of salary and career advancement. Since the new Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act doubled maternity leave for women from 12 weeks to 26 weeks for the first two children and 12 weeks for subsequent children, some companies have started treating women as a potential liability, with human resources personnel asking women employees intrusive questions about when they want to start a family, something they would never consider asking men. Such practices must be stopped.Talking about menstruation without embarrassment is a step in the direction of gender parity. In a country where women launch Mars Orbiters wearing Kanjivaram silk sarees and women in fatigues hold combat roles in the armed forces, menstruation is but a blimp in life’s journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-1st-menstruation-talk-at-i-day/story-du6zoOUwrFu31htY6XqfUL.html
16-08-2020||India||Ram temple issue figures in PM Modi’s I-Day address address||The construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya figured in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech on Saturday.“Ten days ago, the construction of the temple has begun…A peaceful resolution to Ram Janmabhoomi issue is unprecedented. The peace and understanding that the people showed is not only unprecedented but will serve as an inspiration for us in the future,” Modi said from the ramparts of the Red Fort. On August 5, Modi laid the first brick of the Ram Mandir at a grand “bhoomi pujan” ceremony in Ayodhya, and said the day will stand as a symbol of the commitment of several generations that devoted their lives to the construction of the temple.The beginning of the construction work comes after a 135-year-old legal dispute culminated when the Supreme Court, last November, awarded the disputed land to Hindu parties. It also comes in the wake of a three-decade-long mobilisation by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological affiliates, and the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 — an act declared illegal by the same SC verdict — that led to communal violence and deaths in various parts of the country. Modi making a reference to the Ram temple issue, which formed the pivot of the BJP’s journey, was not a political statement, a senior BJP functionary said. “It was said in a way of recollecting the events of the year gone by. It was not a political statement but an account given to the people,” said the functionary, requesting anonymity. Hari Desai, a Gujarat-based political commentator, said the mention of Ram temple in the PM’s speech was not out of place or inappropriate. He said, however, there should have also been a mention of the land given for the construction of a mosque near Ayodhya. “It would have just given confidence to the people of this country that the SC’s judgment has been respected,” he said.A proposed mosque coming up is on a five-acre site outside Ayodhya and is likely to be named after the village of Dhannipur where it is located.The Uttar Pradesh government handed the plot, currently occupied by rice fields 20km from Ayodhya town, to the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board earlier this month in accordance with the top court’s verdict that cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple and also ordered the government to award five acres of land at an alternative site for the construction of a mosque. CPI general secretary D Raja was critical of Modi’s speech. “He failed to address the issues of unemployment and poverty but mentioned Ayodhya, which exposed him completely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-issue-figures-in-address/story-pa3UkjBHsnq9DY7gb10ONL.html
16-08-2020||India||With Art 370 gone, new era of normalcy dawned in J&K: L-G||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said the constitutional changes that divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status last year will usher in a new era of normalcy while setting transparency, grassroots democracy, people’s welfare, development and employment opportunities as the targets for his administration.He referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharata Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Campaign) and said Jammu & Kashmir is bound to get the maximum benefit from it to revive its economy. “Eight task forces [have been] created for the dedicated implementation of the package,’’ Sinha said as he hoisted the tricolour at an Independence Day function in Srinagar amid tight security.Three-tier security was put in place across Srinagar amid intelligence inputs about a possible militant attack. Many important roads were barricaded with barbed wires and smart fencing across the city a day after two policemen were killed in an attack on the outskirts of Srinagar on Friday. Mobile 2G internet services was also snapped for four hours as part of the security measures.Sinha said the new domicile rules introduced following the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped the region of its special status shall provide equality, justice to the deprived sections of the society, and women married outside Jammu & Kashmir. He added the reservation policy was also being made more effective.Sinha said a new era of normalcy and development has dawned in Jammu & Kashmir. “I seek the cooperation of people to create a new Jammu & Kashmir.’’ He referred to the achievements of the Jammu & Kashmir administration and added long pending works like Srinagar’s Rambagh flyover have been completed. “Work on Jammu Ring Road, Akhnoor Road, Pakal-Dul Hydro-Electric Project, Kiru & Ratle power projects have been expedited. The new tunnel at Banihal on Jammu-Srinagar highway and the world’s highest rail bridge on Chenab will be completed in 2021. By 2022, Kashmir will be connected all the way to Kanyakumari by rail...”Sinha said Jammu & Kashmir is at the forefront of the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana with three million beneficiaries. He added the administration plans to extend the benefits of the health scheme to 10 million beneficiaries. Sinha praised doctors, and paramedics, who are working selflessly to fight the Covid-19.Independence Day functions were held across the Union Territory and deputy commissioners hoisted the national flag in their respective districts. Sinha’s advisor, KK Sharma, unfurled the tricolour in Jammu.Big LED screens were also installed at two places in Srinagar for the live telecast of Modi’s Independence Day address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-art-370-gone-new-era-of-normalcy-dawned-in-j-k-l-g/story-vjk7RdgtbJoFj6I9RPRqqO.html
16-08-2020||India||Nepal PM Oli calls Modi, talks about boosting ties||Nepal looks forward to a meaningful bilateral cooperation, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli told his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in a phone conversation on Saturday, the first contact at the highest level between the two sides since a a border row hit their ties. Oli called Modi to congratulate him on India’s 74th Independence Day, and expressed his appreciation for the Indian leader’s renewed priority to the neighbourhood, as spelt out in his Independence Day address. The two leaders last spoke on April 10 to discuss the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In May, Nepal protested against the opening of a road by India to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet, and ties were hit further when Kathmandu published a new political map that depicted the Kalapani area, controlled by India, as a Nepalese territory. Saturday’s phone conversation, which was widely anticipated in diplomatic circles, provided an opportunity for the two sides to clear the air and take forward the process of addressing their differences, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The conversation also came two days before a meeting in Kathmandu of the India-Nepal joint oversight mechanism, a body that oversees the implementation of development projects funded by New Delhi. The body, launched in 2016, is chaired by Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi. “Prime Minister Oli appreciated Prime Minister Modi’s renewed priority to neighbourhood as spelt out in today’s Independence Day address. The Prime Minister of Nepal looked forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation,” said a readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry. A statement from the external affairs ministry said the leaders “expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries”, and Modi offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard. “Prime Minister thanked the Prime Minister of Nepal for his telephone call and recalled the civilisational and cultural links that India and Nepal share,” the statement added. In his speech, Modi said India is forging deeper connections with its neighbours through a partnership of security, development and trust. Noting that a quarter of the world’s population lives in South Asia, he said the countries of the region can create countless opportunities for the development and prosperity of such a large population through cooperation and partnership. “All the leaders of the countries of the region have a huge responsibility, an important responsibility for the development and progress of such a vast population,” he said. “The more peace and harmony there is in this whole region, the more it will work for the welfare of humanity,” he added. Oli congratulated Modi on India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council and expressed his “best wishes for the successful discharge of this important responsibility”, the Nepalese foreign ministry’s readout said. The two leaders exchanged views on latest efforts in the fight against Covid-19 and agreed to work together in this area, it said. While underlining the need for early development of a vaccine, Oli expressed the hope that scientists around the world, including in India, will be able to develop it in order to control and prevent the disease from spreading further, it added. The two leaders also agreed to continue discussions on bilateral matters in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-oli-calls-modi-talks-about-boosting-ties/story-7BaANrKrfvD4iy9qHeYjBL.html
16-08-2020||India||Polls to be held in J&K after delimitation exercise: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that elections will be held in Jammu and Kashmir after a delimitation process in the Union Territory was over, while touching upon the nullification of Article 370 in his Independence Day address from the Red Fort.The Prime Minister said it had been a year since the government’s move to nullify Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state. “This one year has been a very important milestone for the new development journey of these regions as it gave women and Dalits of this region their basic rights, besides giving dignity to the lives of our refugee brethren,” Modi said. He also referred to the “Back to Villages” initiative of the administration of the Union Territory and said it ensured that development reached the villages and the poor. Under this scheme, bureaucrats spent time in villages to address the problems of the people.“I thank the panches and sarpanches from the core of my heart for their active participation in this development journey,” Modi said.The strength and real power of democracy lies in elected local bodies, Modi said. It is a matter of pride that the public representatives of these local bodies are taking forward the development process in J&K with their active participation and concern, he added.“The delimitation exercise is going on in Jammu and Kashmir under the chairmanship of a retired Supreme Court judge. As soon as the delimitation process is over, there will be elections in the future so that the Union Territory has its own government, which will undertake development work with renewed vigour,” Modi said.The process of delimitation of Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies in the Union Territory was set in motion with the appointment of former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai as the chairperson of the Delimitation Commission in March.The delimitation exercise will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act of 2019 that split the state into two Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir with an assembly and Ladakh without an assembly. Delimitation will be based on the Census of 2011 due to an amendment in the J&K Reorganisation Act.The number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir after delimitation will increase from 107 to 114, including 24 seats for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, according to news agency PTI.Before Jammu and Kashmir was reorganised, there were 46 assembly seats in Kashmir, 37 in Jammu and four in Ladakh, PTO reported. After delimitation, Jammu is likely to gain five seats and Kashmir two. By making Ladakh a Union Territory “we have fulfilled their aspirations and a much delayed demand”, Modi said.Ladakh, situated in the heights of the Himalayas, is moving towards the peak of development, Modi added. “A central university is coming up, research centres are being made, hotel management courses are running there. The plan is on to build a 7,500 MW solar park.” “Ladakh has a lot of qualities and we have to polish and preserve them. As Sikkim has an identity as an organic state in the northeast, the regions of Leh, Ladakh and Kargil can make its identity as a carbon neutral unit. For this, the government is working with local citizens to create a sample model…,” he said.J&K did come up in Modi’s speech last year as well. “Within 70 days of the new government, we removed Article 370 which was not done in last 70 years,” he said back then, referring to the government’s August 5 move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-to-be-held-in-j-k-after-delimitation-exercise-modi/story-e6RB7qNNcKfpuMtSOmYLFI.html
16-08-2020||India||In I-Day address, Nitish Kumar promises to deliver more in poll-bound Bihar||A plethora of announcements, promise of doing more if voted back to power and the work done by the state government on different fronts formed the crux of the Independence Day address of chief minister Nitish Kumar at historic Gandhi Maidan on Saturday. Strict Covid-19 protocol including social distancing norms was in place for Kumar’s address attended by 300-odd guests, mostly government officials, police officials and the media.With an eye on the assembly election, the chief minister said that he will seek votes on what he has promised and the capacity to deliver.“I had said that I will not come before you to seek votes if I fail to fulfill my promise of providing power to each house in the state. Today, I proudly say that I have fulfilled my vow well within the stipulated time. Power has brought revolution in the lives of every Bihari,” he said. For Kumar, who has won his previous elections on law and order, good governance, good roads, to name a few, Har Ghar Bijli (power at each house) is likely to provide one cutting edge for him during the polls. “Now, the Har Ghar Jal Yojana (Scheme to provide piped water to each household) will be completed by October,” he said. Nitish Kumar went on to set the agenda for his next term as well. “If voted back to power, every agriculture field will get water,” he said and went on to please contractual teachers by promising new service rules for over 3.75 lakh teachers on contract. This will enable teachers to get transfer to the place of their choice, promotion, continuation of service, besides EPF benefits. In addition to this 33,916 teachers will soon be recruited. The polls for Bihar assembly are due in October/November. Kumar also announced that sportspersons excelling in different fields will be given government jobs and very soon 250 such people will be recruited besides 4,997 doctors will also be recruited in the health department. Saluting the efforts of doctors and corona warriors, Kumar said that like every state, Bihar is also facing the effect of Covid-19 pandemic. “But we have left no stone unturned to contain it. Now we are testing 1.20 lakh people every day, adequate arrangements of beds and medicines have been made and a three layer arrangement for treatment has been made,” he said and claimed that a huge change has taken place in the healthcare system in Bihar. “Earlier only 50 people used to visit primary health centres (PHCs) every month, now 10,000 people are visiting these centres every month. Bihar with 86% vaccination is among the top five states of the country as far as vaccination Is concerned,” he said and went on to list achievements in other fields as well. Due to the spread of pandemic, the state administration has cancelled display of tableaus while children below 10 years of age and those above 60 were not allowed. People coming without masks were denied entry into Gandhi Maidan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-i-day-address-nitish-kumar-promises-to-deliver-more-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-4H7GBn1fvRr94kdNT20N7K.html
16-08-2020||India||Ladakh, Leh, Kargil to be India’s first carbon neutral region: PM Modi||A 7500 MW solar park is being built in Ladakh for electricity and infrastructure development in the region. The Ladakh, Leh and Kargil region will be developed and declared to be a carbon neutral region, PM Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.While the concept of carbon neutral villages have been considered in India in the past and some villages in Kerala and Manipur have adopted it, this will be the first large region to be carbon neutral. Carbon neutrality means annual zero net anthropogenic (human caused or influenced) CO2 emissions by a certain date. “By definition, carbon neutrality means every ton of anthropogenic CO2 emitted is compensated with an equivalent amount of CO2 removed,” according to World Resources Institute. Many countries have announced to be carbon neutral by 2050 as part of the Paris Agreement.“Just like Sikkim has positioned itself as an organic state, the Ladakh, Kargil and Leh region is moving in the direction of becoming carbon neutral. This will be achieved with participation from local people,” PM Modi said adding that India now among top 5 countries in renewable energy generation.“It is heartening to hear an environmentally conscious independence day speech. The ongoing pandemic has shown that living in harmony with nature is the only way forward. The Ladakh region is a natural carbon sink and making it carbon neutral pave the way for many other regions in India to embark on this carbon neutrality journey. It will be now interesting to see how this announcement is operationalised and replicated in other parts of the country. It will also be intriguing to see how large businesses will respond to this call. “India leads the UN secretary general’s Industry Transitions Track along with Sweden and such domestic measures will enable enhanced global cooperation which is essential in winning the fight against climate change,” said Karan Mangotra, associate director and climate finance expert at The Energy and Resources Institute.PM Modi also announced that 100 cities will be considered on a mission mode to achieve clean air through various policy, participatory and technological interventions.Along the lines of Project Tiger; PM Modi said Project Lion and Project Dolphin will be rolled out soon to ensure biodiversity conservation which may also boost tourism.India recorded a 33% increase in tiger numbers from 2014 to 2018, according to the summary of the report, All India Tiger Estimation Results, released last year. There were 2,967 tigers in India in 2018, compared to 2,226 in 2014.In India, Gangetic dolphins are found along deep river reaches in Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. As per environment ministry’s assessment report, there are about 3700 Gangetic dolphins.Environment ministry will be launching a ten year “Project Gangetic Dolphin” which will try to empower the river dependent population in reducing the river pollution and allowing sustainable fisheries. The project will be implemented by various ministries including jal shakti, ministry of shipping, ministry of agriculture & farmers welfare, ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, ministries of power and rural development.Experts said the impact of large solar parks in ecologically fragile areas also need to be studied. “It will be important to see how the government seeks to achieve carbon neutrality in the region and whether social costs or impacts on biodiversity are being considered. Setting up of solar parks or creating plantations as carbon sinks are not environmentally benign projects as calculations for carbon emissions do not take into account all impacts,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-leh-kargil-to-be-india-s-first-carbon-neutral-region-pm-modi/story-Fch08ZUOlgusCxOTYvDMGK.html
