17-08-2020||India||Bangalore riots: Karnataka to approach HC for help on recovery of cost from rioters||The Karnataka government on Monday said that it has decided to approach the state high court for appointing a Claim Commissioner for the purposes of assessment of damages caused to private and public property during last week’ s riots in the city, and also recover the cost from the culprits. On August 11 and August 12, in the riots following a social media post by a relative of a Congress legislator, three people were killed and more than a hundreds were injured in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits. At a meeting conducted by chief minister B S Yediyurappa with the home minister Basvaraj Bommai and senior police officials, it was decided that a stringent action will be taken against the culprits for violence by invoking of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The chief minister confirmed the developments in a series of tweets.“We will approach Hon’ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon’ble Supreme Court order,” Yediyurappa tweeted. Briefing media after the meeting home minister Bommai said that a team of three special public prosecutors would be appointed for perusing the case. “The Special Investigation Team (SIT) that has already been formed will also invoke the Goonda Act in cases wherever the provisions so attract,” he added. Bommai also said the police were investigating whether the rioters had an association with any extremist or terrorist organizations.Director general of police (DGP), Praveen Sood, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Amar Kumar Pandey and chief secretary T M Vijaya Bhasker, as well as other senior officials, were also present in the meeting on Monday.Bangalore Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant extended Sec 144 in the DJ Hall and KG Halli police station limits till 6 am of August 21. Police have detained nearly 370 people for the riots. Apart from examining CCTV footage from several places, police are also examining call records. Till now DJ Halli police have registered 49 first information reports (FIRs) against the numerous accused while KG Halli police have registered 19 FIRs.Meanwhile, Firdous Pasha who was the first to register a complaint against Naveen, the nephew of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy for an alleged blasphemous post, has registered a case against the rioters saying that his Honda Activa scooter was burnt by them. Naveen who was arrested for the alleged derogatory post was produced via video conference in the 11th ACMM (Addtional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate) court and has been remanded to 14-day judicial custody.Separately, Murthy met the CM on Monday. Speaking to reporters after meeting the CM, he said that Yediyurappa had promised him to look into his demands for a CBI probe and had assured him of full security to him and his family. Police on Monday also arrested President of Tipu Sultan Alfath trust, which claims to be an NGO working for the welfare of the poor and downtrodden amongst minorities. K Wajid Pasha in connection with the riots. Wajid, who claims to be a Janta Dal (Secular) worker, was also one of the masterminds of the riots, said people familiar with the matter requesting anonymity. Police have also arrested one more key person Samiuddin who was allegedly involved in the Bangalore riots. According to Bangalore Addtitional Commissioner of Police Sandip Patil the accused Samiuddin was associated with the killers of an RSS worker called Rudresh who was hacked to death in October 2016 and also had links with Al Hind which has been labelled as a terror group.“We are continuing to investigate and there might be more arrests as we unearth new evidence,” a senior police officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangalore-riots-karnataka-to-approach-hc-for-help-on-recovery-of-cost-from-rioters/story-t0rrYkPv4Oyulrg6FHAWLK.html
17-08-2020||India||83 days later, Baghjan blowout finally capped||GUWAHATI: Engineers capped a blaze at a natural gas field in Assam’s Baghjan on Monday, 83 days after the blowout sparked an inferno that killed two, displaced hundreds of people and devastated the fragile local ecosystem. Oil India Limited (OIL) said in a statement that efforts were underway to douse the fire at the well. “The well capping operation was initiated on Monday morning and the capping blow out preventer (BOP) stack was successfully placed over the well head. The 16 studs have also been tightened,” OIL said in the statement. The BOP is a specialized valve or a similar device, used to seal control and monitor oil and natural gas wells to prevent blow outs, the uncontrolled release of gas or oil from a well. They are usually installed in stacks of other valves. “The preparations for killing operation are on. The BOP and the lines connected to it are being kept cool through continuous spraying of water,” the OIL statement added. On May 27, the well in Tinsukia district suffered a blow out during work to locate a new reservoir. As engineers scrambled to plug the leak, the well caught fire on June 9, killing two firefighters. It has been blazing since. Installation of the BOP stack was the penultimate task needed to complete the entire operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of ‘killing the well’ and dousing the fire starts, said officials. That was to be done by injecting a ‘kill fluid’, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from the well back to the reservoir. Since the well at Baghjan is nearly 3.5 km deep, the killing operation which will douse the fire is expected to take around 24-36 hours. Monday’s attempt was the third one after OIL personnel and foreign experts failed twice earlier. On July 31, experts were attempting to place the BOP stack, weighing nearly three tonnes, on the well head when the Athey Wagon, a type of hydraulic lift used to fight oil-field fires consisting of a track –mounted boom with a hook in one end, toppled. Another attempt failed on August 10 after one of the two bull lines connected to the Athey Wagon which was lifting the BOP stack came out from the socket due to impact of excessive heat. OIL initially said the well would be plugged in a month. The deadline was later extended to July 7. But delays due to floods, technical glitches and burn injuries to three foreign experts while attempting to douse the flames triggered several delays. The well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, and experts fear extensive environmental damage. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of damage. In June, National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered formation of an expert committee to probe the blow out and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife and environment because of it. The environmental and health impact of the fire will be long term, according to a report by Wildlife Institute of India submitted to the Union environment ministry in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-days-later-baghjan-blowout-finally-capped/story-zh8YJ21EVDKA1yGVSr7lcL.html
17-08-2020||India||SC judgment today on plea seeking to transfer funds from PM Cares to NDRF||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Tuesday in a plea asking that all contributions made to PM Cares fund till date be transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (DM Act).The verdict, which will be pronounced by a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, will also decide whether the PM Cares Fund violates the legal provisions contained in the DM Act.The petitioner NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) claimed that PM Cares Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM-CARES Fund. All the contribution being made by individuals and institutions in relation to COVID-19 crisis are being credited into the PM CARES Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act,” the petitioner submitted.The central government said in its affidavit on July 8 that the PM Cares is a fund established to carry out relief work and there are several such funds established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations,” the affidavit said.During the hearing before the apex court, the central government through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, defended the PM Cares fund, saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF as alleged by the petitioners. “Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations,” Mehta argued.The bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, reserved its judgment in the case on July 27. Another petition against PM Cares Fund filed by Rajasthan government in June, is also pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judgment-today-on-plea-seeking-to-transfer-funds-from-pm-cares-to-ndrf/story-XfoU8y1ek8ZyAmUpUxYteM.html
17-08-2020||India||Asthana to take chargeof BSF||New Delhi: The Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. The 1984 batch IPS officer, currently heading the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) with additional charge of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), is set to assume full-time charge of the BSF, deployed along the 2,280-km-long border with Pakistan. S S Deswal, director general of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and a batchmate of Asthana, has been holding additional charge of the BSF since March. Recent military tensions along the Line of Actual Control with China and “mischievous activities” by Pakistan prompted the government to appoint a full-time BSF chief, said an official familiar with knowledge of the matter, requesting anonymity. India accuses Pakistan of attacking Indian border posts and settlements unprovoked and of trying to infiltrate members of terror groups into its territory.Asthana will continue to hold additional charge of the NCB. Asthana, a former special director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and his then boss, CBI director Alok Verma, were embroiled in a bitter internecine fight in 2018 during which they levelled corruption allegations against each other. Asthana was exonerated of the charges by a court on March 7 this year. Verma was removed from his post on January 10, 2019 by a high-powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Appointed director general, fire service, civil defence and home guards, Verma quit the police service The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet also said 1986 batch IPS officer V S K Kaumudi, who is currently the director general of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, had been appointed special secretary (internal security) in the ministry of home affairs. Another 1986 batch IPS officer, Jawed Akhtar, was named director general, fire services, civil defence and home guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asthana-to-take-chargeof-bsf/story-t2ithkuq9vpKabzpyV81HK.html
17-08-2020||India||Money-laundering case filed against Chinese national||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against Chinese national Luo Sang, who was living in India under the pseudonym Charlie Peng and is involved in alleged cross-border money laundering worth at least Rs 1,000 crore using shell companies and the hawala route (an informal and illegal way of transferring money across geographies) , officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The officials, who asked not to be identified. said that a case had been registered against Peng under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the Income Tax (I-T) department’s action and a Delhi Police probe. The agency will soon summon for questioning Peng and his associates including hawala dealers, chartered accountants and bank officials who are believed to have connived with him. Investigations by multiple agencies, including the I-T department, Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies, have so far revealed that Peng’s alleged money laundering activities are related to gathering information in India, one of the officials said.“We have information that Peng was sending packets carrying Rs 2 to 3 lakh to certain individuals in Tibetan settlements in Delhi including Majnu Ka Tilla. The packets were dropped off by his office boys. The accused were interacting on a Chinese app,” this person added. Investigations by the I-T department have revealed that certain Chinese companies under the scanner were issuing fake purchase orders for which bogus bills were raised by smaller Chinese companies having businesses in India. The I-T department acted against Peng (42) on August 11 and 12 on specific intelligence inputs; it was found that he was handling the finances for several companies and made several trips to various states across India in the past few years. He was even carrying an Aadhar card, a second officer said. Peng allegedly created a web of sham companies to launder money to and from China, according to the officials. He used import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items as his fronts to mislead Indian authorities, the second officer said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes, in a statement on August 11, said, without naming a company: “the subsidiary of Chinese company (linked to Peng) and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.” It said the searches were launched based on “credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities.” “Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than ₹1,000 crore over the period,” the CBDT said. HT could not speak to Peng, who is under detention. It wasn’t immediately clear whether he has legal representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-filed-against-chinese-national/story-FeK8ms00lIDAaHhqEkwzkJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Ahead of assembly polls, nine SPs among 17 IPS transferred in Bihar||In a major reshuffle on Monday, the Bihar government transferred 17 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers ahead of the assembly elections due in October-November. According to the notification issued late Monday night, the police chiefs of Saran, Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Jamui, Aurangabad, Vaishali, Araria, Khagaria and Bagaha districts have been replaced. 1980 batch IPS officer and additional director general of BMP, R S Bhatti has been promoted as Director General of Bihar military police. R M Vizhi, who was waiting for posting after returning from central deputation, has been posted as ADG (training). Similarly M R Nayak who was waiting for posting was made new Rail IG of Bihar. Araria SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram was transferred to Saran while Saran SP Harkishore Rai was shifted to Bhojpur. He replaces Sushil Kumar who was transferred as BMP-3 commandant Bodhgaya. Pramod Kumar Mandal has been transferred to Jamui. He was earlier posted as commandant of BMP-3. Outgoing Jamui SP I H Mengnu was shifted to Bihar police academy Rajgir. Jehanabad SP Maneesh was transferred to Vaishali. He replaces Dr Gaurav Mangla who will be the SP of state crime record bureau. Khagaria SP Meenu Kumari is the new SP of Jehanabad. STF SP Sudhir Kumar Podika has been transferred to Aurangabad as SP replacing Deepak Barnwal who has been transferred to SP Special branch. 2015 batch IPS officer who earlier posted as ASP Sasaram, Hridaykant has been transferred to Araria as SP while 2016 batch IPS officer Amitesh Kumar, ASP (East) Muzaffarpur transferred to Khagaria as SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-nine-sps-among-17-ips-transferred-in-bihar/story-L6imAHJazlku9L5azueGeL.html
17-08-2020||India||Six Covid-19 positive patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 12,493||Uttarakhand on Monday reported 319 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally of virus cases in the state to 12,493. Out of 12,493, a total of 8,485 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 67.92 per cent. Maximum 109 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Uttarkashi (77), Rudraprayag (41), US Nagar (38), Nainital (23), Tehri (15), Dehradun (10), Bageshwar (3), and one case each from Champawat, Chamoli and Pithoragarh districts, according to the health bulletin released by state. The death toll in state rose by six, after two Covid-19 positive patients died due to coronavirus related complications and other died due to co-morbidities. A total of 158 Covid-19 positive patients have succumbed to the virus infection in Uttarakhand till now, with 31 patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Haridwar district has reported the maximum 3099 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Dehradun (2438), US Nagar (2282) and Nainital (1784). Also, 385 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Monday with a maximum of 131 from Haridwar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 28.95 days, while the infection rate is 5.05%. The state has so far tested over 2.65 lakh samples of which results of over 13,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 433 containment zones in eight districts including maximum 366 in Haridwar district. To effectively fight the pandemic, the state government has operationalised 17 dedicated COVID Hospitals and 381 COVID Care Centres (CCC) across the state. State government has also started home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-covid-19-positive-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-rises-to-12-493/story-h4Untk3xIX53eT1qFTYk1I.html
17-08-2020||India||Will work with India to enhance trust: China||Beijing China is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two sides is to respect each other. The foreign ministry was reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech, wherein he talked of strengthening the Indian armed forces and said the country’s territorial integrity was supreme. Modi had referred to the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) without naming China and said that “whoever tried to threaten the sovereignty of our country right from the LOC {Line of Control with Pakistan} to the LAC, the army [and] our brave soldiers have given a befitting reply”. Noting that the whole country is devoted to protecting India’s sovereignty, Modi had said: “The world has seen what our brave soldiers can do in Ladakh, what the country can do to defend its resolve.” Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash and China has acknowledged it suffered casualties, but without specifying numbers. Asked to comment on Modi’s speech, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “We have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech. We are close neighbours, we are all emerging countries with over one billion people. “So the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world. The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao told a regular news briefing. He added, “So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the Chinese spokesperson’s remarks. Modi’s speech was also analysed by Chinese state-run media, which said it was important, in China’s context, to follow what he does next. “After the latest round of senior military-level talks between Beijing and New Delhi on August 8, India hasn’t shown any sign of changing its stance. At the same time, China has also held its ground,” Zhao Gancheng, a research fellow at Shanghai Institute for International Studies, told the tabloid Global Times. “As the two countries are still at a stalemate over key issues, Modi’s real intentions will likely be revealed in his next moves,” Zhao said. Referring to Modi’s speech, Zhao said it could be explained from two perspectives: “One is that Modi has become tougher and put on a combative look. The other explanation is that the Indian government thought it had done enough by demonstrating its attitude toward China. Therefore, what Modi said in his Independence Day speech is not very important – but what he will do next is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-work-with-india-to-enhance-trust-china/story-3PWih20AnvHUNHhirJAJkJ.html
17-08-2020||India||India, Nepal agree to expedite bilateral projects in key meet||New Delhi India and Nepal on Monday agreed to speed up bilateral projects, including infrastructure schemes and cross-border rail links, as senior officials of the two sides held a meeting for the first time since a border row strained ties earlier this year. The meeting of the India-Nepal oversight mechanism was held via video conference two days after a phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart KP Sharma Oli, which people familiar with developments said had helped to clear the air between the two sides. This was the eighth meeting of the mechanism, set up in 2016 to monitor the progress of India-funded projects, and it carried out a comprehensive review of economic and development cooperation schemes since the last meeting in July 2019. “Both sides deliberated on the issues and agreed to expedite their implementations,” said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry added: “Both sides underlined the need for the expeditious implementation of the bilateral projects. In that connection, they agreed to undertake necessary measures to timely address problems and obstacles in the course of implementation.” The meeting in Kathmandu, co-chaired by Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, was attended by representatives of ministries and departments of the Nepal government and consultants and contractors engaged in implementing the projects. Kwatra and Bairagi noted the progress in development projects over the past year, including reconstruction of 46,301 earthquake-affected houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot districts, operationalisation of the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline, opening of an integrated check post at Biratnagar and high impact community development projects. India has committed to rebuild 50,000 houses damaged by the devastating earthquake of April 2015. The statement from the Nepalese side said the meeting discussed the status of several key projects such as the terai roads, cross-border railways, Arun-III hydropower project, Pancheshwar multi-purpose project, irrigation projects, power and transmission lines, construction of the Nepal Police Academy, Ramayana circuit, motorable bridges over Mahakali river, agriculture and cultural heritage. Nepal also appreciated the Covid-19-related assistance from India, including the supply of medicines and medical equipment. In May, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road by India to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet. Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the border row. Some experts have highlighted the need for India to improve ties with Nepal at a time when it is engaged in a border standoff with China. But former ambassador Neelam Deo, director of Mumbai-based foreign policy think tank Gateway House, said the India-Nepal relationship is important regardless of other factors. “It is as important as our relations with Bangladesh and Bhutan, even with all the difficulties. Its importance can’t be overstated. Whether things will now improve is contingent on Prime Minister Oli’s political fortunes. Obviously, there are people within the Nepal government who want a more balanced situation and who don’t want a break in ties with India, and they are pushing back,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-agree-to-expedite-bilateral-projects-in-key-meet/story-nD0Kd0p7vb9hUR3HFb5bJK.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Huge void’: President, PM Modi, musicians pay tributes to legendary vocalist Pandit Jasraj||Remembering Pandit Jasraj’s unparalleled contribution to classical Indian music, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Lata Mangeshkar and others in the music industry condoled the death of the classical Indian vocalist at the age of 90. One of India’s greatest music legends, Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, US.The President said he was sad to hear about Pandit Jasraj’s passing away.“Spanning a distinguished career of over 8 decades, Pandit Jasraj, a Padma Vibhushan recipient, enthralled people with soulful renditions. Condolence to his family, friends & music connoisseurs,” the President said in a statement posted on his official Twitter handle.PM Modi said Pandit Jasraj’s death had created a huge void in the Indian cultural sphere.“The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted Celebrating Jasraj’s storied legacy spanning almost eight decades, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu credited the music maestro for creating timeless masterpieces in Indian classical music. Melody queen Lata Mangeshkar, who was Pandit Jasraj’s favourite singer, said she was devastated by the death of the music legend. “I am devastated by the news of demise of great classical vocalist and worshiper of goddess Saraswati, Sangeet Marthand Pandit Jasraj ji. May his soul rest in peace,” Mangeshkar wrote on Twitter.Vocalist Madhup Mudgal called Pandit Jasraj the last of the five pillars of Indian classical music.“He was one of the greatest singers of our country. I always considered him one of the five pillars of Indian classical music - Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, Kumar Gandharva, Mallikarjun Mansur, Kishori Amonkar, and Pandit Jasraj. We have lost an irreplaceable artiste today,” Mudgal told PTI.Padma Shri awardee vocalist Ulhas Kashalkar remembered him as an artiste who made classical music popular among the youth. “He established his own gharana and made classical music popular among the new generation. He created the next generation of listener at a time when classical music was losing its touch. There rarely comes an artiste with such an influence on the public,” Kashalkar said.Sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan said Pandit Jasraj’s “passing away marks the end of an era in the world of music”.“I shared so many festivals with Jasraj bhai right from the sixties. He gave a different dimension to vocal music. His musical approach and genius endeared him to the planet. His legacy lives on timelessly. I will miss him immensely both musically and personally! May his soul rest in peace!,” Khan wrote in a Facebook post.From Indian popular and Bollywood music industry, veteran singer Asha Bhosle, composer AR Rahman, singer-composer Shankar Mahadevan, Sufi and Punjabi singer Daler Mehndi and Adnan Sami among others paid homage to Pandit Jasraj.Bhosle said in Pandit Jasraj’s death she has lost a big brother and she would always remember his “childlike demeanor”.“I have lost someone who was extremely fond of me, I have lost a big brother indeed! Sangeet ka sooraj doob gaya… I will always remember his childlike demeanor. May his soul rest in peace,” the singer said in a statement.Rahman said the singing legend’s death was a monumental loss for the music.“Just heard of the passing of the Legendary #PanditJasraj Ji. My condolence to music itself, and to every musician on the planet. A truly monumental loss. My heart goes out to my friends Jatin & Lalit Pandit, Shweta & Shraddha Pandit & of course @DurgaJasraj ji, and the family,” he posted on social media.Sami, who composed the song “Vaada tumse hai vaada” crooned by Jasraj for 2008 movie “1920”, said the veteran was full of love and his demise has left him “musically orphaned”. “I am devastated by the news. For me, he was like the light of music. Today there is a certain darkness that has come about in the world of music,” the singer-composer told PTI.“He encouraged me always and gave me a lot of confidence. I always felt I had his blessing on me. I feel musically orphaned by his demise. He has left a huge treasure of music for us all for which we will be forever grateful. His music will always be immortal,” he added.Veteran lyricist-writer Javed Akhtar said a “huge pillar of Hindustani sangeet has fallen today”.“My heart felt condolence to Pandit Jasraj ‘s family . I can see him standing on the stage with his arms raised as if he is blessing all of us and in his soft and silken voice for the last time he is saying,”Akhtar added.Composer Vishal Dadlani said, “#RIPPanditJasraj indian classical music has lost one of its shining stars”.Mahadevan said the news of Jasraj’s demise has left him “devasatated”.“Devastated after hearing the news that Sangeet marthand pandit Jasraj has moved on to the next dimension. A big void in the world of Indian Classical music. His music will live on in this planet,” he wrote.Mehndi said in Jasraj’s death India has lost another gem.“Hindustani music maestro- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri- Pt. Jasraj passed away in the US a short while ago. India has lost another gem, one of the rarest!” the singer posted on the microblogging site.Singer Kavita Seth said Jasraj’s music will “will remain and flourish in our hearts”.Sanjiv Goenka, chairman Saregama, said, “Pandit Jasraj was a legend and for our family like an elder. We and all of Saregama will miss him immensely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-void-president-pm-modi-musicians-pay-tributes-to-legendary-vocalist-pandit-jasraj/story-t6qrTzOtd7imp6f6sHRGhN.html
17-08-2020||India||Three hurt as man sets fire to a car after locking them in it in Andhra’s Vijayawada||Three people received burn injuries and one of them got serious burns, when a man set fire to a car after locking them inside in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Monday evening, the police said. The incident happened at Bharat Nagar, in the heart of the city on the national highway (NH 16) just adjacent to a five-star hotel. Two of the injured -- Gangadhar and his wife Nagamalli – managed to escape with partial burns, while another person Krishna Reddy sustained 60 per cent burns. All three of them were admitted to a private hospital. Vijayawada deputy commissioner of police V Harshavardhan Raju said the accused – Venugopal Reddy was absconding. Raju, who rushed to the spot, told reporters that a dispute over some property was believed to be the reason for Venugopal Reddy to resort to the crime. They had been into a property financing business since 2014 and were believed to be incurring losses of late. Preliminary inquiries by the police revealed Venugopal Reddy, a native of Tadepalli in Guntur district, had acquired a piece of land in Eluru of West Godavari district and called his three other business partners, Gangadhar, Nagamalli and Krishna Reddy, to discuss money matters. They met around 2 pm and went round several areas in Krishna and Guntur districts before finally arriving at Bharati Nagar. “After some heated discussion while sitting in the car, Venugopal Reddy got down, locked the doors with a remote and doused the car with petrol which he had carried in a bottle, presumably with a plan,” the DCP said. Gangadhar and Nagamalli, who were sitting in the backseat, jumped out of the car immediately even before fire engulfed the car. Krishna Reddy, however, struggled to come out of the burning car for some time. But he, too, managed to get out of the car and jumped into a canal to save himself. By the time a fire tender arrived, the car was completely burnt. “The three injured people are undergoing treatment in a hospital,” Harshavardhan Raju said, adding that a case of arson and attempt to murder had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-hurt-as-man-sets-fire-to-a-car-after-locking-them-in-it-in-andhra-s-vijayawada/story-NTym9mIPpIWHdRBJk8ZQzK.html
17-08-2020||India||Mizoram reports 12 new Covid-19 cases||Twelve people tested positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram on Monday, taking its tally to 789, an official said.There are 418 active cases in the state at present, while 371 people have recovered, he said.Six of the new cases were detected in Aizawl, three in Kolasib, two in Serchhip, and one in Lawngtlai district.The state tested 504 samples for Covid-19 on Sunday, he said.Meanwhile, Aizawl wore a deserted look with vehicles remaining off the road and residents staying indoors as the government imposed a four-day total lockdown that began on Sunday night.Filling stations, banks and some shops selling essential items were open, police said.The lockdown was imposed to stem the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-reports-12-new-covid-19-cases/story-9WI2LW2AJN0Ri9INfkMfqI.html
17-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj was a ‘Yug Purush’ in Hindustani Classical Music: Maharashtra governor||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari condoled the demise of the doyen of Hindustani Classical music Padma Vibhushan Pandit Jasraj, who passed away in New Jersey, United States on Monday. Legendary classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at an age of 90 on Monday.“Pt Jasraj was a ‘Yug Purush’ in Hindustani Classical Music. While taking Hindustani classical music to dizzying heights, he made special efforts to bring it closer to the common man. He was very open to accepting new streams and innovative ideas in music,” Koshyari said in an official statement.Pt Jasraj taught several students, many of whom have become established artists themselves, he said.“Pt Jasraj’s music is divine and will remain eternal. With his demise, a melodious era has come to an end. I convey my heartfelt condolences to his numerous admirers and members of the bereaved family in this moment of grief,” Koshyari said.Pandit Jasraj whose career in music spanned over 80 years belonged to the Mewati Gharana. He is a recipient of several accolades including the prestigious Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandit-jasraj-was-a-yug-purush-in-hindustani-classical-music-maharashtra-governor/story-J2DY1LGZllYP7JoyOD5dBP.html
17-08-2020||India||Goa poll body postpones municipal elections by 3 months due to Covid-19 pandemic||Municipal elections in Goa, scheduled for October 18, have been postponed by three months in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the state election commission said on Monday.“The health and safety of the people - voters, election staff, security staff - is paramount for the commission and commission did not think it prudent to go ahead and fix this election on this date. Otherwise many of the people who are going to be around for election purposes are going to be exposing themselves to the threat of spread of coronavirus,” Goa State Election Commissioner R K Srivastava said. “We were hoping that if things improve we would hold the elections in time,” Srivastava added.“Everyday cases are being reported. The government is managing the cases but over the last month or so, we’ve not seen any respite. We thought that it is just not advisable to go ahead with the election because democracy is for the people, by the people and of the people and we don’t want people to be exposed to any risks and their life should not be compromised because of the election. So we thought it prudent to postpone the election by three months,” Srivastava added. The state election body will review the situation after three months and accordingly decide whether it is safe and conducive to hold elections later this year.The term of 11 municipal councils in Goa ends on November 4.These are the second elections to be postponed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic with the state zilla panchayat elections scheduled to be held on March 22 this year also being postponed at the last minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-postpones-municipal-elections-for-3-months-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-l2GWBU1yob9J7QnyleC7AI.html
17-08-2020||India||JP Nadda tears into Gandhi family, accuses them of diverting funds from PM’s relief fund||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Monday in a blistering attack against former Congress chief and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, accused his family of “diverting money from the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund into family trusts and taking money from the Chinese to hurt national interests”. “Your family’s dubious legacy includes appropriating a permanent position in PMNRF and then diverting money from PMNRF into your family trusts. You and your mother also took money from the Chinese to hurt our national interest. Can anyone stoop lower?” Nadda tweeted. His attack against the Gandhis came in response to a single tweet by Rahul Gandhi, where he quoted a newspaper report that said the Prime Minister’s Office had declined to share information to a RTI activist asking for the total number of RTI applications and appeals received and disposed of since April 2020, as well as the number of such applications and appeals related to PM-CARES and the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.Gandhi quoting the media report had tweeted: “PMCares for Right To Improbity.” Lashing out at the Congress MP, the BJP leader said the entire nation has full faith on the PM and his initiatives. “This faith was yet again visible with the massive support for PM CARES. Being the loser you are, you can only crib and spread fake news while the entire nation has joined hands in the fight against Covid-19,” he said. He also went on to add, “This happens when the ‘Prince of Incompetence’ shares articles without even reading them. The RTI was filed to know details of other RTIs and this is maliciously spun by you as an attack on transparency. Well, it’s natural given how your career is only based on spreading fake news.” The Congress and the BJP have sparred in the past over the PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-tears-into-gandhi-family-accuses-them-of-diverting-funds-from-pm-s-relief-fund/story-3MmNKN6Yjphrj1bY4xEZEN.html
17-08-2020||India||Nepotism, groupism don’t stand in front of talent, passion: Shashank Raai||Dreams are fulfilled driven by passion and aided by grit. Shashank Raai, 28 — creator, producer and director — knows that all too well.“I did not continue education after Class 12 and have not received any formal education in film-making either. Yet, I had dreamt of becoming a producer-director. I was fortunate that people saw that passion in me and supported me a lot. Whatever I learnt is hands-on during work,” said the creator and producer of ‘Raktanchal’ based on Eastern UP mafia.Wading into the nepotism and groupism debate, he said, “I hear a lot about this but honestly speaking, despite being an outsider, I got enormous support from everyone. I have learnt that if you have talent and passion, even big banners support you as they too want fresh ideas to flow in.”He has been part of TV shows ‘Qubool Hai’, ‘Dev’, ‘Surveen Guggal’, ‘Vishkanya’ and ‘Siya Ke Ram’. He directed Bhojpuri film ‘Sher Singh’ starring Pawan Singh and will be making his feature film debut next year. Giving an insight into his journey, he said, “I have grown up in Azamgarh. During my school days, I was into plays, singing and other cultural activities. After Class 12, I expressed a desire to go to Mumbai to get trained in film-making. My family was very supportive and allowed me to go, even though I was just 17.”He joined the sets of TV show ‘Pratigya’ as an intern and learnt everything hands-on. “Thereafter, I joined Sagar Arts and gradually became an executive producer. Then I came into direction and finally opened my production house.”‘Raktanchal’ that was shot extensively in and around Varanasi, became the game-changer for him. “I ideated and created the story which had screenplay and dialogues by Savesh Upadhayay who hails from Prayagraj. Since it was based on true incidents, the challenge was to blend fiction and facts. We shot it with Nikiten Dheer, Kranti Prakash Jha and others last December and January in the chill of winter.” The first season was directed by Ritam Srivastava, a Lucknowite.The creator has Season Two planned that they will start shooting in November this year. “We will begin the shoot this year end, again in Varanasi, in real locations, which has been our show’s USP. We are working on it in a big way as we want the second season to be bigger and better. Season Two is always tricky and challenging as it comes with high expectations when the first part is a success.” Next year he has a feature film project lined up. “I will be directing and producing a film, which will go on the floors in 2021. We have signed a big actor and will be announcing it next month. The film is also based on a true event, inspired by a gangster in Mumbai. We will shoot it in Mumbai and Europe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/nepotism-groupism-don-t-stand-in-front-of-talent-passion-shashank-raai/story-FIvQIYTMLJegxHIiCsIMKJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Hyderabad revenue intelligence sleuths bust Rs 97 crore worth narcotics racket||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) authorities in Hyderabad on Monday, claimed to have busted a multi-state drug cartel and seized narcotics worth Rs 47 crore, besides raw material worth another Rs 50 crore and arrested three people, including two from Mumbai. An official release from the DRI, Hyderabad zonal unit said the officers of DRI raided a factory on the outskirts of Hyderabad on August 15, following a tip off that Mephedrone, a banned psychotropic substance under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act), was being illegally manufactured there. The DRI authorities seized 142.6 kgs of Mephedrone worth Rs 28.52 crore and 31 kgs of Ephedrine, also a banned drug, worth Rs 3.1 crore. Besides, about 250 kg of raw material worth Rs 50 crore, procured for manufacture of Mephedrone, was seized from the factory premises. These drugs were meant for supply to various cities in India. Acting on information given by the accused, the DRI authorities intercepted one such consignment of Mephedrone being sent from Hyderabad to Mumbai, while it was being transported in a private passenger bus as cargo with nobody accompanying it. In a series of swift follow-up raids, the DRI authorities identified the recipients of the consignment in Mumbai and raided their premises including a drug manufacturing laboratory at a residence, resulting in recovery of Mephedrone and Ketamine ready to be distributed, in addition to samples of other psychotropic substances. It clearly indicated a sophisticated distribution network both within the country and abroad. “In a carefully coordinated operation spanning over three days across multiple locations in Hyderabad and Mumbai, the officers of DRI seized 210 kg of Mephedrone, 10 kg of Ketamine and 31 kg of Ephedrine –worth Rs 47 crore, besides raw material worth Rs 50 crore. Further, cash of Rs 45 lakh in Indian, US and Euro currency was seized,” the additional director general said. While the mastermind involved in illegally manufacturing the narcotics was arrested in Hyderabad, two others were held in Mumbai. “The syndicate has a well-established chain of supply both within and outside the country. The payment for the raw material and finished products took place through Hawala channels,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-revenue-intelligence-sleuths-bust-rs-97-crore-worth-narcotics-racket/story-9vKdRLpuyF292V6di9QHNJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Manipur orders probe, withdraws gallantry medal after students’ union flags corrupt cop||The Manipur police has constituted a three-member probe committee to find out how a sub-Inspector who was allegedly arrested for trafficking drugs worth more than Rs 3 crore in 2013, was recommended for the chief minister’s police medal for gallantry.LM Khaute, Director General of Police Manipur issued an order in this regard on Sunday asking the committee to submit its report “within one week without fail”.The probe was ordered after the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU) alleged in a statement that sub inspector Beishamayum Debson Singh of Imphal East district police (Commando unit) was arrested allegedly along with 11 other policemen for trafficking drugs worth more than Rs 3 crore on April 28, 2013.The AMSU had also demanded a high level enquiry into the antecedents of all the police personnel who were conferred gallantry awards this year.Thanking the AMSU for bringing it to the notice of the government, Rehanuddin Choudhury, joint secretary (home) said in a statement that the government has withdrawn and cancelled the award of the gallantry medal to sub inspector Debson besides “based on a preliminary enquiry” besides putting him under suspension for concealing the drug case pending against him.According to the statement, one inspector E Roshan Singh of Imphal East district police who was found responsible for lapses in the initial processing has also been placed under suspension.On the eve of the state’s Patriots’ Day celebration (August 13) to commemorate the 1891 Anglo-Manipuri war, the state home department named 13 police personnel for the chief minister’s police medal for gallantry and 7 other personnel for the chief minister’s police medal for outstanding devotion to duty. Sub inspector Debson was listed sixth among 13 police personnel for the gallantry medal award which also carries a one-time cash award.In a tweet on Monday, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “I sincerely appreciate the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU)for pointing out a rotten apple among the gallantry award winners of Manipur police. Those guilty will be dealt with as they deserved. Please continue the good work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-orders-probe-withdraws-gallantry-medal-after-students-union-flags-corrupt-cop/story-LsrS8Q7f42nNS9o9Xh2kIP.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Irreparable loss to Indian music’: Kerala CM condoles death of Pandit Jasraj||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday condoled the demise of legendary classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, saying he was instrumental in spreading Hindustani music to various corners of the world.In a message, he said the death of Jasraj was an “irreparable loss” to Indian music.The Ninety-year old Indian classical music doyen died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irreparable-loss-to-indian-music-kerala-cm-condoles-death-of-pandit-jasraj/story-b3h3EnNv4a2SHbRLkPOYGN.html
17-08-2020||India||In first virtual meet after border row, India-Nepal decide to accelerate bilateral projects||India and Nepal on Monday agreed to speed up work on bilateral projects, including infrastructure schemes and cross-border rail links, as senior officials of the two sides held a meeting for the first time since a border row strained ties. The meeting of the India-Nepal oversight mechanism was held in Kathmandu via video conference two days after a phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart KP Sharma Oli, which people familiar with developments said had helped to clear the air between the two sides. This was the eighth meeting of the mechanism, set up in 2016 to monitor the progress of India-funded projects, and it carried out a comprehensive review of economic and development cooperation schemes since the last meeting in July 2019. “Both sides deliberated on the issues and agreed to expedite their implementations,” said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry added: “Both sides underlined the need for the expeditious implementation of the bilateral projects. In that connection, they agreed to undertake necessary measures to timely address problems and obstacles in the course of implementation.” The meeting, co-chaired by Indian ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, was attended by representatives of ministries and departments of the Nepal government and consultants and contractors engaged in implementing the projects. Kwatra and Bairagi noted the progress in development projects over the past year, including reconstruction of 46,301 earthquake-affected houses in Gorkha and Nuwakot districts, operationalisation of the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline, opening of an integrated check post at Biratnagar and high impact community development projects. India has committed to rebuild 50,000 houses damaged by the devastating earthquake of April 2015. The statement from the Nepalese side said the meeting discussed the status of several key projects such as the terai roads, cross-border railways, Arun-III hydropower project, Pancheshwar multipurpose project, irrigation projects, power and transmission lines, construction of the Nepal Police Academy, Ramayana circuit, motorable bridges over Mahakali river, agriculture and cultural heritage. Nepal also appreciated the Covid-19-related assistance from India, including the supply of medicines and medical equipment. In May, Nepal objected to the opening of a new road by India to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet. Nepal responded by issuing a new map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, all controlled by India, as part of Nepalese territory, exacerbating the border row. Some experts have highlighted the need for India to improve ties with Nepal at a time when it is engaged in a border standoff with China. But former ambassador Neelam Deo, director of Mumbai-based foreign policy think tank Gateway House, said the India-Nepal relationship is important regardless of other factors. “It is as important as our relations with Bangladesh and Bhutan, even with all the difficulties. Its importance can’t be overstated. Whether things will now improve is contingent on Prime Minister Oli’s political fortunes. Obviously, there are people within the Nepal government who want a more balanced situation and who don’t want a break in ties with India, and they are pushing back,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-first-virtual-meet-after-border-row-india-nepal-decide-to-accelerate-bilateral-projects/story-rCgp5x0VyHJD6BU8Xyd5aK.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 positive cases in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram jail rise to 477||The number of active Covid-19 prisoners in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram central jail rose to 477 on Monday with 114 more inmates testing positive for the coronavirus disease, said jail authorities. With the rise in cases, a special medical team has been deployed in the prison to tackle the situation, they added.There are more than 1,000 prisoners in the jail and with almost half of them reporting positive, hectic efforts are on to contain its further spread, jail superintendent P Nirmalanandan said.“We have segregated the infected and a special team is monitoring their condition. Majority of them are not showing any symptoms at all,” he said.Another worrying point for the state is that a large number of policemen and health workers - the frontline warriors of the pandemic - are getting infected.In Thiruvananthapuram district alone, 21 police personnel were tested positive on Monday taking the total number of infected officials to 342 across the state. As many as 31 health workers also tested positive. Meanwhile, Kerala recorded the highest single day count of 1,725 new cases, taking the total number of infected to 46,069 including the recovered cases at 30,009 and 15,890 active cases. With 13 deaths, the toll has gone up to 170.In view of the rising number of cases, the state has tweaked its health guidelines again, said health minister KK Shailaja.Now, patients with serious breathing problems and other ailments will be admitted to the hospitals and rest will be quarantined in their homes and their health position will be monitored regularly, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-cases-in-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram-jail-rise-to-477/story-rNO9RKguvhCoRvQ5sbStRJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Contempt action sought against Swara Bhasker for Ayodhya judgment remarks||A petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Monday seeking initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the top court and its judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.The plea, filed by Usha Shetty from Karnataka, was placed before the Attorney General of India, KK Venugopal, for his consent to list the matter before the court. As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of Attorney General is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.On February 1, the actor had attended a panel discussion organised by NGO Mumbai Collective on the topic ‘Artists against Communalism’. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, said: “We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to Ram Lalla Virajman, the child deity. The bench had also ordered that 5 acres of land at an alternative site should be granted to Muslims for construction of a new mosque.The apex court had, interestingly, acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhasker is derogatory and intended to scandalise the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity but a deliberate attempt to incite masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court”, she added.“The statement intends to incite a feeling of no confidence amongst the public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.HT did dial the actor for a comment, but she was unreachable.The Supreme Court had recently initiated contempt of court proceedings against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweets against the court and the Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The court had, on August 14, convicted Bhushan for the same and will hold a separate hearing on August 20 to decide the punishment to be given to him.What is noteworthy is that the petition against Bhushan was filed by one of Shetty’s lawyers, Mehek Maheshwari. Maheshwari had not obtained Attorney General’s consent in that case but the court nevertheless took up the matter suo motu based on Maheshwari’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-action-sought-against-swara-bhasker-for-ayodhya-judgment-remarks/story-945W1vgEczzoPGRQoIxjoK.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengal CID warns of phishing attacks through fake oximeter apps||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police has warned that downloading fake oximeter apps on mobile phones could lead to phishing attacks and theft of personal data. “We have not received any specific complaint. But we have received alerts from other security agencies that such apps are circulating in the virtual world. Hence the warning,” said SN Gupta, additional director general of CID. An oximeter is used to measure the oxygen level in blood. Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%). Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms or with critical comorbidities are advised to get admitted in hospitals. Patients with mild symptoms are treated at home. CID officials, however, said that fake oximeter apps have been developed to cheat people with the promise of measuring their oxygen level in their blood. The apps need to be downloaded. “Some apps have fingerprint scanning option. One the user scans his fingerprint miscreants may get access to fingerprint-protected data on the users’ mobile and on various online payment apps used by the victim,” said a senior CID official. Sleuths have warned that messages containing one-time-password (OTP) are also not safe from these apps. “Miscreants can get access to the users’ personal data, including pictures, saved on mobiles,” said a senior official. The CID warning was issued on the agency’s social networking account on Sunday urging citizens to “think wisely before downloading such apps.” “We have not received such complaints. But such things cannot be ruled out even though copying a fingerprint is hard,” said a senior official of the Kolkata Police’s detective department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cid-warns-of-phishing-attacks-through-fake-oximeter-apps/story-VbGbttfwn7rUofIut5kLNN.html
17-08-2020||India||2 women sentenced to death by Bihar court for murder of 4-year-old boy||A sessions court in Bihar’s Gopalganj awarded death penalty to a woman and her daughter-in-law for indulging in black magic that resuklted in the death of a four-year-old boy. This is the fourth capital punishment awarded by the Gopalganj court in the last five years. Durgawati Devi, 60, and her daughter-in-law Sankesha Devi, 40, were held guilty on July 5. “Additional district and session judge Lavkush Kumar awarded capital punishment to Durgawati and Sankesha, holding that this was among the rarest of the rare cases and the accused deserved maximum punishment for the inhuman and heinous crime,” Gopalganj government counsel Jairam Prasad said. Nine witnesses, including the doctor who conducted the autopsy of the victim, were examined by the court during the trial. According to the prosecution, the incident happened on the evening of September 5, 2017.The victim, identified as Dev Kumar, who was playing outside his house, went missing under mysterious circumstances. His mutilated body was found in front of the house of the suspected accused at Chhitauna village, the next day. Both the accused were arrested.Accused Sankesha was involved in ‘Black Magic’ and had taken the boy to her house on the pretext of giving him a chocolate, said the prosecution. There, she along with her mother-in-law, slit the boy’s throat with a knife, said the prosecution. The victim’s body had several injury marks. It is also said that during the interrogation, the duo confessed to their involvement in the murder of the child. After Sankesha’s statement, the police also recovered the knife used in crime.A murder case was lodged on the basis of the statement of victim’s father Binod Shah against the two women. Defence lawyer Dhananjay Choubey said that her client would challenge the order in the Patna high court. The victim’s father said that he had finally got justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-women-sentenced-to-death-by-bihar-court-for-murder-of-4-year-old-boy/story-V8Z4newJKymcIiNkYA8GzI.html
17-08-2020||India||AIIMS doctors to monitor Union Minister Shripad Naik’s Covid treatment in Goa||A team of specialist doctors from Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences will fly down to Goa on Tuesday to monitor the health of Union minister of state for AYUSH (Independent Charge) Shripad Naik who is under treatment for Covid-19.The minister has been administered plasma therapy and has been hooked up to High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO) for maintaining his oxygen saturation level, a statement issued by the Government of Goa on Monday, said.“A team of specialists from AIIMS, Delhi is arriving in Goa tomorrow, which consists of HoD, Anaesthesiology and HoD, Pulmonary Medicine,” the statement said. Naik who tested positive on August 12 along with his wife, said he was isolating himself at home. However, the next day he was admitted to a private hospital in the state but his condition is said to be stable. “The first dose of convalescent plasma has also been administered to him today under the supervision of the Transfusion Medicine Specialist who recently joined Goa from AIIMS, New Delhi and he is responding well to the plasma therapy,” the statement read Naik has been encouraging the use of alternative treatments and traditional immunity boosters to keep the coronavirus at bay and had even claimed that it was Ayurveda that had cured UK’s Prince Charles of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctors-to-fly-down-to-monitor-union-minister-shripad-naik-s-covid-treatment/story-ZTJZ2Nksa3DcVsP00yP9UL.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 lakh-mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra goes past 6-lakh mark with 8k plus casesMaharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 6-lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 8,493 fresh cases, the state health department said. It now stands 6,04,358. The state has added one lakh cases since August 8 when the tally crossed the 5-lakh mark. Read MoreMusic legend Pandit Jasraj passes away at 90Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at the age of 90 on Monday. He died of cardiac arrest at his house in New Jersey state of US. Read MorePandit Jasraj: Early life, awards and other achievements of the Padma Vibhushan awardeeWith a career spanning over 80 years, Pandit Jasraj was a recipient of various prestigious awards and honours including Padma Shri (1975), Padma Bhushan (1990) and Padma Vibhushan (2000). Read MoreRakesh Asthana appointed DG of Border Security ForceThe Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer - Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. Read MoreThe importance of Kamala Harris | OpinionKamala Devi Harris, a Black-identifying woman of Indian heritage, has been picked as the vice-presidential candidate for the Democratic Party. African-Americans form only 12% and Indian-Americans under one per cent of the electorate. Historically, three women have appeared on the presidential ticket before Harris. All of them have lost. So, then, why did Joe Biden pick Harris as his running mate in what many are calling the most crucial election in American history? Read this opinion piece by Amit AhujaChetan Chauhan cremated with state honoursFormer India cricketer and Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan, who died of Covid-19 related complications, was on Monday cremated with state honours in Garhmukteshwar, Hapur. Read MoreiQoo 5, iQoo 5 Pro launched: Check price, specs The iQoo 5 series smartphones are the successors to the iQoo 3 series smartphones that were launched last year and they come loaded with high-end specifications including the Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 processor and a 120Hz display. Read MoreNetizens ponder if they’d wear this transparent mask or notMasks have become an everyday essential protective item for people around the world. An initiative titled CLIU is designing a special type of mask which has a transparent covering around the mouth area. This unique design has got netizens torn, wondering if they would be willing to try this novel design or not. Read MoreWhen Pandit Jasraj almost fainted on being presented 5,000 gold coinsMusic maestro Pandit Jasraj, who died at the age of 90, on Monday, once revealed in an interview how he almost fainted on receiving a prize of 5,000 gold coins from the king of Nepal. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-lakh-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zpuL7eUenFwct4ggcZw90J.html
17-08-2020||India||IPS officer Rakesh Asthana is next BSF chief, VSK Kaumudi moves as MHA special secretary||Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana has been appointed as the chief of the Border Security Force (BSF) and V S K Kaumudi will be Special Secretary (Internal Security) in the Home Ministry, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday.Asthana is at present working as the Director General of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) here.He has been appointed the Director General (DG) of Border Security Force from the date of joining the post and up to July 31, 2021, i.e. date of his superannuation, the order said.Asthana, a 1984 batch IPS officer, is also holding additional charge of DG, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Kaumudi, a 1986 batch IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, is presently working as DG, Bureau of Police research and Development (BPR&D).He has been appointed Special Secretary (Internal Security), Ministry of Home Affairs up to November 30, 2022 i.e. date of his superannuation, the order said.His batchmate from Uttar Pradesh cadre, Md Jawed Akhtar has been appointed the DG, Fire Services, Civil Defence & Home Guard.Akhtar will hold the charge of the post for a period upto July 31, 2021 i.e. date of his superannuation, it added.He is presently working as Special DG, Central Reserve Police Force||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-rakesh-asthana-appointed-bsf-chief-kaumudi-to-join-mha/story-VDa1yBXrtBCD3TNhMRPB6N.html
17-08-2020||India||Rakesh Asthana appointed DG of Border Security Force||The Centre on Monday appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer - Rakesh Asthana as the new director general of the Border Security Force (BSF), according to an official order. The 1984 batch IPS officer, currently heading the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) with additional charge of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), will assume full time charge of the border guarding force deployed at the approximately 2,280 km long border with Pakistan. Currently, DG Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal, a batchmate of Asthana, was holding the additional charge of BSF since March this year. However, the government felt that keeping in view developments at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) or de-facto border with China and Pakistan’s mischievous activities, there was a need to appoint a full time chief in BSF, said a government official. Asthana, known for his acumen in investigations and strong leadership skills, will hold the post of DG BSF till July 31, 2021, time of his retirement. As a young SP in the CBI in 1997, he had arrested RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav in the fodder scam. He has investigated several high profile cases including the VVIP chopper scam and bank fraud by Vijay Mallya. He will also continue to hold the additional charge of NCB. Asthana - a former Special Director of CBI and his then boss Alok Verma were embroiled in a bitter fight in 2018 during which both levelled corruption allegations against each other. Verma, then CBI Director, had even filed a case naming Asthana in October 2018 but the Gujarat cadre IPS officer was exonerated of all charges by a court on March 7 this year. In fact, after the allegations came out in October 2018, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) conducted an enquiry against Verma and found him guilty of irregularities and impropriety. Verma was removed from the coveted post of CBI Director on January 10, 2019 by a high powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) order issued on Monday also stated that 1986 batch IPS officer - V S K Kaumudi, who is currently the director general of BPRD (Bureau of police research and development) has been appointed as special secretary (internal security) or SS(IS) in the ministry of home affairs. Another 1986 batch IPS officer - Jawed Akhtar has been appointed as DG Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-appointed-dg-of-border-security-force/story-5bjMQ5Ac70biSk1VeA9PGK.html
17-08-2020||India||With Godavari in spate 200 villages in Andhra Pradesh reel in flood||Around 170 villages in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh were inundated in flood water of Godavari river, following discharge of nearly 20 lakh cusecs of water from Dowleshwaram barrage at Rajahmundry on Monday. The Godavari river has been in spate for the last two days amid heavy rain that battered the districts of Andhra and Telangana.According to an official bulletin, a third level warning was sounded at Bhadrachalam in Telangana with water level in Godavari river rising up to 61.20 feet by 3 pm on Monday and has been steadily increasing with every passing hour. All the seven revenue blocks including Kunavaram, Bhadrachalam (rural), V R Puram, Chintoor, Kukunoor, Velerupadu and Burgampahad which were delinked from Telangana and merged with AP in 2014 were inundated in the backwaters of Polavaram project in West Godavari district. According to West Godavari district collector R Muthala Raju, the Polavaram village was partly submerged in flood waters due to breach of river bank and sand bags were placed to prevent further flooding of the village. “In all 30 villages in seven revenue blocks were affected. Drinking water is being provided to the affected people and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are evacuating old people and pregnant women to safe places,” he said. At Dowleshwaram barrage in East Godavari district, irrigation authorities discharged 19.06 lakh cusecs of water by 3 pm, which was the highest in the last seven years. At Rajahmundry, river ghats and sand ramps were completely inundated along with dredging machines and boats. At a review meeting conducted by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy said 161 villages in 13 blocks were affected in the entire district apart from 12 more villages in Amalapuram area. In all, 63 relief camps have been were set up so far. “Medical camps are also being set up and nutritious food is being provided and with the possibility of communication system getting affected we are keeping satellite phones ready. We have 14 mechanized boats for ferrying essential goods. The crop loss has to be assessed after the floods water recedes,” he said. A 53-year old man Mulakala Durga Rao of Ankampalem village of Jeelugumilli block in West Godavari district was washed away in the flood of Errakaluva stream as he tried to cross it on his motorbike. Meanwhile, in Telangana, too, heavy rains and floods wreaked havoc in Warangal (urban), Warangal (rural), Karimnagar, Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Peddapalli, Jayashankar Bhoopalpalli, Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts, submerging several low-lying areas. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the relief operations being undertaken in the flood hit areas, the CMO said in a statement. He instructed officials to take immediate measures in shifting the people in the tribal areas of Eturu Nagaram and Mangapeta blocks to safer areas. He also asked the authorities to see that there was no heavy waterlogging in the temple town of Bhadrachalam in the wake of the forecast of more heavy rains in the next three to four days. He asked the authorities to set up control rooms in every district affected by floods and continue rescue operations round-the-clock. State IT minister K T Rama Rao said 45 relief camps had been set up in all the flood-hit and rain-battered areas for the affected people. In Warangal town alone, as many as 4,750 people had been shifted to relief camps. Disaster Relief Force teams comprising 339 personnel from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation had been rushed to Warangal to rescue people stranded in floods, he said. The Krishna river is also spate due to heavy rain and discharges from the dams in the upstream areas. Following heavy inflows into Tungabhadra river from the Tungabhadra dam in Hospet and Krishna river in Almatti and Narayanpur in Karnataka, the Krishna river has been swelling constantly. An official bulletin said Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river has been receiving an inflow of 1.57 lakh cusecs due to release of water from upstream dams and more than 58,000 cusecs of water is being let off from the dam to Nagarjunasgar. At Prakasam barrage in Vijayawada, the authorities lifted all the 70 gates discharging 1.28 lakh cusecs of water, resulting in inundation of several villages downstream in Krishna district, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-godavari-in-spate-200-villages-in-andhra-pradesh-reel-in-flood/story-Jzl5iEGbWhDcUUgyOcCXHI.html
17-08-2020||India||India seeks investments from UAE in infrastructure, defence||India on Monday sought investments from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in key sectors such as infrastructure, highways, ports, airports, renewable energy and defence as the two sides discussed a joint strategy to offset the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The matters came up during a virtual meeting of the India-UAE joint commission on trade, economic and technical cooperation, which was co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. “The Indian side invited further investments from [the] UAE in key sectors of the Indian economy such as infrastructure including logistics, food parks, highways, ports, airports, renewable energy and defence,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry. The two sides assessed their cooperation over the past few months in the fight against Covid-19 and “discussed a joint strategy to offset the economic and social impact of the pandemic on both countries”, the statement added. “The UAE side conveyed appreciation for the significant contributions made by the Indian expatriate community and expressed its willingness to further strengthen links in energy and food security,” it said. Bilateral trade during 2019-20 was worth almost $60 billion, making the UAE India’s third largest trading partner after China and the US. The UAE is the second largest export destination for India, after the US, with exports worth more than $30 billion during 2018-19. India was the UAE’s second largest trading partner in 2018. Besides close security and defence ties between the two sides, the UAE is also home to more than three million Indians. The joint commission’s meeting was preceded by a virtual senior officials meeting on 13 August between Sanjay Bhattacharyya, secretary (consular, passport and visa and overseas Indian affairs), in the external affairs ministry, and Abdul Nasser Al Shaali, the UAE’s assistant minister of economic and trade affairs. Virtual meetings of five sub-committees on high-level exchanges, economic, trade and investment cooperation, consular and community affairs cooperation, defence and security cooperation, and education, culture and youth cooperation were held during August 10-11. “​Wide-ranging discussions were held in a friendly, frank and constructive atmosphere, reflecting the strong bilateral ties between the two strategic partners,” the statement said. Both sides agreed to strengthen cooperation in ongoing areas and to explore cooperation in newer areas reflecting the changing times. ​Both sides also discussed regional issues related to their neighbourhood and cooperation at the UN and other multilateral forums. They also agreed to hold the next session of the joint commission in Abu Dhabi in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-seeks-investments-from-uae-in-infrastructure-defence/story-TO8ZnsD1VGQAlNVob6b9oN.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra goes past 6-lakh mark with 8k plus cases||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 6-lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 8,493 fresh cases, the state health department said.Maharashtra’s tally now stands 6,04,358. The state has added one lakh cases since August 8 when the tally crossed the 5-lakh mark.Out of the 8,493 new cases of Covdi-19, 753 were from Mumbai where the tally has gone up to 1,29,479.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Monday’s number of new cases is one of few instances this month when the count has stayed in four figures. On most days it has been above 11,000 cases.The death toll in the pandemic in the state climbed to 20,265 with 228 casualties on Monday. Forty of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll mounted to 7,173.A total of 11,391 people were released from hospitals on Monday taking the number of recoveries in Maharashtra to 4,28,514.A total of 32,06,248 people have been tested for Covid-19 so far in Maharashtra, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tally-in-maharashtra-goes-past-6-lakh-mark-with-8k-plus-cases/story-tJJqw57a7SCMQVdYnFU7DM.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Markets re-open, public transport resumes in Kashmir||Markets re-opened and public transport resumed in Srinagar and other Kashmir district headquarters on Monday, a day after some prominent religious places including shrines opened in the Valley as restrictions imposed to control the surging Covid-19 cases were revoked. Shops, business establishments and markets opened after weeks of restrictions while buses and mini-buses also resumed their services nearly after five months. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had re-imposed lockdown restrictions in Srinagar from July 13 after a brief period of unlock, and then in the rest of the valley from July 27 as Covid-19 cases had shown an increase. After a State Executive Committee order on August 4, officials permitted reopening of 50 percent shops in all markets and resumption of public transport operations with a boarding of 50 percent passengers in minibuses and up to a maximum of four passengers in 10-seater maxi-cabs and two passengers in taxicabs and auto-rickshaws.“Public transport was the worst affected in Kashmir, first when restrictions were imposed following August 5 decisions last year and then from March this year when lockdown was imposed. We are literally resuming our work after a year,” said Bilal Ahmad Dar, a mini-bus driver of Nowpora in Old City.Unlike the normal times when buses on Kashmir roads used to be jam-packed, very few people used public transport on Monday and most of them were seen wearing masks.In the business hub of Lal Chowk in the city centre, many markets opened keeping in view the official directions of resuming business with 50 percent shops.“Markets with two parallel lines of shops opened only half while the rush of people was also not there. More than 90 percent of people were wearing masks,” said Sakib Ahmad, a resident of Lal Chowk.Business people say that these are hard times for everybody.“Markets opened today and the public transport was also there but there was no business. People have no money to spend except those working in the government. There is no tourism. The only way things can improve is when the government pushes money into the market in terms of development, infrastructure and other things,” said Yasin Khan, chairman of Kashmir Economic Alliance and president of Kashmir Traders and Manufacturers Association.However doctors are concerned about the surge in Covid-19 cases after the opening of markets.“Request to shopkeepers: They shall not allow any customer without mask and shall not sell any commodity to a person without mask. Request to customers: They shall not buy/ purchase from a seller who’s not wearing mask, “ wrote Dr Saleem Khan, nodal officer Covid for government medical college Srinagar, on Twitter. Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded six deaths and 422 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 28,892. The total death toll in the UT has risen to 548—507 fatalities in Kashmir and 41 in Jammu division till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-markets-re-open-public-transport-resumes-in-kashmir/story-P7ctxy9SJ6EOYCop5a4VaP.html
17-08-2020||India||Kidnapped and sold for marriage, 16-yr-old girl in MP rescued after 4 months||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted from Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh in March was rescued four months later from a village 310 km away in Sagar district of Bundelkhand region, police said Monday.Her mother had earlier alleged that the police did not act on her original complaint and that it was only because of the efforts of two social activists that her daughter could be traced. The police of Sagar and Mandla in a joint operation Sunday evening rescued her from one Bahadur Yadav’s house in Dhwara village of Sagar district, said Deepak Shukla, superintendent of police, Mandla. Police also denied the charges of inaction on its part. An FIR was registered against one Anita Yadav, a resident of Dhwara village at Bichhia police station in Mandla under section 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the girl was rescued. The decision to add the names of Bahadur Yadav and other members of his family in the FIR as accused and additional IPC sections would be taken after recording the girl’s statement, said the SP. The girl’s mother said, “I lodged a complaint with Bichhia police four months back and told the police that Anita Yadav abducted my daughter but police didn’t act.” “I waited for 20 days but nothing happened. Police personnel used to tell me to wait till this lockdown got over. Somebody shared my ordeal with Vivek Pawar and Prashant Dubey, two social activists and they started the search. I am grateful to them. I am fortunate to have my daughter back and alive. Otherwise a few girls who went missing from our village and nearby villages were never traced, she added. Prashant Dubey said they did not have any clue except the name of Anita. They eventually found out that she was from Dhwara village in Sagar district. In the last week of April, Dubey and Pawar asked some local youth to conduct a survey related to Covid-19 in the village and find out secretly if any new girl came to anybody’s house. But that exercise drew a blank until recently.“We had lost all hopes when one of the youths who had conducted the survey came to know from a villager that in April one Bahadur Yadav had solemnized the marriage of his son Halle with a girl and didn’t inform anybody about it. A local youth helped us keep an eye on the house and found out the girl was present in that house and that she was in very poor condition and moved outside under the strict vigil of the family,” Dubey said.Dubey alleged that the girl was sold for Rs 25,000 by Anita Yadav, a resident of Sagar, to Bahadur Yadav whose 19-year-old son Halle Yadav married her.He said after the girl’s identity was established, they informed inspector general of police (crime against women) Deepika Suri and Mandla SP Deepak Shukla.SP Deepak Shukla said, “After the social activists informed us a special team was formed and sent to Sagar to rescue the girl. The girl was rescued safely but members of the family escaped from the house. The woman Anita Yadav is also absconding. We are trying to nab the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnapped-and-sold-for-marriage-16-yr-old-girl-in-mp-rescued-after-4-months/story-1wdfiw2zbZLUsdCpSBbkCM.html
17-08-2020||India||83 days after it started, OIL caps Assam gas well blow out in third attempt||The blowout --- an uncontrolled release of gas or oil -- at an Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well in Upper Assam’s Baghjan was capped on Monday after 83 days. Efforts are in progress to douse the fire, which had broken out on June 9, at the well. The natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district had a blowout during a workover or maintenance operation to locate a new reservoir on May 27. While efforts were underway to plug the blowout, the well caught fire on June 9, which claimed two firefighters’ lives. The blaze is yet to be brought under control.“The well-capping operation was initiated on Monday morning and the capping blowout preventer (BOP) stack was successfully placed over the wellhead. The 16 studs have also been tightened,” OIL said in a statement. The BOP is a specialised valve or a similar device, which is used to seal control and monitor oil and natural gas wells to prevent blowouts. Usually, they are installed in stacks of other valves. “The preparations for killing operation are on. The BOP and the lines connected to it are being kept cool through continuous spraying of water,” the statement added. Installation of the BOP stack was the penultimate task needed to complete the operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of “killing the well” and dousing the fire starts. The mechanism requires injecting a “kill fluid”, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from it back to the reservoir. The well at Baghjan is around 3.5 kilometres deep and the killing operation that will douse the fire is expected to take up to 36 hours. Monday’s attempt at placing the BOP on the wellhead was the third try after OIL personnel and foreign experts engaged for the job had failed twice earlier. On July 31, experts were attempting to place the BOP stack, weighing nearly 3 tonnes, on the wellhead, when the Athey Wagon, a type of hydraulic lift used to fight oil-field fires consisting of a track-mounted boom with a hook in one end, fell down. Another attempt to cap the blowout failed on August 10 after one of the two bull lines connected to the Athey Wagon, which was lifting the BOP stack, came out from the socket due to the impact of excessive heat. Initially, OIL authorities had said that the well would be plugged in a month, but later the deadline was extended to July 7. However, several delays occurred due to annual flood woes, technical glitches and three foreign experts also sustained burn injuries while attempting to douse the flames. Fears abounded regarding environmental damage due to the blowout and the blaze to the surroundings of the gas well, which is located adjacent to Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland. Several studies by different agencies are in progress to measure the extent of the damage. In June, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) authorities had ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human lives, wildlife, and the environment because of industrial disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-days-after-it-started-oil-caps-assam-gas-well-blow-out-in-third-attempt/story-nc4s8v0xyWggqsc9QqsybO.html
17-08-2020||India||Congress ‘a death chamber of dissent and internal democracy’: Union minister Puri hits out at Rahul Gandhi||BJP leader and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Monday, saying the Congress leader should look at his party’s history before speaking on democratic values as it has been “a death chamber of dissent, right to expression and internal democracy”. The “headless party” is in the midst of a “civil war” and anyone who dissents is shown the door, Puri alleged. His fierce attack on Gandhi in a series of tweets comes in the middle of an intense war of words between the Congress and the BJP over the Facebook row. Following a report in the Wall Street Journal that Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to some BJP politicians, the Congress demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the charges, saying they threaten the foundation of Indian democracy and need to be investigated. Gandhi has accused the BJP and the RSS of spreading “fake news” using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate, triggering a sharp counter-attack from Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. In his all-out attack, Puri said there is something “surreal” about the “now on now off” leader of a political party which has not been able to muster 100 seats in the last two general elections put together, deciding to sermonise on democratic values and norms. “Irony just died laughing. Before issuing statements on freedom of expression, democratic values and ethos of secular coexistence, a little looking back at last 70 yrs would’ve helped Rahul Gandhi. His party has been a death chamber of dissent, right to expression and internal democracy,” he added. The latest example, he said, is suspended Congress member Sanjay Jha’s claim that around 100 Congress leaders, “distressed” at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, asking for change in political leadership and transparent Congress Working Committee elections. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, however, rejected Jha’s claim, saying this is a non-existent letter and such misinformation is aimed at diverting attention from “Facebook-BJP links”. In his attack on Gandhi, Puri said he should look at the record of the government led by his party during the Emergency years of 1975-77 when every democratic institution was “declared defunct and one leader’s voice was regarded as law” before sermonising. He also cited his books to say that he had been writing about the “existential crisis” the opposition party has come to face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-a-death-chamber-of-dissent-and-internal-democracy-union-minister-puri-hits-out-at-rahul-gandhi/story-p5EBP1WKrMqh24yx03WO1H.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi condoles demise of Pandit Jasraj, says it leaves a deep void in Indian cultural sphere||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of musical legend Pandit Jasraj on Monday, who passed away at his house in New Jersey, United States. “The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted.  The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/6bIgIoTOYBPandit Jasraj died at the age of 90. His career spanned over 80 years, and he was a recipient of various honours, including the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan.He is survived by daughter Durga Jasraj and son Shaarang Dev Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demise-of-pandit-jasraj-leaves-deep-void-in-indian-cultural-sphere-says-pm-modi/story-932LomKFgoUXCN3fAGDemM.html
17-08-2020||India||Music legend Pandit Jasraj passes away at 90||Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj passed away at the age of 90 on Monday. He died of cardiac arrest at his house in New Jersey state of US.He had turned 90 in January this year. One of India’s greatest music legend, Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati Gharana, was in the US when the country went into lockdown due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” his family said in a statement.With musical career spanning over 80 years, Pandit Jasraj was awarded with honours such as Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. “We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers,” the statement, issued on behalf of the family and students of the Mewati Gharana, further read.Expressing his condolences on the demise of the legendary singer, PM Narendra Modi tweeted, “Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists.” The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/6bIgIoTOYBThe music legend is survived by daughter Durga Jasraj and son Shaarang Dev Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/music-legend-pandit-jasraj-passes-away-at-the-age-of-90/story-5KjCV2P2Ff0KQIYEW4MUWP.html
17-08-2020||India||Congress steps up attack on Facebook; accuses it of ‘inaction’ on hate content||Facebook’s “inaction” against hate content “destabilises” democracy in India, the Congress alleged on Monday, sharpening its criticism of the global social media giant after a US media report claimed that it refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians. In its reaction to the swirling controversy fuelled by the report in the Wall Street Journal, Facebook said the company’s social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence, adding these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. However, Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets globally, acknowledged that “there is more to do”. In the report published on Friday, the US newspaper cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. The Congress on Monday reiterated its demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the charges mentioned in the report. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India is one of the most thriving democracies in the world and anybody or any platform that undermines it by “indulging in hate mongering must not be spared”. “With all responsibility, I will say that Facebook’s inaction destabilises our democracy. More often than not Facebook takes no action and even worse allows objectionable content to continue despite being brought to notice,” she alleged. Shrinate also claimed that Facebook has different rules for different countries and “that is not acceptable”. “The rules for India are dramatically different and are bent as per their convenience. In Singapore while deposing before policy makers, Facebook said they were a social media platform and can’t take down content unless it was brought to notice. “Ironically in India, despite external complaints and red flags being raised by their own trust and safety teams, hate content has been allowed to wilfully continue,” Shrinate alleged. She said the social media company has removed pages and issued press releases across the world including the US and Turkey, citing “coordinated inauthentic behaviour”, but wondered why it has never done something similar in connection with rumour mongering and hate speeches in India. “There is enough and more objectionable content that exist on its platform. Some of which incites violence, some of which is abusive against women, some of which targets particular communities and groups,” she claimed. Responding to the media report and the subsequent controversy, a Facebook spokesperson said, “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation.” “While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” the spokesperson said. Shrinate also criticised the government saying instead of responding to the media report in the Wall Street Journal, it is targeting the Congress party. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had hit out at the Congress over the issue on Sunday and reminded the opposition party of the Cambridge Analytica issue. Prasad’s reference to Cambridge Analytica was about the allegations the Congress faced in 2018 that the UK-based firm offered the party data mining of Facebook posts to influencing voters in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Congress had rejected the charges. Apart from Facebook, the rumour mongering, disinformation and hate speech that go unchecked on WhatsApp are even more damaging, Shrinate said. “We also expect Facebook global to look into discrepancies that exist in its India operations and we hope Facebook will take immediate remedial measures,” she said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, has said the panel would like to hear from Facebook about the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-steps-up-attack-on-facebook-accuses-it-of-inaction-on-hate-content/story-dRf9ggerUcyhujmlBdjYhI.html
17-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly panel to summon Facebook officials over hate content||Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee will send summons to Facebook officials including its India executive Ankhi Das following complaints of not acting against hateful content.“Summons set to be sent for the appearance of the concerned officials of Facebook including Ankhi Das. The Committee will convene its meeting this week to initiate the proceedings,” the committee said according to ANI.“The committee has received multiple complaints addressed to its chairman Raghav Chadha against the officials of Facebook for their alleged deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content in India,” it said.Meanwhile, Facebook’s Director, Public Policy, India, South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das has filed a complaint with Delhi Police, alleging that she has been receiving “violent threats to her life”, officials said on Monday.In her complaint on Sunday, Das alleged that several people were issuing “threats, making sexually coloured remarks and defaming her” through online posts.Over the weekend, Facebook has come under attack from the BJP and the Congress. While BJP accused the social media platform of censoring nationalist voices, opposition Congress cited a Wall Street Journal report that alleged that Facebook’s content policies favour the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-assembly-panel-to-summon-facebook-officials-over-hate-content/story-FqefqTE7ipqm571tz6X5uL.html
17-08-2020||India||SpiceJet operates charter flight on Delhi-Rome route with 264 Italians||SpiceJet on Monday said it operated a charter flight from Delhi to Rome with 264 Italians onboard.In a press release, the airline said it will bring back 186 Indian nationals to Delhi on its return journey.The airline had earlier operated long-haul charter flights from Amsterdam to Bengaluru and Hyderabad and from Delhi to Toronto.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, the Indian government has established separate bilateral air bubbles with countries like the USA, Germany and France. Under a bilateral bubble, airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-operates-charter-flight-on-delhi-rome-route-with-264-italians/story-xPBvnkqgAsiJt8gkUnSoQL.html
17-08-2020||India||ED files case against Chinese national for money laundering via shell companies||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against Chinese national Luo Sang, who was living in India using a pseudonym Charlie Peng and is involved in alleged cross-border money laundering worth more than Rs 1,000 crore using shell companies and hawala, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. Officials said the case has been registered against Peng under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the Income Tax department’s action and a Delhi Police probe after the prime facie offence was established. The agency will soon summon Peng and his associates for questioning, including hawala dealers, chartered accountants and bank officials who connived with him. The investigations by multiple agencies – including the I-T department, Delhi Police and central intelligence agencies, have so far revealed that Peng’s alleged money laundering activities are linked to gathering information in India, an official who didn’t wish to be named said. “We have information that Peng was sending packets carrying Rs 2 to 3 lakh to certain individuals in Tibetan settlements in Delhi including Majnu Ka Tilla. The packets were dropped off by the office boys of Peng. The accused persons involved were interacting on a Chinese app,” the officer said. Investigations by Income Tax department has revealed that certain Chinese companies under scanner were issuing fake purchase orders for which bogus bills were raised by smaller Chinese companies having business in India. The I-T department had acted against Peng (42) on August 11 and 12 on specific intelligence inputs during which it was found that he was handling finances several companies and made several trips to various states across India in the last few years. He was even carrying an Aadhar card, the second officer said. Peng had allegedly created a web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China in the past two-three years. He used import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items as his front to mislead Indian authorities, the second officer said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes in its statement on August 11 said, without naming a company, – “the subsidiary of Chinese company (linked to Peng) and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.” It said the searches were launched based on “credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities.” “Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period,” the CBDT had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-case-against-chinese-national-for-money-laundering-via-shell-companies/story-rpgf3jVbJRsp7PtDIPLpRK.html
17-08-2020||India||Maoist posters resurface in Bengal’s Jangalmahal after almost a decade||Hand-written posters allegedly signed by Maoists have been recovered from the Jangalmahal area – once a Maoist stronghold – after almost a decade in West Bengal. The pamphlets urged people to observe the Independence Day as Kala Divas.On Sunday, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had hinted that Maoists could be regrouping in the state. “The dangerous head of Maoism is getting visible with support of state actors,” Dhankhar had said at a function organised at the Raj Bhawan to mark the second death anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. The police have started a probe into the incident, however no one has been detained or arrested yet. “Around 10–12 posters were recovered from two to three adjacent villages of Bhulabheda in Jhagram. We have started a probe. No one has been detained so far,” said Amitkumar Bharat Rathod, superintendent of police of Jhargram. West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram comprise the Jangalmahal - where the CPI (Maoist) had virtually set up a ‘liberated zone’ between 2009 and 2011.The area witnessed a bloody battle between the insurgents, security forces and the armed militia of CPI(M). More than 350 civilians and more than 50 security personnel were killed by Maoists.In retaliation, security forces killed around 80 Maoist leaders and activists. The Maoists were virtually wiped out from the state after the Mamata Banerjee-administration came to power in 2011.“Maoists no longer have any armed squad active in the state. Several Maoists had surrendered after the killing of dreaded Maoist leader Mallojula Koteswar Rao alias Kishanji in 2011. Such posters were found in West Midnapore last year as well. We are investigating,” said a senior official of the state police. Recently, in a major development, the Trinamool Congress had inducted Chhatradhar Mahato, who was the convener of the Maoist-backed Peoples Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), and had been in prison for the last 10 years, was inducted into the party’s state committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleged-maoist-posters-resurface-in-bengal-s-jangalmahal/story-LwbBCpzcT5bf6xUT333esO.html
17-08-2020||India||Gold case accused Swapna travelled thrice with suspended IAS officer to Gulf nations during 2017-18: ED||Suspended IAS officerM Sivasankar travelled thrice to the Gulf countries with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, during 2017 and 2018, the Enforcement Directorate probing the money trails of the racket informed a court here on Monday. The submissions were made before the special court for PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) cases, as the ED filed a petition for judicial remand of Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair at the end of their custody with the agency. The three were in ED custody since August 5. Referring to the questioning of Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the ED said it was revealed that in April, 2017 Suresh had travelled to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with him. Again,in April 2018 the woman had travelled to Oman and met Sivasankar who was on a visit there then and they returned together to India from the Gulf nation, it said. “It is further revealed that during October 2018 A-2 (Suresh) and Sivasankar travelled together to UAE and returned together and this particular trip was coupled with the visit of the Chief Minister of Kerala to UAE for seeking assistance of Indians there for flood relief in Kerala”, the ED submitted. The court remanded the accused to judicial custody till August 26. The ED also said Suresh kept the proceeds of the crime in a bank locker jointly operated with a third person as per the instruction of Sivasankar. Also opposing the bail plea of the accused, the ED said an in-depth investigation into these aspects was to be conducted. The bail application in the ED case is likely to come up for hearing on Tuesday. Last week, the NIA special court and the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, here have dismissed the bail plea of the three. The agency had questioned Sivasankar on Saturday for the second time. It had earlier filed a written submission in the court that the officer, suspended after his links to Suresh surfaced, was fully aware that the integrity of the woman was dubious. The agency which recorded the formal arrest of the three accused on July 22 while they were in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), had on Friday informed the court that Suresh has claimed that she had “considerable influence” in the Chief Minister’s Office. Sivasankar had also been interrogated earlier by the NIA and the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate probing separate cases related to the gold smuggling using diplomatic channels of UAE consulate through international airport in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-case-accused-swapna-travelled-thrice-with-suspended-ias-officer-to-gulf-nations-during-2017-18-ed/story-J3vbHlzs5qvxiNYLtI3hTK.html
17-08-2020||India||Cong seeks DNA test of Uttarkhand BJP MLA accused of rape and fathering a child||Accused of rape and fathering a child, Mahesh Singh Negi, a BJP MLA in Uttarakhand has charged the opposition Congress with maligning his image by “using the woman” while the Congress has demanded that he should prove his innocence by undergoing a DNA test.Negi represents the Dwarahat constituency of Almora district. On Sunday, the woman who is married lodged a complaint with the Dehradun police accusing Negi of raping her several times and fathering her child. She also sought police protection for herself and her family members from Negi. She was earlier booked for extortion and blackmail after Negi’s wife Rita Negi lodged a complaint accusing her of trying to extort Rs 5 crore from him by threatening to frame him in a false case. Negi who refuted all the allegations of the woman, alleged on Monday that Congress is conspiring to malign his image and harm him politically.id, “All the allegations levelled against me by the woman are false. She has been already booked by police for trying to extort a huge sum of money from me. To save herself from that, she has now lodged a concocted complaint against me.” “It’s all a conspiracy by the Congress to malign my image and harm my political career. They are using the woman against me for that which is shameful. A thorough investigation in the extortion case will reveal everything,” the MLA said.He, however, did not answer when asked if he would undergo a DNA test to debunk the woman’s claim of paternity and disconnected the phone citing his wife’s ill health. The Congress insists it has nothing to do with the incident and said the woman has herself come forward and levelled the accusations against Negi and the onus is on him to clear the air. “Congress has no connection with the matter whatsoever. The woman has accused a ruling party’s lawmaker which is a very serious issue. There should be a thorough probe on her complaint and MLA Negi should undergo a DNA test to prove that the child is not his,” said party state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana. Meanwhile, the BJP state leadership in a calibrated response said the party would “wait for the investigation to finish on both the complaints before any action”.Devendra Bhasin, vice-president of the state unit of the BJP said, “Both the sides have levelled allegations against each other and lodged their complaints on the same. We will wait for the investigative agencies to finish their probe on the two before taking any action at party level against Negi. As of now we haven’t taken any action because it’s his personal matter,” said Bhasin. “Having said that, the BJP will always keep its principles intact. If Negi is found guilty, party will take appropriate action.”The case has a similarity with that involving Uttarakhand’s former chief minister ND Tiwari in which a man named Rohit Shekhar had claimed to be his son. After initial denials, Tiwari accepted him as his son in 2013 after a DNA match. In another case involving a politician, the then Congress l Cabinet minister and now BJP leader and Cabinet minister, Harak Singh Rawat was booked in a molestation case on the complaint of a woman in Delhi. However, the woman later withdrew her complaint. MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science at Garhwal Central University, Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, said, “The recent incident involving the BJP MLA is not a good thing for Uttarakhand politics. It will only symbolise the degradation of ethics in the state’s politics.” “People nowadays are already terming politics as a very dirty affair and on top of that incidents like these will only bring more disrepute. A thorough investigation should be carried out and stern action should be taken against anyone found guilty to avoid its repetition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-dna-test-of-uttarkhand-bjp-mla-accused-of-rape-and-fathering-a-child/story-hmHOrQ1batFzaZ4FT63i2I.html
17-08-2020||India||Three security force personnel killed in terror attack in Baramulla||Two troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a Special Police Officer (SPO) of Jammu & Kashmir Police (J&K Police) were killed in a militant attack in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. Later two militants, who were involved in the terror strikes, were also killed in an encounter with the security forces. Police said a group of militants targeted the security forces’ joint patrol party at Watergam Kreeri, where three personnel were wounded and succumbed to their injuries at a hospital. The operation to track the militants was launched soon after the attack on the patrol party by a joint team of J&K Police, Indian Army and CRPF personnel. Vijay Kumar, inspector-general of police (IGP), Kashmir, J&K Police, said three militants, who were hiding in an apple orchard, came out and started firing indiscriminately on the joint patrol party on Monday morning. “In the firing, two CRPF jawans, and an SPO of J&K Police were killed. Soon, the forces launched an operation against the militants.” Kumar said there is a likelihood that the militants were affiliated to outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “The militants seem to have changed their strategy. Now, they are targeting patrol parties in remote areas in the Kashmir Valley.” “However, two attackers were chased and killed in an encounter,” he added. Sources said that the militants had also decamped with the security forces’ weapons that were recovered from their possession following the encounter. This is the second attack on security forces in the Kashmir Valley since last Friday, when two policemen were killed and another was injured at Nowgam in Srinagar. Police suspected the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) militants behind Friday’s attack. A closed-circuit TV (CCTV) footage, which has since gone viral on social media, showed two militants armed with Avtomat Kalashnikova (AK)-47 rifles running after the attack. Last week, militants had also targeted an army patrol in neighbouring Hygam, where a jawan had sustained injuries. Officials said there has been a spike in militant activities in north Kashmir and security forces are on high alert. Prominent panchayat members and political leaders from north Kashmir have been shifted to the popular tourist resort town of Gulmarg following inputs that they could be targeted, especially those affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is seen to be inimical to the secessionist forces in the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-security-force-personnel-killed-in-terror-attack-in-baramulla/story-fCLzE5CMKICuNuWCoFToPJ.html
17-08-2020||India||At India-Japan Summit next month, Modi and Abe to sign off on key military pact||The India-Japan summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is scheduled for early next month, people familiar with the development said. The two leaders are also expected to sign off on a key military logistic pact, Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreement (ACSA), and discuss the possibility of some Japanese manufacturing units shifting to India.According to South Block officials, the two countries were earlier looking at the possibility of holding the meeting in October. It has since then been advanced tentatively to 10 September. The summit, initially proposed to be held in Guwahati on December 15-17 2019, was postponed due to protests against the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Assam.The summit comes against the backdrop of aggressive moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in India’s East Ladakh sector and Japan’s Senkaku Islands, respectively. Diplomats said the two leaders will not only discuss the Chinese aggression in Ladakh and the South China Sea but also cement the concept of Quad, the quadrilateral coalition of four countries - India, Japan, Australia and the US.The four Quad countries have increasingly, focussed on countering Beijing’s wolf-warrior diplomacy and keeping the sea lanes of communication open for freedom of navigation.The ACSA, which is key to India and Japan extending support and logistics to each other’s military, is expected to be initialled by the two leaders. New Delhi already has a similar agreement with other two Quad members, Australia and the US.India’s formal decision to invite Australia to the Malabar naval exercises later this year is expected soon but officials have made it clear that it is a formality. Australia’s inclusion to the military drills that has in the past included the other three Quad members - India, Japan and the United States - would be the first time that the grouping will be engaged at a military level.Officials said PM Modi and PM Abe will discuss at length the Indo-Pacific region and the challenges it faces from the Middle Kingdom.According to senior government officials, the two leaders will further cement economic cooperation with India opening doors to Japanese manufacturing activity and perhaps, involve Tokyo in ramping up port infrastructure in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.While India has linked peace and tranquillity on its border with China to the bilateral ties, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is also under pressure from his own Cabinet members to adopt a tough line with China.The Beijing expansionist approach is not limited to Ladakh but has created security concerns with Japan over ownership of Senkaku Islands as China claims the same as Diaoyu Islands with any eye towards extending its exclusive economic zone and strengthening the hold beyond the South China Sea. The Japanese people are not only in favour of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Tokyo being cancelled but also want the Abe government to be more critical of Beijing on the new Hong Kong security law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-japan-summit-next-month-modi-and-abe-to-sign-off-on-key-military-pact/story-9VXsAWZCVzrAKtOtf8pKMM.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengal to observe Sept 1 as Police Day to laud force’s contribution: Mamata Banerjee||The West Bengal government will observe September 1 as Police Day in recognition of the work done by the men in uniform, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday.“They are doing exemplary work. They are risking their lives while tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and handling law and order problems at the same time. Many policemen have been infected by the virus. But they have not budged. We want to honour them,” Banerjee said at a press conference at the state secretariat. She also announced several new projects for the Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police. These include setting up of 20 new barracks and scope for more promotion for women in the force.“Our policemen work selflessly and yet they are often maligned for no reason and even attacked by mobs. Look at policemen in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. Our policemen are far superior,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-observe-sept-1-as-police-day-to-laud-force-s-contribution-mamata-banerjee/story-nt37knYGYgE33nwH8XBsJJ.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In poll-bound Bihar, changed equations to create ample room for party hopping and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In poll-bound Bihar, changed equations to create ample room for party hoppingBihar, which is slated to go to polls in October-November, is gearing for the upcoming assembly election on schedule, despite the dual challenges of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the annual flood fury.Read more. ‘Important to respect, support each other’: China reacts to PM Modi’s Independence Day speechChina is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two countries is to respect each other.Read more. ‘Special misinformation group’: Congress slams Sanjay Jha’s claim of rumblings within partyThe Congress on Monday refuted a claim made by its suspended leader Sanjay Jha that 100 members of the party had written to president Sonia Gandhi, seeking a change in leadership and transparency in the working committee’s elections.Read more. 2 terrorists involved in attack on security forces killed in J-K’s BaramullaAt least two terrorists were gunned down by security forces in an ongoing gun battle on Monday after they attacked and killed two troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a special police officer (SPO) of Jammu and Kashmir police earlier in the day in the Union territory’s Baramulla district.Read more. Girl, 17, gang-raped, burnt with cigarettes in UP’s Gorakhpur; 2 arrestedA 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district on the Friday. Her body was singed with cigarette butts by the two men who raped her, said the girl’s mother.Read more. Suresh Raina sings Yeh Shaam Mastani in this old video tweeted by BCCI. WatchA heartening throwback video of cricketer Suresh Raina singing a song is collecting a ton of reactions from fans on Twitter. Raina announced his retirement from international cricket through a social media post on the same day MS Dhoni, former captain of the Indian cricket team, shared a post announcing his retirement.Read more. Watch: IAF chopper rescues man stuck in heavy flow of water at Chhattisgarh’s damIndian Air Force carried out a rescue operation at Khutaghat Dam in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur. A man was stuck in a heavy flow of water at the Khutaghat Dam. The man was seen holding on to a tree to save himself. IAF chopper Mi-17 airlifted him safely in the early hours of August 17. Read more. Suresh Raina reveals why he and MS Dhoni decided to announce retirement on August 15Suresh Raina has revealed he was aware of the fact that MS Dhoni, his long-time friend and India teammate, would announce his retirement upon landing in Chennai. Raina and Dhoni, along with Piyush Chawla, Deepak Chahar and Karn Sharma landed in Chennai on August 14, and a day later, the former India captain informed the world of his retirement through a post on Instagram.Read more. Renault Duster 1.3 turbo petrol launched, becomes most powerful SUV in segmentRenault Duster with a new 1.3-litre turbo petrol engine was officially launched on Monday and now claims to be the most powerful SUV in its segment.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s WhatsApp chats with friend revealed: ‘Working on myself spiritually and trying to grow’Sushant Singh Rajput’s old friend Kushal Zaveri had a chat with the late actor on June 1, two weeks before he was found dead at his Mumbai home. The Republic TV has made public his chat with Kushal who directed Pavitra Rishta and also lived with Sushant for some time.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-poll-bound-bihar-changed-equations-to-create-ample-room-for-party-hopping-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bhyUphxb3rHzEfOWvB25qJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Three siblings drown to death in Rajasthan’s Barmer district||Three siblings, including two brothers and a sister, drowned to death on Monday morning in Rajasthan’s Barmer district. The incident took place at Prahladpura village in Barmer district, said Vikram Sandhu, station house officer (SHO), Sheo police station. The deceased have been identified as Ranaram (15) and Jasaram (13) and their eldest sister Guddi (18), who died while trying to save her brothers. The brothers had gone to take a bath at a pond, but unfortunately, both of them slipped and drowned to death along with their eldest sister, Sandhu said. Police have handed over the bodies to their family members for the last rites following the post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-siblings-drown-to-death-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-district/story-PY27TADYN6EwP6obmD0WmO.html
17-08-2020||India||Goa tourism stakeholders urge govt to allow charters to fly tourists to India||Tourism stakeholders in Goa want the Centre to announce its policy for the arrival of foreign charters as part of the roadmap to revive tourism in the state. The sector which has come to a standstill on account of the global Covid-19 pandemic and has failed to pick up despite the state being open for tourists from within the country, believes that there are hopes of revival later this year, if the right decisions are made now. “We need the government to announce its policy on charter flights that it will allow charters to fly in from countries like Russia and UK so that we can at least begin marketing,” Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa has said.“In the absence of that we cannot entertain inquiries or indicate that we will be open later this year unless there is clarity from the government,” he added. Goa’s tourism season that largely coincides with European winter begins in October but picks up in November, December and January when it is at its peak before tapering off by the month of April. Hotels and tour operators begin marketing campaigns and begin receiving inquiries and even bookings during the months beginning August for trips later in the year, which this year hasn’t even begun. International travel has been suspended with uncertainty over when it will resume, but stakeholders are hopeful that if not scheduled flights charter flights in which only those who have passed the valid safety cheques or have been given a ‘Covid-19 passport’ or have been vaccinated will be allowed to travel. The launch of a vaccine in Russia has offered some home that those who could get vaccinated may choose to travel, but it is yet unclear whether India will recognize the vaccine.“We cannot wait until the last minute to decide,” Shah said. Ernest Dias, a tour operator, said that until the number of cases begins to stabilize will be a prerequisite for people to travel. “Our (India’s) numbers are still very high and we are not sure whether people will want to come or if their governments will allow them to travel. It’s too early to say anything for sure,” he said. Goa has opened for tourism with strict protocols in place for those wishing to visit the state for a holiday, but operators say the numbers are only about 5-7% of normal levels and haven’t really grown since the sector opened up back in July. Tourists arriving by charter flights make up the bulk of the foreign arrivals, who are the more sought after tourists as they, on average, stay longer and spend more during their stay. “Tourists are worried about quarantine protocols which are in place and under which they have to remain quarantined till their test results come which could be 72 hours and then undergo quarantine back in their home state upon return, which is not very enjoyable. Unless there is a uniform policy across the country, which will happen only once the numbers start decreasing, the situation will not change,” Shah said. “Goa is not a large state where people from within the state will substantially and sustainably contribute to tourism,” he added. Operators are hopeful that the government will announce consistent policies over the next 2-3 weeks, which they say will help the industry restart by December. The tourism industry that has been hardest hit by the lockdown, and which comprises between 9-11% of Goa’s Gross Domestic Product. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa has estimated that Goa will have lost upwards of Rs 1,000 crore into the state economy on account of the shut down. With numbers still too small to be sustainable, only a few hotels have reopened with even those permitted to do so, yet to reopen. “The direct and indirect economic impact of the tourism industry in India is estimated at 10% of the GDP and 40% in Goa including multiplier effects,” the TTAG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-tourism-stakeholders-urge-govt-to-allow-charters-to-fly-tourists-to-india/story-b1K3NWKjZDALnRQHRwF2ZN.html
17-08-2020||India||Locals oppose wall around Tagore’s Visva Bharati university ground, demolish gates||A large crowd of local people headed by some Trinammol Congress (TMC) leaders, demolished two gates of the campus of Visva Bharati, in Bolpur in Bengal’s Birbhum district, on Monday morning and vandalised construction material stocked by the authorities to build a wall around the ground where an annual fair is held. Held around Christmas, the fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, draws thousands of people and even foreign tourists. The Visva Bharati is Bengal’s only central university A TMC lawmaker said local people will never allow the university founded by Rabindranath Tagore which is largely an open air institution to be “caged behind walls”.The local people and traders, for whom the fair is a major source of income are opposed to the wall and have been staging demonstrations since Saturday. However, Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, did not budge from his decision to build the wall to stop entry of outsiders. Last year, Chakrabarty removed some temporary shops that continued to do business even after the fair was over. He also deployed private security agencies to guard the campus. On Monday, a large crowd went to the fairground and vandalized a temporary office set up for the construction and destroyed two gates and construction material such as bricks and cement, using a small earth moving vehicle. Naresh Bauri, a resident of Bolpur and TMC lawmaker from the district’s Dubrajpur constituency, headed the agitators on Monday. “I was not there as a TMC leader but as a local resident. How can Tagore’s university, which was supposed to be a part of nature, be caged behind walls. Local people will never tolerate this,” said Bauri. The vice-chancellor did not make any comment on the incident till 3. 30 pm. Anirban Sarkar, the only designated spokesperson of Visva Bharati did not take calls. Speaking on condition of anonymity, an officer at Shantiniketan police station said the situation became normal after 2 pm. A teacher from Visva Bharati told HT that Chakrabarty held a meeting with the departmental heads and principals of different institutes where he expressed his concern and talked of closing the campus temporarily to stop entry of outsiders. Susovan Banerjee, a member of the Visva Bharati executive committee told a local television channel that there is nothing wrong in the university trying to stop encroachment on its property. The Visva Bharti is a centrally-funded autonomous university with 10 sub- institutes. The institutes of higher education are renowned for excellence in their respective fields. Since Tagore wanted a campus where students would study in the midst of nature, many classes are held in the open. The Prime Minister is the chancellor of Visva Bharati. Expressing his concern, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar contacted chief minister Mamata Banerjee and sought intervention by the police. “Situation of law and order in Visva Bharati is alarming. Am trying to be in touch with CM to secure peace in temple of learning. As per VC violators of law have entered campus and destroyed property. CS, HS, DM and SP @MamataOfficial have not responded to call of Visva Bharati,” Dhankhar tweeted at 12.42 pm After talking to Banerjee over phone, he tweeted, “Just had word with Chief Minister over Visva Bharati worsening law and order scenario. She has assured that administration @MamataOfficial will take all steps to restore law and order. Am sure those enjoined with task will rise to the occasion.”Reacting to the governor’s intervention, education minister and TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said, “The governor house has become the party office of the Bharatiya Janata Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-oppose-wall-around-tagore-s-visva-bharati-university-ground-demolish-gates/story-xGF7bl0RpvVFNivIQZXPjK.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Important to respect, support each other’: China reacts to PM Modi’s Independence Day speech, remarks on ties with India||China is ready to work with India to enhance mutual trust and properly manage differences, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday, adding that the “right path” ahead for the two countries is to respect each other.The foreign ministry was reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech where he talked about strengthening the Indian armed forces and said the country’s territorial integrity is supreme.“From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces have responded in the language they understand,” Modi had said in his address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort.Modi also referred to the border clash in eastern Ladakh without naming China.“India’s integrity is supreme for us. What we can do, what our soldiers can do — everyone saw that in Ladakh,” Modi said, referring to the June 15 border clash in the Galwan Valley.Also read | A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedAt least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clash and China has also acknowledged that it suffered casualties but without citing an accurate death toll. Asked to comment on Modi’s speech, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “We have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech. We are close neighbours, we are all emerging countries with over one billion people”.“So the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world. The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step-up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties,” he said.Also read | ‘Make sure differences do not escalate into disputes’: China to India on border rowPrime Minister Modi’s speech was also analysed by the Chinese state media, which said it was important, in China’s context, to follow what he does next.“After the latest round of senior military-level talks between Beijing and New Delhi on August 8, India hasn’t shown any sign of changing its stance. At the same time, China has also held its ground. As the two countries are still at a stalemate over key issues, Modi’s real intentions will likely be revealed in his next moves,” Zhao Gancheng, a research fellow at the Shanghai Institute for International Studies told the tabloid, Global Times.Referring to Modi’s speech, Zhao said that it could be explained from two perspectives.“One is that Modi has become tougher and put on a combative look. The other explanation is that the Indian government thought it had done enough by demonstrating its attitude toward China. Therefore, what Modi said in his Independence Day speech is not very important - but what he will do next is.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-respect-support-each-other-china-reacts-to-pm-modi-s-independence-day-speech-remarks-on-ties-with-india/story-rPnBLJoHqq6gGP6d9k1U9N.html
17-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to consider larger questions in 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan, Tarun Tejpal||The Supreme Court Monday said it would consider certain larger questions in the 2009 contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal as the issue before it has wide ramifications.The top court said it would like to hear arguments from the lawyers as to what should be the process which should be followed in contempt cases where allegations are being levelled against judges.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said it would like to hear the counsels on whether such statements can be made and the procedure to be adopted for dealing with them.The apex court in November 2009, had issued a contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine.Bhushan told the court on Sunday that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court and mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court.The top court asked senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan -- appearing for Bhushan -- Shanti Bhushan and Kapil Sibal to address it on three issues -- whether such statements can be made, in what circumstances they can be made and what is the procedure to be adopted with respect to sitting and retired judges.The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, posted the matter for next hearing on August 24.At the outset, Dhavan said the court should consider certain questions and the matter should be heard by a larger bench.Dhavan also referred to the recent judgement in which Bhushan was held guilty of contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary and said the lawyer intends to file a review petition against the August 14 verdict.He told the court that it appears that August 14 judgment suffers from many imbalances as in some parts the verdict says that allegations against judges “per se” does not constitute contempt.Sibal, appearing for Tarun Tejpal, then said the matter should be given quietus (discharged).The bench said that even the court wants to give the case a quietus but it there are certain questions which need consideration.Dhavan said the questions posed by the court were very “meaningful” and suggested that the matter be examined by a constitution bench.Shanti Bhusan sought adjournment of the matter by two weeks when the physical hearing is likely to be resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-consider-larger-questions-in-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-tarun-tejpal/story-fJfHQJ4025RjipjNKAANZP.html
17-08-2020||India||Kerala opposition leader moves HC, seeks stay on police plan to tap calls of Covid-19 patients||Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Monday moved the high court with a plea to restrain the police from collecting call detail records (CDR) of Covid-19 patients and those who are under quarantine. In his plea, Chennithala said the government’s move was unconstitutional and it will be an infringement on the right to privacy. He said in the name of controlling the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was trampling on the basic rights of people. He urged the court to restrain the police and service providers from doing this saying the government was planning to convert Kerala into a surveillance state. His plea is likely to come up before the court on Tuesday.Despite mounting protests, the government maintained it was for better tracking and surveillance of patients and had been experimented in many places earlier also. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said during pandemic situations such drastic steps would be needed but the police will ensure that these records are not misused by anyone. He also said it was part of a scientific method to contain the spread of the virus and it was done for the sake of public health and safety. Last week, Kerala director general of police Loknath Behra had issued a circular which said the ADGP Intelligence and ADGP headquarters will get in touch with all service providers to get CDRs of Covid-19 patients and persons under quarantine. Many legal experts and rights activists also slammed the move. Opposition BJP also slammed the move saying the state was moving towards a “police raj.” “It is a move aimed at troubling poor patients. The government is only concerned about its records, not the welfare of people. It is fudging data to maintain its so-called records,” BJP state president K Surendran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-opposition-leader-moves-hc-seeks-stay-on-police-plan-to-tap-calls-of-covid-19-patients/story-z5q709ifE63Pnjpmj8wgmL.html
17-08-2020||India||Girl, 17, gang-raped, burnt with cigarettes in UP’s Gorakhpur; 2 arrested||A 17-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district on the Friday. Her body was singed with cigarette butts by the two men who raped her, said the girl’s mother .On Sunday, the police arrested Arjun Nishad and his associate Mahesh Yadav alias Chottu, who are now being sent to jail. Shyam Deo Bind, deputy superintendent of police, Gola, said, the police have registered an FIR on the charge of kidnapping, rape against the duo under various sections of the IPC and has also charged them under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Native of a village located in the Barhalganj area of the district, the mother of the victim said, the girl worked at a brick kiln run by one Guddu Singh in Gola. The girl was staying in a rented house in Barhajpar village with her family members. “On Friday night my daughter went out of the house to fetch water from the hand pump. When she did not return, I searched with the assistance of the villagers but failed to locate her,” said the mother. “On Saturday morning, the villagers found my daughter lying in semi unconscious condition in a deserted house located behind a temple. She told me that while she was collecting water at the hand pump one Arjun Nishad and his associate, whio came on a motorcycle, kidnapped her. They took her to desolate spot and committed rape, when she resisted, the duo burned her body with cigarettes,” the mother added. The victim has now been shifted to a district hospital in Gorakhpur for treatment and medical examination. Her statement will be recorded by a magistrate, SP Bind said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-17-gang-raped-burnt-with-cigarettes-in-up-s-gorakhpur-2-arrested/story-HF3M4hLBnUp37PLkowB7LI.html
17-08-2020||India||CBI books Ludhiana firm linked to Canada-based company named in Panama Paper leaks||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Ludhiana based company - SEL Textiles Ltd for cheating a consortium of 10 banks led by Central Bank of India of Rs 1,530 crore between 2009 and 2013 and using a Canada-based company - Aarti Impex - named in Panama Papers leaks for diversion of funds, officials familiar with development said Monday. The CBI has named the promoters of SEL Textiles - Ram Saran Saluja, Neeraj Saluja, Dhiraj Saluja for diverting the banks’ funds using several companies abroad. Aarti Impex is not named as accused in CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, but it is listed as one of the exporters to SEL Textiles which was used for diverting the money by latter to siphon the funds out of India and there were no genuine business transactions. The company was named in Panama Papers leaks among 500 Indians - individuals and entities - who paid the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to set up offshore entities in tax havens around the world. Aarti Impex, an exporter of textile products, is a company based in Canada and has branch offices in Bolivia and Columbia and represent textile spinners from India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Turkey, China etc. “The amount received by SEL from the above company (Aarti Impex) kept on increasing since 2010,” states the CBI FIR quoting the bank’s complaint. “The credit period has shown continuous increase since 2010 giving signals of possible risks to realisation. Upon searching the company on internet, there was a link to Panama Paper leaks, wherein, the director is stated to be Sandeep Gupta, and company is registered in Panama Islands,” it adds. An email sent to Aarti Impex by HT remained unanswered till filing of this report. According to the CBI FIR several Dubai- based companies have also been used by SEL for diversion of banks’ money. According to CBI officials, Dhiraj Saluja is said to be out of India and a look out circular (LoC) will be issued against him. Apart from Central Bank, which has an exposure of Rs 371 crore on SEL Textiles; other banks which have been cheated include - Allahabad Bank (Rs 429 crore), Punjab National Bank (Rs 176 crore), Indian Overseas Bank (Rs 120 crore), Bank of Maharashtra (Rs 92 crore), Punjab & Sind Bank (Rs 52 crore), Corporation Bank (Rs 115 crore), Union Bank of India (Rs 46 crore), UCO Bank (Rs 101 crore) and United Bank of India (Rs 24 crore). It is alleged that the company diverted funds for acquiring unproductive assets, creating additional chain of intermediary for capital goods purchases through capital advances and investments which are considered beyond the capacity of the company to support looking to its own weak financials, according to CBI FIR. The bank said in its complaint that Dhiraj Saluja is abroad as he used to handle overseas business of SEL, while asking CBI to investigate as the case has inter-state and international ramifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-ludhiana-based-sel-textiles-for-allegedly-cheating-banks-of-rs-1-530-cr/story-9M9P10Q6zbVoune3JEx4lJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: ‘Will recover cost of damages from culprits’, tweets CM Yediyurappa||The Karnataka government has decided to recover the cost of damages to public property during violence in Bengaluru from the protesters.“Our Govt has decided to assess the damages caused to public & private property in the violent incidents in KG Halli & DG Halli & recover the costs from the culprits. We will approach Hon’ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon’ble Supreme Court order,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced in a series of tweets on Monday. Our Govt has decided to assess the damages caused to public & private property in the violent incidents in KG Halli & DG Halli & recover the costs from the culprits. We will approach Hon'ble High Court for appointment of Claim Commissioner as per Hon'ble Supreme Court order (1/3)He further said that stringent action has been initiated against the culprits of violence. The state government has booked them under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).“A Special Investigation Team has already been formed to conduct a detailed investigation in the matter and a team of three special prosecutors will be appointed for speedy trial of the cases. SIT will consider invoking Goonda Act if warranted,” Yediyurappa said.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the state government will hold discussion with representatives of the social media companies to regulate it.“As far as social media is concerned, we are looking into the present law. We’re going to have a discussion with technical chiefs of all social media companies shortly. We wish to have some regulation which will be applicable to social media,” Bommai said.At least three people were killed and 60 police personnel injured after violence broke out in the eastern part of Bengaluru last week over a social media message, which was allegedly posted by a relative of a Congress legislator.The police arrested 340 people for arson, stone-pelting and assault on cops, officials said. Congress’ member of legislative assembly (MLA) Srinivas Murthy’s nephew was also arrested for sharing the “derogatory” post on Facebook.Murthy’s house was attacked by people for the alleged controversial Facebook post regarding a religious figure by his nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-violence-will-recover-cost-of-damages-from-culprits-tweets-cm-yediyurappa/story-FemAJ0KehUilfnswWt4aYN.html
17-08-2020||India||Out to celebrate Independence Day, four youth die as car falls in gorge in Darjeeling||Four youths died in West Bengal’s Darjeeling district on Saturday night, when their car skidded off a mountain road and fell into a gorge around a thousand feet below. Raj Singh, the fifth passenger of the vehicle, could not be traced until Monday afternoon. The police personnel, who recovered the bodies, said the youths lived in Siliguri and had gone to Kurseong about 40 kilometres away from north Bengal’s biggest town to celebrate the 74th Independence Day on August 15. Three of them were college students. The deceased have been identified as Bikram Das, Subrata Das, Rishabh Das and Abhranil Kundu. A missing diary was lodged by Rishabh’s father Shekar Das at Siliguri police station on Sunday. Manoranjan Das, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kurseong, said, “Two bodies were recovered on Sunday night and two more on Monday morning.” The youths hailed from Siliguri’s Rathkhola and NTS More neighbourhoods. They were returning to Siliguri on Saturday night, when the accident took place downhill on Rohini Road near Kargil Dara. ASP Das said, “Four bodies were found around 300 feet below the road. We are looking for the fifth youth.” Police said some of the youths had last spoken with their family members after 11 pm on Saturday. Initially, the youths drove down to Lataguri in the Dooars on Saturday, and later went uphill to Kurseong, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-out-to-celebrate-independence-day-four-youth-die-as-car-falls-in-gorge/story-joZblre62YH7RA88CT6JMI.html
17-08-2020||India||Record 57,584 Covid-19 patients recover in one day: Health Ministry||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to over 72 per cent, according to the Union Health ministry data.India’s Covid-19 recoveries have reached closer to 2 million (19,19,842), while the actual caseload of the country stands at 6,76,900 on date and currently comprises only 25.57 per cent of the total positive cases.This difference between the recovered and the active cases continues to expand and now stands at 12,42,942. The recovery rate is 72.51 per cent at present.This is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients, the ministry said in a statement. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients - mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said.The effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said.India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day, it asserted.The early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases, the ministry said.The Case Fatality Rate has further slumped to 1.92 per cent.India’s Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the three crore-mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-57-584-covid-19-patients-recover-in-one-day-health-ministry/story-hqVkNTkZPvMSolzLKd8QlM.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Special misinformation group’: Congress slams Sanjay Jha’s claim of rumblings within party||The Congress on Monday refuted a claim made by its suspended leader Sanjay Jha that 100 members of the party had written to president Sonia Gandhi, seeking a change in leadership and transparency in the working committee’s elections.Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress’ spokesperson, called it the BJP’s ploy to divert attention from the issue of the ruling party’s links with Facebook.“Special Misinformation Group on Media-TV Debate Guidance” in its what’sapp of today directed to run the story of a non existant letter of Congress leaders to divert attention from Facebook-BJP links. Of course, BJP stooges have started acting upon it,” Surjewala tweeted.Jha had claimed earlier in the day that about 100 leaders of the party, including members of Parliament, had written to Gandhi.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space,” Jha had tweeted.Jha was suspended for “anti-party activities and breach of discipline” last month after he backed former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot during the political turmoil in the state. And before that, he was sacked as the Congress’ spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-misinformation-group-congress-slams-sanjay-jha-s-claim-of-rumblings-within-party/story-BfnIV1t8wfspT8U94Uu85I.html
17-08-2020||India||Life doesn’t serve choices and success on platter, says Ayush Anand||Actor Ayush Anand feels that one has to learn it the hard way to achieve success in life, “Yes of course because life doesn’t serve choices and success on platter. One has to start from scratch to reach a certain position. It’s never an easy way out, as the world out there is truly competitive and difficult. I had a dream of becoming an actor but gave it away for a job at a call centre as I thought that was an easy way out. But my father’s last conversation with me, before his sudden demise, made me rethink on my career choice.” Talking about how acting happened he remembers, “I was about to leave for work and was tying my shoe laces that my father said, ‘Why don’t you go ahead and pursue career in acting that was your dream…right!’ I was quick to revert and said ‘yes…I will see in sometime’. I left for work and same night I got a call from my younger brother that my father passed away while sleeping. His words stuck with me and soon I enrolled into Barry John Acting Studio, taking my first step.” It has been five years since Ayush came to Mumbai and has worked for shows like ‘Perfect Pati,’ ‘Ishqbaaaz,’ ‘Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh, Piya ji’, ‘Jodha Akbar,’ ‘Balika Vadhu’ and more.“My journey was never that easy. For the first six months in Mumbai I had just no work. My first assignment finally reached me after much waiting. I got a call from a production house, saying, ‘We have role for you, you will be playing cousin to the lead. And you will get Rs 3,000 per day.’ I was elated as I was getting money and a role. When I reached on the sets, I saw a vanity van with a ‘cousin’ tag. I was like wow so that’s the vanity allotted to me and as I sat there waiting another guy came in and I simply asked him, ‘What you are playing in the show?’ he said, ‘cousin’ and then there were a few more — all playing cousins. I was zapped but completed the assignment and left. Somewhere in my head I knew I can’t be bystander all my life,” shared Ayush over the phone.The turning point in his career was the show ‘Ishqbaaz’ followed by his titular soap ‘Perfect Pati’ where yesteryear’s iconic actor Jaya Prada played his mother. “Thankfully I didn’t have to wait long as these shows did give me the recognition I always wanted. Also working with Jayaji was overwhelming as well as a learning experience. It was then I felt that I was on the right track to success.”Currently playing Trilok, a negative lead in the ongoing show, ‘Tujhse Hai Raabta,’ Ayush soon wishes to be on silver screen and fulfill his father’s dream to the fullest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/life-doesn-t-serve-choices-and-success-on-platter-says-ayush-anand/story-Qn1VpXmkK1aS8RtHjvDv1N.html
17-08-2020||India||Moderate risk of flash floods in next 24 hours over Central India, warns IMD||The Central Water Commission issued a flood forecast on Monday, for some areas of north Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh and a few adjoining areas of Rajasthan and south Gujarat sub-division for the next 24 hours. The Commission cited the India Meteorological Department’s flash flood guidance as the reason for the warning.“There is moderate risk of flash floods for the next 24 hours over some areas of north Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas of Rajasthan and south Gujarat sub-division,” the Central Water Commission statement said in its official flood forecast.The IMD has also predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rainfall likely over east Rajasthan over the next two days on Tuesday and Wednesday and over Uttarakhand tomorrow. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is also likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa, the IMD said.In Chhattisgarh, parts of Sukma district have been inundated and normal life has been disrupted after very heavy rainfall in the state. The water level in rivers and drains has started rising in the region. Earlier on Sunday, the IMD had predicted rainfall over most of Central India for the next five days. “Fairly widespread rain likely over south Rajasthan, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan and Goa; over Chhattisgarh and over Odisha and Telangana and over Saurashtra and Kutch on August 18 and 19,” the weather forecasting agency had said. Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain are also likely over isolated areas in national capital Delhi, and adjoining areas of Sonipat, Panipat, Jind, Bhiwani, Hissar, Karnal, Rohtak, Baraut, Modinagar, Khatauli and Aurangabad over the next two hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-risk-of-flash-floods-in-next-24-hours-over-central-india-warns-imd/story-3NvXjdeAfNQk4i0yHdbfJI.html
17-08-2020||India||CB-CID office shut for fumigation as 2 contract Covid-19||The office of CB-CID, where three accused in the case relating to the death of Sri Lankan don Angoda Lokka were interrogated, was closed on Monday as two police personnel tested Covid-19 positive. One Special Sub-inspector in the CB-CID team tested positive on Saturday last necessitating other team members to take a test and the results today showed a woman inspector and a head constable-cum-driver having got the infection. Both have been admitted to an ESI hospital. In view of this, the CB-CID office has been temporarily closed for fumigation, sources said. Steps are being taken to protect other police officials camping here as part of the probe into the gangster’s death, they said. Lokka died of cardia arrest here on July 3 and the body, after postmortem, was taken to Madurai and cremated the next day. The CB-CID arrested a Sri Lankan woman Amani Thanji, a lawyer Sivakami Sundari and Dyaneshwran for allegedly forging the documents to get the don an Aadhaar card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cb-cid-office-shut-for-fumigation-as-2-contract-covid-19/story-31tKE2s3JWBM61d0ltpV1J.html
17-08-2020||India||Post-COVID clinic to help analyse patients reporting fresh symptoms||The Delhi-government run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital will soon start a post-COVID clinic to analyse patients seeing a re-emergence of coronavirus symptoms after recovering from the infection.According to Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the hospital, they have received calls from patients who had recovered from coronavirus but have reported symptoms again.“We have received calls from patients who have said that their saturation levels have gone down or they are experiencing breathlessness. At the clinic, we will be carrying out CT scan of the lungs and other tests to see whether the healing process is different in different patients, the symptoms and why is it re-emerging,” he told PTI.The senior doctor said that the clinic is likely to start this week. Earlier this month, the hospital had seen two instances of patients who have had a relapse almost one-and-a-half months after they were cured of the infection.“There were two patients who came to the hospital with COVID-like symptoms and they tested positive. They were not tested after they were discharged the first time. Both of them had moderate symptoms in both the instances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-covid-clinic-to-help-analyse-patients-reporting-fresh-symptoms/story-39pkx9qic5dGs3WZLDKY0H.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown extended in Bihar till September 6||The Bihar government has once again decided to extend the lockdown till September 6, owing to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. The state’s home department issued an order in this regard on Monday. The lockdown was imposed from July 16 to July 31 and later extended till August 16. The orders issued on July 30 for the containment of Covid-19 would be prevalent across the state. No public transport would be allowed to ply in areas falling under lockdown norms, but there would be no bar on construction activities besides transportation of goods, state officials said. Air and rail travel have been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices would function with minimal staff strength, they added. It is expected that an order for some more relaxation in the lockdown norms would be issued on Monday. At present night curfew has been imposed in the state.Bihar has seen a massive surge in Covid-19 cases as the state’s tally have crossed the one lakh mark. Till Sunday, the cumulative Covid-19 cases were 104,093 and 537 people have died due to the disease till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-in-bihar-till-september-6-as-covid-18-cases-spike/story-lxlFSqApFQljRkGW1aMdJO.html
17-08-2020||India||Andaman & Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rises to 2,399||The number of Covid-19 cases in Andaman and Nicobar Island rose to 2,399, with 93 more people testing positive for coronavirus, an official said on Monday.All the new cases were detected during contact tracing, he said.Of the total 2,399 Covid-19 cases, active are 1,145 as 1,226 people have recovered from the disease and 28 have died, the official said.Ninety-eight more people recovered from Covid-19 in the Union territory in the last 24-hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,226, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andaman-nicobar-islands-covid-19-tally-rises-to-2-399/story-R8aqGXzp9iJkIL5G4qW4nO.html
17-08-2020||India||Six persons at Sharad Pawar’s Mumbai residence test Covid-19 positive||Mumbai: Six personnel, who is deployed as part of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s security detail, has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. However, Pawar himself has tested Covid-19 negative in the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test that was conducted at Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told media persons in Ahmednagar on Monday morning. The test reports of all the members and staff at Silver Oak, Pawar’s south Mumbai residence, and the rest of the security personnel, except for the six, have come Covid-19 negative. The veteran leader has decided not to meet the public for the next four days, as a precautionary measure. Tope said he would request the NCP chief to put off his visits for the next few days. “Pawar saheb is taking all the necessary precautions. There is no reason to worry,” he said. The security personnel, who is assigned to maintain social distancing norms between the public and the NCP leader, is likely to have come in contact with a person, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-persons-at-sharad-pawar-s-mumbai-residence-test-covid-19-positive/story-lLynB1IcCj74ZRpcGa5g3K.html
17-08-2020||India||Jungle raj of caste-based violence, rape at peak in UP: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday turned his attention towards Uttar Pradesh as he criticised the killing of a village head in the state’s Azamgarh district last week.Satyamev Jayate aka Pappu Ram, was shot dead by three motorcycle-borne men last Friday in Bansgaon. Police in the state have invoked the National Security Act against four people in connection with the village head’s killing, which had also triggered a mob violence.“Jungle raj of caste-based violence and rape is at its peak in UP. Now another terrible incident - sarpanch Satyamev, being a Dalit, said no and he was killed because of that. Condolences to Satyamev Ji’s family members,” Gandhi tweeted in HindiThe former Congress president also cited a media report on the murder of the village head.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Gandhi’s sister and Congress general secretary, also hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the issue of security of women.“Bulandshahr, Hapur, Lakhimpur Kheri and now Gorakhpur. Such repeated incidents have proven that the Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in providing security to women,”she said in a Facebook post in Hindi, referring to reports of crimes against women in these areas.She said there is no fear of law in the minds of criminals in Uttar Pradesh and as a result, gruesome incidents of crime are taking place against women. She alleged that the police and administration are neither able to provide security nor take appropriate action.“The Uttar Pradesh government should review the law-and-order system and take every step to ensure the safety of women,” she said.The Congress has been alleging that the law-and-order situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP rule, a charge denied by the state dispensation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jungle-raj-of-caste-based-violence-rape-at-peak-in-up-rahul-gandhi/story-3c8uZk1IEK9WKXyHr374QO.html
17-08-2020||India||Spanish mountaineer to name peak in Spain after former DM of Uttarkashi||In a gesture of gratitude for saving his life, a Spanish mountaineer has now started the process of naming an unnamed peak in Spain after former district magistrate of Uttarkashi, Ashish Chauhan. Chauhan said that a group of Spanish mountaineers got stranded near Vasuki Tal in December 2018 due to inclement weather and the district administration had made contact with them after much difficulty and rescued them. “In December 2018, when I was the district magistrate of Uttarkashi, a Spanish mountaineer named Juan Antonio Padilla had got stranded along with his group due to inclement weather while they had gone on a trek near Vasuki Tal trek (approximate height 14,200 feet above sea level) via Tapovan. Another group of trekkers passing through that area had found them and contact was made to Antonio’s group through them after which they were rescued,” said Chauhan. Also read: Uttarakhand woman accused of blackmailing BJP MLA says he raped herHe added that by the time the Spanish mountaineer was rescued his health condition had deteriorated and “due to uncertainty, his confidence was also shaken.” “We had taken care of him after the rescue and made sure he was healthy before he was sent back to his country… On Independence Day, I got a message from him asking how I spell my name and what is the correct pronunciation, He shared that as a token of gratitude for saving his life and helping him in the Indian Himalayas, he is starting the process of naming the path to a virgin (unclimbed before) peak in Spain after my name,” added Chauhan. The Indian Administrative Service officer further shared that the peak will be named ‘Magistrate Point/Tip’ and the path leading to the peak will be named ‘Via Ashish’. The name is being registered with the Spanish mountaineering body. The senior IAS official posted screenshots of his conversation with Antonio on his Facebook profile, wherein the Spanish mountaineer wrote, “…Today we have climbed a virgin area (never climbed) and I have given a name to the summit, but also to the route where we have climbed. I need to know your name in order to complete the registration in the climbing books… In honour of everything lived there and in gratitude to you… we just decided that the top will be called ‘Magistrate’s Point’ and the road will be called ‘Via Ashish’. It is a virgin peak… so that everything makes more sense, the top will be called Magistrate’s Tip and the access to it will bear your name. It will be registered in the climbing books of Gredos (central mountain system) Spain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spanish-mountaineer-to-name-peak-in-spain-after-former-dm-of-uttarkashi/story-NyYLwEv2wiDECv4FGWg1ZJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Facebook official approaches police with complaint about harassment and threats||A Facebook official has approached Delhi Police to file a complaint against people on social media who allegedly threatened and abused her following a report in The Wall Street Journal that the social media platform was favouring the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), police said. The complaint was sent to the cyber cell unit of South Delhi district police, but is being investigated by Delhi Police’s specialised Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) team. A senior police officer said the content of the complaint, sent by email, is being examined and a first information report (FIR) is yet to be registered. Also read | ‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: FacebookIn her complaint, the Facebook official said the threats began on Friday when the WSJ report appeared. The alleged harassment included death threats on Twitter, threats on Facebook and circulation of her photographs on social media with defamatory comments. In her email, the Facebook official attached links to two alleged threats on Twitter, two on Facebook, screenshots of other forms of harassment and the link to the WSJ article that she alleged was being published in a “mischaracterised and distorted manner” by publications in India. Also read | Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesShe complained that she “being subjected to name-calling, cyber bullying and eve-teasing online”. She demanded an FIR against suspects under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to sexually coloured remarks, vulgar gestures through words, and criminal intimidation. HT’s phone calls and text messages to the Facebook official went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-official-approaches-police-with-complaint-about-harassment-and-threats/story-pZodAhIqHRQ4zztz4GOV5H.html
17-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh BJP leader lists ‘flaws’ in functioning of state unit, says hard work not rewarded||Raising questions over the “organizational capabilities” of Chhattisgarh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior party leader and spokesperson Sachchidanand Upasane said that priority has been given to “Parikrama” (circle around) over “Parishram” (hard work) which was reason behind the decline of party in state.In a video released on Sunday, Upasane raised questions and claimed that the party is not giving preference to ground-level workers in the state; he said that these workers are not involved in decision-making process.“I have raised question to the state leadership and I am sure that they will address my concerns,” Upasane told Hindustan Times.The BJP, which ruled Chhattisgarh for three consecutive terms from 2003 to 2018, has 14 MLAs while the ruling Congress has 69 lawmakers in the 90-member state assembly.Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC-J), and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have four and two lawmakers, respectively. The Marwahi assembly seat has been lying vacant since the death of Ajit Jogi, former chief minister and a lawmaker of JCC(J).“For 15 years when we were in power, we developed certain demerits and flaws... people of this state know that what as a party we were in past and what we are now... People keep a close eye on every party and hence party should understand the people’s voice. When this is ignored the party has to suffer not an individual,” said Upasane in his video.He further said, “The office-bearers of the state unit of BJP should think how and why we have reached this stage? We should think over present condition and more and more people should participate in the decision-making process of the party.”“The party workers who are working on ground for years should be given priority. Parikrama should not be considered over Parsihram and whenever it happen the decline starts,” Upasane added.Reacting to the video, state BJP president Vishnu Deo Sai said that these are Upasane’s personal views.“It is his (Upasane’s) personal opinion. This is not correct that ground workers or leaders are not given preference. In all the decision-making process senior leaders along with all party cadres are consulted,” Sai told HT. On the other hand, other senior leaders of BJP in the state also think that this is the correct time to think over the questions which Upasane has raised.“He (Upasane) is a senior leader and hard worker for the party. His observation should not be ignored. We will definitely work on the present condition of party in the state and move forward...Iit is a phase but it is not stable. Secondly, everyone in the party should think over the present condition of party and why we have reached to this stage,” a senior party leader and former minister in BJP government said, preferring anonymity. Another leader of BJP said it’s a fact that people are now given importance instead of organisation.“The party is not able to appoint district presidents in 11 districts till now and this is because only a bunch of leaders are taking part in the decision-making process. There are fractions in the party. Some people are taking all decision without taking in considering the organisation and ground workers,” said one of the leaders on condition of anonymity.Political commentators believe that there is big gap in the stature of BJP leaders and its cadres. “Till the party came to power in 2003, there wasn’t a big gap in the stature of its leaders and cadres. This increased significantly in 15 years of Raman Singh’s rule. Most of those who reached the top remained there all through. The buffer zone between the less accessible top leadership and the others bred a coterie and a group of go-betweens. The pinch was ignored because power provided a cushion then. Now with situation changed after 2018, the present rumblings are a protest against the order that emerged and consolidated itself in those 15 years in power,” said Parivesh Mishra, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-bjp-leader-lists-flaws-in-functioning-of-state-unit-says-hard-work-not-rewarded/story-5wWFrpbQqEUuMUqm6yG2sJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at a shop on Mohammad Ali Road in south Mumbai||A fire broke out at 11:06 am on Monday at a shop on Mohammad Ali road in Bhendi Bazaar in south Mumbai. Mumbai Fire Brigade authorities said nobody has been injured in the blaze, whose cause is yet to be ascertained. The Brihanmumbai Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department officials said four fine engines, an equal number of water tankers, an ambulance, and a breathing apparatus van have been pressed into service to douse the fire. The area, where the fire broke out, is a densely-populated and congested part of south Mumbai.The area is known for its narrow lanes, buildings located cheek-by-jowl, causing difficulties for fire brigade personnel to access the shop that is affected by the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-shop-on-mohammad-ali-road-in-south-mumbai/story-9FpPzCVI9QwQruumvnwCTJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19 claimed lives of 2 people in every 3 minutes in last 24 hours in India||The coronavirus disease claimed the lives of two people every third minute in the last 24 hours, according to analysis of Union health ministry’s data by Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.According to health ministry, 941 people died due to the disease in the country in the last 24 hours (between Sunday and Monday). Meanwhile, the infection tally crossed 2.6 million after 57,981 new cases were added in the same period.The number of fatalities crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday, according to the health ministry data.The recoveries surged to 19,19,842, pushing the recovery rate to 72.51 per cent, the update at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.92 per cent.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the three-crore mark in India.The ICMR said that a total of 3,00,41,400 samples have been tested up to August 16 with 7,31,697 samples being tested on Sunday.Having started with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and then expanding to 100 laboratories around the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated the 1,000th testing lab.Total labs in the country testing for Covid-19 now stand at 1,470 - out of this, 969 are government labs and 501 private, according to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.The number of new cases are constantly increasing across the world. South Korea reported 197 newly confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Monday, the fourth straight day of triple-digit daily increases, as health workers scramble to slow transmissions in the greater capital area where churches have emerged as major sources of infections.Australia’s hard-hit Victoria state on Monday recorded its deadliest day of the pandemic with 25 coronavirus fatalities. The death toll surpasses the previous 24-hour record of 21 set on Wednesday last week.New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, meanwhile, chose to delay national elections by four weeks as the country deals with a new coronavirus outbreak in its largest city, Auckland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-claimed-lives-of-2-people-in-every-3-minutes-in-last-24-hours-in-india/story-HLSQq26dtLlkdihPCkBJCO.html
17-08-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu accuses Jagan Reddy of tapping phones; petitions PM Modi||Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday demanded that the Centre order a high-level inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping by the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state.In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former chief minister alleged that the YSR Congress government in the state had been indulging in tapping phones of the opposition leaders, advocates, journalists and social activists. He accused Jagan of perpetrating a “jungle raj” on all sections of people in the state.Requesting that the PM order a comprehensive inquiry by a competent authority into the alleged telephone tapping by the Jagan government, Naidu said the Centre should take stringent action in this regard.The TDP chief said that the ruling party in Andhra and some private individuals were using sophisticated technology and illegal software to tap the phones belonging to the opposition leaders, advocates, journalists and social activists. “This is in violation of the Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India that protect the fundamental rights of citizens. The ruling YSRCP is using illegal tactics to safeguard its power by intimidating and blackmailing the opponents and dissenting voices. These illegal activities are posing a serious threat to the right to privacy in the State,” he said.“It appears that the ruling YSRCP has now even targeted the judiciary, the third pillar of the democracy, as it is facing hurdles from the judiciary,” Naidu said.He brought to the notice of the PM that even private individuals were using cutting edge technology and equipment to unlawfully tap the phones. “If these nefarious activities were not put to an end, they would emerge as a bigger threat to national security and sovereignty of the country as a whole,” he said.Stating that the YSRCP was already misusing its power to destroy institutions, the TDP chief deplored that systematic efforts were being made to deny fundamental rights and perpetrate oppression. As a result, the overall administration came off track in the state due to ongoing attacks on investments and pro-people policies.Interestingly, ruling YSR Congress Party rebel lawmaker from Narasapuram parliamentary constituency, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who has raised a banner of revolt against the state government, made a similar complaint to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Sunday.He requested that the Centre order a probe into the telephone tapping by the Jagan government. He alleged that the state intelligence department was tapping his two numbers.Meanwhile, a senior advocate Sravan Kumar filed a lunch motion petition before Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday seeking a comprehensive inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping of political rivals by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. He presented certain evidence before the court, which agreed to take up the hearing on the petition on Tuesday.YSRCP leaders could not be immediately reached for a comment on Naidu’s petition to the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-accuses-jagan-reddy-of-tapping-phones-petitions-pm-modi/story-tIxJQyYKV3iweJARbGwjZJ.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negative and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negativeFour people at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s South Mumbai residence have tested positive for Covid-19, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday. Read more‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: FacebookAmid political slugfest involving social media giant Facebook, a company spokesperson has said that the platform “prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence. Read moreShareChat in talks with Google over a potential investmentGoogle is in talks with Bengaluru-based social media company, ShareChat over a potential investment. Read moreTata Motors debunks reports which claim it plans to sell stake in JLRTata Motors early Monday issued a statement debunking reports that stated it plans to sell its stake in Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), underlining that it remains a crucial part of the wider Tata Group. Read more‘I once told Sachin Tendulkar the same’: Inzamam-ul-Haq feels MS Dhoni should have announced retirement at the groundAs a captain, MS Dhoni had numerous accomplishments to his name across all formats. Not only did he lead Indian team to three ICC titles, he also took Indian team to no. 1 Test ranking in 2009 as captain. Read moreIndia to hold key Covid vaccine meet today, likely to discuss pricing & procurementHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Read moreIronman Milind Soman shares tips for keeping fit and feeling youngMilind Soman is more super man than super model, the fitness freak has been a trailblazer from his early modelling days, and continues to break barriers and inspire everyone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-four-people-at-ncp-chief-s-residence-contract-covid-19-pawar-tests-negative-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZI2RGdjDAQcxllTVDPqCkK.html
17-08-2020||India||Farmers should start plantations on their land, says Javadekar||New Delhi: Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday called on farmers in all states to grow trees on their land which can be sold when they are ready. Javadekar was addressing a virtual meeting with forest ministers of all states and union territories.“Farmers shouldn’t fear that their land will become forest land. The land will remain theirs. They can sell the trees when needed and transport them,” Javadekar said. With the Compensatory Afforestation Fund available with states, water and fodder augmentation projects will have to be taken up in one forest in each state, he said. Afforestation of river banks and flood plains of all major rivers will also be taken up, nurseries will be developed in 2,000 schools across the country, and urban forestry projects will be taken up with private participation.“Eighty percent of the compensatory afforestation funds are to be utilised only for afforestation and rest of the 20% can be utilised for capacity and infrastructure development like buildings or vehicles,” he said. Javadekar asked all states to come up with an outline for Project Dolphin (which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day) within a fortnight. The project will involve long-term conservation of Gangetic dolphins and dolphins along the coasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-should-start-plantations-on-their-land-says-javadekar/story-LA3L2flBuXO0f5H0LXiNjO.html
17-08-2020||India||Four people at NCP chief’s residence contract Covid-19, Pawar tests negative||Four people at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s South Mumbai residence have tested positive for Covid-19, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday. Tope added that Pawar has tested negative for the infection. “Two people, including a cook, and two security guards at Pawar’s ‘Silver Oak’ residence here have tested positive for coronavirus,” the minister said.According to Tope, Pawar was taken to Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital here on Sunday for the test. “He is safe and sound...but will ask him not to go on state tour for next some days,” the minister added.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges over 2.64 million, recoveries cross 1.9 millionThe country’s power corridors have not been spared by the virus as several ministers and politicians in recent months announced having contracted the infection. Union home minister Amit Shah, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain were some other senior leaders who recently tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday, Shah tweeted that he has tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) infection and will follow home isolation on the advice of doctors.“Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing for my speedy recovery. I will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” his tweet read. The home minister had tested positive for the disease earlier this month.CM Chouhan recovered after spending over 10 days in hospital. He contracted the infection last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-people-at-ncp-chief-s-residence-contract-covid-19-pawar-tests-negative/story-zwz2eEcb4bICAMfCiS4eOK.html
17-08-2020||India||100 Congress leaders wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking leadership change, claims ex-leader Sanjay Jha||Sacked Congress leader Sanjay Jha said on Monday several lawmakers of the party have approached Sonia Gandhi with a request to bring in a change in the leadership and demanded transparent polls within the organisation.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s) , distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space,” Jha tweeted.The letter, mentioned by Jha, comes days after the Congress party tided over a month-long political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by a rebellion by Sachin Pilot. The 42-year-old Pilot and 18 rebel legislators had protested chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s style of functioning and alleged that Pilot was sidelined in the state government.On July 14, Pilot was sacked from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president after his revolt. Also Watch l ‘Congress without Gandhis will be unprecedented, but it will work’: Sanjay Jha The Congress government won a floor test in the House, bolstered by the return of Pilot and his supporters to the party fold after a tumultuous month.Jha was suspended for anti-party activities and breach of discipline in July after he backed Sachin Pilot, who was sacked as the deputy chief minister and removed as the Congress’ Rajasthan unit chief. The move came after Sanjay Jha put out a series of tweets in support of Pilot.Before this, Jha was also sacked as the party spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-100-congress-leaders-wrote-to-sonia-gandhi-asking-for-change-in-political-leadership-transparent-elections-in-cwc-tweets-sanjay-jha/story-HkoI7eh9cq5zHWXxgZQE3N.html
17-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be critical, on ventilator support: Army hospital||The condition of Pranab Mukherjee continues to be critical and the former president is being closely monitored, news agency ANI reported on Monday citing the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.The hospital in the Delhi Cantonment area also said the vital and clinical parameters of Mukherjee, who is on ventilatory support, are stable.The 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital last Monday and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).His son, Abhijit Mukherjee, said on Sunday that he had visited the hospital on Saturday and his father “is much better and stable than the preceding days”.“With God’s grace and all your good wishes, he is much better and stable than the preceeding days! All his vital parameters are stable and he is responding to treatment. We firmly believe that He will be back among us soon. Thank You,” he tweeted.“With all your prayers and good wishes, I firmly believe that he will be back among us soon and in good health,” he tweeted.The hospital has said in a statement on Sunday that there is no change in the condition of Mukherjee. “His vital and clinical parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilator support. The health condition of the former president who also has multiple old co-morbidities is being closely monitored by a team of specialists,” it said.Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on Saturday, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-critical-on-ventilator-support-army-hospital/story-PzSWTCC83Fn9zrzB1U0S7K.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Not expelled, going to resign’, says JD(U) leader Shyam Rajak; confirms he is going back to RJD||Janata Dal (United) leader Shyam Rajak, who was sacked as industries minister in Bihar and removed from the party, on Monday said that he has not been expelled.“I have not been expelled, I am going to give my resignation to the Speaker. I cannot stay where social justice is being stripped,” Rajak told reporters.“Around 99% of people in Janata Dal (United) party are upset from Bihar CM Nitish Kumar but are unable to form a decision. I don’t know about others but I am joining Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD),” he further said.The action against Rajak was taken by chief minister Nitish Kumar for his “anti-party activities” - reports had surfaced that he was going to move back to the RJD.“Shyam Rajak’s recent actions were nothing less than an act of indiscipline. He was involved in anti-party activities. So the party decided to take this action against him. Nobody is above the party. I welcome the party’s decision of expelling him,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan had said on Sunday.People aware of the development said that the dismissal of Rajak from the state cabinet and expulsion from the JD(U) was done more as a face saving exercise by Kumar, knowing full well that Rajak could have earned some political points by resigning from ministership.Rajak had been unhappy with the JD(U) leadership, said people aware of development, for not being given much prominence as a minister.He had switched to the JD(U) in 2009 after leaving the RJD and had won from the Phulwari seat as a JD(U) nominee in the 2010 election.Elections in Bihar are due in October-November and the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29. The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-expelled-going-to-resign-jd-u-leader-shyam-rajak-confirms-he-is-going-back-to-rjd/story-TFePLtKb5hZXfvVlpd0XDJ.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi should’ve spoken about unemployment, economy in I-Day speech: Shiv Sena||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have spoken about employment generation and measures to revive the economy in his address to the nation on the Independence Day, said Shiv Sena on Monday.The Sena mouthpiece, Saamna, said that in his nearly 90 minutes speech the Prime Minister spoke about the Corona vaccine trials in India, the country’s defence ability, National Digital Health Mission, among other things, but questioned whether the “Atmanirbhar” Bharat scheme which is being hyped would be able to tide over the economic crisis caused by the Coronavirus pandemic?Also read | No one can challenge India’s sovereignty, says PM Modi on I-Day“Till now around 14 crore people in the country have lost their jobs. In future, this number is going to increase. People have to get out of their homes, but what will they do once they are getting out? Jobs, businesses and employment has been destroyed. It would have been better if the Prime Minister would have spoken about these,” the editorial in Saamna read.Also read | From the ramparts of Red Fort, PM Modi says ‘India will realise its dream’: Highlights of PM Modi’s Independence Day speechSena further said that although our country’s “Army and Air Force are there to safeguard country’s borders and keep enemies at bay, but how will we fight the devil of hunger and joblessness which is running amok in the country?”It also put out a jibe at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s speech on Independence Day.“Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had stated during the flag hoisting on Independence Day that India has the ability to speed up the global economy. Leave alone the world Sir, speed up the country’s economy. Independence Day comes and goes, the Red Fort is the same, the problems and woes are still the same,” it read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-ve-spoken-about-unemployment-economy-in-i-day-speech-shiv-sena/story-35PnTbUh2UaK4MCFwxhspK.html
17-08-2020||India||‘We enforce policies without regard to anyone’s political affiliation’: Facebook||Amid political slugfest involving social media giant Facebook, a company spokesperson has said that the platform “prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence. “We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position/party affiliation,” the spokesperson added as reported by news agency ANI. The official also said that the company is making progress on enforcing and conducting regular audits of its processes to ensure fairness and accuracy.  Also read: Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesWe prohibit hate speech&content that incites violence&we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position/party affiliation. We're making progress on enforcement&conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness&accuracy: Facebook spokesperson pic.twitter.com/8zHJhZuXXJThis comes a day after Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that the BJP and its ideological parent the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. In a tweet, Gandhi said, “They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook”. His tweet also contained snippets of media reports. Senior Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted out saying, “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India”.Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Praveen Chakravarty and Rohan Gupta, demanded the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into the matter. Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us? https://t.co/NloUF2WZVYThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has categorically denied the allegations.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad slammed Gandhi and replied to his tweet saying, “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-enforce-policies-globally-without-regard-to-anyone-s-political-position-or-affiliation-facebook-clarifies/story-n2Vo21FD7Mh81o7QPZCv8O.html
17-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges over 2.64 million, recoveries cross 1.9 million||India recorded 57,981 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 941 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing its tally to over 2.64 million, data from the Union health ministry showed on Monday.There are 676,900 active Covid-19 cases and 50,921 people have succumbed to the viral disease across the country, the health ministry’s data showed at 8am. The country’s death toll stands at 50,921.At 1.93%, India had one of the lowest mortality globally as of Sunday, according to the government. The United States crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. India took 156 days to reach the figure, it said.The recovery rate went up to 72.51% as 1,919,842 patients, 57,584 in the last 24 hours, have been cured so far.“Successful implementation of TESTING aggressively, TRACKING comprehensively & TREATING efficiently through a plethora of measures have contributed to the existing high level of recoveries as well,” the health ministry said in a release on Sunday.India is moving towards completing 30 million tests with 2,93,09,703 samples tested as of Sunday. “This has been made possible by a rapidly growing national network of diagnostic labs which comprises 969 labs in the government sector and 500 private labs, adding up to 1469,” the ministry added.Sero surveys conducted in select districts by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments have detected high antibody positivity rates among the population in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi and low rates in primarily rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.State government officials have said that in Mumbai, the positivity rate was 57% in three slums; it was 0.7% in six districts of Bihar and 0.5% in three districts of Chhattisgarh, according to .These surveys detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling. And, the high positivity rates signal a lower risk of reinfection, and conversely, they should worry the states in the hinterland where cases are beginning to spike.There are 21.6 million people who have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, and 774,296 have died across the globe, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. The US with 5,403,213 cases and Brazil with 3,340,197 have more Covid-19 cases than India, the Baltimore-based university’s tracker showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-over-2-64-million-recoveries-cross-1-9-million/story-7b7unGSakxWl7iexuhCOcO.html
17-08-2020||India||Gaganyaan: Unmanned space mission planned for Dec 2020 likely to be delayed||Hit by disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic, the launch of India’s unmanned space mission under the first leg of Gaganyaan, planned for December 2020, is likely to be delayed, sources said.It was part of the two unmanned missions to be undertaken by the Indian Space Research Organisation ahead of the planned launch of India’s maiden human spaceflight under ‘Gaganyaan’ in December 2021. The likely delay in the first unmanned mission was recently conveyed to the Space Commission, the apex policy making body on space related issues. The Space Commission is headed by ISRO Chairman and Department of Space Secretary K Sivan. Two years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the human space mission in his Independence Day address. The Gaganyaan mission aims to send a three-member crew to space for a period of five to seven days by 2022 when India completes 75 years of Independence. The ISRO had started planning for the mission accordingly. The first unmanned mission was planned in December 2020, the second unmanned mission in June 2021. The final and the main component, the manned mission of Gaganyaan, was scheduled six months later in December 2021, much before the 2022 deadline. ISRO had earlier indicated that there would be a delay in several missions as the space body’s work has been hit by disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic. Among the major projects that have been affected are Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan. Chandrayaan-3, the third mission to Moon, was scheduled later this year. The sources said that efforts are on to stick to the deadline of 2022 for launching the human space mission. “We will not be able to meet deadline for the December 2020 launch of the unmanned mission. The coronavirus pandemic has led to several disruptions. This was also recently conveyed to the Space Commission,” a source said.The sources added that staff members from ISRO’s different centres were infected. Only essential and process related work is on. Also, the related industry has been affected. Even the training of four astronauts in Russia was hit due to the pandemic. However, the training has now resumed.  “Even if we are not able to launch the manned mission by December 2021, we have eight months to cover up for the time we have lost,” the source said. The spacecraft will be placed in a low earth orbit of 300-400 kilometres. The total programme cost is expected to be less than Rs 10,000 crores. In June, Jitendra Singh, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, had said even though because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the training of four Indian astronauts in Russia had to be halted, yet the opinion of Chairman ISRO and the scientific team is that there is a “cushion” period kept both in the training programme and launch deadline.The training of astronauts has now been resumed and the launch is scheduled to take place as planned, before the 75th anniversary of India’s independence in 2022, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-unmanned-space-mission-planned-for-dec-2020-likely-to-be-delayed/story-RKd3cflEHJaRe04qRWelGK.html
17-08-2020||India||India, Nepal to hold high-level meeting today amid border row||India and Nepal will hold talks on Monday under their “oversight mechanism” to review development projects funded by New Delhi in the Himalayan nation. This will be the first high-level contact between the two sides since ties were hit by a border row.The joint oversight mechanism was launched in 2016 and reviews progress in bilateral projects.The meeting between Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Nepal’s foreign secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, who jointly chair the mechanism, is being seen by some quarters in Kathmandu as a positive development after the border row took relations to a new low.“The mechanism will only focus on the implementation of India-funded projects in Nepal. However, it could help break the logjam in relations,” said a person aware of the developments.During its seventh meeting in July last year, the mechanism reviewed the implementation of projects such cross-border rail links, petroleum pipelines, roads, bridges, integrated border check posts, energy, irrigation, and post-earthquake reconstruction.The border row erupted late last year after Nepal objected to the inclusion of Kalapani region, which is claimed by Kathmandu, in a new map of the union territory of Ladakh that was issued by India. The row was exacerbated in May, when India opened a new road to Lipulekh region on the border with Tibet, as this area too is claimed by Nepal.In June, Nepal’s Parliament approved the new political map of the country that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India, as the part of the Himalayan nation.India had termed as untenable the “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims by the neighbouring country. The foreign ministry further said that Nepal’s action violates an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks.In recent weeks, the two countries have also engaged in a war of words over the origins of historic figures such as Lord Ram and Gautam Buddha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-nepal-to-hold-high-level-meeting-on-monday-amid-border-row/story-dQvY6MlsNyB4FnTzdIUp1H.html
17-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19The famous Lord Ayyappa temple in Kerala’s Sabarimala is holding the five-day monthly pooja (prayers) from Monday. The temple had reopened on Sunday, on the eve of the pooja in the Malayalam month of Chingam. According to Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue. The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja. Read more.Political slugfest over Facebook intensifiesThe opposition is up in arms over allegations that Facebook, the social media company, has been lenient while censoring content that amounts to hate-speech by members of the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) surfaced on Saturday. Read more.Parliament Annexe building fire brought under control: ReportA fire, which broke out on the sixth floor of the Parliament Annexe Building in New Delhi on Monday morning, has been brought under control, according to news agency ANI. Read more.Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19The Union health ministry has identified lowering of Covid-19 infection rates among healthcare workers as one of the key focus areas in high disease burden states for a more effective response to the pandemic, officials aware of the matter said. Read more.MS Dhoni: The man who turned dreams into realityAhead of the India-West Indies encounter at last year’s World Cup, MS Dhoni was undergoing his routine nets session at the Old Trafford in Manchester. Over the years, Dhoni has had a fixed pattern – usually stepping into the nets late and facing the spinners first. Slowly, he brings out the big shots, readying himself to face the pacers, and if need be, take some throwdowns. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta reveals over 1 million joined prayer meet, Ankita Lokhande says ‘prayers can change anything’Shweta Singh Kirti, the sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has thanked fans and well-wishers around the globe for joining the prayer meet for him. She said that more than a million people joined the 24-hour spiritual meet and prayed for him. Read more.Watch | MS Dhoni farewell match: Ex-IPL chief on whether BCCI would agree to demandsClamour for a farewell match for ex-India captain MS Dhoni grows as MS Dhoni announced retirement from international cricket on August 15. Dhoni made the announcement with terse message & an emotional flashback video. Subsequently, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren sought a farewell match. Watch here.Anand Mahindra tweets video link of ‘unreleased verses’ of Teri Mitti song, says ’beautiful’Teri Mitti, a song from the film Kesari featuring Akshay Kumar and Parineeti Chopra, has won over many since the film’s release in 2019. Now, Manoj Muntashir, who wrote the song, has shared another version of the song with some unreleased verses. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sabarimala-temple-reopens-for-monthly-prayers-devotees-barred-due-to-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FxhNfV09tbJ4abv8Rf3ANJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Light to moderate rain over parts of UP, Delhi, Haryana: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed early on Monday morning that thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Agra, Barsana, Garhmukteswar, Hastinapur, Khatoli, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Bijnor, Chandpur during next two hours, the IMD said.The weather department also said that thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas at isolated places of Delhi, Gurugram, Manesar, Bijnor, Chandpur during next two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-rain-over-parts-of-up-delhi-haryana-imd/story-RcCDjFAsYL8dOlCGliRchI.html
17-08-2020||India||Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly prayers, devotees barred due to Covid-19||The famous Lord Ayyappa temple in Kerala’s Sabarimala is holding the five-day monthly pooja (prayers) from Monday. The temple had reopened on Sunday, on the eve of the pooja in the Malayalam month of Chingam.According to Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue. The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja.The Travancore Dewasom Board (TDB), which runs 1000-odd temples in south Kerala, had decided to open all shrines under its control from August 17, Malayalam New Year Day, except Sabarimala.The TDB felt that if Sabarimala temple is opened there will be a steady stream of devotees from neighboring states and it will affect the measures to control Covid-19 so it deferred its decision on the hill temple. Earlier it planned ‘darshan’ for devotees who made online booking after furnishing Covid-free certificates but excess inquiries forced the TDB to defer that service too.Though the central government had eased restrictions on religious places in May in many temples, churches and mosques deferred opening in view of big spurt in virus cases in June first week. Some churches and mosques were opened on special occasions but temples remained closed.Watch: Sabarimala temple reopens for monthly pooja, devotees barred The TDB, in a release, had said that the temple will again open for Onam poojas from August 29 to September 2.The board’s president N Vasu had earlier said that the annual festival pilgrimage season for Sabarimala starts from November 16.“This is an event which has been going on for decades. The government, as well as the Travancore Devaswam board, is eager to see that the event takes place this year also but with limitations and restrictions,” he had said.The TDB has already asked the devotees to carry Covid-19 negative certificates for darshan during the over two month-long pilgrim season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-reopens-for-monthly-prayers-devotees-barred-due-to-covid-19/story-zDt9wn6yIfBzUPxkQ5YFvJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Kerala: 5-day monthly puja to begin at Sabarimala temple today||The puja at the Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala will start on Monday morning after the shrine reopened on Sunday for five-day monthly prayers in the Malayalam month Chingam.According to the Covid-19 protocol, the bar on the entry of devotees will continue.The temple will close on August 21 evening after monthly puja.Earlier, Travancore Devaswam president N Vasu said the annual festival pilgrimage season for Sabarimala starts from November 16.“This is an event which has been going on for decades. The government, as well as the Travancore Devaswam board, is eager to see that the event takes place this year also but with limitations and restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-5-day-monthly-puja-to-begin-at-sabarimala-temple-today/story-LnFLkPP6DozXDoHC8YFXFJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Parliament Annexe building fire brought under control: Report||A fire, which broke out at the Parliament Annexe Building in New Delhi on Monday morning, has been brought under control, according to reports.Seven fire tenders were rushed to the building in central Delhi after the fire was reported, news agency ANI said. Delhi Fire Service official said the fire broke out on the sixth floor of the building, according to the agency.A call was received at 7.30am, according to PTI, and it is suspected the fire started following a short-circuit. No casualties have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-on-6th-floor-of-parliament-annexe-building-5-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-reports-ani/story-xNIZqweQvZINevV0HUMSqJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Facebook post linking Barcelona’s loss to Covid-19 triggers hilarious memes in soccer crazy Kerala district||Kozhikode district collector Sreeram Sambasiva Rao’s Facebook post warning people to follow Covid-19 protocol in letter and spirit otherwise it will be a big defeat like Spanish football club Barcelona FC hasn’t gone well with crazy football fans of the north Kerala district.The German club Bayern Munich on Friday crushed Barcelona 8-2 to enter the semi-final of the UEFA championship league. Many Barca fans, especially that of Lionel Messi, retorted fiercely to the post but a majority defended it and the collector is having the last laugh as the message has gone well with the masses.The Malayalam post with a photo of the crucial match says: “Prathirotham paliyal, 8inte pani kittum (if you won’t take enough precautions or defence, you will have to face consequences).”Soon netizens took to social media with hilarious comments and memes taking anecdotes from movies. “If you want to take a driving licence you have to drive “H” and 8 ” (drive the vehicle in H and 8 shape),” said a meme opposing the collector’s post. But another meme showed Malayalam comedian Salim Kumar shedding tears and taking a dig at the Barcelona club captained by Messi.At least 14,000 people shared the post within a few hours. Rao later said: “No ill-will against anyone. We want to convey a message and at least 70 per cent of them supported the post. It was only a social message posted in good spirit.”Kozhikode’s football craze is well known. During the Soccer World Cup many fans will wear the jersey of their favourite players and some will be known after them till the tournament is over. And they love to name their new-born after their favourite players. There is a former corporation councillor Brasilia and there are enough Ronaldos and Mohamad Salahs here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-post-linking-barcelona-s-loss-to-covid-19-triggers-hilarious-memes-in-soccer-crazy-kerala-district/story-xubR6Cjk47cxzSHdcQDvQI.html
17-08-2020||India||Make Madurai second capital of Tamil Nadu: Minister RB Udhaya Kumar||Tamil Nadu Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management RB Udhaya Kumar on Sunday said that he has requested Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy to make Madurai as the second capital of the state.“We have requested the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu to make Madurai the second capital of the state,” he said.“This will provide opportunities for economic growth, industrial development, employment growth. If Madurai is declared as the second capital, the southern districts will grow,” he added.Meanwhile, Udhaya Kumar hailed former India cricketer MS Dhoni’s achievements on the field and his impact beyond it after the latter announced his retirement from international cricket on Saturday.“MS Dhoni is a youth’s superstar. Young people affectionately call Dhoni as “Thala”. Dhoni’s retirement is the biggest loss for cricket fans. All of his accomplishments will be remembered though. His achievements will set a precedent for the younger generation to come,” he said.Expressing concern over youngsters getting consumed by playing too much Pubg, the Tamil Nadu minister said that he has requested the central government to ban it.“Lot of young people are immersed in Pubg game. We have thus brought to the notice of the central government that it should be banned. I hope the central government will take appropriate action in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-madurai-second-capital-of-tamil-nadu-minister-rb-udhaya-kumar/story-1oh0zdGhFbWPCIWytI4xLN.html
17-08-2020||India||19-year-old girl dies in wall collapse as heavy rains lash Odisha||A 19-year-old girl died and four of her family members were injured after the wall of their house collapsed following incessant rainfall in Bolangir district. Kendrapada, Malkangiri, Dhenkanal and other districts too flood grappled with floods due to an active southwest monsoon.Officials said that Deepanjali Baralendia, a 19-year-old girl of Ghunaghutipali village under Patnagarh block of Bolangir district, was sleeping with her parents and two brothers when the mud wall of their house gave in. Deepanjali, her parents and siblings were injured in the incident; she later succumbed to her injuries while being taken to hospital.Patnagarh tehsildar Puspanjali Panda said the district saw 78.3 mm in the last 24 hours.Heavy rainfall in southern Odisha district of Malkangiri inundated several low-level bridges connecting various block headquarters. Reports of house damage came from Chitrakonda and Kalimela blocks of the district. Heavy rainfall created a flood-like situation in Dhenkanal district with a herd of over 50 cows stranded in a patch of grazing land near Brahmani river. Several parts of Kendrapada district have become waterlogged after incessant rains.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) sounded warning of heavy rainfall in over 10 districts of Odisha in the next 24 hours. The districts are Malkangiri, Koraput, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Bolangir, Bargarh, Mayurbhanj, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-year-old-girl-dies-in-wall-collapse-as-heavy-rains-lash-odisha/story-XxhGFcD70hCCbcN5l7FnhI.html
17-08-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 16, tally now at 4,569||Manipur recorded three more deaths “due to COVID-19 and other co-morbid health conditions” on Sunday, taking the state’s toll to 16, officials said. The first death relating to the coronavirus disease was reported in Manipur on July 29 and the first case on March 24.“Today, three males aged 73 yrs (Imphal West district), 44 yrs (BSF personnel) and 94 yrs (Thoubal district) expired at JNIMS and RIMS respectively due to COVID 19 and other co-morbid health conditions,” Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, the additional director and spokesperson of the health department in Imphal said in a press release on Sunday evening.“In the past 24 hours, 68 (42 male, 26 female) persons from the general population and 111 from the central armed police force (CAPF) were confirmed as new COVID 19 positive cases,” he said.The Covid-19 cases are from Viral Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences and other testing centres, it said. They are from Thoubal, Imphal West, Imphal East, Bishnupur, Noney, Kangpokpi and Senapati districts, it added.It also said that eight of them are returnees from other states and the rest 60 are locals without any significant travel history, adding that they are being shifted to the Covid care facilities. “All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place,” it said.In the past 24 hours, 194 people were discharged from CAPF, RIMS and seven Covid care centres including a district hospital, it said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 cases is 4,569, including 1,192 CAPF personnel, while the cumulative number of discharged cases is 2,632, it stated.The number of active cases is 1,921 including 944 CAPF personnel. The recovery rate is 57.60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-16-tally-now-at-4-569/story-5eRHd8AbxNkHO2tqSMFojM.html
17-08-2020||India||Odisha woman booked on charges of beating 15-month-old son, mother-in-law as video goes viral||Police in Odisha’s Puri district have booked a woman on charges of beating her 15-month-old son and mother-in-law after CCTV footage of the thrashings went viral on social media.Akhileswar Singh, Puri’s superintendent of police, said they have lodged a case against Rojalin Nayak after the CCTV footage of her beating her son as well as her mother-in-law was submitted by her husband before the police. “The CCTV footage is of last month in which the woman is seen kicking the child. She has also thrashed her mother-in-law. We would arrest her,” Singh said. The Puri Child Welfare Committee has also taken cognisance of the case.The video clip, posted on social media by the woman’s husband Chakradhar Nayak, showed Rojalin kicking her son after tying up his hands and legs. Nayak, who runs a small shop in Bhubaneswar, had installed CCTV cameras in his house following complaints that his wife used to beat up his old parents.“My wife used to harass my old parents. She used to thrash my son too. Finding no other way I installed CCTV cameras in my house,” said Nayak, who alleged that police initially did not take action on his complaint.However, the woman has alleged that her husband is neither taking care of her nor providing her food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-booked-on-charges-of-beating-15-month-old-son-mother-in-law-as-video-goes-viral/story-B84KAe8cloMI0iXOAuJ9gP.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Victorious’ Kamala Harris poster springs up in Tamil Nadu, niece shares photo||Meena Harris, the niece of Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris, on Sunday (local time) shared a photo of a poster that has come up in Tamil Nadu featuring the California senator calling her “victorious”. Taking to Twitter, Meena, a 35-year-old lawyer based in California, said that the photo of the poster was sent to her from Tamil Nadu. The poster has photos of Harris with a text in the Tamilian script--”PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious”. The poster cropped up days after Kamala was picked by Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, as his running mate in the US election. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, California Senator Harris, if elected, would be the first woman vice president ever for the country.  I was sent this from Tamil Nadu where our Indian family is from. It says "PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious." I knew my great grandfather from our family trips to Chennai when I was young—he was a big figure for my grandma and I know they’re together somewhere smiling now. pic.twitter.com/WuZiKimmqj“I was sent this from Tamil Nadu where our Indian family is from. It says ‘PV Gopalan’s granddaughter is victorious.’ I knew my great grandfather from our family trips to Chennai when I was young--he was a big figure for my grandma and I know they’re together somewhere smiling now,” Meena tweeted. Kamala’s mother, Shyamala Gopalan, was born in Chennai before she moved to the US for further study. Shyamala became a leading cancer researcher and activist.Shyamala was the daughter of PV Gopalan, a high-ranking civil servant.Speaking during an event on Saturday, Kamala recalled her ‘long walks’ with her grandfather during her childhood visits to India.The California senator remembered how she and her grandfather would go on long walks in what was then called Madaras where the latter would tell Harris about “heroes” who were involved in the freedom struggle in India. She said that the lessons from her grandfather P V Gopalan, are a big reason “why I am where I am today”.“In Madras, I would go on long walks with my grandfather, who at that point was retired, and we take morning walks where I pulled his hand and he would tell me about the heroes who are responsible for the birth of the world’s biggest democracy, and he would explain that ‘tt’s on us to pick up where they left off’. Those lessons are a big reason why I am where I am today,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victorious-kamala-harris-poster-springs-up-in-tamil-nadu-says-her-niece/story-rN4rYcCqa0gRqUjmrUVwcP.html
17-08-2020||India||Gujarat: 5 killed, 4 injured in a road accident on Ahmedabad-Vadodara NH-8||Five persons were killed and four critically injured when two cars collided on National Highway-8 at Nadiad in the Kheda district of Gujarat on Sunday night.Two cars collided on the Ahmedabad-Vadodara National Highway-8 killing five on the spot. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Nadiad, the police said.“Five people have died, four others are seriously injured. The injured have been rushed to a hospital,” says Dixit Patel, Nadiad Fire Superintendent.As soon as the accident was reported, a fire brigade team, three ambulances and the Kheda police reached the site. All the deceased were from Ahmedabad.The police are now investigating the exact cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-5-killed-4-injured-in-a-road-accident-on-ahmedabad-vadodara-nh-8/story-BOHPdq7e0TtT23P9ZwxfMO.html
17-08-2020||India||Odisha conducts more than 1 lakh Covid-19 tests in two days||Odisha conducted more than 1 lakh Covid-19 tests within the last two days as the state government continues to focus on improving the testing rate in the state to control Covid-19.The state is close to cross the significant milestone of one million total tests. The positivity rate in the state has come down drastically from 9.2 per cent a month ago to 5.5 per cent on August 16, the Odisha government said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Ganjam district leads the tests with 14,953 tests in two days, which is more than many states in the country. The positivity rate continues to fall in Ganjam to 3.6 per cent. This is a huge improvement in the situation of the district compared to a few weeks back,” the state government said.The fatality rate in Odisha continues to be among the lowest in the country at around 0.58 per cent. It indicates the strength of the dedicated Covid care system of hospitals and Covid care centres and homes established across the state in every district, it added.The government further said, “Odisha is probably the only state where the entire cost of treatment is provided free of cost, while maintaining high standards of treatment through unique partnerships with reputed private hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-conducts-more-than-1-lakh-covid-19-tests-in-two-days/story-1K2u5eA9u9VUt6dWLeceJI.html
17-08-2020||India||‘Nothing disturbing in the clauses of draft EIA 2020’, says RP Gupta||The environment ministry has been swamped by nearly 200,000 objections to and comments on the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2020, but doesn’t intend to hold further discussion on the concerns raised in the feedback it received.RP Gupta, secretary in the environment ministry, told Jayashree Nandi in an interview that the priority for the ministry is both EIA notification and a notification on monitoring and compliance of projects with environmental clearance conditions, which is being drafted.Here is the full interview:Q: How will you read so many comments on draft EIA 2020 and how will responses be incorporated in the final draft?RP Gupta: We have formed a committee to sort out all the mails. They are sorting issues not looking at each mail. Almost 95% of the 17 to 18 lakh emails we have got are repetitive mails.Q: Is it true that the person heading your committee already heads a committee that deals with project violations (post-facto clearances) in your ministry?RP Gupta: We will be dealing with all the issues raised. I am not sure who is heading it. Let the committee perform its duties first.Q: Why do you think there was such a massive public and political outcry against draft EIA 2020? What is so disturbing or contentious about the clauses?RP Gupta: I don’t think there is anything disturbing in the clauses. You are right about political issues. Maybe it has nothing to do with an environmental agenda but more to do with political agenda.Q: Why does the environment ministry see draft EIA 2020 as an important regulation?RP Gupta: We must see it in an overall context rather than looking at it in isolation. We are a country that takes a lot of time in issuing environmental clearances. We have very poor enforcement and monitoring of projects. No amount of scrutiny can substitute for the monitoring. You can scrutinise a project for five to six years and delay it but if you don’t monitor it, then it will remain environmentally unfriendly. We need to switch this equation. We should be quick in giving clearances. There should be very strict and regular monitoring and we should come down heavily on non-compliance. This notification is only the first part. We are developing a monitoring mechanism which will be the second part.Taking more time increases a project’s time and cost, and we force the industry to construct without obtaining clearances. To discourage violations, the best way is to ensure fast-tracking of clearances.Q: But the draft is talking about regularising these violations.RP Gupta: Post-facto scenario happens when someone has started a project without taking prior approval which is the norm. So if an industry is in violation, what is the punishment? Will it have to be closed down and cannot be apprised? There is nothing in law which says you will not appraise it on merit. After appraisal, if you find a project cannot be approved then you close it down. If it can be done, the approval will be effective from the date it was given. For the past period which is a violation, a penalty has to be imposed as per law.Q: Why have you exempted so many projects from public hearing in the draft?RP Gupta: It’s been 14 years since EIA was introduced (in 2006). We have to use experience gathered to further rationalise the clearance process. Every project doesn’t need to come for public hearing for environmental clearance. A small project or industry need not come unless they are very polluting. These projects will still have to meet the laid down norms for air and water pollution. Let’s focus on bigger projects now.Q: Will there be any space for discussion on draft EIA 2020?RP Gupta: Concerns will be considered on merit. There is no requirement for discussion. That will open another Pandora’s Box. Then nothing will happen in future. Everything can be stifled.Q: When can we expect a notification on monitoring of projects?RP Gupta: Soon. Statutory clauses are being worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-disturbing-in-the-clauses-of-draft-eia-2020-says-rp-gupta/story-FclDTDbTKIeIMB73tAD10H.html
17-08-2020||India||Two die after clash at panchayat meet in UP||A father-son duo was killed in Shekhupur village under Raniganj police station of Pratapgarh district when two groups clashed during a panchayat meeting to sort out a property related dispute on Sunday morning, police said.Heavy force has been deployed and three policemen, including a sub-inspector, have been suspended for negligence in taking timely action to avert the clash, police officials said.According to superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh, a panchayat meeting was called to settle a land dispute between Dayashankar Mishra (60) and Chintamani Mishra.During the meeting, a violent clash took place between the two sides in which Dayashankar, his son Anand Mishra (28) and Chintamani sustained severe injuries, Singh said. They were rushed to the district hospital, where Dayashankar and Anand were declared dead, while Chintamani was referred to a medi- cal facility in Prayagraj, Singh said.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the officer added.Sub-inspector Rajesh Rai and constable Rama Yadav have been suspended for laxity in duty and one suspect, identified as Rajesh Mishra, arrested for the violence, police said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-after-clash-at-panchayat-meet-in-up/story-V89h1Qi0PygV8QVhaT7JVP.html
17-08-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind pay tributes to Atal Bihari Vajpayee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate an expressway built in Madhya Pradesh after late former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) organized a special event in his honour and top leaders paid tributes to the memory of Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tribute to Vajpayee . They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at Sadaiv Atal, the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital.President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated a portrait of Vajpayee at the ICCR and described him as a “widely accepted” leader. Vajpayee served as the ex-officio president of the ICCR from March 1977 to August 1979 when he was the foreign minister.Modi said India will always remember Vajpayee’s contributions to the nation. “Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation’s progress,” Modi tweeted.Home minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw “good governance” being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee, who was the first non-Congress politician to serve a full term as prime minister.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the proposed 300-km long expressway, named Chambal Progress Way, would be named after Vajpayee. Chouhan, after paying tributes to Vajpayee on his second death anniversary at the state BJP headquarters, also announced that a statue of the former PM would be installed in Bhopal.The six-lane Chambal Progress Way, which is proposed to be developed at a cost of about Rs 6,000 crore, will connect the boundaries of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh through Sheopur, Morena and Bhind districts of Madhya Pradesh.Chouhan also said the state government will observe December 25 as Sushasan Diwas (good governance day) every year to mark Vajpayee’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-prez-pay-tributes-to-vajpayee/story-HP2h0bIQJ8eS9j8p8GNFDJ.html
17-08-2020||India||High exposure to Covid-19 in urban areas, find sero surveys||Sero surveys conducted by the states to determine the extent of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have detected high antibody positivity rates among the population in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi and low rates in primarily rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The findings are good news for the cities because the high positivity rates signal a lower risk of reinfection, and conversely, they should worry the states in the hinterland where cases are beginning to spike. In Mumbai, the positivity rate was 57% in three slums; it was 0.7% in six districts of Bihar and 0.5% in three districts of Chhattisgarh, according to state government officials.Also read: Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19Sero surveys are being conducted in select districts by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments to detect how many people have developed immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies to the coronavirus disease and to gauge the extent of infection through random sampling.Experts said a low sample size could be a reason for under and overestimation of the prevalence of antibodies. Higher antibody positivity rates indicate a lower possibility of reinfection. Lower rates shows that the possibility of Covid-19 spread is still high. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayDelhi and Mumbai, the two major cities to have completed the sero surveys, have shown different results. While in Mumbai, 57% of the persons surveyed in three slums showed IgG antibodies, in Delhi it was 23.48%. To be sure, the Delhi survey was more comprehensive. “This is suggestive of infection during mid-June, and since then, we have seen a decent increase in the number of cases. That means more people are exposed to the virus, and the disease prevalence could be higher,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department of Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Delhi has conducted a second survey the results of which are expected in the coming week. On July 28, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), along with the government think tank NITI Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), published the results of the survey conducted in three wards—M-West (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar) -- of Mumbai.Of the total sample size of 6,936 persons, 4,232 were tested in the slums and 2,702 in non-slum residential areas. While in the slums, 57% of the individuals surveyed had once been infected with Covid-19, the proportion was only 16% in non-slum residential areas, the findings showed. Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha “The prevalence of the virus in slums is high due to the densely populated areas. In non-slums, there is better social distancing and maintenance of hygiene which helped to stop the spread of the virus to a larger number of people,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.In Chhattisgarh, the survey was conducted in Bijapur, Kabirdham and Surguja districts in July with a sample size of about 400 people in each district. The results showed that the antibody positivity rate was 0.5%, which a health department official said could be because of a large number of false negatives. “The reliability of the test is said to be about 60%, meaning there is a high chance of false negativity in 40% cases. So unless mass testing is done in a very short time, we are not giving priority to this test,” said a Chhattisgarh health official, requesting anonymity.In Odisha, the sero survey conducted in the Covid hotspot district of Ganjam found that 31% of 2,830 people tested had developed antibodies and in Bhubaneswar, it was 1.4% of the 951 tested. Puri had zero positivity. The survey was conducted in July in four districts. “It’s a good sign as 31% people in Ganjam did not show symptoms and have recovered. In case of Bhubaneswar, the numbers would be higher if the Sero survey is done by the end of this month as the cases are shooting up in Bhubaneswar now,” said Dr TM Mohapatra, a microbiologist and former advisor to ICMR. Not a happy situation The Kerala health department started a sero survey with the help of the ICMR in three districts, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad, from the last week of May, but the results have not been declared as the findings are not as encouraging as Delhi’s, said a state health official.In Telangana, where the sero survey was conducted by the central government’s National Institute of Nutrition on May 30 and 31 with sample sizes of 600 in each of three districts (Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda), state health minister Eatala Rajender claimed the survey showed no community transmission. Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said the sero-prevalence survey showed four positive cases out of 1,200 samples in rural areas and 15 positive cases out of 500 samples in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, indicating that there was no community transmission.Jharkhand’s sero surveym conducted in 10 high Covid-19 districts in June, showed an antibody positivity rate of 0.63%. The sample size in each district was a little over 400, which included health workers. Planning health interventions In other states such as Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, sero surveys are under way in select districts and the results are expected by the end of August.In Pune, a Covid hotspot in Maharashtra, the first sero survey on 1,550 people was conducted by Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The results of the survey are expected this week. Two other sero surveys by the government-run Sassoon Hospital and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) are expected to start soon. Results of the ICMR sero survey of a few districts in West Bengal and Assam conducted in May are yet to be announced. Some states such as Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim have not conducted any sero surveys.After completing a pilot sero survey around mid-May, to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus,ICMR on May 31 sent an advisory to all states to perform periodical sero surveys.ICMR’s sero survey results have shown a disease prevalence rate of 0.73% across India, but that was in May. India ended that month with 190,000 cases; it currently has over 2.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-exposure-to-covid-19-in-urban-areas-find-sero-surveys/story-sRzruWmP3qUZNz1BXnOC3I.html
17-08-2020||India||Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19||The Union health ministry has identified lowering of Covid-19 infection rates among healthcare workers as one of the key focus areas in high disease burden states for a more effective response to the pandemic, officials aware of the matter said. Many districts are reporting 7-12% infection positivity among healthcare workers in about 10 worst affected states compared to the national average of 5.5-6%, according to the ministry data.“There are many reasons for higher positivity among healthcare workers in some of these states such as not following infection control practices properly, not donning or doffing the personal protective (PPE) gear properly, or not even disposing of PPE gear as per the prescribed norms. We have directed the states to identify the issues and address them properly,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan“In some districts, the issue being pointed out is that infection is being brought into hospitals from outside. A healthcare worker perhaps contracts the infection from where she resides, and for such cases, the states have been directed to identify those areas and strengthen containment measures in those areas to control the spread of infection.”Officials said low lab utilization, lower testing per million compared to the state or national average, delay test results, and delayed referrals that put patient lives at risk are other areas that need focus in these high disease burden districts.The official cited above said many of these districts have a relatively higher case fatality of elderly people and those with comorbidities. “Delayed referrals were leading to deaths within the first three days. Our ultimate aim is to bring down the number of deaths. The ministry is holding video conferences with states, and two in the series have already been conducted....”Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayUnlike the regular practice of engaging with top most people at the state level, the ministry has also involved heads of the affected districts (magistrates), and municipal commissioners in case of cities for Covid-19 management. “We are involving principals of medical colleges in these areas as they also play a crucial role in managing the situation on the ground,” said the official.Officials said the states have also been asked to monitor asymptomatic cases under home isolation. They have also been asked to ensure timely assessment and advance preparedness for intensive care unit beds, oxygen supply based on the prevailing caseload, and estimates.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Some of the worst-affected districts the Centre is monitoring include Kamrup Metro (Assam), Patna (Bihar) Ranchi (Jharkhand), Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Ganjam (Odisha), Lucknow ( Uttar Pradesh), 24 Paraganas North, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah (West Bengal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-focus-on-protecting-health-care-staff-from-covid-19/story-UpDwxioBvNlc3xwvJH58IO.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India’s cumulative coronavirus disease cases crossed the 2.5 million mark on Friday, and the death toll from the viral pandemic crossed 50,000 on Saturday. The number of daily deaths is nearing 1,000. India is adding the most cases a day in the world, but the US and Brazil, #2 and #3 in terms of daily new cases respectively, see more deaths (roughly 50-100 more a day) on average. Even if India’s cases and deaths grow at the same pace, the country will cross the 3 million-case mark early next week, perhaps even by Sunday; and the 100,000-deaths mark by late September or early October. India’s low case fatality rate relative to other countries, just around 2%, is a definite cause for cheer, but the loss of 50,000 lives is still worrying.The Covid-19 pandemic is now in evidence across India — the peninsula, the hinterland, and the eastern parts of the country have all become hot spots for the disease that was once restricted to a few states, and a few urban clusters within those states. Even as progressive fatality rates come down — doctors in India, just like their peers everywhere, have become better at saving lives — and most infections remain mild (even asymptomatic), it is clear that the caseload across India will continue to rise. Also read: Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccineIndia, much like the US and Brazil, has not been able to break the chain of infection. A 68-day lockdown may have helped flatten the peak and delay it (India is still to see its) even as the health care system readied itself for the onslaught, but it has not broken the chain. India, the US and Brazil are uniquely similar because of their vast geographical size and population (India has the highest population by a bit and the US, the largest area, again by a bit). And this writer believes the three countries have not been able to control the number of cases partly (and it is a large part) because of how their people have reacted to masks. Let there be no doubt — masks work. And let there be no doubt — research has shown that wearing masks does not reduce oxygen intake or affect breathing capability, even during exercise. These aren’t my opinions — they are facts backed by science.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Yet, the US has a troubled relationship with masks, which have been weaponised by politicians in that country. They are still not mandatory in all parts of the country, and many people believe they have a right to not wear masks. The Trump administration, and the US President himself, have both not emphasised the need for masks adequately (and Trump is seen without one almost as often as he is seen with one).Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro, one of the few global leaders to be infected with the virus, has not been a vociferous supporter of masks either, and the relative disregard for rules in that country hasn’t helped. India is different. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been punctilious about wearing a mask. This writer had an opportunity to observe him from close quarters at an event in Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday and his mask etiquette and discipline is exemplary. He was wearing the right kind of mask and wearing it the way it is meant to be.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine planUnfortunately, this hasn’t trickled down. There are many people walking around (or cycling around) without masks (with masks under their chins) in every Indian city. They couldn’t care less, or believe WhatsApp forwards about the dangers of wearing masks when exercising or about the superfluity of wearing masks in the great outdoors. There is almost no enforcement — the police clearly have better things to do than enforcing mask discipline. There is no point in trying to educate them because, one, it is a lost cause, and two, it defeats the whole purpose of reducing exposure to them and their exhalations (Survival rule 1 of the pandemic: never argue with a man, or a woman, who isn’t wearing a mask).This is unfortunate, because if everyone wore the right masks the right way, and all the time they are outside their homes, then the number of infections will start declining in a month — community transmission or no community transmission.Yet, we’d rather rest our hopes on a vaccine that has not been developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-QxIK2oF102c7y4ZXMXimVO.html
17-08-2020||India||Issues facing online education||The Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted the education sector globally. Classes have been suspended to enforce social distancing and educational institutions, from schools to universities, have shifted to online methods of teaching and evaluation. As the number of cases continues to rise, there is no certainty about when normalcy will be restored. This has encouraged some sort of a permanent tilt, if not a complete shift, to online education. The new National Education Policy (NEP) approved last month also talks about being ready for digital and online education, although it adds a rider that the digital divide must be eliminated to fully benefit from such methods.An HT analysis based on unit-level data from a 2017-18 National Statistical Office (NSO) survey has highlighted caution against a sudden push towards online education in India. Any such policy will run the risk of excluding a significant section of students. A number of students, who, in theory, have access to online teaching will have to depend on inconvenient methods such as using mobile phones instead of computers.Also read: Students climb trees, hills to attend online classes in Odisha, says ministerA wholesale shift to online education is not just dependent on access to devices and the internet. It is also about nuances. For instance, shifting to online methods can be far more difficult in humanities than engineering, or in government institutions than in private ones.Three-fourths of students in India did not have access to the internet at home, according to a 2017-18 all-India NSO survey. The share of those who did not have computers, including devices such as palm-tops and tablets, was much greater--89%. Access to these facilities was higher among students at higher levels of education. But even at the highest levels, a large share of students did not have access to these facilities. As expected, access to the internet and computers is directly related to household incomes.   To be sure, internet access must have increased since the 2017-18. According to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), the number of internet subscribers increased from 446 million to 719 million between 2017 and 2019. The bulk of this growth has come from wireless connections (272 million out of 273 million). While mobiles can be useful in listening to online lectures, they are not the ideal medium when it comes to writing exams or even assignments.Lack of access to the internet and devices has also created a gap in digital literacy. As many as 76% of students in India in the 5-35 age group did not know how to use a computer. The share of those who did not know how to use the internet was 74.5%. Once again, this gap rises with a fall in income levels. 55% of students among the top 20% of households by monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) knew how to use a computer and internet while these proportions were only 9% and 10% among the bottom 20%.  Given the interrelationship between class background and choice of courses, professional courses are better suited for a shift to online methods. 54% of humanities students (at the graduate level or higher, including diplomas) did not have access to the internet and 81% did not have access to computers. Also read: Over 58,000 secondary school students in Prayagraj lack gadgets for online studiesThese shares were just 30% and 44% for engineering. At the same level of enrolment, the share of students in private unaided and aided institutions with computer at home (36% and 30% respectively) was higher than in government institutions (25%).To be sure, even these numbers are likely to overestimate the number of students who may benefit from online education. This is because having a computer or internet facility at home is not a guarantee of uninterrupted access to it. In May, an HT report highlighted how most Delhi University (DU) students lacked resources to take online exams. It showed how two siblings, whose father is a daily wager, were worried about their final-year exams as the keypad of the phone they shared was not working and the internet was slow. The NSO survey will show their household as having access to the internet, although this access was hardly helpful for them.For such families, a sudden shift to online education can also strain their spending capacity. Rough estimates suggest pursuing online education can be very costly for the poorest households. For example,they show that playing a 480p video (or a video with a resolution of 854x480 pixels) on YouTube can consume about 264 MB of data per hour. Five hour online lectures for five days a week on the platform would then mean consuming 26.4 GB data a month. According to TRAI, the average revenue realisation per subscriber per GB for wireless data in the December quarter was Rs 8.45. This translates to a monthly cost of Rs 204.9 at July 2017-June 2018 prices when the education survey was conducted. This cost is almost a quarter of the bottom 20% of households’ average MPCE according to the survey, Rs 900, and only 4.4% of the top 20% of households’ MPCE, Rs 4641.NEP emphasises on preventing drop-outs.If India has to focus on online learning, it would do well to ensure students have access to devices and internet connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issues-facing-online-education/story-SaG9rbmlRjRnALWqPspjII.html
17-08-2020||India||UV disinfection, tech overhaul in Parliament plan||Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air-conditioning system to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for showing live proceedings, and special communication cables linking both Houses — Parliament officials are leaving nothing to chance when the monsoon session gets underway amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Ministers, former prime ministers and floor leaders of political parties will get preference in the main chamber, and many party MPs — even from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — will be seated in the galleries, according to a plan prepared by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, detailed in an official note. The same plan is likely to be used by the Lok Sabha too. It is for the first time in the history of Parliament since 1952 that both chambers as well as the galleries of both Houses will be used to seat members. House authorities are pressing for a staggered shift of two Houses—with Lok Sabha starting in the morning and the Rajya Sabha in the afternoon as it will help in keeping the session short and MPs from outside Delhi will get to spend as little time in the Capital as possible. But some ministries prefer alternate days as it would be easier for them to cater to the demand of two Houses. India’s top legislative authorities, Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, are keeping a close watch on the status of the pandemic in the Capital and elsewhere to finalise the dates for the session. Under the Indian Constitution, the duration between the end of one session and the start of the next cannot exceed six months. So, Parliament has a window till September 23 to start the monsoon session, after the budget session ended on March 23, two days before a 68-day national lockdown kicked in, Hindustan Times reported on August 4.To be sure, the 100-year-old building is no stranger to facelifts and modifications.But the pandemic has prompted the authorities to make unprecedented changes to a well-established system; the aim is to ensure the safety of members of Parliament by ensuring adherence to physical distancing and other norms in the post-Covid-19 era.Such precautions come against the backdrop of the fact that the elderly are thought to be more vulnerable to the coronavirus disease. The average age of MPs in the Rajya Sabha is 63.39. The average age of Lok Sabha MPs is 54, but half of them are at least 56 years old .As the proceedings of each House will be spread across the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and their galleries, there will be four large and six small display screens in the chamber and galleries of the Upper House, “audio consoles in the galleries, ultraviolet germicidal irradiation, special cables connecting the two Houses for transmission of audio-visual signals, polycarbonate sheet separating the Official Gallery from the chamber of the House”, according to the official note cited above. Naidu has decided that in the Rajya Sabha chamber, seats will be earmarked for the Prime Minister, leader of the House,leader of the Opposition and floor leaders of other parties.Former Prime Ministers and former Leaders of the House DrManmohan Singh and HDDeve Gowda, Ramvilas Paswan and Ramdas Athawale, being ministers and Rajya Sabha MPs — will also have earmarked seats in the chamber of the House. Other ministers will be seated in the seats meant for the ruling party.The remaining lawmakers will be seated in the Lok Sabha, divided into two blocks — the ruling NDA and other parties. A similar practice will be followed by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, who will also use the Central Hall to accommodate excess members. The seating arrangements will be in strict compliance with social distancing norms. “Special cables are being laid connecting the two Houses of Parliament for transmitting audio-visual signals of the proceedings both ways without any time lag to enable real time participation of members seated in the two Houses,” said the official note. Polycarbonate sheets—widely used in government offices now—will separate the official gallery from the Rajya Sabha chamber as both are in close proximity. A maximum of 15 officials and as many journalists will be allowed in the respective galleries. In the Lok Sabha press gallery, 20 journalists will be allowed. While Rajya Sabha TV and Lok Sabha TV will telecast live proceedings through their existing arrangements, Naidu and Birla have instructed the secretariat to minimise the physical handling of various papers.All the special arrangements for the monsoon session are expected to be completed in the next three weeks. The monsoon session of Parliament, which usually starts in July, is likely to begin in the second week of September.“It will be a short session...the session will see the three ordinances replaced by bills for passage and a discussion on the Covid situation. If the government agrees, a debate on India-China relations can also take place,” said a senior functionary of Parliament, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uv-disinfection-tech-overhaul-in-parliament-plan/story-1uiGMRKhqfNctnMr5iBZlO.html
17-08-2020||India||India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan||Covid-19 vaccines being developed by UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca and United States’s Moderna-NIAID are the top candidates India is looking at for possible acquisition discussions, senior government officials aware of the country’s vaccine strategy said, adding that a group of experts spearheading the process will hold a crucial meeting on Monday with the heads of pharma firms involved in the development of some of the candidates. The government will also closely track the progress of candidates being tested by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the AZD1222 vaccine, which has till now been tested in the most number of people among the close to 200 options across the world. Also read: Govt to focus on protecting health care staff from Covid-19According to one of the officials, India is at present waiting for trial data for the Russian candidate, which last week became the first coronavirus vaccine to be approved in the world. “For now, we are looking at the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is in co-production with Serum Institute of India for the Indian market, and the Moderna vaccine, which has also entered phase 3 trails,” this person said, asking not to be identified. Nine other vaccine development programmes — including ones in Germany and Israel — are also being looked at, this person added. These were part of discussions that were held at top government levels. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayAccording to a second official, who too asked not to be named, the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration will hold its second meeting on Monday and discuss with granular details of procurement processes and pricing with the heads of several pharma firms, including SII, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila .Headed by Niti Aayog’s VK Paul and co-chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, the panel will meet at around 3.30pm, according to the health ministry’s meeting notice that was seen by HT. Adar C Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, Krishna Ella, MD of Bharat Biotech, and Pankaj R Patel, chairman of Zydus Cadila, have been invited for the meeting.  The members of the panel include department of biotechnology secretary, Renu Swarup, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava and department of pharmaceuticals secretary, PD Vaghela.Also read: High exposure to Covid-19 in urban areas, find sero surveysAt present, there are 29 vaccines in clinical trials – a multi-step process to establish safety and efficacy of a shot. There are 138 more that are in pre-clinical phases, which includes development and animal trials. The Covid-19 pandemic has infected 21.7 million people around the world in less than nine months since it first began spreading. At least 770,000 people have died.The once-in-a-century outbreak has triggered a dash for vaccines, with the first of options expected by early or mid next year. The process usually takes 10-12 years. According to the first official cited above, the government is closely following data emerging from these candidates. The Russian vaccine, Sputnik V, is in its second phase of trials but little is known about how it performed in the first phase, although Russian President Vladimir Putin said it was safe while announcing it had been approved. Also read: Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccineAccording to an expert associated with trials of the Bharat Biotech vaccine candidate Covaxin, there is steady progress in all 12 sites where shots are being given to people. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, this week also started about six healthy volunteers on 2nd dose of the vaccine candidate.“There is no fixed time line as not all volunteers are given a shot in a single go. The doses are given in batches; once all the doses are administered then only we will be able to run blood tests and analyse the changes. The data analysis will take at least 2-3 weeks and I would say anything concrete can’t be said before a month about the safety of the vaccine candidate. However, there was no immediate adverse reaction observed,” said this person, asking not to be named. Pharma major Zydus Cadila has also started phase 2 clinical trials to establish efficacy of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate, ZyCov-D. The phase 2 trial began on August 6. Results from the phase 1 trials are not in the public domain yet. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The first official also said that states have been told that vaccine will not be available in the next few months and they should focus on 3Ts—test, trace and treat – to rein in the outbreak and mitigate its spread. “There is no alternative to ramping up testing—as we have done in Delhi—quickly tracking people who have come in contact with the Covid positive patients and ensuring proper treatment for those who have tested positive,” this person said. In his meeting on August 11 with 10 states that account for more than 80% of India’s active Covid cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked them to follow the National Capital Region (NCR) model and increase daily testing rates. Delhi has tested 68,532 per million of its population thus far, the highest proportion in the country. India has tested 21,989 per million. Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, said: “A vaccine will be needed to check the disease spread but we don’t know when an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eyes-global-front-runners-in-vaccine-plan/story-U32PbpPPItEu9wOaY6au7I.html
17-08-2020||India||4G back in 2 Jammu and Kashmir districts on a trial basis till Sept 8||The government restored high-speed mobile internet services in two districts of Jammu and Kashmir on a trial basis on Sunday, a little over a year after the facility was snapped ahead of the revocation of the region’s special status and its bifurcation.An official order said 4G mobile data services on postpaid numbers will be restored in Jammu’s Udhampur and Kashmir’s Ganderbal districts. The order will remain in effect until September 8, unless modified earlier. “The high speed mobile data services in the districts of Ganderbal and Udhampur shall be restored forthwith, on trial basis, while in rest of the districts , the internet speed shall continue to be restricted to 2G only,” said an order signed by principal secretary home, Shaleen Kabra. For now, 4G data services will be available on prepaid SIM cards only after official verification. The order came days after the central government told the Supreme Court that restrictions on high-speed mobile internet services will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of the Union Territory after August 15 on a trial basis.The decision was based on recommendations made by the special committee constituted as per the top court’s May 11 directions. The committee recommended that the areas, where high-speed services are allowed, should have low intensity of terrorist activities. The relaxation will be reviewed periodically, by state authorities every seven days and by central authorities after two months but complete relaxation of restrictions in the entire Union Territory will not be possible due to security concerns, the Centre told the apex court. The SC was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation.Sunday’s order said the two districts were identified on the basis of inputs from law enforcement agencies in context of the parameters laid down by the special committee.“ We are eagerly waiting for 4G… people are happy. Our children, our youngsters have suffered a lot educationally in absence of high-speed internet in the past one year, “ said Majid Wani, a resident of Ganderbal.Mobile phone, landline and internet services were snapped in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir hours before the Centre nullified Article 370, which accorded the region special status, and divided it into two union territories — Jammu & Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.Over the past year, communication lines were gradually restored. Landlines were back between August and September 2019 and postpaid mobile services restarted on October 14, 2019. Short messaging service (SMS) on all mobile phones in Kashmir, and broadband internet services in government-run hospitals were restored on January 1, 2020. The 2G mobile internet services were restored across the Valley on January 25, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-back-in-2-j-k-districts-on-a-trial-basis-till-sept-8/story-XBBhYWp2vpfw25kVXcZUiI.html
17-08-2020||India||The making, unmaking and remaking of Mehar Chand Market||As Ashok Sakhuja, 65, walked the desolate corridors of the once-bustling Mehar Chand Market in Lodhi Colony, he explains to the curious shopkeepers the provisions of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) redevelopment plan for the market. A day before, on Tuesday, the SDMC had approved a long-pending plan to redevelop Mehar Chand Market as a modern three-storey pedestrian-only shopping plaza, with a uniform look for all shops. The existing shops will be demolished and reconstructed by the traders in accordance with the sanctioned building plan. Sakhuja, the president of the market association, tells shopkeepers to get ready to raze and rebuild their shops. “Our market has had many ups and downs. This time, we are determined to ensure that MCM joins the league of CP, HKV, Khan, ” says Sakhuja, turning his attention to us. By Khan, he means Khan Market, by HKV he means Hauz Khas Village—and by MCM he means his own Mehar Chand Market. “By 2014, we were almost there; in fact, we were the hottest design destination in the town. THT Gifting by JJ Valaya, Pia Pauro , Masaba Gupta, O Layla, they were all here and then they all left,” says Sakhuja, whose father was among the refugees from Pakistan who were allotted a Khoka (a wooden makeshift shop) in the market post-Partition. The story of the making and unmaking and the possibility of remaking of the Mehar Chand Market has been full of turns, both fortuitous and fateful. It goes back to 1948, when about 240 makeshift shops were allotted to refugees from Pakistan, on the fringes of the Lutyens’ Delhi. In 1963, the government built 152 concrete shops, and what was initially known as the refugee market was remanded Mehar Chand Market after Mehr Chand Khanna, the then Union minister for rehabilitation. Those days, shopkeepers paid about Rs 18 a month as licence fee to the government. In the mid-1960s, while most people continued with their old business in the newly built market — grocery stores, cycle repair shops, tent rentals — Gurucharan Singh, one of the allottees, set up a tailoring shop, calling it ‘Eight Wonder’. Initially, most of his customers were from nearby colonies wanting him to alter their old cloths—a job he did with great finesse. His tailoring enterprise soon began to attract customers from far and wide, and soon the other shop owners hired tailors – a lot of them were from Darjeeling– and started their own tailoring businesses. In the next few years, the market had over 60 shops with the ‘Wonder prefix’—First Wonder, Second Wonder, Third Wonder, and so on. The Mehar Chand Market became famous as the ‘Wonder Market.’ “Those were the days when readymade revolution had not taken off and it was common for children to wear their parents’ clothes; if they required alterations they would come to us. This was the only market in the city where tailors had the ability to turn the bell-bottom into a waist, and the waist into a bell-bottom,” says Nand Kishor, who runs 1st Wonder. Started in the 1960s, this is one of the four surviving tailors in the market. “Many people still come here for alterations; they want to wear their grandfather’s and father’s coats on certain occasions. ” In the 1970s, the old-timers say, the market also became popular for its Dhabas. “It was a food destination in central Delhi much before Pandara Road, attracting many young people looking for affordable meals,” says AK Jain, an architect and former commissioner (planning) at the Delhi Development Authority, and the author of many books on Delhi. “I think the market could never compete with its neighbours such as Khan Market because it catered only to those living in the government colonies, who did not have great purchasing power. What also did not help was that the market had only one entry point,” added Jain. But that changed in the 1980s, a period that marked the first major shift in the market’s fortunes. The Asian Games, the shop owners say, brought development to the area, with Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and many government offices, including CGO complex coming up in the vicinity. “The wide road, the footpath were all developed during this time. Many owners renovated their shops, dabhas were converted into proper restaurants, a few sports shops also came up. For the first time since its inception business got a boost in the market and our income increased significantly,” says Praveen Kumar, who runs a grocery shop in the market. “We got a new clientele, a lot of them young sportspersons and government officials from different parts of the city,” says Raman Juneja of Juneja’s Restaurant, one of the few surviving eateries in the market from the 1970s-80s. Over the next two decades, as the readymade clothes became popular, many tailoring shops shut down, giving way to shops selling sweets, mobile phones and accessories, garments and salons, etc. “The increasing income and the rise of readymade clothes business killed the alternation business,” says Vinod Arora, another surviving tailor in the market. “The closure of the tailoring shops meant the market lost its USP and was forgotten.” Then, in 2007, Café Coffe Day opened an outlet in the market, marking the beginning of its makeover. Over the next couple of years CMYK Book Store, Soma , Fab India, Kunafa came. By 2014, half of the market’s 152 shops were taken over by designer boutiques, fancy restaurants, trendy cafes, European-style brasseries jewellers, high -end salons, making it a hot destination for designer brands and products. Mehar Chand Market was now giving Khan Market, its vaunted neighbour, a run for its money, what with the fact that latter had ran out of space, and went out of reach for many because of the astronomical rents. “Back then everyday I would show a dozen people, mostly designers, shops available for rent in the market,” says Inderjeet Singh, 63, who runs a property business in the market. The owners were pleasantly surprised by the sudden interest in the market and the transformation it was undergoing. Many of them exited their decades-old- businesses and rented out their shops. The going rate for a 400 sq ft shop for sale was about Rs 12 crore in 2014, while the rent for a shop of the same size jumped from Rs 40,000 in 2010 to Rs 2.5 lakh per month by 2014. “ We moved there because the location was great and the rent was affordable. But soon the owners became greedy and began to raise the rent, wrongly believing that Mehar Chand market had become a Khan market. The fact is the footfall in the market never matched the hype, but owners did not understand this,” says Pramod Kapoor, founder Roli Books, who started CMYK bookstore in the market in 2010 and left in 2018. Agrees Nitin Mehta, head, retail and logistics, Playclan, a design store, one of the first to arrive in the market in 2009: “The market attracted a lot of NRIs and expats, who found the place quiet and quaint, without parking problems. But the footfall and sales were not enough to justify the high rents. This was our flagship store and we tried to make it viable, and stay put but eventually it did not work,” says Mehta, whose firm exited the market in May this year. “Our shop in Khan Market is three times smaller in size, but generates three times higher sales.” In 2018, about 135 basement and first floors shops were sealed by SDMC, on the directions of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, as only the ground floor was permitted in the market as per its original plan, but shopkeepers had built additional floors over the years. The sealing drive seemed to have sealed the fate of the market for good, with dozens of brands exiting it in the past two years, including bigger ones such as Fab India, which was spread over three floors and served as an anchor store. Today, about over 50 ground floor shops are permanently closed, with stickers ‘For Rent’ pasted on them, their colourfully painted fronts the only sign of the market’s glory days. “The sealing was a final blow. I admit that a lot of owners could have been more reasonable in their demands, and we as an association could have done more to promote the market,” says Sakhuja as he a makes a list of people he needs to visit and thank for paving way for the redevelopment of the market. “We have learnt our lessons. After the redevelopment, we will ensure that market is run like a well-managed mall. I can assure you that MCM’s story will have a happy ending.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-making-unmaking-and-remaking-of-mehar-chand-market/story-UtzP79ymcaSAnx4AAURPhO.html
17-08-2020||India||Antibodies can ward off second infection: Study||Three people who previously recovered from Covid-19 were protected during a major outbreak of the disease onboard a fishing vessel that left from Seattle, US, according to a new study that offers the first confirmation that having antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection. The findings were based on antibody (serological) as well as viral detection (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR) tests that were conducted before the vessel departed and upon its return. During its 18 days at sea, 104 of the 122 crew members contracted the virus from a single source. “This suggests that neutralising antibodies are a correlate of protection for Sars-CoV-2, with obvious caveat that more study is needed since the N (number of people with antibodies) was small,” Alexander Greninger, the assistant director of the University of Washington (UW) Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory and one of the authors of the study, said in an email response to HT. The study was posted on Friday on the preprint server medRxiv and the researchers were from UW as well as Seattle’s Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center,The findings are significant since they are the closest confirmation yet that the world’s main strategy of using vaccines to trigger immune response could indeed work to stop the pandemic. This addresses a complicated question of whether antibodies are enough to prevent disease, and ensure symptoms are mild, or have no effect at all. Deriving such data is normally challenging since scientific ethics prohibit an intentional infection of a person with antibodies to check whether they are safe from the virus.“A total of 104 individuals had an RT-PCR positive viral test... yielding an attack rate on board of 85.2%. Only three crewmembers tested seropositive prior to departure in initial serological screening and also had neutralizing and spike-reactive antibodies in follow-up assays... None of these crewmembers showed evidence of bona fide viral infection or experienced any symptoms during the outbreak,” the researchers said in their paper. The analysis involved detailed follow-up tests for 50 days. The researchers also carried out a genomic analysis of 39 genomes from the outbreak and determined that the outbreak was caused by a single source. Since in all 18 people did not contract the virus, the authors acknowledge a faint chance that the three crew members with antibodies may not have had close contact. “There is always a possibility that they were not exposed but [that is] unlikely given the high attack rate,” said Greninger.The study also highlights how some antibody tests may be more reliable than others. In the initial serological sampling, six people appeared to have antibodies. This difference is a result of the human body mounting a varied counterattack against a virus, and detecting these is a complicated process. For instance, in this case, the pre-departure samples were tested using the Abbott Architect kit that looks for antibodies to a specific protein of the virus known as the Nucleocapsid (N). Once the researchers found out there was an outbreak on the vessel, they took leftover samples from the six people who had N protein antibodies and subjected them to more detailed antibody tests: particularly those that detected antibodies to a more intrinsic parts of the virus -- the spike protein. In this second round of testing, only three of the six had antibodies. “Therefore, we speculate that the [other] three individuals without neutralizing activity [in later tests] were false positives in the initial serological screening... However, they could have been in the early stages of active infection... Alternatively, they could have experienced a mild or asymptomatic infection,” the authors wrote. This, the researchers said, makes it crucial to select the right kind of antibody test for serological analysis. “The key is neutralizing antibodies, which anti-RBD binding antibodies are a pretty good surrogate of. We also used blocking of binding assay for ACE2. So, yes, lots of tests here,” Greninger said.RBD, or receptor binding domain, refers to the ‘spike’ protein the virus uses to infect a cell. In all, there are close to 200 vaccines under development across the world. Of these, 29 are in clinical trial phases where they are being given to health volunteers to check for any adverse reaction and whether they are unsafe. “Vaccines currently in development against SARS-CoV-2 have been shown to elicit levels of neutralizing antibodies comparable to those observed in naturally infected persons. However, the protective nature of both vaccine- and infection-elicited neutralizing antibodies in humans remains unproven, with animal models being used to make inferences about protection,” the authors write in the study. “Human challenge trials, which could provide rapid information about the protection conferred by neutralizing antibodies are controversial due to the severity and unknown long-term impacts of Sars-CoV-2 infection and concerns over ethical administration of such trials,” they note. They add that this can be overcome by retrospective analyses of outbreak events, particularly those on confined shipping vessels. “The high population density and large degree of contact between people on ships contributes to a high attack rate,” they said, adding: “In some cases nearly all passengers will have 69 been exposed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-can-ward-off-second-infection-study/story-w5WpRcFoMPJqiyjG6xXvRO.html
17-08-2020||India||People recovered from Covid-19 protected from virus, finds study||Three people who previously recovered from Covid-19 were protected during a major outbreak of the disease onboard a fishing vessel that left from Seattle, US, according to a new study that offers the first confirmation that having antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection. The findings were based on antibody (serological) as well as viral detection (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR) tests that were conducted before the vessel departed and upon its return. During its 18 days at sea, 104 of the 122 crew members contracted the virus from a single source. “This suggests that neutralising antibodies are a correlate of protection for Sars-CoV-2, with obvious caveat that more study is needed since the N (number of people with antibodies) was small,” Alexander Greninger, the assistant director of the University of Washington (UW) Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory and one of the authors of the study, said in an email response to HT. Also read| Covid-19:What you need to know todayThe study was posted on Friday on the preprint server medRxiv and the researchers were from UW as well as Seattle’s Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center,The findings are significant since they are the closest confirmation yet that the world’s main strategy of using vaccines to trigger immune response could indeed work to stop the pandemic. This addresses a complicated question of whether antibodies are enough to prevent disease, and ensure symptoms are mild, or have no effect at all. Deriving such data is normally challenging since scientific ethics prohibit an intentional infection of a person with antibodies to check whether they are safe from the virus.Also read: India eyes global front runners in Covid-19 vaccine plan“A total of 104 individuals had an RT-PCR positive viral test... yielding an attack rate on board of 85.2%. Only three crewmembers tested seropositive prior to departure in initial serological screening and also had neutralizing and spike-reactive antibodies in follow-up assays... None of these crewmembers showed evidence of bona fide viral infection or experienced any symptoms during the outbreak,” the researchers said in their paper.  The analysis involved detailed follow-up tests for 50 days. The researchers also carried out a genomic analysis of 39 genomes from the outbreak and determined that the outbreak was caused by a single source. Since in all 18 people did not contract the virus, the authors acknowledge a faint chance that the three crew members with antibodies may not have had close contact. “There is always a possibility that they were not exposed but [that is] unlikely given the high attack rate,” said Greninger.The study also highlights how some antibody tests may be more reliable than others. In the initial serological sampling, six people appeared to have antibodies. This difference is a result of the human body mounting a varied counterattack against a virus, and detecting these is a complicated process. For instance, in this case, the pre-departure samples were tested using the Abbott Architect kit that looks for antibodies to a specific protein of the virus known as the Nucleocapsid (N). Once the researchers found out there was an outbreak on the vessel, they took leftover samples from the six people who had N protein antibodies and subjected them to more detailed antibody tests: particularly those that detected antibodies to a more intrinsic parts of the virus -- the spike protein. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In this second round of testing, only three of the six had antibodies. “Therefore, we speculate that the [other] three individuals without neutralizing activity [in later tests] were false positives in the initial serological screening... However, they could have been in the early stages of active infection... Alternatively, they could have experienced a mild or asymptomatic infection,” the authors wrote. This, the researchers said, makes it crucial to select the right kind of antibody test for serological analysis. “The key is neutralizing antibodies, which anti-RBD binding antibodies are a pretty good surrogate of. We also used blocking of binding assay for ACE2. So, yes, lots of tests here,” Greninger said.RBD, or receptor binding domain, refers to the ‘spike’ protein the virus uses to infect a cell. In all, there are close to 200 vaccines under development across the world. Of these, 29 are in clinical trial phases where they are being given to health volunteers to check for any adverse reaction and whether they are unsafe. “Vaccines currently in development against SARS-CoV-2 have been shown to elicit levels of neutralizing antibodies comparable to those observed in naturally infected persons. However, the protective nature of both vaccine- and infection-elicited neutralizing antibodies in humans remains unproven, with animal models being used to make inferences about protection,” the authors write in the study. “Human challenge trials, which could provide rapid information about the protection conferred by neutralizing antibodies are controversial due to the severity and unknown long-term impacts of Sars-CoV-2 infection and concerns over ethical administration of such trials,” they note. They add that this can be overcome by retrospective analyses of outbreak events, particularly those on confined shipping vessels. “The high population density and large degree of contact between people on ships contributes to a high attack rate,” they said, adding: “In some cases nearly all passengers will have 69 been exposed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-can-ward-off-second-infection-study/story-asD2et2w9KexkjZxpH1sYM.html
17-08-2020||India||Over 350 inmates of jail in Kerala capital infected with Covid-19||As many as 363 inmates of the Thiruvananthapuram central jail have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, jail superintendent P Nirmalanandan said. About 250 other inmates are scheduled to undergo tests, the official said. Covid-19 tests were conducted at the jail after a 71-year-old prisoner died of the infection on Saturday. “Most of the infected are asymptomatic. We have isolated them and those who have serious symptoms are shifted to Covid hospitals,” Nirmalanandan said, adding that many under-trials and those who are about to complete their terms were freed to decongest the prison. The state on Sunday reported 10 deaths and 1,530 fresh infections. Of these, 53 are health workers, office of health minister KK Shailaja said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The CM, meanwhile, has lauded the efforts of the health officials and others on the Covid-19 frontline. “We are into 200-day of Covid crisis. Looking back, we can say with pride that this has not been just a period of despair & loss. This has been a time of courage, compassion, resilience and survival,” he tweeted on Sunday. Kerala was the first to report a virus case in January last, a China-returned medical student from Thrissur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-350-inmates-of-jail-in-kerala-capital-infected/story-Qt6FiiOXXRtGgpu79W3wfK.html
17-08-2020||India||Bihar recruits 4,997 nurses but staff shortages remain||The Bihar health department late Sunday evening issued orders posting 4,997 nurses to health facilities, a day after chief minister Nitish Kumar announced that his government will recruit around 4,000 doctors and 5,000 nurses this month to tide over an existing shortage of medical staff in the state health sector amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“The nurses have been given seven days to join their place of posting. We got the recommendation for appointment of nurses from the Bihar Technical Services Commission late on August 13 and issued their posting orders tonight,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. Also read: Bihar’s Covid-19 caseload rises to 1.04 lakh; death toll mounts to 537The department will also move to fill 575 posts of assistant professors in medical colleges through the Bihar Public Service Commission. The government managed to appoint only 2,775 members of the medical faculty against 3,350 vacancies in the last one year.In addition, 1,750 laboratory technicians, pharmacists and sanitary inspectors will also be recruited in September, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said in his Independence Day speech on Saturday.Bihar has so far reported 104,093 Covid-19 cases, with 537 deaths — the highest single-day death being 22 on Sunday. It has successfully scaled up its testing to 1,679,462 till Saturday. As of August 14, Bihar was testing 12,625 per million.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage These appointments will still be inadequate given the vacancies existing against already sanctioned posts.“There is a shortage of 2,000-odd members of the medical faculty as there are only 1,950 against 4,000 sanctioned posts in the rank of assistant professor and above in state-run medical colleges. Appointing 575 assistant professors will not be enough,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.“In state health services, there will still remain a shortage of around 4,600 doctors in the rank of senior medical officer to director-in-chief, even as vacancies at the general duty medical officer (GDMO) level will be filled up after recruitment of 4,000 doctors in the basic grade. The vacancy from first promotion level (senior medical officer) onward will, however, remain because the state government has not promoted any doctor in the last 24 years,” said Dr Ranjeet Kumar, general secretary of the Bihar Health Services Association.The situation in the case of nurses is no different.The Bihar government could appoint only 4,997 nurses against 9,130 posts of GNM (general nursing midwife) staff grade ‘A’ it had advertised. Although 11,825 applied for the post, the fact that basic nursing diploma course (GNM) was mandatory eliminated those with higher nursing degree (B.Sc and above).“Nurses have not been appointed after 2015-16, when around 7,800 nurses were recruited in two batches. We are now left with less than 8,500 nurses against a sanctioned strength of 20,000 (approx.),” said Pramila Kumari, general secretary of the Bihar Grade A Nurses Association, also a member of the Bihar Nursing Registration Council.At the pharmacist level, too, the recruitment would be insufficient.“We have close to 2,000 vacancies against which the government will initiate recruitment on 1,050 posts,” said Rajeev Kumar Sinha, general secretary of the All India Pharmacist Association, Bihar.“In our case also, the government has made it mandatory that those who do not possess basic diploma in pharmacy, irrespective of having directly attained a higher degree like B.Pharma, cannot apply. As a result, appointment of 1,311 pharmacists on contract is held up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-recruits-4-997-nurses-but-staff-shortages-remain/story-31Td0jy32bDff7UgWloUtJ.html
17-08-2020||India||RJD, Congress finalise seat-sharing deal for Bihar polls, Manjhi’s HAM not happy||Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is expected to contest 152 seats and the Congress 91 seats when elections to the 243-member state assembly take place, according to the seat-sharing formula being worked out by the so-called Grand Alliance (GA), leaders of the two parties said.The RJD, from its quota, would allot some to the smaller parties in the alliance, the Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, a senior leader of the alliance said, requesting anonymity. The Congress would have to accommodate the rest of the allies such as the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Communist Party of India (CPI) from its quota of 91 seats. “Seat arrangement talks are in final stages and a formal announcement would be made in August last week when we will get a fair idea whether elections in Bihar would be held or not. There is no point in announcing a seat deal so early,” the senior alliance leader cited above said, referring to the uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 pandemic In the 2015 assembly elections, when the Janata Dal (United) was part of the alliance, the JD (U) contested 110 seats, the same as RJD. The Congress contested about 40 seats. RLSP and HAM were part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which lost the polls. In the alliance, the RJD emerged as the largest party with 81 seats, JD (U) got 70 and the Congress 27, enabling the coalition to come to power. As JD (U)’s Nitish Kumar was the face of the alliance, he became chief minister; on July 26, 2017, Kumar left the alliance to form a government with the BJP. In the new format, the RJD is expected to leave 30 from its quota for VIP. The RJD is also keen that CPI-ML Liberation should be a part of the alliance, and would offer some seats to the party from its quota. “We will submit our list of seats to RJD by next week. We are keen on an alliance...but it should be on respectable terms,” said Kunal,state secretary of the CPI-ML Liberation, who uses only his first name. The Congress is expected to contest 42 seats and offer the remaining 49 to RLSP, HAM and CPI, party leaders said. State president of the RJD Jagdanand Singh refused to comment on the seat-sharing formula, insisting that the RJD, being the biggest partner in the opposition alliance, was preparing to contest all 243 seats.“The seat sharing will be done at the right time. We as a senior partner have the responsibility to help our allies in seats they would contest and we are doing that,” he said. Bihar Congress spokesperson Harku Jha said the seat-sharing talks were “progressing positively”. RLSP’s senior leader Rajesh Yadav said the seat-sharing arrangements would be formalized soon. Among the alliance partners, only HAM appears to be unhappy. HAM national spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “The RJD’s arrogant attitude towards smaller allies will prove costly for the alliance. There has been no headway in seat talks and our party chief will take a call on our future course of action by August 22.” HAM has been threatening to leave the alliance since June and join the NDA. BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “The Grand Alliance is a grand opportunistic alliance devoid of any ideology and model of governance. The seat sharing in the GA is on theoretical terms. It will be seen whether the alliance sticks {together} or not.” JD(U) spokesperson and state minister Neeraj Kumar said the seat-sharing talks were being led by second-rung leaders in the alliance. “The RJD-led coalition is remote controlled from Ranchi by jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad and allies have to meet him there with the court’s permission for final talks. Only then would the picture be clear,” he said. Lalu Prasad has been convicted in four cases related to the so-called fodder scam and is serving 14 years of imprisonment. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and former director of the AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies in Patna, said the RJD has an upper hand in seat-sharing talks as it seeks to reap the gains from its aggressive posturing on the rising cases of the coronavirus disease in Bihar and the hardships faced by migrant workers who returned home during the lockdown.“It is evident the allies are aware of the changing ground realities and are now more receptive toward RJD, which has a leadership role in seat-sharing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-cong-finalise-seat-sharing-deal-manjhi-s-ham-not-happy/story-frO6cHWG4M4N1RupprX3WP.html
17-08-2020||India||Normal life hit in Andhra, Telangana||Heavy rains continued to lash parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the second consecutive day on Sunday, disrupting normal life as many villages that were cut off from the mainland due to overflowing streams and rivulets, while several localities in the urban areas witnessed heavy water logging. In Telangana, as many as six districts -- Warangal, Siddipet, Adilabad, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Mulug were affected, while in five districts Andhra Pradesh -- East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts were badly-hit. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin on Sunday afternoon, the heavy rains were the result of a low-pressure area over north coastal Odisha and adjoining areas of northwest Bay of Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 9.5 km above mean sea level. “It is very likely to move west-north westwards and weaken gradually during next 48 hours. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around August 19,” the bulletin said. In Telangana’s Warangal town, several colonies were submerged due to heavy rains since Friday night. The district received heavy rainfall ranging from 10 cm to 27 cm during this period, the weather agency bulletin stated.Following an SOS message from the Warangal (urban) administration, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation sent three disaster response force teams to Warangal on Sunday along with boats and other equipment to rescue people caught in the flood water and shift them to safer areas. “We shall take part in the rescue operations along with Warangal (Urban) district machinery,” Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management director Viswajit Kampani said. An official release from the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s office said the government had established two control rooms in Hyderabad to monitor the situation and also pressed two helicopters including a defence chopper into service for rescue and relief operations. The Godavari river has been in full spate inundating several villages all along its course. At the temple town of Bhadrachalam in Telangana, the authorities issued a second level warning as the water level in the river reached 52.50 feet at 1 pm on Sunday. “The water level continues to raise,” the official bulletin said. The CMO said due to the continuous rains, several streams and rivulets were in full spate across the state. In several districts, breaches to bunds of many water bodies were reported. Drainage canals were overflowing and water-logging continued on the roads in urban areas at many places, the bulletin added. “Under the current conditions, there is a severe threat of inundation due to overflowing tanks and streams especially in the erstwhile districts of Warangal and Karimnagar where very heavy rains were reported,”the bulletin added.In Hyderabad too, the GHMC authorities have advised people to vacate dilapidated residential buildings considering the heavy rains. Meanwhile, the water level in Godavari at Kunavaram and Polavaram in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district has also been rising alarmingly. At Dowleshwaram in East Godavari, the authorities opened the gates of the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage and let off 14.63 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs) of water into the sea, as a result of which several island villages in Konaseema area have been submerged in waters. The state government kept its state and national disaster response force teams on high alert. “We are keenly monitoring the situation in 27 flood-prone blocks in East Godavari district,” an official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-in-andhra-telangana/story-kJHzAYRLhQGwoAZdKtH6aJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Housing ministry ranked best in ensuring direct benefit transfers||The ministry of housing and urban affairs has been ranked as the best overall performing government department in ensuring Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) to beneficiaries. The rankings were released on Sunday by the DBT Mission, which comes under the Cabinet Secretariat, for the April 2019-March 2020 period. The Direct Benefit Transfer scheme ensures funds are deposited directly into the accounts of the stakeholders.It has awarded an overall score of 87.03 per cent to the housing ministry, followed by 83.56% to ministry of petroleum and natural gas and 83.25% to the department of youth affairs. Others departments that have excelled include food and public distribution  (79.98%), pharmaceuticals (79.43%) and higher education (74.70%).“We are very happy to see this ranking. Three of our flagship programmes including PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana), NULM (National Urban Livelihoods Mission) and Swach Bharat have well developed systems where the delivery is direct and money goes into the Aadhaar account of the beneficiary. We have been monitoring it constantly and it has a very high delivery rate,” urban housing minister Hardeep Puri saidIn the end-to-end digitisation category, the department of youth affairs pipped the housing ministry to the top spot. The ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship has been ranked the best in the use of Aadhaar and mobile  phones in ensuring the DBT. The housing ministry finished second in this category as well, while the department of public enterprises took the third spot. In the portal and reporting compliance category, the ministry of petroleum and natural gas took the top spot with a perfect 100% score. Four other ministries — department of health and family welfare, ministry of statistics and programme implementation, department of youth affairs and the department of fertilisers — also scored a 100% in the category.In the portal referring to ‘reporting of estimated savings’, the department of fertilizers scored 100%, followed by the department of food and public distribution, ministry of petroleum and natural gas, ministry of culture and rural development, did exceptionally well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-ministry-ranked-best-in-ensuring-direct-benefit-transfers/story-Jq3EaKA88rwmUvfbUoq43K.html
17-08-2020||India||Sudeeksha case: 2 held, cops say accident due to ‘speeding’||The police on Sunday arrested two suspects in connection with the death of a 19-year-old woman, who was studying in the US, in a road accident near Aurangabad town of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district last week .Deepak Solanki, 28, a construction contractor and a resident of Gulaothi town, was allegedly riding a motorcycle and his mason, 50-year-old Raju of Bulandshahr dehat, was riding pillion when the accident took place on Chirora Road in Aurangabad on August 10.They were arrested soon after relatives of Sudeeksha Bhati identified them. Although the family had earlier claimed that motorcyclists had harassed Sudeeksha and that led to the accident, a probe by a four-member special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Bulandshahr police found that the cause of the accident was speeding.Sudeeksha was pursuing an undergraduate course in entrepreneurship from Babson College, Massachusetts, on a ₹3.80 crore scholarship. Her death had sparked a storm in Uttar Pradesh with political parties questioning the law and order situation in the state.Police said that two days after the accident, the suspects had modified the motorcycle when they learnt that the police was on the lookout for a Royal Enfield bike. On Sunday, the police recovered their motorcycle.Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, said at a press conference on Sunday that the police had scanned CCTV footage and established that the accident took place at 8.44 am.“Police scanned 12 CCTV cameras and found Sudeeksha and her cousin travelling on a motorcycle at 8:25 am. The same camera captured Solanki on an Enfield at 8.17 am on the same route and picked up Raju from near Arif Hospital and later, Sudeeksha’s motorcycle crossed them,” he said.“The two motorcycles were moving in the same direction and covered 10.5 kilometres in nine minutes on a busy road which showed that both them were speeding,” he said.The accident took place when the Royal Enfield bike overtook he two-wheeler Sudeeksha and her cousin were riding.“Solanki said that a tempo traveller ahead of him had applied a sudden brake. forcing him to brake suddenly too causing the motorcycle on which Sudeeksha was to collide with them near Bhavsi bridge. Seeing the accident and the injured, Solanki said he fled the spot due to fear,” said the SSP.With news that police was looking for Royal Enfield motorcycles, he went on make changes to the vehicle . “On August 12, I went to a local mechanic and got the wheels, silencer, and number plate changed. I also laminated the motorcycle with white stickers to disguise the identity,” he allegedly told the police.Solanki was constructing a banquet hall near Khanpur road and he was on the way there when the accident took place, said police.The two suspects were produced before the magistrate and sent to jail, said the SHO.On Sudeeksha’s father Jitendra Bhati’s complaint, the police had registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence), among others.Jitendra Bhati said that he was satisfied with the police investigation. “My brother and his son identified the suspects. We demand the government to make an institution in Sudeeksha’s name so that local girls can get inspiration to study and do good in their lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudeeksha-case-2-held-cops-say-accident-due-to-speeding/story-z16gqcVY5eyOzsUa5F89zL.html
17-08-2020||India||India sends tech team to contain Mauritius oil spill||India has sent a technical response team and more than 30 tonnes of equipment to Mauritius to help in efforts to contain a massive oil spill from a Japanese bulk carrier, which broke apart on Saturday after leaking hundreds of tonnes of fuel. In response to a request from the government of Mauritius, the technical equipment and material was sent on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft to “supplement the country’s ongoing oil spill containment and salvage operations”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday. A 10-member technical response team, consisting of Coast Guard personnel specially trained in oil spill containment measures, has been deployed to Mauritius to extend technical and operational assistance at the site, the statement added. The specialised equipment sent by India includes ocean and river booms, disc skimmers, heli-skimmers, power packs, blowers, salvage barge, oil absorbent graphene pads and other accessories. The equipment is specifically designed to contain oil slicks, skim oil from water, and assist in clean up and salvage operations. The Japanese-owned MV Wakashio ran aground on a coral reef at Pointe d’Esny on July 25 and began leaking hundreds of tonnes of oil into a pristine lagoon last week. It broke apart on Saturday after a crack inside the hull expanded, and the National Crisis Committee of Mauritius said in statement: “At around 4.30 pm, a major detachment of the vessel’s forward section was observed.” The ship’s operator, Mitsui OSK Lines, said vessel was carrying 3,800 tonnes of very low sulphur fuel oil and 200 tonnes of diesel oil. About 1,180 tonnes of oil had leaked from the fuel tank, and about 460 tonnes were manually recovered, the operator said. Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth has declared a state of environmental emergency. The Indian team will join a massive clean-up operation involving thousands of local volunteers. “India’s assistance is in line with its policy to extend humanitarian assistance and disaster relief to its neighbours in the Indian Ocean region, guided by the prime minister’s vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region),” the external affairs ministry said. The assistance reflects the close bonds of friendship between India and Mauritius and New Delhi’s abiding commitment to assist the people of Mauritius, it said. The assistance for the oil spill follows recent support provided by India to Mauritius in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of essential medicines, a consignment of Ayurvedic medicines and the deployment of a medical assistance team as part of Mission Sagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-tech-team-to-contain-mauritius-oil-spill/story-I9wFVzHt9b0HHegsopiJNJ.html
17-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan files response in 2009 case||Allegations of corruption against judges do not automatically amount to contempt of court if the person making the allegations invokes truth as a defence, advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court (SC) on Sunday in written submissions for a 2009 contempt-of-court case.Truth is a valid legal defence in contempt cases as laid down by the SC in its earlier judgments and a person cannot be held guilty for contempt “per se” if he invokes truth as a defence, Bhushan said in his submissions in the case invoked against him for calling past Chief Justices of India (CJI) corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine.“When such defense (of truth) is invoked, to hold the alleged contemnor guilty of contempt, the court will have to necessarily return a finding that such defence is not in public interest and that the request for invoking such defence is not bona-fide (in good faith),” Bhushan submitted.In his submissions on Sunday, Bhushan referred to the 2014 judgment of the SC in Subramanian Swamy v. Arun Shourie in which the apex court recognized truth as a valid defence in a contempt case against then editor of Indian Express, Shourie, for an editorial published in 1990 about a sitting SC judge.In his 2009 interview, Bhushan claimed half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt. Senior advocate Harish Salve brought this statement to the attention of the court, based on which contempt action was initiated against him in November 2009. The case was listed by the top court on July 24 more than eight years after it was last heard. Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra, on August 10, rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail. The case is slated to be heard on Monday. Tarun Tejpal, who was then editor of Tehelka magazine, is also a contemnor in the case. Bhushan also pointed out that corruption in the judiciary was highlighted in Parliamentary Committee reports on prevention of corruption and was also commented upon by former SC judges.Former Chief Justice of India Justice SP Bharucha is reported to have remarked that 20 percent of the Judges were corrupt. When a lawyer filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court praying that either Justice Bharucha be asked to give names of corrupt judges or contempt action be initiated against him, the high court dismissed the case,” it was submitted.The submission came days after the SC held the activist lawyer guilty of criminal contempt of court, in another case, for two tweets, one criticising CJI SA Bobde and the other raising questions about the conduct of former CJIs and the court. The tweets were based on distorted facts and have the effect of destabilising the foundation of the Indian judiciary, the SC ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-files-response-in-2009-case/story-bJ8dmrehR1bwuZvTnoyROO.html
17-08-2020||India||Ajay Maken named Rajasthan general secretary incharge||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday named Ajay Maken as the party’s general secretary incharge of Rajasthan in place of Avinash Pande, who was appointed to the post over three years ago. Gandhi also named Maken, Ahmed Patel (Rajya Sabha member and Congress treasurer) and KC Venugopal as the three members of a panel the party has formed to look into issues raised by former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 rebel Congress lawmakers, whose rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot threatened the state government. The development came two days after the Congress government won a floor test in the House, bolstered by the return of Pilot and his supporters to the party fold after a tumultuous month. The Congress hopes the outcome will bring down the curtain on a month-long political crisis. In a statement, Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of the organisation, said Gandhi constituted the three-member panel to oversee and ensure the smooth resolution of recent issues in the state. On August 10, Pilot met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi in the midst of the crisis triggered by his rebellion. Their interaction appeared to have found a breakthrough. And later that night, the party announced the setting up of the panel to look into issues raised by the 42-year-old Pilot and the 18 rebel legislators, who protested Gehlot’s style of functioning and alleged that Pilot was sidelined in the state government. Before that, on July 14, Pilot was sacked from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president after his revolt, which was in the offing for some time. Gehlot and Pilot have had differences on a number of issues since the formation of the Congress government in December 2018. Reacting to Sunday’s developments, Pilot said: “I am thankful to the Congress president and Rahul Gandhi for forming the committee, which will look into the issues we have raised.”Following the August 10 meeting, Pilot announced a truce and returned to Jaipur after a month. Gehlot, too, sent out a message to his loyalists that the two groups should work together to strengthen the party. They met at a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting a day ahead of the floor test, shook hands and flashed victory signs. According to Congress leaders, the three-member committee will “hear all sides and also go into the details of the political turmoil” before submitting its report, including a solution to the issue, to the Congress high command.The committee will also discuss the possible changes in the organisation and in the government. Gehlot did not fill three positions in his cabinet that felt vacant after Pilot and two MLAs loyal to him were removed in mid-July. The post of the state Congress president was immediately filled though with the appointment of Govind Singh Dotasara, believed to be a Gehlot loyalist.A Congress leader, who did not want to be named, said removing Pande was one of the demands of the Pilot camp. Pande, who took charge on May 4, 2017, was considered close to the chief minister. Normally, a leader is in charge of a state for three years.Another senior Congress leader, who too spoke on the condition of anonymity, said : “While the removal of Pande could be seen as a setback to Gehlot, the appointment of Maken would not necessarily mean that Pilot would hold sway.” Pande’s replacement, 56-year-old Maken, is a seasoned politician. He resigned as the Delhi Congress president in January 2019 on health grounds. Maken, a two-time MP and a former Union minister, was appointed to the post in March 2015 after the party’s decimation in the assembly elections. Prior to that, he held the post of Congress general secretary incharge of the communications department. The Congress high command rushed Maken and the party’s media department head, Randeep Singh Surjewala, to Jaipur on July 12 to deal with the crisis. The two remained stationed in the state till August 14, the day Gehlot’s government won the vote of confidence.State Congress president Dotasara, who is considered close to Gehlot, said Pande worked in the state for more than three-and-a-half years and contributed to the Congress’s assembly election win. On Maken’s appointment, Dotasara said: “Rajasthan will benefit from his experience.”Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the Congress’s decision showed that the high command did not want any delay. “The (three-member) committee looks balanced...Pande’s removal was on the cards as his three years were over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maken-named-raj-gen-secy-incharge/story-tOeXwI84zDpeucQ4fGdRVO.html
17-08-2020||India||Political slugfest over Facebook intensifies||The opposition is up in arms over allegations that Facebook, the social media company, has been lenient while censoring content that amounts to hate-speech by members of the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) surfaced on Saturday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the BJP and its ideological parent the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. “They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Gandhi tweeted. In a press conference, Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Praveen Chakravarty and Rohan Gupta, demanded the creation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to look into the issue. The Bharatiya Janata Party categorically denied the allegations, stating that Congress needs to look within. Information Technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit back at Gandhi saying that “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us.” His reference is to a 2018 controversy surrounding a massive Facebook data breach, with the UK firm Cambridge Analytica at the centre of it. It emerged that the Congress had been in talks with the company in late 2017 for a campaign related to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress claimed at the time that it did not sign a deal with the company. Prasad added that “access to information and freedom of expression has been democratised.”: BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya also added that the concept of “free speech can not be selectively applied”. “For the last couple of year, pages linked to the right-wing, to the BJP have faced unilateral action by Facebook. The social networking has also taken action against right-wing organisations such as OpInida, Rightlo and MyNation.” Malviya added that this shows that Facebook is not aligned to BJP. Moreover, he said, the above mentioned pages are yet to be reinstated or be provided with reasons for why they were taken down. “It is ludicrous to suggest that Facebook is amenable to the BJP and the wider conservative ecosystem. If anything, the reverse is true. In the run up to the 2019 general elections, Facebook unilaterally took down over 700 pages, most of them sympathetic to a nationalist narrative. This trend of targeting large pages and groups run by volunteers and special interest groups, with communities running in millions, hasn’t stopped since. No reasons are assigned and appeals aren’t entertained either.”He also added that “social media has democratised discourse and that is something they (the Congress) haven’t come to terms with. They often use friendly media to push inconsistent and incoherent narrative to remain relevant. But it is unlikely to yield any political dividend.” Gandhi was not the only one from the Opposition to raise the issue. “I spoke on this issue on the floor of #Parliamentin June 2019. Videois in the public domain. Your story has brought the focus back to the skeletons in the cupboard,” said TMC spokesperson Derek O’Brien on Twitter. In his speech, O’Brien had alleged a ‘sordid’ connection between the BJP and the senior management of the social networking site. O’Brien had referred to the senior management as “de facto campaigners for the BJP”. The leaders were all reacting to the Wall Street Journal article published late Friday night suggesting Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by members of ruling BJP. The Congress said it met and flagged similar concerns to a senior executive of the social media company who has been named in the story. WSJ cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting the Muslim community. Das, the report added, “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Facebook denied the allegation and said it was still reviewing whether it had to act against Singh on Saturday. The social media publisher added it would inform Hindustan Times of fresh developments when they happened. Information and Technology panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor also said that the parliamentary body would like to hear from Facebook after reports emerged of an alleged collusion between the social media company’s India policy head and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India,” Tharoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-over-fb-intensifies/story-rRug9IUHUpPoklKIEzvKCI.html
17-08-2020||India||868 people killed in floods in 11 states: Govt||A very active monsoon from August 11 to 14, which brought widespread rain to northwest and central India, has wiped out the rainfall deficit that prevailed at the end of July and taken overall precipitation so far in the four-month season to excess at 103% of the long-period average (LPA).Another low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on August 19, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which says it may trigger more heavy and widespread rains in the two regions.Heavy rain triggered floods in a number of regions including Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and parts of Meghalaya in July; Mumbai, Konkan and Karnataka in the first week of August; and flash floods in parts of Rajasthan on August 15.Spurts of exceptionally heavy rain have paralysed life like they did this month in Kerala’s Idukki, where a landslide killed at least 55 people. According to a flood situation report dated August 12 by the ministry of home affairs’ disaster management division, 868 people have lost their lives to floods in 11 states, compared with 908 deaths in the same period last year.“Yes, this year we have seen exceptional rains and several cases of extreme weather events. For example, one town in Jaipur district recorded 25 cm rain only in six hours. A lot of rain was recorded last week alone which helped northwest India largely cover its deficiency. Parts of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan have recorded extremely heavy rains in the past 24 hours,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.  “August will see excess rains because another low-pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal around August 19 which will bring very heavy rains to northwest and central India in the coming days. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to also develop around August 23 but we are not yet certain about that one,” Jenamani added.Three low-pressure areas have already developed over the Bay of Bengal in August. These were the main rain producing systems during monsoon. No low-pressure area had formed in July and the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) had frequently oscillated towards the Himalayan foothills, bringing extremely heavy rains to northeastern states.“The northern Arabian Sea has been anomalously warm during the last several weeks....the sea surface temperatures have been consistently 2-3°C above normal over this region. It has created a mini warm pool over that region, providing additional heat source and moisture,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“Our research shows that such high temperatures in the north Arabian Sea can lead to episodes of strong monsoon winds ensuing heavy rain spells across several parts of India,” Koll said.June had ended with surplus rains of 17.6% while July had closed with a deficit of 9.7%. But the low pressure areas developing in August have intensified rains in the core monsoon region—parts of central and east India. According to IMD’s Sunday bulletin, parts of Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Konkan and Goa recorded very heavy to extremely heavy rains on Saturday and Sunday morning. For example, Bhopalpatnam and Bhairamgarh 22 cm, recorded 32 cm and 22 cm of rain respectively; and Sama 27 cm and Bijapur 23 cm. All are located in Chhattisgarh, The monsoon trough is active and lies south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal.) Its western end is likely to move northwards during the next two days. A cyclonic circulation lies over south Punjab. Convergence of strong moist south-westerly winds from the Arabian sea over the plains of northwest India is likely to further strengthen from August 18 onwards. Because of these conditions, increased rainfall is likely over northwest India from August 18 with widespread and heavy rains over the region and Uttarakhand. Extremely heavy rain is likely over west Rajasthan and Uttarakhand on August 18 and over north Punjab on August 19.Extremely heavy rain is also likely over Telangana, Konkan, Goa, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh, and the ghat areas of madhya Maharashtra on Sunday and Monday. Due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area, heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal also on August 18 and 19, IMD’s Sunday bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/868-killed-in-floods-in-11-states-govt/story-vFPuyObuA8JsccQXR4toqJ.html
17-08-2020||India||For Rediff boss, early success meant ignoring sceptics, self-learning tools||Ajit Balakrishnan, the advertising and tech entrepreneur who set up India’s first web portal in 1995, still writes code (for fun and practice) every morning. “It comes intuitively to me,” he says. When he launched Rediff on the NeT, the internet was barely five months old in the country, and had a total of about 18,000 users. Balakrishnan, then 47, had spent the previous 22 years in advertising, having co-founded the successful ad agency Rediffusion in 1973. In 1987, he also helped set up PSI Data Systems, which manufactured some of the first computers made in India. Given his unique experience, he says, he could see a wonderful world was about to dawn. “I told my partners in the other two companies to take care of business, I was going after the internet,” Balakrishnan says. “At that time, some financial bigwigs would catch me at conferences and tell me, don’t make a fool of yourself with this ‘internet’ business.” For a year before the launch, Balakrishnan, now 72, worked alone out of a 600-sq-ft office at Fort, Mumbai. He tapped into the programming knowledge he had acquired two decades earlier, working on IBM mainframes as a student at the Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta (IIM-C). “No one in India knew HTML, so I learnt it myself,” he says. Rediff introduced Indians to the wonderful possibilities of the internet. It was the first Indian news portal; in subsequent years it introduced email and messenger services, a search engine, and e-commerce (it sold mainly electronics and computer peripherals). Apart from their news vertical, Rediff’s core business today is the enterprise email service called rediffMailPro, with 27,000 clients on the roster.“The key challenge then was that India had very few active internet users,” Balakrishnan says. “The second mega challenge was that the tech was fast evolving. Finding computer science students who knew state-of-the-art programming was hard. But we hired kids from IIT-B (Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay) and other top engineering colleges and trained them, and this was soon resolved.” In the first round, he hired five people, who’ve since gone on to found their own ventures. Three years in, with 30 employees, rediffMail was servicing half of India’s million users. The company would soon after get its first venture capitalist investors, and list on Nasdaq in 2000. Today, there are over half a billion internet users in India. If companies have managed to continue to function, do business, get their products out and keep supply chain intact through the lockdown, it is because of the wide-ranging internet tools that allow employees to perform most functions from home. But Balakrishnan has some misgivings about the directions in which things are headed. “There is a sort of ideology in the tech world called shareholder wealth maximisation, where everyone thinks the purpose of business is not to provide a service to the people, but to charge as much as possible,” he says. He is also concerned that Internet business models have become too dependent on advertising. He finds it heartening, he says, that advertising as a method of financing websites is disappearing, as the world moves towards subscription-based models. “And India needs at least one e-mail service that is Indian.” No prizes for guessing what he is pitching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-rediff-boss-early-success-meant-ignoring-sceptics-self-learning-tools/story-GKXgHtRAtKiaX1PedQUTxL.html
17-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Chennai widens home quarantine eligibility||P Rajan, a 26-year-old supervisor in a cargo company on furlough, begins his day attending a roll call at the corporation ward office at 7.30 am. He then goes around in his two-wheeler to the six streets assigned to him in ward no. 76 of Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, one of the most densely populated localities in Chennai which has reported more than 3,981 Covid-19 positive cases and 81 deaths, where he checks on 11 families under home quarantine. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe is among the 3,500 young volunteers, contracted since mid-June till September by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to monitor and support 18 different categories of people under home quarantine. Volunteers, who range from college students to office-goers are called FOCUS (Friend of Covid Person Under Surveillance). They form part of a strategy developed by the GCC that is pegged on home quarantining even those who are likely to be infected to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Chennai accounts for 66.5% of the total number of Tamil Nadu’s cases, and is among the top five cities in the country in terms of case-load.This comes at a time when the state placed Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet -- the worst affected districts -- under complete lockdown till June 30. Earlier this month, Chennai’s civic body developed 18 categories, comprising mixed groups of people, under their new uniform strategy called home quarantine and isolation monitoring system (HQIMS). These include those awaiting Covid-19 test results, positive patients undergoing home treatment, discharged patients, international and domestic passengers coming via flights, trains, road or sea, family and extended contacts, and people with influenza-like illness identified through the 500-odd fever clinics run by the corporation, among others. Most people in these categories are already mandated to be in 14-day isolation, but it has widened the net on who must undergo isolation.“Home quarantine is the crux in controlling an epidemic,” says Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology and one of the members of the state appointed medical panel to assist in the government’s Covid-19 management. “If people follow it properly and they are monitored and supported, it can be very effective in reducing transmission.” Currently 117,000 homes in Chennai are under HQIMS. The cyclical strategy of 14-days of home quarantine makes these numbers dynamic and at any point 250,000 houses out of 1.075 million houses in the city are expected to be under quarantine and volunteers will be scaled up proportionately. This new system was developed to keep up with the evolving situation of the pandemic. “In April, all positive patients were treated at the hospital. The concept of home quarantine for treatment progressed at a later stage,” says the corporation’s deputy commissioner for revenue and finance, Meghanathan Reddy who is overseeing this project.In the early days of the pandemic, larger geographical areas were designated as containment zones. This was later limited to rows of streets and then half a street. But the virus continued to spread internally when people interacted inside the quarantine zones or slipped outside. Also when lockdown restrictions eased, officials found it harder to control movement. So barricading specific homes became more effective. The only challenge was to ensure a family’s basic needs were met while they stayed inside which is now addressed through thousands of these volunteers. Several states have roped in citizens to help out with the health crisis brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, including Delhi.Rajan lives in ward 75 in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar and signed up to be a volunteer for the ward adjacent to his on June 15 (I’ve changed to 15). He delivers groceries, picks up prescriptions and arranges for the garbage disposal, by calling up the conservancy worker once the yellow bags (meant for disposal of Covid-19 waste) are full. But the bulk of his work involves pleading with families under quarantine and their neighbours to wear masks and maintain social distance during interactions. The volunteers also engage with other field workers of the corporation, such as the medical team that conducts fever camps every day, (and a team of surveyors) going door-to-door with thermal scanners.“I wanted to help in some way when I saw news reports of sufferings across the world and of our people walking back home to their native states,” Rajan said. “I just put myself in the position of these affected families. If my family had to be isolation, who will help us? That’s how I go about serving these families,” he said.His family was worried about the risk of infection. “My mother was the most worried, but they understood,” he said. The corporation has provided gloves and masks for the Focus volunteers, and he carries a sanitiser too. They carry ID cards issued by the corporation. “Every day we get data of 10,000-15,000 people who need to be home quarantined under various categories,” Reddy said. “We send that data to the various zones who forward it to the volunteers.” Each volunteer is assigned anywhere from five to 10 streets for the city’s 200 wards. They are paid Rs 500 a day. The volunteers  file details in a booklet which is collected by ward level officers and sent back to the HQIMS desk at the corporation headquarters. This system is only for those who can effectively isolate themselves at home. For those who don’t have facilities like separate bathrooms for instance, their contacts are taken to quarantine facilities, and those who test positive for the infection are either kept in hospitals, or healthcare centres and Covid care centres, depending on the severity of the symptoms.“Even if there is 70% accuracy, we are limiting lakhs of people from going out and transmitting the virus,” GCC commissioner G Prakash said about the HQIMS, adding, “Under these categories, we are able to isolate people who are positive, possibly positive and potential carriers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-widens-home-quarantine-eligibility/story-Wdbbv6uSo2HaKAALxaDWCM.html
