18-08-2020||India||Comptroller and Auditor General GC Murmu calls on PM Modi||Comptroller and Auditor General of India Girish Chandra Murmu called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.  Murmu, former Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, was sworn in as the CAG on August 8.“Shri Girish Chandra Murmu, Comptroller and Auditor General of India called on PM Narendra Modi,” the PMO tweeted.  A former bureaucrat, Murmu is a 1985-batch IAS officer of Gujarat cadre. His tenure as the new CAG will be up to November 20, 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comptroller-and-auditor-general-gc-murmu-calls-on-pm-modi/story-F8H457h47vYdvRkAaErgVP.html
18-08-2020||India||IITs dominate govt’s innovation rankings||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras placed first, followed by the Mumbai and Delhi IITs, in the Union education ministry’s Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020, released by vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday.The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru ranked fourth, followed by IIT Kharagpur in fifth, in the Prestigious Institutes of National Importance and Central Universities category.IIT Madras had placed first in the first edition of the ARIIA rankings as well, in 2019.The other institutions in the top 10 of the 2020 rankings were IIT Kanpur (6), IIT Mandi (7), National Institute of Technology (NIT) Calicut (8), IIT Roorkee (9) and University of Hyderabad (10).The rankings, which aim to promote innovation among educational institutions, assess colleges and varsities on various criteria, ranging from support for entrepreneurship development to innovative learning method, intellectual property generation, technology transfer and commercialisation, among other aspects.Among the exclusive higher educational institutions for women, Avinashlingam Institute for Home Sciences and Higher Education in Coimbatore of Tamil Nadu ranked first, followed by Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women, which is based in New Delhi.In the Private/Self Financed Colleges category, the top rank went to S R Engineering College in Warangal, followed by GH Raisoni College of Engineering in Nagpur.Among private or self-financed universities, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) in Odisha ranked first, followed by SRM Institute of Science and Technology in Tamil Nadu and Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT).In the Government and Government-aided Universities category, the top rank was bagged by Mumbai’s Institute of Chemical and Technology, followed by Chandigarh’s Punjab University and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University in second and third places, respectively.Pune’s College of Engineering was ranked the top government or government-aided college, followed by PES College of Engineering in Karnataka and the Coimbatore Institute of Technology.A total of 674 institutions were part of the rankings.Naidu said that innovation is the key defining feature of human progress and educational institutions should reinvent themselves to ensure that innovation thrives. The new National Education Policy (NEP) has a sharp focus on this aspect, he said. Human Resource Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal was also present at the event.“IIT Madras is known for its world-class innovation ecosystem consisting of the research park and several other centres, that has already produced world-class companies and disruptive technologies for India. We are proud to be recognised a second time in succession as India’s top innovative educational institution under ARIIA,” said professor Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT Madras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iits-dominate-govt-s-innovation-rankings/story-nrsqex7ytjcvW9rQBsI52M.html
18-08-2020||India||Punjab CM warns against SYL, says state will burn||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh warned on Tuesday that his state would burn and pose a national security threat if the Centre pushed to complete the Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal, which has been hanging fire for almost four decades because of an intractable dispute with Haryana over river water sharing.Singh made the comment at a virtual meeting with Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar.“If you decide to go ahead with SYL, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact,” he said, saying the issue could destabilize a state already plagued by Sikh extremism and Pakistan-sponsored terrorism. “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective,” he told Shekhawat, according to a Punjab government statement.Khattar said he was open to dialogue but maintained that the canal should be completed at the earliest. “We are open for dialogue and discussion on the subject but with a clear stipulation and condition that construction of SYL must be completed as per decree of the Supreme court at the earliest. Not doing so is gross injustice to the people of water deprived areas of Haryana,’’ the chief minister said.Both states stuck to their stands at the meeting convened on the directions of the Supreme Court (SC), which asked the Centre on July 28 to mediate between the two states. The two CMs described the interaction – the first such meeting between them on the SYL project – as “cordial” and agreed to talk again.“Detailed discussion was held in a positive and cordial atmosphere. Both chief ministers expressed their views in the first round of talks. Another meeting will be held in a week or so to take things forward,” Shekhawat told reporters after the meeting.The decades-old dispute over the canal, which is to carry water from Punjab to Haryana, is rooted in a disagreement over sharing of Ravi-Beas water. Haryana is seeking its “rightful” share, and Punjab is refusing to complete the canal, saying low volume of water mean it has nothing to spare. The canal is finished on the Haryana side.In its 2002 and 2004 judgments, the SC ordered the completion of the canal in Punjab. In July 2004, the Punjab assembly passed a law annulling all inter-state agreements related to the sharing of Ravi and Beas waters, including the December 1981 tripartite agreement signed by chief ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to set up the SYL canal. In November 2016, the top court struck down this law.Currently, Haryana says it receives about 1.62 million acre feet (MAF) of its share of 3.5 MAF of Ravi-Beas waters. Punjab says it was unfairly deprived of Yamuna river water when the state was reorganized in 1966 to create Haryana. At the meeting, Singh argued for a tribunal to adjudicate water availability and said availability of Ravi-Beas water decreased from 17.17 MAF in 1981 to 13.38 MAF in 2013. “Trans-basin transfer of water can only be allowed from a surplus basis to a deficit basis, and, as of today, Punjab is a deficit state and could not therefore be asked to transfer water to Haryana…why would I not agree to give water if we had it,” he asked.Khattar said Punjab should build infrastructure capacity to harness river water. “There is clear evidence that surplus, un-channelized water from Ravi, Sutlej and Beas has been flowing to Pakistan for the last 10 years resulting in colossal national waste. In fact, Central Water Commission (CWC) quantified this flow from Ravi river at 0.58 MAF, advocating construction of a second Ravi Beas link at Dharamkot…such surplus water can be harnessed for drinking water starved areas of south Haryana and for ground water recharge instead of allowing it to flow to Pakistan,’’ the Haryana CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-warns-against-syl-says-state-will-burn/story-z3f8Bg7Z1eYUmFXVXsoI0J.html
18-08-2020||India||Handling border dispute part of Xi Jinping’s doctrine: China||: Properly handling the boundary dispute with India but safeguarding China’s territorial integrity is part of President Xi Jinping’s blueprint for Beijing’s “major country” diplomacy, the Chinese foreign ministry has said.In an analysis of “Xi Jinping on Governance and Politics”, the ministry indicated that maintaining peace and tranquillity along the boundary with India is as important as stabilising the “maritime situation” in the South China Sea (SCS), where Beijing is entangled in disputes with multiple littoral states over the ownership of islands, reefs and the surrounding seas.The analysis by the ministry also hailed the “new model” of informal meetings between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Xi.There was no mention of the ongoing friction with India along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, which has plunged bilateral ties to the worst low in decades. The ministry, quoting Xi, said China will “resolutely” safeguard China’s “…sovereignty, territorial integrity, and maritime rights and interests, steadily advance the consultation process of the ‘Code of Conduct in the South China Sea’, stabilise the maritime situation, properly handle border disputes between China and India, and maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.”Published by the Chinese foreign ministry’s Communist Party Committee in Mandarin in the party mouthpiece, People’s Daily, the analysis claimed that China’s relations with “regional powers” like India have improved.“Relations with neighbouring countries continue to improve. For regional powers, the leaders of China and India have created a new model of bilateral exchanges at annual informal meetings, leading the two countries to deepen strategic mutual trust, properly manage differences, and stably develop bilateral relations,” the analysis said.It was referring to the two informal summits between Modi and Xi held in Wuhan in 2018 and in Chennai in 2019.The Chinese government analysis avoided referring to the ongoing discussions between India and China to resolve stalemate in the troop disengagement process in eastern Ladakh.India has rejected China’s contention that disengagement has been completed at most locations along their disputed border, and called on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC.The new analysis comes a week after the foreign ministry said in a statement that maintaining peace along the disputed boundary and deepening strategic trust with India is one of China’s diplomatic priorities.“For the China-India relationship, the two sides should jointly safeguard peace and security in the border areas and maintain a steady and sound development of bilateral ties,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian had said. Responding to a query about China’s future diplomatic priorities as the Covid-19 pandemic impacts the world, Zhao was briefly outlining Beijing’s plans for the way ahead in bilateral ties with the US, Russia, EU, Japan, and India.The current analysis also looked at Beijing’s ties with the US, Russia, the European Union, Japan, South Korea besides Latin America, Africa and Central Asian countries.The ministry said that since the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, held in October 2017, Xi had travelled for 215,000km and visited 27 countries.“In the direction of Northeast Asia, General Secretary Xi Jinping made a historic visit to North Korea. The top leaders of China and North Korea met five times,” it said.In context of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, China, under Xi’s guidance as per the ministry, provided or is providing medical material assistance to more than 150 countries and international and regional organisations, and has sent 32 medical expert teams to 30 countries.Last month, the Chinese foreign ministry inaugurated the Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy research centre, which aims to coordinate resources to conduct “comprehensive, systematic, and in-depth study, interpretation, and promotion of Xi’s thinking”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/handling-border-dispute-part-of-xi-jinping-s-doctrine-china/story-zFAg1zIG1R9dUXU3iHvcgL.html
18-08-2020||India||SC reserves order on petition over final-yr exams in varsities||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a decision by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, to hold examinations for final-year students across 900 universities in the country by the end of next month even as the nation battles the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The UGC on July 6 directed all colleges to conduct tests either online/offline or through a mix of both modes before September 30. The decision was opposed by some students and teachers who demanded cancellation of the examinations and award of degrees on the basis of an internal assessment. With some states objecting to the holding of examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic and others like Maharashtra and Delhi ordering an outright cancellation of examinations for final year students, a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan was asked to determine whether the states will have power under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) to defy a UGC directive. In other words, given the current situation, the court has to decide whether the UGC Act will prevail over the NDMA or the vice versa. Students in this case were represented by top lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Shyam Divan. Maharashtra and Delhi were represented by legal heavyweights Arvind Datar and KV Vishwanathan to lay down the edifice for a legal challenge to UGC’s defence of its July 6 directive, argued by solicitor general Tushar Mehta. Additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju put forth the case of the Centre while senior advocate PS Narasimha supported the Centre by representing a bunch of students in favour of holding the examinations. Objections posed by the petitioners were both factual and legal. Singhvi stated that conditions prevailing across the country were not uniform for the UGC to lay down a “one-size-fits-all” decision to hold examinations. Moreover, he said the lockdown enforced on account of the Covid-19 pandemic had imposed severe restrictions on communication, transportation across cities and even within a town. To conduct an online examination in such a scenario is impossible as many students have returned to their hometowns situated in rural pockets where internet connectivity and digital infrastructure remains a challenge. On Tuesday, senior advocate Datar put forth the Maharashtra government’s submissions that holding of examinations was the prerogative of the states and not the Centre. Maharashtra has 13 state universities and most colleges and hostels have been converted into Covid testing centres or quarantine facilities. Further, no university or state authority was consulted by UGC’s team of experts, which lacked a medical or health expert, Datar said. The Delhi government argued that holding examinations only for final year students was discriminatory as students of other semesters/years were being assessed internally based on their past performance. Odisha and West Bengal also opposed the UGC’s decision to hold examinations before September 30. Datar gave the example of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) which have suspended their final semester examinations. He said it was possible to award degrees to students based on their past semester scores and internal assessment based on the final semester, which is already over. One aspect troubled the bench after it heard all sides. “Can states say they won’t conduct examinations. This affects standards of education which comes under the domain of UGC. It is the UGC which has fixed standards of holding examinations. Can the universities be permitted to dilute this? Then every university will evolve a different system of passing students,” observed the bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah. Solicitor general Mehta responded to the petitioners by stating that the matter should not be seen as a “Centre versus State superiority” as there is no question of the statutory supremacy of the NDMA. But he maintained that once the UGC, being a Central authority, directs that examinations be held, the State Disaster Management Authority cannot override||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-petition-over-final-yr-exams-in-varsities/story-nPeYXqJXAWZFGoXSwE7SoJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Sunburn co-promoter arrested for helping organise rave party in Goa||The Goa Police on Tuesday arrested one Shailesh Shetty who allegedly helped organize the ‘underground’ rave party that was held in a villa at Vagator on Saturday night.The crime branch of the police which had raided the villa had arrested 23 people and seized drugs worth Rs nine lakh.Shetty, who was earlier called for questioning by the crime branch, was placed under arrest. He is also the co-promoter of Sunburn, the biggest dance music festival that returned to Goa last year with the ‘Sunburn Klassique’ avatar in December.Among those arrested at the party was Kapil Jhaveri, a Bollywood actor who the police say is the main accused in the case as he had organized the party. A few foreigners were also among the arrested. The seized drugs included cocaine, MDMA, charas, etc.Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday clarified that a photograph circulating on social media of him being greeted by Jhaveri was only a courtesy visit. “The picture may have been of a courtesy call last year by Kapil Jhaveri after the Chief Minister had taken over. A large number of persons had called on the CM then,” the Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement. It said the government has a zero tolerance to drug trafficking.“The chief minister in a tweet had complimented the police for their swift action in cracking down on this illicit drug trafficking. The action of the Goa Police is a manifestation of the Government’s resolve to end the menace of drug trafficking in the state,” the statement said. The state government is also collaborating with Sunburn to raise funds for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunburn-co-promoter-arrested-for-helping-organize-rave-party-in-goa/story-duKVhl9UumoGKmdtFfCd8M.html
18-08-2020||India||Delhi records 1,374 new Covid-19 cases, active cases rise further||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,374 fresh coronavirus case and 12 new deaths, taking the total positive cases tally to 1,54, 741, while the death toll mounted to 4,226. In the last 24 hours in national capital, 1,146 people have recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from the hospital, officials said. Tuesday’s statistics from Delhi health bulletin indicate that the active cases in the city have increased. Compared to 10,852 from Monday, Tuesday saw active cases climbing past 11,000 mark. Out of 11,068 active cases, 5351 patients are being treated in home isolation. The state authorities conducted 20,266 tests on Tuesday — 14,847 rapid antigen tests and 5,419 RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests, comparatively higher than the number of tests i.e. 14,988 conducted a day earlier.In addition to active cases, Delhi’s positivity rate also rose to 6.8 per cent on Tuesday, higher from 5.2 per cent recorded on Monday. Delhi has 16,787 beds available in COVID hospitals for treating people who contract the virus infection. Out of these, 3,674 beds have been occupied by people travelling to Delhi via Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 13,37,374, pushing the tests done per million to 70,388.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-374-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-rise-further/story-pAynUpCq3HcbpwJSCR9UOJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Vande Bharat Mission: Air India flights to and from Hong Kong banned||Air India’s Vande Bharat Mission flights to and from Hong Kong have been banned by Hong Kong authorities due to Covid-19 related issues.Earlier on Monday, Air India had tweeted, “FlyAI: ImportantUpdate -- Due to restrictions imposed by Hong Kong Authorities, AI 310/315, Delhi -- Hong Kong -- Delhi of August 18, 2020 stands postponed. Next update in this regard will be intimated soon. Passengers may please contact Air India Customer Care for assistance.”Last week, the Consulate General of India, Hong Kong had said Air India is planning to operate two Vande Bharat Mission flights from Hong Kong to Delhi on August 18 and 21.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to travel restrictions in wake of Covid-19 pandemic.In a weekly briefing held last Thursday, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said a total of 10.5 lakh stranded Indians have returned through various modes under the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-mission-air-india-flights-to-and-from-hong-kong-banned/story-TThP2UZpKHulhlBydyeEmK.html
18-08-2020||India||IAF deploys Tejas jets in western sector||The Indian Air Force has moved some of its Tejas light combat aircraft from their home base in Sulur in Tamil Nadu to the western sector to strengthen its operational readiness against Pakistan amid border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The IAF had earlier moved some of its frontline fighters such as Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29s to the Ladakh sector from other bases as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region where heightened tensions between India and China have upset the bilateral relationship, they said. In July, defence minister Rajnath Singh had asked the IAF to be prepared for any eventuality, saying the rapid deployment of aerial assets at forward locations in eastern Ladakh had sent a strong message to the adversary. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria then said his force was poised to counter any aggressive action by the adversary. The IAF has so far ordered 40 LCAs split in the initial operational clearance (IOC) version and the more advanced and final operational clearance (FOC) configuration. The Tejas jets moved to the western sector are from the first LCA squadron consisting of IOC aircraft. The IAF’s first Tejas squadron was raised at the Sulur air base in 2016 with two aircraft and more planes joined the fleet progressively. The raising of the second LCA squadron in Sulur began this May. The Tejas LCA jets from Sulur had taken part in Gaganshakti-2018 exercise that sought to test the IAF’s readiness and stamina for a two-front war with China and Pakistan. In March, the defence ministry gave a green light for the purchase of 83 LCA Mk-1A advanced Tejas jets from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The deal worth Rs 38,000 crore is expected to be signed by the year-end. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far. The Mk-1A variant is expected to come with digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammer pods, active electronically scanned array radar, advanced beyond-visual-range missiles and significantly improved maintainability. HAL is expected to deliver the first Mk-1A jet to the IAF three years after the deal is signed....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-deploys-tejas-jets-in-western-sector/story-h0uaVeb7TZdfi4loi95YAP.html
18-08-2020||India||On mission Dhaka, foreign secretary hands over PM Modi’s message to Sheikh Hasina||Indian foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka on Tuesday to deliver a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he began a previously unannounced visit aimed at boosting bilateral ties.Both sides were tight-lipped about Harsh Shringla’s two-day visit, with the external affairs ministry saying in a brief statement after the foreign secretary landed in Dhaka and that his trip was meant to “discuss and take forward cooperation on matters of mutual interest”. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Shringla had carried a personal message from PM Modi which he handed over during a one-on-one meeting with Sheikh Hasina at her official residence on Tuesday afternoon.The Bangladeshi premier “greatly appreciated” PM Modi’s gesture of sending a senior official to “touch base, convey his message and see how the two sides could take their relationship forward”, said one of the people cited above. The people described the meeting as “excellent” and said the issues discussed were enhancing connectivity, revival of the economy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation on countering the virus, including joint work on therapeutics and a vaccine, and the joint commemoration of “Mujib Barsho” or the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founder of Bangladesh and the father of Hasina.There was a proposal to convene a virtual meeting of the joint consultative commission at the level of the foreign ministers to oversee the relationship, especially bilateral projects. A proposal for creating a travel bubble for business, official and medical travel was also discussed, the people said.Security-related issues of mutual interest also came up at the meeting, and Sheikh Hasina spoke about the issue of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar and their possible safe repatriation, the people added. Bangladesh has called on India several times in recent years to use its influence with Myanmar to facilitate the repatriation of Rohingya refugees. Bangladesh currently hosts almost one million Rohingya, who fled a crackdown by the Myanmar military.This is Shringla’s first trip abroad since the Covid-19 outbreak. It is also the first visit to Bangladesh by a senior Indian official since travel restrictions were put in place due to the pandemic.On the Bangladeshi side, Hasina has not met anyone from abroad in the past few months. She has also held meetings with very few people within the country. Harsh Shringla, who earlier served as the Indian envoy in Dhaka, is also expected to meet foreign minister AK Abdul Momen and minister of state for foreign affairs Shahriar Alam. He will meet foreign secretary Masud Bin Momen on Wednesday.Also Read: Sheikh Hasina at helm, India-Bangladesh economic cooperation sets a new milestoneThe visit comes at a time when India is shoring up relations with key neighbours amid a dragging border standoff with China. In recent weeks, India has unveiled a $750-million aid package for the Maldives, extended a $400-million currency swap facility to Sri Lanka and handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh as part of efforts to strengthen connectivity.Hasina expressed her gratefulness for the supply of the locomotives, the people said. Foreign secretary Momen told the media in Dhaka that he intends to discuss the conducting of trials in Bangladesh of a Covid-19 vaccine expected to be produced by India.The Serum Institute of India plans to produce the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine if ongoing trials are successful. Momen said he will make an offer to Shringla about conducting trials for the vaccine in Bangladesh when they meet on Wednesday. He said a similar offer had already been made to Britain’s AstraZeneca.The Oxford University vaccine is seen as one of the most advanced and promising in the world, and has entered its third phase of trials, during which it is being tested on thousands of volunteers.“Different producers in India are dealing with the commercial side of the vaccine. We have been discussing with everyone about the availability of probable Covid-19 vaccines…so we will also discuss it with the Indian side,” Momen said.Shringla’s visit also comes against the backdrop of reports that China is set to provide a loan of nearly $1 billion to Bangladesh for a project to maintain the level of the Teesta river during the dry season. Reports have cited Bangladeshi officials as saying that China has agreed to finance the Teesta river comprehensive management and restoration project. Ties between the two sides have been under strain since last year, when Bangladeshi leaders were irked by comments from BJP leaders about deporting illegal migrants from Assam. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the implementation of the National Register of Citizens also hit ties. Bangladesh PM Hasina had questioned the need for CAA during an interview earlier this year. Hasina visited India last October, while Modi’s planned visit to Bangladesh in March to participate in events marking the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was called off due to the pandemic. The two leaders have spoken on phone several times this year, most recently in May.After taking over as foreign secretary in January, Shringla visited Dhaka in March. Shringla had met Hasina during his last visit to Bangladesh. Bangladesh foreign minister Momen recently described bilateral ties as “rock solid” and said they couldn’t be compared with the relations with China. “We must not compare the relationships...our ties with India are historic, rock solid. It is a blood relation, while economic issues mainly [determine] our relations with China,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mission-dhaka-foreign-secretary-hands-over-pm-modi-s-message-to-sheikh-hasina/story-bBS1u6ZJsz8rfn7jysGQrJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally past 6.15 L-mark; CM asks people to avoid crowding during Ganeshotsav||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday went past 6.15 lakh with 11,119 new infections reported in the past 24 hours. The worst-affected state in the country had crossed the six lakh-mark a day earlier. With ever-increasing infections, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to people to follow Covid-19 guidelines during the forthcoming Ganeshotsav festival. There are 615,477 Covid-19 positive cases now including 1,56,608 active cases, according to the state health department. With 422 more deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll has risen to 20,687. With 9,356 patients declared cured of the coronavirus disease during the day, the total number of recoveries in the state have risen to 437,870 while the number of those tested has gone up to 32, 64, 384.After crossing the grim six lakh-mark, the state has overtaken South Africa, the fifth worst-hit country globally. South Africa had 589,886 cases as on Tuesday evening, according to the website worldometers dot info. India is at number three spot with only USA and Brazil ahead of it in terms of the total number of virus cases. Maharashtra had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 9 and it took 162 days for the infections to cross the 600,000 mark. According to health experts, the main reason for continuing surge in infections is the rise in cases in semi-urban and rural areas since the easing of lockdown restrictions. “Distribution of cases started soon after the state opted for unlocking the restrictions. Before that, cases used to be reported only from urban areas but now it [infection] has spread to semi-urban and rural areas. The overall cases are also increasing in an accelerated fashion,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a public health expert who heads the state government’s communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee. Meanwhile, state capital Mumbai recorded 931 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its count to 1,30, 410 while the death toll rose to 7,222 with 49 more fatalities reported. Keeping in view the continuing rise in infections, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to the people to avoid crowding during the forthcoming Ganeshotsav festival and follow guidelines on the height of idols and their immersion. The festival will begin on August 22.“The forthcoming Ganeshotsav which comes against the backdrop of Covid-19 crisis should be celebrated peacefully, keeping social responsibility in mind,” Thackeray was quoted as saying in an official statement, reports PTI.He also instructed the authorities to increase testing for the disease, control test charges and ensure that test reports are made available at the earliest.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-past-6-15-l-mark-cm-asks-people-to-avoid-crowding-during-ganeshotsav/story-pufrOhlC91iwL63z7e04IJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Ganga crosses danger mark in Bihar, minister seeks policy on silt management||Authorities in Patna have advised people not to bathe in the various ghats of the Ganga after it crossed the danger level at Gandhi Ghat and other places in Bihar’s capital city on Tuesday evening.The river was flowing about 21 cm above the danger level of 41.76 metre at Hathidan in Mokama and 11cm above the red mark at Gandhi Ghat in Patna.“The water-level of Ganga has risen 5cm in the last 12 hours at Gandhi Ghat, which has a danger level of 48.60 metres,” said a water resources department official. He cautioned that the river might rise in days to come along its course in Bihar.Heavy discharge in the Sone river in the range of 57,000-60,000 cusec from Indrapuri barrage at Dehri is fuelling the surge in the Ganga which is also being fed heavily from north Bihar rivers like Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kosi and Mahananda at different points.“Bihar is facing unprecedented discharge of water from Nepal side due to heavy rains in catchment areas of Ganga’s tributary. Sustained heavy release of water in Burhi Gandak has rendered its left embankment at Bela Chamrahi in Begusarai vulnerable. Teams of engineers along with local people are working overtime to protect it,” said water resources development minister Sanjay Kumar Jha.Lauding the role of the locals in helping the department to carry out flood fighting work, the minister said that a timely alarm from local people about a breach in the embankment at Kaluaghat on the Bagmati river had prevented the embankment from being washed away.“We have deployed an early warning system to take preventive steps on embankments,” said Jha.The minister also said that the officials failed to understand the gravity of the situation on Gandak and hence the embankments were damaged.Citing chief minister Nitish Kumar’s demand for a national-level policy on silt management, which was also taken up during PM Narendra Modi’s meeting with the chief ministers, Jha said that heavy release of silt in Ganga and its tributaries had exposed Bihar to recurring floods.“Although we have proposed a lot of measures to check silt in various rivers by resorting to heavy plantation on their banks, a national-level approach for silt management is the need of the hour,” he said.Jha said various studies carried out on the problem of silt in the Ganga basin have abundantly made it clear that the state would continue to grapple with floods until the Farakka barrage is rebuilt with new technology to deal with heavy deposit of silt in the river.“Ganga water takes around 8-9 days to reach Farakka from Patna, which earlier took three days,” said Jha.Meanwhile, rivers like Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Khiroi and Ghagra continue to flow above the danger level at different places in Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Darbhanga and Siwan.So far, more than 81.59 lakh people in 1,312 panchayats of 130 blocks of 16 districts have been hit by the floods. The current spell of floods has claimed 25 lives across the state, the disaster management department said in a press note.The floods in Bihar have impacted Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur districts the most, with 20.61 lakh people and 19.18 lakh people affected, respectively. In East Champaran district, over 10 lakh people were hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-crosses-danger-mark-in-bihar-minister-seeks-policy-on-silt-management/story-3DaJGmXKkB8T90ehGp5GuJ.html
18-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Top naval commanders to meet amid border row with China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Top naval commanders to meet amid border row with ChinaIndia’s top naval commanders will discuss important operational issues during a three-day conference in New Delhi from August 19 amid the ongoing border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, a navy official said on Tuesday. Read moreDoes the PM CaresFund require an audit by the CAG? What the Supreme Court saidThe PM Cares Fund is a voluntary fund registered as a public charitable trust necessitated due to the emergent situation borne out of Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, ruling that it is not open for the petitioner to question the government on the wisdom to create PM Cares Fund. Read moreSushant Rajput death: Supreme Court verdict tomorrow on Rhea Chakraborty’s plea to transfer case from Patna to MumbaiChakraborty, in her petition to the apex court, had sought the transfer of case from Patna to Mumbai jurisdiction. The judgement will be given by a bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy at 11 am. Read more‘MS should be the next to take charge’: How Sachin Tendulkar convinced BCCI to pick Dhoni as India captainTendulkar revealed how he had observed Dhoni’s tremendous potential of reading the game, which acted as a catalyst in him recommending Dhoni’s name for being the next leader of the Indian cricket team. Read morePandit Jasraj’s body being brought back from New Jersey, says granddaughter Shweta PanditPadma Vibhushan Pandit Jasraj’s body is being brought back to India for last rites, his granddaughter Shweta Pandit said on Tuesday. The classical vocalist did in New Jersey on Monday. He was 90. Read moreApple announces Apple Music Radio with Apple Music 1, Apple Music Hits and Apple Music CountryApple has announced two new live global radio offerings on Apple Music, and renamed one. And all of these are now available to music fans across 165 countries. Read moreMichael Costello speaks out after slamming Kylie Jenner for not giving credit to up-and-coming fashion designersAfter calling out makeup mogul and reality TV star Kylie Jenner for not giving designers due credit, American fashion designer Michael Costello is now under blast by model Lala Kent and Hollywood star Savannah Chrisley who shared their negative experiences with him in the past. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares three things that people can learn from MS DhoniBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra also shared a tweet about Dhoni on Monday in which he not only detailed the first time he noticed the cricketer but also three things that one can learn from him. Read moreWatch: BJP Vs Congress war of words over hate speech on FacebookBJP and Congress are involved in a heated war of words over hate speech on Facebook. Congress party wrote a letter to the social media giant and called or a probe into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations. Congress also cited the questions raised in the WSJ article against top FB India executive Ankhi Das. Watch the video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-top-naval-commanders-to-meet-amid-border-row-with-china-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FDw2mZLgFfOYxgeKkBafaL.html
18-08-2020||India||10 locals involved in Kozhikode air crash rescue test positive for Covid-19||Ten people who helped rescue passengers from an Air India Express flight from Dubai that crashed at the Kozhikode international airport on August 7 tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday when Kerala saw the highest single-day spike of 1,758 new cases, officials said.Around 80 of the locals who took part in the rescue operations, were already under quarantine after some of the injured passengers tested positive for Covid-19. Last week the Malappuram district collector, police superintendent and 23 senior officials tested positive for the virus. Later, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and seven of his cabinet colleagues had gone into quarantine because they interacted closely with district officials during their visit to the crash site. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had lauded the timely intervention of the local people who took more than half of the 190 passengers to hospitals.Tuesday’s spike of 1,758 cases took Kerala’s Covid-19 tally to 47,827 while six more casualties took the death toll to 176. Amid rising cases, the Kerala government has decided to strengthen surveillance but many experts said the state has to concentrate more on mitigation now. It also tweaked its test protocol and decided to conduct more antigen tests and limit RT-PCR tests. RT-PCR tests will now be done for patients with severe respiratory problems or people coming from containment zones.in other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-locals-involved-in-kozhikode-air-crash-rescue-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-pina8wEbyvX0lUr1cUXkYK.html
18-08-2020||India||Does the PM Cares Fund require an audit by the CAG? What the Supreme Court said||The PM Cares Fund is a voluntary fund registered as a public charitable trust necessitated due to the emergent situation borne out of Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, ruling that it is not open for the petitioner to question the government on the wisdom to create PM Cares Fund.Any individual or institution can contribute to PM cares. It does not get any budgetary support and no government money is credited in the PM Cares Fund.How is it different from National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF)?The nature of NDRF and PM CARES Fund are entirely different. The NDRF is a statutory fund created under the Disaster Management Act (DM Act).Does PM Cares require audit by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (CAG)?Since it is a public charitable trust with voluntary donations and does not receive any government support, no CAG audit is required.In case of NDRF, the guidelines issued by the central government as per DM Act specifically provide for audit of the NDRF by CAG.Is existence of PM Cares a bar on making contributions to NDRF?The existence of PM Cares fund is not a bar to contribute to NDRF. Any contribution, or grant of any individual or institution is not prohibited to be credited into the NDRF and it is still open for any person or institution to make contribution to the NDRF in terms of Section 46(1)(b) of the DM Act. The guidelines for administration of NDRF framed by the Centre in 2010-11 and modified in 2015-16 provide that any grant that may be made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management shall be credited into the NDRF.Can NDRF be used for providing assistance in the fight of Covid-19?The Centre can very well utilise NDRF for providing assistance in the fight of Covid-19 pandemic by way of releasing fund on the request of the States as per new guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-the-pm-caresfund-require-an-audit-by-the-cag-what-the-supreme-court-said/story-Dz3gs18ALS9uXMGk6Kuq0N.html
18-08-2020||India||Kerala gold probe: No exemption certificate issued for baggage from UAE, says protocol officer||In another twist to the Kerala gold smuggling case, the state’s protocol officer told the Customs department and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that no clearance certificate was given to any diplomatic consignment in the last one year.Protocol officer B Sunil Kumar’s report, which was leaked to the media, said none from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate or anyone else sought exemption certificate from him. Last week the Customs had asked the protocol officer to furnish details of all diplomatic consignments that had arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport in the past year, days after Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel acknowledged that he had received some parcels of the Quran from the UAE consular office and that he took them to his constituency.As a local arrangement in Kerala, exemption certificates for diplomatic bags are issued by the state protocol officer after obtaining details of the goods. After the gold smuggling racket came to light with the seizure of 30 kg of yellow metal on July 5 from a bag that came in the name of an employee of the UAE consulate, Jaleel claimed that the consulate had donated copies of Quran and he took them to his constituency in Malappuram. He also said the consular office had arranged free food kits during Ramzan which he distributed in his constituency.“Many questions remain unanswered. We are not ready to go by the version that the consignment carried only holy books. We need more clarifications. Who cleared this, exact contents and where these boxes were taken? We will have to question many including the minister,” said a senior official who is part of the multi-agency probe.He also said the protocol officer’s explanation was not convincing. Jaleel, under quarantine after the Kozhikode air tragedy, said he was not worried and was ready for any probe. “Out of 31 packets came only one packet was opened. Rest are lying idle in two religious places in my constituency. Let any agency probe, my hands are clean,” the minister said in a Facebook post criticising what he called a media trial. But former diplomats and others said no country usually exports religious books and special permission was needed for such imports.During the investigation the Customs found that a heavy consignment had come on March 4 in 31 bags weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram. Jaleel later said he took these packets to his constituency. The Opposition Congress and BJP alleged that some consignments carried gold and Jaleel was aware of the smuggling activity. The minister acknowledged that he took holy books to his constituency a week after Customs questioned employees and a driver of the C-Apt (Kerala Centre for Advanced Printing and Training), a government body under Jaleel’s ministry Jaleel came under a cloud after his name figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-probe-no-exemption-certificate-issued-for-baggage-from-uae-says-protocol-officer/story-Ri3PKVND8Z9EQ2BrRtz8oN.html
18-08-2020||India||Top naval commanders to meet amid border row with China||India’s top naval commanders will discuss important operational issues during a three-day conference in New Delhi from August 19 amid the ongoing border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, a navy official said on Tuesday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address the navy brass on the opening day of the conference. The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region (IOR) where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row. It has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR, which, it believes, China will inevitably try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 29. The commanders’ conference, to be chaired by navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh, assumes greater significance against the backdrop of recent events along India’s northern borders as well as the unprecedented challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, a navy spokesperson said. “It would provide the higher naval leadership a forum to discuss conduct of operations, sustenance and maintenance of assets, procurement, infrastructure development and human resource management issues within the ambit of the new normal established by the pandemic,” the spokesperson said. “A commanders’ conference is important at any time, but this one might especially look at various matters that the navy’s commanders would carefully consider in the backdrop of China’s growing belligerent attitude,” said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd). The commanders will also discuss ways to optimise joint planning, tri-service synergy, operational readiness and functional reorganisation within the navy to enhance efficiency, the spokesperson said. Deliberations will also cover larger security imperatives in the Indo-Pacific region, he said. The navy has deployed warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points in the Indian Ocean region under its mission-based deployment model and the vessels can be diverted for any mission. Indian warships are deployed across a large expanse from the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-naval-commanders-to-meet-amid-border-row-with-china/story-P1TIYuXU9R9s7WxfVhpvJP.html
18-08-2020||India||Railways to deploy ‘Ninja UAVs’ for surveillance||Indian Railways has started deploying “Ninja UAVs” (unmanned aerial vehicles) for establishing a drone-based surveillance system in a bid to intensify its security mechanism across its network, according to officials aware of the development. NINJA UAVs are lightweight and economical micro contraptions built for mapping and surveillance. Drone beats have been designed based on railway assets, the sensitivity of the area, and its criminal infestation, the officials said. “Drone surveillance technology has emerged as an important and cost-effective tool for security surveillance over large areas with limited manpower. On a pilot basis, we have started with the Mumbai Division of Central Railway (CR). We have recently procured two Ninja UAVs for better security and surveillance in areas such as station premises, railway tracks, yards, workshops, etc. A team of four staff of RPF (Railway Protection Force), Mumbai, has been trained for flying drones, surveillance, and maintenance. These drones are capable of real-time tracking, video streaming and can also be operated on an automatic fail-safe mode,” said an official. A drone camera can cover a large area, which may require up 10 RPF personnel. The exercise may lead to a substantial improvement in utilisation of scarce manpower, said a note on drone surveillance issued by the ministry. “Drone acts as an ‘eye in the sky’ and monitor an entire stretch. If any suspicious suspicious activity is noticed, it can be intimated to the nearest RPF post or division to apprehend a criminal. A similar incident recently occurred at Wadibunder Yard, when a criminal was found to be trying to steal from a stationary railway coach,” the note added. RPF has planned extensive use of drones for railway security across its zones. At present, nine drones have been procured by RPF at a cost of Rs 31.87 lakh for South Eastern Railway (SER), CE, and South Western Railway (SWR) zones and Modern Coaching Factory, Raebareili. Plans are afoot to buy 17 mores drones in the near future at a cost of Rs 97.52 lakh. “Drone deployment can be a force multiplier for security personnel. Drones can help in the inspection of railway assets and safety of yards, workshops, car sheds, etc. Drones can also be used to launch surveillance on criminal and anti-social activities such as gambling, random throwing of garbage, hawking, among others, in railway premises,” the note said. Drones can be deployed for data collection analysis and may prove to be useful in vulnerable sections for safe operations of trains. “Drones may be pressed into service at disaster sites for helping in rescue, recovery, and restoration operations and coordinating of efforts of various agencies. Drones can be useful while undertaking mapping of railway assets to assess the encroachments on railway properties. During largescale crowd management efforts, drones may give vital inputs such as the magnitude of a gathering, probable time of arrival and dispersal based on which such an exercise can be planned and executed. Drones were also used to enforce lockdown restrictions and monitor the movement of migrants back to their native places following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak,” the note stated. So far, RPF authorities have trained 19 of their personnel in the operation and maintenance of drones. Of the 19 RPF staff, four have received licences for flying drones and another six are undergoing training for a similar exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-deploy-ninja-uavs-for-surveillance/story-hEmNXDcGOj5jjVZbz91ZUM.html
18-08-2020||India||Tiger cub injured in Mukundra Reserve dies in Kota zoo, missing sibling feared dead||Death continues to stalk Mukundra Hills Tiger reserve (MHTR) in Rajasthan after an injured male cub which was rescued and shifted to the Kota zoo for treatment died Tuesday morning. The cub’s mother, tigress MT-2 was found dead on August 3 and its sibling is still missing. Forest officials said they fear the second cub has also died. The loss of two adults and two cubs in less than a month has put a question mark over conservation efforts at Rajasthan’s third tiger reserve even as member of National Tiger Conservation Committee in Lok Sabha, Diya Kumari, wrote to Union forest minister Prakash Javedkar to take proper measures for conservation and promotion of tigers in Rajasthan. Forest officials said tiger MT-3 was unable to move for several days and died on July 23. The carcass of tigress MT-2 was found on August 3, 48 hours after the big cat had died. Tiger MT-3 died on July 23 because of multiple organ failure, according to the report from Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh). The post mortem report of MT-2 ruled out poisoning as cause of death. The ailing male cub of MT-2 succumbed on Tuesday. The cub, forest officials said, was in septicemic shock after witnessing fierce a territorial fight between it smother MT-1 and another tiger MT-2. “The cub was around 5-6 months old,” MHTR deputy conservator of forest Biju Joy said The DCF said hemoglobin count of the cub was found to be low in the blood test a few days ago. “The autopsy is being done by medical board as per the protocols of the NTCA (National Tiger Conservation Authority),” Joy said. A team of three veterinary doctors were looking after the cub and it had showed signs of recovery a few days ago. “The cub was kept in an air-conditioned and sanitized ICU room at the zoo. A special diet was brought from Jodhpur for it,” the DCF said. He said the cub also got meningitis and its ears were treated for injury. Meanwhile, Diya Kumari, the BJP MP from Rajsamand, claimed that the forest department tried to treat MT-3 locally instead of calling experts. “This led to its death,” she said in the letter to Javadekar. “Condition of tigers in other sanctuary areas of the state, Ranthambore, Sariska, Sajjangarh, Nahargarh, etc., is also in a dire state,” she added. She requested the forest minister to issue necessary guidelines to the state government to investigate the causes of recent tiger deaths so that such incidents do not recur. Earlier, the state government cracked the whip on the forest department officials after death of two tigers. Two IFS officers – chief conservator of forest (CCF) Anand Mohan and DCF T Mohanraj – were removed and kept under awaiting posting order (APO); two others, assistant conservator of forest Rajesh Kumar Sharma and ranger Makkhan Lal Sharma, were suspended on the charges of negligence in discharge of government duty. The state government also set up an administrative enquiry to enquire into the circumstances that led to the deaths and to establish laxity on part of any officers/ staff if any, and fix responsibility accordingly; and to review the existing systems of management in the tiger reserve including monitoring protocols, identify lacunae if any and suggest ways to improve and strengthen facilities and systems. Mukundra Hills was declared a tiger reserve in 2013 with portions of wildlife sanctuaries of Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Chittorgarh. It is spread across 759 square kilometer area and is now left with two adult tigers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-cub-injured-in-mukundra-reserve-dies-in-kota-zoo-missing-sibling-feared-dead/story-90pLnpWxtMMYrWkxw2lWIP.html
18-08-2020||India||‘Punjab will burn’: Amarinder Singh urges Centre to be cautious on SYL Canal issue||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday urged the Centre to look at the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue from the national security perspective. His remarks came after a meeting, convened by the Jal Shakti ministry, to discuss the issue. It was also attended by the Haryana CM and Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with Sutlej Yamuna Link, Punjab will burn and it’ll become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering from the impact,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The meeting, held through video conferencing, followed the Supreme Court’s direction to the Centre on July 28 to mediate between the two states to discuss the completion of the SYL Canal which has been in the works for many decades.. The Punjab CM has sought complete share of water for his state from the total resources available, including from river Yamuna.“Today there was a meeting between Haryana, us and the minister of water resources. I told them that after the division of Punjab in 1966, all assets of ours were shared on a 60:40 basis, except water, because they included the water of Ravi, Beas and Sutlej but not Yamuna. I have suggested that they should include the water of Yamuna also and then divide it on a 60:40 basis,” Singh said. Haryana chief minister ML Khattar, who along with Shekhawat, joined the meeting from Delhi, said that both the CMs expressed their views on the issue and a second round of talks will be held soon. Haryana has stuck to its stance that its share of 3.5 million acre feet (MAF) in the Ravi and Beas waters and the completion of the canal are absolutely non-negotiable. At present, Haryana gets 1.62 MAF of Ravi and Beas waters. Punjab on the other hand is furthering an argument that the volume of water available in its rivers has drastically reduced over the years.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-will-burn-amarinder-singh-urges-centre-to-be-cautious-on-syl-canal-issue/story-lCafmibP00XgoovVsraI7M.html
18-08-2020||India||Telangana govt’s ban on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations faces stiff resistance||The Telangana government’s decision to ban Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations commencing August 22 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic has run into stiff opposition from the festival committees and Bharatiya Janata Party. A day after the state government announced that no permission would be given for public celebration of the festival by erecting Lord Ganesha mandaps (pandals) in every street of the city as was the practice in the past, the Bhagya Nagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi on Tuesday opposed the decision. State minister Talasani Srinivasa Yadav appealed to the people in general and youth associations in particular not to erect Ganesh mandaps but confine the celebrations to their respective homes in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Hyderabad commissioner of police Anjani Kumar also announced that no idol installation or any event would be held at public places and asked the people to perform Ganesh puja at home. However, Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi general secretary Dr Bhagwanth Rao insisted that Ganesh mandaps could be erected in apartments, gated communities, function halls and bastis (colonies). “There is no need to take any permission from the police for installation of the idols, but mere intimation to the local police station is enough,“ he said and asked home minister Mohd Mahmud Ali to communicate the message to all the police stations. Rao, however, appealed to devotees to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines at the pandals. “At any point of time, not more than five persons would be present at the mandap maintaining social distance. Use of masks and sanitisers is a must,” he said. The Samithi also resisted the state government’s proposal to ban the Ganesh Nimajjan (immersion of Lord Ganesha idols) processions this year. The centralised immersion procession of Lord Ganesha at the end of 11-day festivities is one of the biggest annual events of the city and draws thousands of visitors. The government had been making massive arrangements for the centralised Ganesh Nimajjan procession up to Hussain Sagar lake every year, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, it has advised the organisers to restrict the programme to local areas. However, Rao said a decision would be taken on Ganesh immersion procession only after ascertaining the number of Ganesh idols installed in the city. “As per the traditions, immersion has to be done only in natural waters like rivers and tanks, but not in buckets and tubs as suggested by the government,” he said. The lone BJP lawmaker from Hyderabad T Raja Singh also strongly opposed the restrictions on Ganesh festivities.“There have been reports that the Covid-19 pandemic might continue till next year. Does it mean the government suggests that we stop praying and celebrating till then?” he asked. Singh, who represents Goshamahal assembly constituency in the city, also pointed out that the restrictions on Ganesh mandaps and the number of idols would hit the idol makers and artistes hard. Accusing Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of minority appeasement, the BJP MLA wondered why the government had allowed Eid celebrations in a big way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-s-ban-on-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-faces-stiff-resistance/story-BGvQciZqZRUQSpPU1lsAOJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Philippines to follow Dharavi model for tackling Covid-19 in slums: BMC chief||The Philippines government has reached out to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to implement the Dharavi model of containing the outbreak of Covid-19 in its densely populated slums. BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Tuesday, “The Philippines government will be following the Dharavi model for containing Covid-19 in densely populated slums of Philippines.” BMC has shared the details of the Dharavi model with the Philippine government’s health department, he said.Chahal also shared a news report from Philippine Daily Inquirer . The news report reads, “The DOH declared that it would follow the successful Dharavi-Mumbai campaign conceptualised by Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Dighavkar. Dharavi in India is Asia’s largest slum where the Hollywood movie “Slumdog Millionaire” was shot. It has a total population of 1 million within a 2.5-square-kilometer area. This means eight to 10 people in a 9-square-meter area.” Dharavi has seen cases in single digits for the past few days, and its curve flattened by the end of June. On Monday, Dharavi recorded four new cases, on Saturday and Sunday it had recorded five new cases each, on Friday, it had recorded nine new cases, and on Thursday, it had recorded six new cases. This is in contrast with the number of cases that were being reported in a single day in May, when cases in Dharavi peaked. On May 3, it recorded its single-day highest number of cases at 94. While the total number of Covid-19 cases in Dharavi touched 2,672, it has 80 active cases currently. The doubling rate in Dharavi is 269 days, and growth rate is 0.27%, in contrast with May when the growth rate was at its peak at 4.8%. The Dharavi model of containing the spread of Covid-19 includes testing in high numbers, moving positive patients to institutional quarantine facilities, shifting high and low risk contacts to separate quarantine facilities, and treating patients in time. BMC organised fever camps, door-to-door surveys, used private clinics and dispensaries to reach maximum number of people and detect Covid-19 early, according to Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G North administrative ward, with jurisdiction over Dharavi. Dighavkar said, “We are giving the Philippines government information on how we conducted fever camps in Dharavi, and carried out contact tracing, and organised institutional quarantining.” Over the past few weeks, Dighavkar has been flooded with calls from municipal corporations in cities of Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Kolhapur, for similar information. Chahal said, “BMC’s Chase the Virus Policy has shown the world the way to fight Covid-19, but BMC is not complacent. We will not lower our guard.” He pointed out that doubling rate in Mumbai is now 86 days, with a low infection rate of 0.8%, and a discharge rate of 81%. Mumbai has done 6.6 lakh tests. He said, “There are 17,800 active cases in Mumbai, and symptomatic patients in hospitals are 5,388 and 7,548+ Covid beds are vacant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/philippines-to-follow-dharavi-model-for-tackling-covid-19-in-slums-bmc-chief/story-PNvfCO8SELhOim9yo0teJL.html
18-08-2020||India||One more terrorist killed in Kreeri encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla, search underway||One more terrorist was killed on Tuesday in an ongoing encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district. The encounter took place in Kreeri area where the police also recovered arms and ammunition. This is the third terrorist killed in an operation carried out by security forces after Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants’ attack on Monday which left two CRPF jawans and a Jammu and Kashmir policeman dead in Baramulla district. The security forces had chased the ultras after the attack and gunned down two of them during an encounter. The search operation is currently on in the area.Two Army jawans, who were injured during encounter at Kreeri area on Monday, have also succumbed to injuries, police said.This was the third attack on security forces in Kashmir in less than a week. On Friday, two policemen were killed and another injured after suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists opened fire on a police team in Srinagar’s Nowgam area. On August 12, a soldier was injured in an attack in Sopore’s Hygam area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-terrorist-killed-in-kreeri-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-baramulla-search-underway/story-ldV6mkvN1CjvDGicpCKSQN.html
18-08-2020||India||Sushant Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty’s financial transactions clear, nothing incriminating, says her lawyer||The financial transactions of actor Rhea Chakraborty are “crystal clear and there is nothing incriminating against her” in connection with the case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, her lawyer said on Tuesday.Advocate Satish Maneshinde, Rhea’s lawyer, said that the actor has also denied all allegations of abetment of suicide, misappropriation of funds and others and termed them as “concocted and fabricated” for ulterior purposes.“The Mumbai Police and Enforcement Directorate have collected all electronic, forensic and medical, including DNA evidence, in the case. Bank statements, income tax returns, CCTV, CDR and electronic data are with both agencies. Till today nothing incriminating has been found against her,” Maneshinde said in a statement.It said that the two actors have known each other over the past several years and started dating shortly after they attended a party in April 2019.“Even though they spent a lot of time in each other’s homes, they officially moved in together in December 2019 and lived at Mount Blanc, Bandra, till Rhea left on June 8, 2020,” the statement said.She had left after Sushant requested Rhea to live with her parents for the time being as his sister Meethu was coming to live with him from June 8 for some time on his request.“Rhea had been suffering from her own anxiety issues and often endured panic attacks. Sushant’s conduct also aggravated these conditions. Even though Rhea was desirous of seeing her family, she was not at all comfortable with leaving Sushant,” the statement said.“It is total nonsense and an afterthought to make allegations after a period of 40 days, the manner in which it has been made before Bihar Police. No allegations whatsoever were made till July 27, 2020, by anybody in the family before the Mumbai Police or to any authority,” it added.Maneshinde, in the statement, also said that the relationship between Sushant’s family and Rhea were strained after his sister Priyanka once “groped” her while drunk.“Thereafter, Rhea informed Sushant as to what had transpired and Sushant got into an argument with his sister regarding the same. That due to the aforesaid incident, the relationship between Sushant’s family and Rhea had been strained since inception,” the statement said.It said that Rhea has always maintained that she would like the truth of the matter to be revealed by virtue of a fair and impartial investigation.The statement said that the actor has admitted in her petition before the Supreme Court that she sent a message to Home Minister Amit Shah to order a CBI investigation into the matter and added that she is only challenging the illegal registration of FIR and investigation by Bihar Police without jurisdiction and the transfer of the “illegal investigation” to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-s-financial-transactions-clear-nothing-incriminating-says-her-lawyer/story-LBkGfIHwox4tWWr0TJaWKO.html
18-08-2020||India||Environment ministry creates 19 integrated regional offices in a major reorganisation exercise||The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) issued a notification on Tuesday regarding the reorganisation of regional or sub-regional offices of various authorities into 19 integrated regional offices (IROs) of the ministry across the country. The IROs will be established with the redeployment of resources from 10 regional offices of ministry; three regional offices of the Forest Survey of India (FSI); three regional centres of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA); four regional offices of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and five regional and three sub-regional offices of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). “With a view to achieving outcomes related to mandates of the MoEFCC in an improved, timely and effective manner, and in a bid to further enhance its outreach to stakeholders, the ministry will undertake coordinated action and optimise the utilisation of its available resources…” the notification said. These IROs will have the combined strength, including the ministry’s 319 personnel, NTCA (6), CZA (4), and WCCB (74). A regional official will head an IRO. The IROs, which will become operational from October 1, will be headquartered in Shillong; Ranchi; Bhubaneshwar; Bengaluru; Chennai; Lucknow; Bhopal; Nagpur; Chandigarh; Dehradun; Jaipur; Gandhinagar; Vijaywada; Raipur; Hyderabad; Shimla; Kolkata; Guwahati, and Jammu. Besides their assigned work, the IROs will also get additional responsibilities from the MoEFCC. MoEFCC officials justified the reasons behind the integration move. “The exercise is being done for resource optimisation and increase efficiency. For example, Bengaluru had three offices, including the MoEFCC, FSI, and NTCA. There is a lot of inspection work and the area to be monitored is huge. Hence, the manpower is being redistributed,” said Sanjay Kumar, director-general (D-G), forests, MoEFCC. “In case, there is a big inspection, the integrated office will help. Similarly, for a large scale wildlife operation, or for that matter an intensive plantation exercise. This helps synchronise time, prevents cost overrun, and also comes in handy for monitoring some of the key projects,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-min-creates-19-integrated-regional-offices-in-a-major-reorganisation-exercise/story-l6khQdh4poXIlnGLKnNiRL.html
18-08-2020||India||4,242 cities, 92 Ganga towns and 1.87 crore citizens: All you need to know about Swachh Survekshan 2020||Marking the annual exercise of surveying cleanliness across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 20 will announce the results of ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ — the fifth such edition in the country. Organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), the event will see a total of 129 awards handed over to the top-performing cities and states in the programme, titled “Swachh Mahotsav”.Here is everything you need to know about the country’s biggest cleanliness mapping exercise:• Swachh Survekshan 2020 has been carried out and completed in 28 days.• The India’s bonafide exercise ranks a total of 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns in its fifth edition. • The government officials state that Swachh Survekshan 2020 saw participation of 1.87 crore citizens.• Over 5.5 lakh sanitary workers linked to social welfare schemes and over 84,000 informal waste pickers have been brought into the mainstream in the country’s bid to attain improved cleanliness standards.• During the event, PM Modi will interact with select beneficiaries, swachhagrahis and safai-karmis under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U), from different parts of the country through video conference.• The dominant theme of Swachh Survekshan aims at generating large scale citizen participation in the mission, pushing cities to compete towards becoming India’s cleanest cities.• Maintaining a winning streak for three consecutive years, Indore has retained the top position as the cleanest city in India in 2017, 2018 and 2019.• Mysuru had won the award for the Cleanest City of India in the first edition of the survey. • The first edition of Swachh Survekshan survey in January 2016 rated 73 majorcities, followed by Swachh Survekshan 2017 conducted in January-February 2017 for ranking 434 cities. • Swachh Survekshan 2018, which, ranked 4,203 cities, followed by the fourth edition in 2019 which not only covered 4,237 cities but was also the first-of-its-kind completely digital survey completed in a record time of 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-all-you-need-to-know-4-242-cities-92-ganga-towns-and-1-87-crore-citizens/story-bhOZzRPG5khHyL1VHanQ4K.html
18-08-2020||India||Visva Bharati university files police complaint against TMC MLA for vandalism, informs PMO||Visva Bharati university authorities at Santiniketan in Bengal’s Birbhum district lodged a police complaint against a Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker and eight others around midnight on Monday, more than 12 hours after a mob of local residents and shopkeepers vandalized parts of the university over a decision to build a wall. The mob allegedly demolished two gates of the campus and damaged construction material that was stocked for building the wall around an open ground where an annual fair is held. The state’s only central university, of which the Prime Minister is the chancellor, named Naresh Bauri, a resident of Bolpur and TMC lawmaker from the district’s Dubrajpur constituency, in the complaint. The university also sent separate reports on the incident to the Prime Minister’s office and the Union human resource development ministry, teachers told HT. After the vandalism, the university authorities decided to close the campus temporarily. The district police started a separate suo motu case on Monday afternoon after chief minister Mamata Banerjee intervened. Eight people were arrested for the vandalism. They were produced before the Suri court on Tuesday afternoon. District police officers said that in its complaint the Visva Bharati authorities stated that the crowd went on the rampage when construction workers were in the process of setting up a wall. The complaint said that guarding the open ground was necessary to protect the environment as ordered by the National Green Tribunal last year. On Monday, Bauri claimed that he took part in the agitation as a local resident and former student of Visva Bharati and not as TMC leader. “How can Tagore’s university, which was supposed to be a part of nature, be caged behind walls. Local people will never tolerate this,” Bauri said on Monday echoing the local people. He could not be contacted on Tuesday. Held in end-December, the fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, draws thousands of people and even foreign tourists. Opposed to the wall, local people and a section of traders for whom the fair is a major source of income, had been staging demonstrations since Saturday. Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, however did not budge from his decision to guard the open ground. Sunil Singh, a member of the Poush Mela Bachao Committee (save the fair committee) and one of the traders named in the complaint lodged by Visva Bharati, said, “This is a false allegation. The earthmover used to demolish the gates belongs to Visva Bharati. They did it to frame us.” Gagan Sarkar, another trader named in the complaint, alleged that Visva Bharati authorities planned the demolition. Mamata Banerjee on Monday disapproved of the wall and said, “I do not want any construction that destroys the beauty of Visva Bharati. When Rabindranath Tagore built Visva Bharati he wanted students to be in the heart of nature and study in the open. He did not want wood and cement structures.” District magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said that she will hold a meeting with university authorities and local people on Wednesday and hear both sides. University students owing allegiance to the Students’ Federation of India, the student’s front of the CPI(M), staged a silent agitation outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Monday night. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the TMC of masterminding the vandalism. “This is an example of law and order situation in Bengal. The TMC is trying to establish control over a Central university campus,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. The vice-chancellor did not talk to the media on Tuesday as well. Anirban Sircar, the only designated spokesperson of Visva Bharati did not take calls either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-university-files-police-complaint-against-tmc-mla-for-vandalism-informs-pmo/story-LZ6MpAJIFP4wQwa3DcrzvJ.html
18-08-2020||India||NIA arrests ISIS ophthalmologist who was developing apps for injured operatives||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an ophthalmologist working at Bengaluru’s M S Ramaiah Medical College - Abdur Rahman, who was developing a medical application for helping the injured ISIS cadres in the conflict-zones and a weaponry-related application for the benefit of ISIS fighters, according to a statement issued by the agency on Tuesday. The NIA said Rahman (28), had even visited an ISIS medical camp in Syria in early 2014 for treatment of ISIS terrorists and stayed with Islamic State operatives for 10 days and returned to India.A resident of Basavangudi in Bengaluru, Rahman was arrested on Monday in connection with the agency’s probe against a Kashmiri couple - Jahanzaib Sami Wani and Hina Bashir Beigh, arrested from Jamia Nagar in Delhi in March this year. This case was initially registered by Delhi Police Special Cell in March, 2020, after the arrest of Sami and Beigh. The couple was allegedly affiliated with the ISKP (Islamic State of Khorasan Province), which is a banned terrorist organisation and is a part of ISIS and were found to be involved in subversive and anti-national activities. “They were also found to be in touch with Abdullah Basith, who was already lodged in Tihar jail in another NIA case (ISIS Abu Dhabi Module),” the NAI statement said.“During further investigation, NIA arrested two more accused - Sadiya Anwar Sheikh and Nabeel Siddick Khatri, both residents of Pune, for being part of the conspiracy to further the activities of ISIS/ISKP in India and to carry out subversive activities in the garb of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests,” it said.“During interrogation, arrested accused Abdur Rahman confessed that he was conspiring with accused Jahanzaib Sami and other Syria-based ISIS operatives on secure messaging platforms to further ISIS activities. He was in the process of developing a medical application for helping the injured ISIS cadres in the conflict-zones and a weaponry-related application for the benefit of ISIS fighters. Significantly, he had visited an ISIS medical camp in Syria in early 2014 for treatment of ISIS terrorists and stayed with Islamic State operatives for 10 days and returned to India,” NIA said. After arresting him, NIA carried out searches at three premises belonging to him in Bangalore with the assistance of Karnataka Police and seized digital devices, mobile phone, laptop containing incriminating material.He will be produced before the NIA Special Court at New Delhi and NIA remand will be sought for his custodial interrogation, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-isis-ophthalmologist-who-was-developing-apps-for-injured-operatives/story-3vu4k7IcfJNiuMnCOAYwjO.html
18-08-2020||India||PM Modi to announce results of cleanliness survey Swachh Survekshan 2020 on Aug 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce the results of the fifth edition of the annual cleanliness survey ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ on Thursday, a government release said on Tuesday. The announcement of 2020 results was delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, it added.A total of 129 awards will be given to the top performing cities and states at the virtual ‘Swachh Mahotsav’ that has been organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The survey was completed in 28 days and 1.87 crore people across 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 towns along river Ganga participated in it. The Prime Minister will launch the Swachh Survekshan 2020 results dashboard on the occasion. He will also interact with select beneficiaries, swachhagrahis and safai karmis (sanitary workers) under the Swachh Bharat Mission- Urban programme, from different parts of the country. The survey saw 1.7 crore citizens register on Swachhata App, over 11 crore impressions on social media, more than 5.5 lakh sanitary workers linked to social welfare schemes and over 84,000 informal waste-pickers integrated into the mainstream, the release added. Swachh Survekshan was introduced by the government with the objective of generating large scale citizen participation in the Mission, along with inculcating a spirit of healthy competition among cities towards becoming India’s cleanest cities.Mysuru had won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, while Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years (2017,2018, 2019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-announce-results-of-cleanliness-survey-swachh-survekshan-2020-on-aug-20/story-TjrLhyVbqOKb6VaEqEP2mM.html
18-08-2020||India||Kerala converts rescue boats into ambulances to help Covid-19 patients reach hospitals||With rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Kerala Water Transport Department has converted rescue boats into ambulances to help coronavirus patients reach hospitals. The boat ambulance service was started to help move Covid patients living in areas that are isolated from the mainland.“This service has helped many Covid-19 patients who live in locations cut-off from the mainland reach hospitals,” Santhosh Kumar, vigilance wing inspector, told ANI.  Alappuzha: Kerala Water Transport Dept has converted rescue boats into ambulances during #COVID19 pandemic. Santhosh Kumar, Vigilance Wing Inspector says, "This service has helped many #COVID19 patients who live in locations cut-off from the mainland reach hospitals." pic.twitter.com/mrsoMAtbOiKerala, which was the first state to report Covid-19 case in India earlier this year, has over 15,000 active cases. On Sunday, the state’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan took to Twitter to laud the people of Kerala for their “unflinching spirit”. Sharing a story of a 105-year-old lady beating Covid, the chief minister further congratulated the health workers of the state.“We are into the 200th day of Covid-19 crisis. Looking back, we can say with pride that this has not been just a period of despair & loss. It has also been a time of courage, compassion, resilience & survival. People of Kerala responded to the crisis with an unflinching spirit,” he had tweeted. The story of 105 years old Asma Bheevi, who recently survived the disease, is just one example. She is not alone, there are many like her. Our health workers have done a remarkable job and we can't congratulate them enough. Kerala is often cited as an example for inclusive development and social harmony, and it will remain so, but from now, it will also be an argument for hope. Keep Hope Alive, We Shall Overcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-converts-rescue-boats-into-ambulances-to-help-covid-19-patients-reach-hospitals/story-NySKZ4tR1rDVductbiSAwO.html
18-08-2020||India||India plans air bubbles with five neighbours, Pakistan not among them||With international air travel still out of bounds due to the Covid-19 pandemic, India has proposed air bubbles with five neighbouring countries, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Tuesday.Air bubbles seek to restore commercial passenger services to pre-pandemic levels. Pakistan is not on the list of five countries.“Air bubbles have also been proposed with our neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal & Bhutan. Going forward, we will consider such arrangements with other countries also. It is always our endeavour to reach out to every stranded citizen. No Indian will be left behind,” Puri tweeted.We continue to further strengthen the reach & scope of VBM. Air Travel arrangements are already in place with USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar & Maldives. We are now taking these efforts forward & are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements.India’s international flight operations are currently largely limited to evacuating its residents from various countries under the Vande Bharat mission (VBM).Also read: SpiceJet operates charter flight on Delhi-Rome route with 264 Italians“We continue to further strengthen the reach & scope of VBM. Air Travel arrangements are already in place with USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar & Maldives. We are now taking these efforts forward & are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements.”“These include Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea & Thailand,” he said in another tweet.The latest air bubble was the one with Canada that became operational on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-plans-air-bubbles-with-five-neighbours-pakistan-not-among-them/story-B0MkjsQGK6qm019ebFZXbN.html
18-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ashok Lavasa resigns as Election Commissioner and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ashok Lavasa resigns as Election CommissionerElection Commissioner (EC) Ashok Lavasa, who was expected to take over the poll body next year, tendered his resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday, officials close to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer told HT. Read More ‘Transparency writ large in PM CARES’: RS Prasad attacks Rahul GandhiUnion minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Shankar Prasad joined party chief JP Nadda in attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after the Supreme Court verdict on PM CARES fund. Read MoreMaharashtra has more Covid-19 cases than South Africa, the sixth worst-hit country in the worldMaharashtra now has more Covid-19 cases--over 600,000--than South Africa, the sixth worst-hit country globally. South Africa has reported 5,89,886 Covid-19 cases as per the reference website worldometers.info. Read MoreDream11 wins IPL title rights at 50 percent discountDream11, market leaders in fantasy gaming space will be the title sponsors of the Indian Premier League (IPL) when it is staged in UAE this year. Dream11 were awarded the rights for Rs 222 crore - a heavy discount of nearly 50 percent of what Vivo were paying for the same rights (Rs 440 crore). Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister misbehaved with me: Rhea ChakrabortyActor Rhea Chakraborty has shared a statement through her legal team, claiming that she had a ‘strained relationship’ with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family and called the allegations of abetment to suicide against her ‘concocted and fabricated for ulterior purposes’. Read MoreHappy Birthday Gulzar: Meghna Gulzar stayed afloat on these letters by the famous poet-lyricist Chhapaak director Meghna Gulzar received some heartwarming letters from her legendary poet-father Gulzar at various times in her life. As the famous lyricist celebrates his 86th birthday on Tuesday, here’s taking a sneak peek into some of the letters that he penned to his daughter after she completed her graduation or when she was in labour.Read MorePorsche zooms in 718 Spyder and Cayman GT4 to Indian shoresPorsche has launched 718 Spyder and Cayman GT4 in India in a bid to bolster and expand its product portfolio in the country. Prices start at Rs 1.59 crore for the 718 Spyder and Rs 1.63 crore for the 718 Cayman GT4. Read MoreSamsung The Serif review: Redesign your house to fit this TVSamsung wants The Serif to be on a floor stand, or on a table because we are at a point in our lives where we do design and re-decorate rooms to fit our devices and gadgets. In that case, is it so hard to understand why a design-first smart TV exists? Read MoreNagpur Police shows how to set a strong password. Video prompts people to say ‘mind-boggling’In a bid to remind people about the importance of a strong password for online accounts, Nagpur police has now come up with a giggle-worthy yet important post and it’s something you should abide by. Read More‘Witnesses might get killed’: Sushant Rajput’s kin slams Mumbai policeThere is a new twist in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. A relative of the late actor has now alleged that the witnesses in the case need to be given police protection. Watch the video for all the updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ashok-lavasa-resigns-as-election-commissioner-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NSuglgmttasDWG2rfn5kDL.html
18-08-2020||India||Ashok Lavasa resigns as Election Commissioner||Election Commissioner (EC) Ashok Lavasa, who was expected to take over the poll body next year, tendered his resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday, officials close to the former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer told HT. The 1980-batch Haryana cadre IAS officer had almost two years remaining in his tenure as EC . He would have taken over as the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) from Sunil Arora. However, his exit puts EC Sushil Chandra in the fray for the poll watchdog’s top job. Lavasa had had several stints in various government departments, including as secretary in the Union finance ministry. As CEC, Lavasa would have overseen elections in West Bengal, Manipur, Goa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. Lavasa didn’t indicate when he’d for Manila, where he is slated to join the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in September. ADB authorities had announced on July 15 that Lavasa has been appointed as the vice-president for private sector operations and public-private partnerships (PPP). “Mr. Lavasa has a long and distinguished career in the Indian civil service. He is currently one of the Election Commissioners of India and previously served in a range of senior posts including as Union Finance Secretary of India; Union Secretary for the Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change; and Union Secretary for the Ministry of Civil Aviation. He has extensive experience in public-private partnerships and infrastructure development at the state and federal levels, with deep knowledge of public policy and the role of the private sector,” ADB said in a press release issued on Wednesday. Earlier, EC officials close to Lavasa had told HT that would take up the job. “It is a prestigious assignment and he was happy to be considered,” said an official on condition of anonymity. A former poll official said the last time an EC quit was in 1973, when Nagendra Singh, the then CEC resigned to join the International Court of Justice in the Hague, the Netherlands. Singh served with the then President of India before he took over the poll body. Lavasa was one of the key dissenters, when the poll body took a call on whether or not to give a “clean chit” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah for speeches violating the model code conduct ahead of the last year’s Lok Sabha elections. Lavasa had dissented on three points against PM Modi such as for asking for votes in the name of Balakot strike, for saying that former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had found a “minority seat” in Wayanad to contest from and that “new India gave a fitting reply to Pakistan”. He was the sole dissenter in the three-member poll body to object to the speeches. Lavasa’s family, including his wife Noel Lavasa, were subsequently under the scanner of the Income Tax Department for alleged discrepancies. The department also surveyed Nourish Organic Foods, where Lavasa’s son is a director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-lavasa-resigns-as-election-commissioner/story-1yCu9JlpXXQm8hekKr7qJJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Social worker, booked for obstructing shelter for migrant workers, granted anticipatory bail||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to a social worker booked for obstructing revenue officers from creating a temporary shelter for migrant workers at a school in Shirur village, Thane district, on the condition that he will contribute ₹50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.Social worker Farukh Sattar Dalvi had moved the high court after the Kasara police booked him under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code for obstructing the tehsildar from creating a temporary shelter for 80 migrant labourers who had walked from the Vasai Virar area to their hometowns.On April 5, 2020, the tehsildar of Shahapur and some other revenue staff were making preparations to create a temporary shelter at the school in Shirur, when Dalvi, along with several other persons, reached the spot and opposed the move.The tehsildar alleged that Dalvi verbally abused and threatened her with dire consequences if they continued with the work, and so she was forced to lodge a police complaint against him.The social worker had moved the high court after the district court rejected his anticipatory bail plea. He told the high court that he was apprehensive about the possible threat of exposure to the villagers from the migrant workers.“It is no doubt true that the applicant has attempted to deter the complainant from discharging her duty and, particularly when he considers himself to be a social worker, it was rather imperative on his part to assist the government agency in securing shelter for the migrants,” justice Bharati Dangre said.The judge, however, accepted that Dalvi acted on his genuine concern for the villagers and added that, “as a responsible person and a social worker, he must contribute an amount of ₹50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to aid the State government which is grappling with an unpredicted situation and coping with a grim and stressful scenario.”The high court has granted him bail on a personal bond of ₹25,000 on the condition that he will co-operate with the investigation and visit the Kasara police station on September 2, 3 and 4. He is supposed to submit the receipt of deposit made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund when he visits the police station on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-worker-booked-for-obstructing-shelter-for-migrant-workers-granted-anticipatory-bail/story-7PLmAkKXhtJTpJjoaHo6YM.html
18-08-2020||India||PMC Bank fraud: PMLA court asks jail authorities to shift HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan to govt hospital||Mumbai: The special court set up to try cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, on Tuesday, directed jail authorities to shift Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Wadhawan to a government-run hospital to undergo colonoscopy or endoscopy. The court has ordered that he could be admitted to a private healthcare facility, if the treatment is not available in a government-run hospital. Wadhawan, who has been suffering from multiple ailments, through his lawyers, had pleaded to transfer him to a private hospital for treatment. The plea was made after the court had refused to grant him bail. His lawyer Subir Sarkar said that the court initially, has directed the prison authorities to transfer him to a government hospital. But, he could be shifted to a private hospital, if the government-run hospital doctors recommend it. “The jail authority is directed to take accused Rakesh Wadhawan to either KEM hospital or Nair Hospital or any other government hospital for colonoscopy or endoscopy, if the procedure has not been carried out yet. If it is noticed during the treatment by the government-run hospital doctors that Wadhawan would need to be treated at a private hospital, then he could be shifted there. However, the hospital’s administrative and jail authorities’ advice will be required before he can be shifted to a private hospital,” said PP Rajvaidy, judge, special PMLA court. Wadhawan and his son Sarang have been booked by the Mumbai Police’s economic offence wing (EOW) after they had defaulted on the repayment of a loan taken from the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank (PMC). The bank had run into acute financial troubles, as HDIL had 73% of the financial institution’s total loan exposure of Rs 8,300, which works out to around Rs 6,226 crore. They had allegedly conspired with bank officials to secure the loan without security. Soon after the EOW case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) also had initiated a separate probe into money laundering allegations against the Wadhawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-fraud-pmla-court-asks-jail-authorities-to-shift-hdil-promoter-rakesh-wadhawan-to-govt-hospital/story-tOo9VczxSnoKBLImwlenGN.html
18-08-2020||India||HC seeks Maha response to PIL against begging||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to go through and respond to the issues raised in a public interest litigation against the alleged inaction of the state and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to curb begging by women and children. The court observed that rescuing women and children, keeping them in confinement for a period of time and then releasing them would not solve the issue of begging and the state should come up with a policy in compliance with an earlier order of the high court. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Revati Mohite Dere, while hearing the PIL filed by Dhyandeshwar Darwatkar through advocate Shekhar Jagtap, was informed that a survey of the city by a Pune NGO in 2016 had revealed that about 10,000 children were begging on the streets. Jagtap submitted that his client, an activist, had been working on eradication of begging among children and women for the past six years but there had been lack of action on the part of the state and the PMC, so begging has continued unabated.Jagtap also referred to the Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, and pointed out that the state was obliged to provide rehabilitation and reformation of persons found begging. He added that in 2016 a bench of justice A S Oka had also directed the state to frame a policy in this regard and hence, the state should be directed to do so immediately. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as the issues raised in the petition were of extreme importance, it wanted advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to appear for the state in the matter and also peruse the petition and respond to it on the next hearing on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-maha-response-to-pil-against-begging/story-7JyRhtdiZ2y7xkvMDbXfeM.html
18-08-2020||India||Gujarat govt approves construction of high-rises of over 70 floors||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has approved construction of buildings of 70 floors or more in five major cities of the state, the government said on Tuesday.As per the present rules, the maximum permissible limit for tall structures in the state was 23 floors. Now, the state government has decided to amend the Common GDCR (general development control regulations) to allow construction of high-rise structures of 70 or more floors in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot and Gandhinagar, an official release said.New rules regarding tall buildings approved by the government will be applicable to structures which are over 100 metres in height.A special technical committee will be set up to give approval to such projects, the release said.The plot size to construct a skyscraper having a height between 100 to 150 metres must be 2,500 sqm, and 3,500 sqm if the proposed height is above 150 metres.Apart from preparation of a disaster management plan, a wind tunnel test of the model structure has been made compulsory under the new rules, the release said.Rupani exuded confidence that the new rules will ensure optimum utilisation of land and eventually help in lowering the prices of houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-approves-construction-of-high-rises-of-over-70-floors/story-rx0UExE2rqYoH9GF6k4jqM.html
18-08-2020||India||‘Take the right precautions’: PM Modi cautions citizens amid dengue season||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged citizens to be cautious about tropical and vector-borne diseases and asked them to take steps to be safe amid the country’s battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“This is the season of tropical and vector-borne diseases. I urge you all to take the right precautions. The Government is also closely monitoring the situation and ensuring care to those affected. Stay safe, be happy!” PM Modi tweeted. PM Modi’s tweet comes at a time when India is likely to face challenges during the dengue season, prompting state governments to prepare protocols and find ways to ease the burden on country’s healthcare infrastructure. Tropical and vector-borne diseases are caused by blood-sucking anthropoid like mosquitoes. The most commonly reported infectious tropical and vector-borne diseases in India include dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Aedes aegypti, the mosquito that spreads dengue, is most prevalent in cities, and experts have warned in the past that increased urbanisation and warming temperatures due to climate change means that its range will keep increasing.According to World Health Organization (WHO), 2019 was the worst year on record for dengue cases, with every region affected, and some countries were hit for the first time. According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), 1,36,422 dengue cases were diagnosed in India in 2019 and an estimated 132 people died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-the-right-precautions-pm-modi-cautions-citizens-amid-dengue-season/story-PlLtJw4UbdF8DoEBHPEtAO.html
18-08-2020||India||Gorakhpur college to hold students’ union poll online on August 28||Lucknow: A college in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur’s will hold students’ union elections online on August 28 even as the Covid-19 pandemic has halted such activities across the country. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Gorakhnath Temple Trust runs the Maharana Pratap Post-Graduate College.Dr Pradeep Rao, the college principal, said they have been holding elections annually since the institute was established in 2005 to instil values of democracy among the students. “Along with imparting quality education, the college administration is working to instil the values of democracy among the students. The office-bearers of the students’ union not only manage students’ activities but coordinate with the college administration in organising sports activities, running the library, organising cultural activities, purchasing various items, and maintaining discipline on the campus,” he said.The college is the first in Uttar Pradesh to schedule campus polls online and has constituted a technical committee of teachers to work out the modalities for them.Rao said the pandemic has forced the closure of the college but they were organising classes online. He added teachers, as well as students, did not want to discontinue the students’ union activities. “We will follow the Covid-19 protocol during the election,” he added.As per the protocol, there will be no campaigning on the campus. To maintain social distancing, the candidates have been told to contact the voters through mobile phones or WhatsApp.Rao said the college wishes to send a message to all educational institutions that while imparting quality education, they can inculcate values of democracy by holding students’ union elections.Maharana Pratap Post-Graduate College Students Union president Vijay Kumar said the elections ensure participation of students in the college activities. “The students’ union executive committee approves students’ welfare schemes, cultural activities, and sports activities on the campus. The students union election is held according to the academic calendar of the college between August 15 to 28 each year. The college has set an example for other educational institutions in the state...”Rao said all the 2,558 students of the college are registered online and attending classes.RK Rai, a retired college teacher in the Gorakhpur, said universities and colleges should promote student union activities. “A majority of political leaders in Uttar Pradesh are products of student politics. The online student’s union election by a college is an innovative and novel method of promoting students’ activities during the pandemic.” The pandemic has disrupted the electoral processes in the country. The Election Commission has only held elections to some Rajya Sabha seats, and the assembly councils of states, where voting is open to specialised electoral colleges rather than the general public, amid the pandemic. It deferred by-polls on July 24 to eight states till September 7 though the mandatory six-month period to conduct these elections has lapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-college-to-hold-students-union-poll-online-on-august-28/story-jrxplA8YghangTM8XBNTNL.html
18-08-2020||India||Facebook ‘interfering’ with India’s electoral democracy: Congress writes to Mark Zuckerberg||The Congress on Tuesday wrote to Mark Zuckerberg saying Facebook may be “a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values” its founding leaders sacrificed their lives for while calling for an inquiry into a report that last week claimed that the social media company was biased towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in censoring hate speech.K C Venugopal, the Congress general secretary (organisation), kept up the party’s attack in a letter to Zuckerberg over the issue. He referred to the report and said the social company provided the BJP with “favourable treatment on election-related issues”. He called it a “damning and serious allegation” that Facebook was interfering in India’s electoral democracy.The Wall Street Journal report on Friday suggested Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by BJP members and triggered a controversy. The Congress on Saturday said it had flagged similar concerns to a senior executive of the social media company named in the report.The report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects.The Congress on Tuesday asked Zuckerberg to set up a high-level inquiry into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations. It has asked the company to make public all instances of hate speech posts since 2014 allowed on the platform. The Congress has suggested the appointment of a new team to lead the India operations till the inquiry is completed. “As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established electoral democracy through adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for,” said Venugopal.HT reached out to Facebook for a comment but did not get a response immediately. The report will be updated to reflect Facebook’s response once it is received.The BJP hit out at the Congress for its demand for a Facebook inquiry. “[The] Congress party, faced with electoral irrelevance, and rejection at the hustings, wants to pin blame on everyone else except its uninspiring and unworthy leadership,” said Amit Malviya, the BJP’s national Information and technology in-charge. “Facebook is just another addition to their ‘save the Gandhis’ campaign. The Left-Congress ecosystem wants unfettered control over freedom of speech and hence, in a last roll of dice, are now trying to muzzle platforms, which have empowered ordinary citizens and made their opinions valuable. A vibrant, participative democracy is inimical to their political agenda.”The Congress on Monday attacked Facebook, saying its “inaction against hate content destabilises” democracy in India, and reiterated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the charges.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi rejected Congress’s demand for the JPC probe into the matter, saying it was out of the questionCongress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, Sunday said the panel would like to hear an explanation from the social media company about the report. The panel has been split over asking Facebook executives to explain the report.BJP lawmaker Nishikant Dubey, who is a member of the panel, on Monday said Tharoor cannot call Facebook to seek an explanation because the House rules do not allow it. He cited Rule 269 and added the secretary-general has the power to summon a witness.India is one of Facebook’s fastest-growing markets and the company was estimated to have close to 350 million users by June. Instagram and WhatsApp, both owned by the California-based company, have hundreds of millions more users from India.Social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter have been under increasing pressure because there are concerns that they are not doing enough to crackdown on fake news and hate speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-interfering-with-india-s-electoral-democracy-congress-writes-to-mark-zuckerberg/story-3XAeoQ04jYRbWIWT5MqrSP.html
18-08-2020||India||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan says govt jobs only for those who belong to MP from now on||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Tuesday that only those who belong to MP would be eligible for state government jobs from now on. “We have taken an important decision that the state government jobs will be only given to youths, who belong to MP. We are putting in place necessary legal provisions to this effect. MP’s resources are only for the state’s children,” the CM said. The CM’s decision was conveyed to media persons through a video clip by his secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-govt-jobs-only-for-those-who-belong-to-mp-from-now-on/story-JgMgiA9ojsjEqpv43FXUSP.html
18-08-2020||India||‘Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake, hate news needs to be questioned’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday launched another attack over a report by a foreign publication alleging that Facebook overlooks hate speech by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in order to protect their business prospects in India.“We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by @WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians,” Gandhi tweeted.He also posted the letter his party has written to Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, calling for a time-bound high-level probe into the allegations his company’s India team overlooked hate comments by BJP leaders.KC Venugopal, Congress’ general secretary (organisation), wrote the letter to Zuckerberg referring to the Wall Street Journal report, which alleged that Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das ‘provided the Bharatiya Janata Party with favourable treatment on election-related issues’. The Congress accused Facebook India of “interfering” with the country’s electoral democracy and also demanded a probe into the conduct of Facebook India leadership team, and their operations.The opposition is up in arms over allegations that Facebook, the social media company, has been lenient while censoring content that amounts to hate-speech by members of the BJP.Gandhi, who has been targeting the Centre every day over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the state of the country’s economy and the standoff with China in Ladakh, on Sunday alleged that the BJP and its ideological parent the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh control Facebook and WhatsApp in India. “They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Gandhi tweeted.On its part, the ruling party launched a counter attack on Gandhi and the Congress, saying it had no locus standi to question the BJP given previous allegations of opposition party having used online platforms to influence elections in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-s-involvement-in-peddling-fake-hate-news-needs-to-be-questioned-rahul-gandhi/story-HVzc31OoRufaGof6dlS5eP.html
18-08-2020||India||Kanpur police launches plasma donation drive||Kanpur police have launched a plasma donors’ group to supplement donations at the newly set up plasma bank at Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College (GSVM medical college) here. The initiative was launched in the wake of poor response to the plasma bank which received a mere five units of plasma between July 15 and August 10. “So far, 73 policemen (including 26 PAC jawans) have been infected and 42 who recovered are eligible for donation and will do so, soon,” said Dr Anil Kumar, SP, Kanpur West. “Our efforts to motivate the public seem to be working as people are now volunteering to donate plasma. Hopefully, their number will increase,” said Dr Lubna Khan, head of blood bank at GSVM medical college. “The plasma therapy is effective in moderate cases and prevents patients from going into a critical state,” she said, appealing to the public to donate plasma.As of now, only one policeman, inspector Satish Chandra Sahu, has donated plasma which helped two patients recover from the infection. Since March 23, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in a Nawabgunj residential colony, the city has added 10,107 infections and close to 6,000 people have recovered. Half of those who recovered can donate plasma as per the protocol while the rest can do so once their quarantine period is over. DIG, PAC, R L Verma said 26 jawans currently under treatment at L1 Covid-19 hospital would also be among the donors. Deputy SP Ajay Kumar, who was transferred to Faizabad last week, said,”Before leaving on new assignment, I will donate plasma at the blood bank. Everyone who has recovered should do this.” In May, Kumar had tested Covid positive and had to be put on ventilator before he beat the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-police-launches-plasma-donation-drive/story-daMqFmaMUmFEFlqUxFqLWL.html
18-08-2020||India||Indian foreign secretary visits Bangladesh||Indian foreign secretary Harsh Shringla flew to Dhaka on Tuesday for a previously unannounced visit, during which he is expected to convey a special message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, people familiar with the developments said. This is Shringla’s first trip abroad since the Covid-19 outbreak. It is also a senior Indian official’s the first visit to Bangladesh since travel restrictions were imposed due to the pandemic. Shringla, who earlier served as the Indian envoy in Dhaka, is carrying a message from Modi for Hasina, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. He is also expected to meet foreign minister AK Abdul Momen and foreign secretary Masud bin Momen. A brief statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs after Shringla arrived in Dhaka said the foreign secretary was on a visit to Bangladesh from August 18-19 to “discuss and take forward cooperation on matters of mutual interest”. Hasina visited India last October, while Modi’s planned visit to Bangladesh in March to participate in events marking the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was called off due to the pandemic. The two leaders have spoken on the phone several times this year, most recently in May. Ties between the two countries have been under some strain since last year, when Bangladeshi leaders were irked by comments from BJP leaders about deporting illegal migrants from Assam. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the implementation of the National Register of Citizens also affected ties, and Hasina had questioned the need for CAA during an interview earlier this year. India has taken several steps in recent weeks to improve connectivity with Bangladesh, including handing over 10 railway locomotives last month. This was done days after the first container train made its way from India to Bangladesh and the first shipment of goods was sent from Kolkata to Tripura via Chattogram port. After taking over as foreign secretary in January, Shringla visited Dhaka in March. Shringla had met Prime Minister Hasina during his last visit to Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-foreign-secretary-visits-bangladesh/story-fhNrqeMd5ytGYHIFb2AuuI.html
18-08-2020||India||‘Rahul Gandhi never spared any opportunity to weaken country’s resolve in Covid-19 fight’: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Shankar Prasad joined party chief JP Nadda in attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after the Supreme Court verdict on PM CARES fund.The apex court on Tuesday rejected a plea seeking transfer of all contributions made to PM CARES Fund till date to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under said act.“Transparency is writ large in PM CARES Fund both in terms of legal requirement and transparent management of funds received on a voluntary basis. Our government has not faced even a single accusation of corruption,” said Prasad.He further said that Rahul Gandhi, from day 1, has used coronavirus to create disunity in the nation. “Rahul Gandhi never spared any opportunity to weaken the national resolve in the fight against Covid-19,” the minister added.Prasad once again talked about the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, which he said was being run like a family trust and funds meant for the country were diverted there.He said that many petitions were filed in various courts “by Rahul Gandhi and Congress party” against the PM CARES Fund but all such negative efforts have today been nullified.“Rahul Gandhi was against lockdown, even made fun of PM’s initiatives like lighting of diyas and banging of utensils or clapping for doctors and nurses. Today, all the countries are adopting similar measures,” said Prasad.Shortly after the verdict was announced, BJP chief JP Nadda had said that “is a resounding blow to the nefarious designs of Rahul Gandhi”.“The verdict by Supreme Court on PM CARES is a resounding blow to the nefarious designs of Rahul Gandhi & his band of ‘rent a cause’ activists. It shows that the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates,” Nadda said on Twitter.“Rahul Gandhi’s rants have been repeatedly dismissed by the common man who has overwhelmingly contributed to PM CARES. With the highest court also pronouncing its verdict, will Rahul & his ‘rent a cause’ activist army mend their ways or embarrass themselves further?” he said in his second tweet.A three-judge bench of the apex court on Tuesday rejected a petition by an NGO seeking transfer of contributions in PM CARES Fund to National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The court held that individual and organisations are free to contribute to NDRF and there is no prohibition on the same. However, PM CARES is a separate fund established as a public charitable trust and no direction can be issued to transfer funds from that to NDRF, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-never-spared-any-opportunity-to-weaken-country-s-resolve-in-covid-19-fight-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-RcobrRfxDrIFMnn5loen6I.html
18-08-2020||India||Nigrani samitis: UP govt’s latest tool to increase the vigil against Covid-19||To step up the watch on Covid-19 patients in home quarantine and ensure that mass gatherings such as marriages and parties are not taking place in such areas in the state capital, the government has comprised ‘nigrani samitis’ (monitoring teams).“The city has 110 wards. We have constituted 140 mohalla nigrani samitis to keep a strict watch in their respective ward or locality. Each samiti will comprise 10 persons, including a corporater, a sanitation worker, an Asha activist and residents,” said Mukesh Meshram, the divisional commissioner of Lucknow. “Nigrani samitis will act as a bridge between the district administration/health department and patients/localities. In the present circumstances, the samitis will have a crucial role to play,” said Manish Bansal, the chief development officer (CDO) of Lucknow. The CDO further said nigrani samitis were already active in rural parts of Lucknow. “In rural pockets, the samitis are known as gram nigrani samitis. These samitis also keep tabs on Covid-19 cases in villages and maintain records of migrant labourers and patients in home quarantine,” said Bansal. There are over 100 such samitis functioning in the rural pockets of the state capital, he added. “However, the task is not as easy as it sounds,” claims a corporater from Rajiv Gandhi ward of Gomti Nagar—one of the most affected areas of Lucknow. So far, the state capital has reported more than 17,000 Covid-19 cases. Arun Tiwari, an active member of the nigrani samiti of the Rajiv Gandhi ward, Gomti Nagar, said, “Our ward has over 30 active Covid-19 cases at present. It’s difficult to monitor people as most do not admit to feeling ill. We often have to use our own sources to gather reliable information to keep the administration and health officials informed.” Meanwhile, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) officials said the first task of the monitoring teams is to develop sources in the neighbourhood of Covid-19 patients to check that they stay indoors and do not venture out, which is also an offence. “The teams will also coordinate with surveillance teams and assist them in contact mapping, marking houses, coordinating with sanitisation staff to sanitise patients’ houses besides ensuring barricading at the patients’ houses,” said Adil Ahmed Khan, LMC corporater from Tilak Nagar in Kundri Rakabganj. Civic officials said the monitoring teams will also ensure a regular supply of medicine to patients besides admitting them to Covid care centres in case of emergency. The teams’ duties also include keeping a check on mass gatherings and ensuring that the Covid-19 protocol is followed in localities. The directive to set up nigrani samitis came in July—the UP government asked the magistrates of districts to form Covid-19 vigilance teams in urban and rural pockets of their districts. Around one lakh surveillance teams were to be set up in the state by roping in government, private and anganwadi workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nigrani-samitis-up-govt-s-latest-tool-to-increase-the-vigil-against-covid-19/story-XxtCMwWJsJpaEgCr6jrF4K.html
18-08-2020||India||ED records Sushant Singh father’s statement||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has recorded the statement of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K K Singh in its money laundering probe related to the former’s death, officials familiar with the development said. They said the statement was recorded on Monday in connection with Singh’s claims regarding cash transfers from his son’s accounts and his finances. Singh, a complainant in the case, had filed a case with the Bihar police last month on the basis of which ED filed a money laundering case on July 31. Singh has levelled serious allegations against actor Rhea Chakraborty of embezzling his son’s money while staying with him. He has alleged that an unusual transaction of Rs 15 crore had taken place from his son’s account which needed to be investigated.The ED, officials cited above said, has already questioned Chakraborty in the case. The Bihar Police had lodged a case under various IPC sections: 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide). The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has also registered a case against Chakraborty, three of her family members,and others in connection with the actor’s death. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-records-sushant-singh-father-s-statement/story-fBfsmuBa5HyGHkv4RDH2EO.html
18-08-2020||India||BJP used social media to spread religious hatred: Shiv Sena||The ruling Shiv Sena, which is part of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, on Tuesday, launched into ally-turned-rival the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and alleged that the party benefitted the most electorally using social media and gained politically by spreading religious hatred since it assumed power at the Centre in 2014. An editorial in Saamana, the party mouthpiece, referred to a news report published in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14 that took a dig at Facebook’s India operations for turning a blind eye to hate speech by a BJP elected representative and three other “Hindu nationalist individuals and groups” in a bid not to hurt the social media company’s lucrative business prospects in its biggest market. The editorial in the Marathi daily said that social media platforms can be used to voice opinions but “if it is used to spread hatred to divide the country, then action should be taken against those without thinking about which party they belong to. Facebook cannot turn a blind eye to the person spreading hatred because he is from the ruling party.” It exhorted foreign companies to abide by Indian laws. The BJP leader cited in the WSJ report is T Raja Singh, the lone party member of the Telangana legislative assembly (MLA), who is known for his provocative social media posts against Muslims and dabbling in divisive and rabble-rousing politics. “It is alright to have a difference of opinion on platforms such as Facebook… However, the social media company (Facebook) is not a platform to create a divide between Hindus and Muslims,” it said. “Instead of connecting society, social media is used to spread hatred. Today, countless new age Goebbels have their own law, judicial process, prison. Social media is on the payrolls of political parties. In 2014, the social media army had made a big contribution because of which the BJP had won the election under the leadership of (Narendra) Modi,” it said. “In the last seven years, truth is being twisted and falsehood is being openly propagated. Rumours and hatred against religion are being spread for political gains,” it added. The editorial pointed out that social media was full of jokes and memes about former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh until not too long ago, but now the same platform has turned on the heat on PM Modi and ex-Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, which is “tragic”. Keshav Upadhye, BJP’s chief spokesperson, Maharashtra, dismissed the allegation that the party has gained electorally because of its divisive politics. He described Sena’s charges as “laughable”. “Such claims made by the Congress or the Shiv Sena are baseless. It is far from reality. Before last year’s parliamentary elections, over 700 (Facebook) pages, which had right-wing propaganda, were banned. Today, too, materials written against Modiji are available on Facebook. The BJP has not benefitted electorally in any way,” Upadhye rebutted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had also taken a swipe at the BJP over the WSJ report. “BJP and RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” Gandhi had tweeted on Sunday, two days after WSJ had published the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-used-social-media-to-spread-religious-hatred-shiv-sena/story-FOcyfxblvgm4SeELLEkStL.html
18-08-2020||India||Grand Ram Lila in Ayodhya being planned, with touch of Bollywood||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh is set on keeping the focus on Ayodhya. Now that temple construction is underway, the state government has planned Ram Lila on a grand scale. To be performed during Shardiya Navratri in October, the special Ram Lila which will have a Bollywood director at the helm. That’s not all; Bollywood actors will essay the roles of Ram, Sita, Hanuman and others,said people familiar with the development. “Ram Lila is proposed in Ayodhya this Navratri (October 17-25), if the situation returns to normal.Actors from Bollywood would be roped in for the project,” said Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay. Some of the actors have been finalised. Vindu Dara Singh, son of the late wrestler-actor Dara Singh, will follow in his father’s footsteps and essay the role of Hanuman. Dara Singh had played Hanuman in Ramanand Sagar’s TV series ‘Ramayana’ decades ago. Actor-turned-BJP MP from north-east Delhi Manoj Tiwari will play Angad, son of king Bali of Kishkindha while famous Bhojpuri actor and Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan will play Ram’s younger brother Bharat. “The actors for lead roles of Ram and Sita have also been finalised but aren’t being disclosed to keep the public curious,” said a state government official. The organisers hope Covid-19 pandemic would have subsided in time for Ram Lila. Otherwise, the week–long show will be streamed live on social networking platforms of Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. It will also be telecast live on national broadcaster Doordarshan and other entertainment channels. Ever since the BJP formed government in the state in March 2017, it has been organising grand Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on the eve of Diwali festival. This year’s celebrations, however, may be subdued in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-ram-lila-in-ayodhya-with-touch-of-bollywood/story-FMvSKxXQtsZuOQKaeXTj4J.html
18-08-2020||India||UP’s minister of state for health Atul Garg tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh’s minister of state for health Atul Garg said on Tuesday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease and asked those who met him to get tested for Covid-19.“I had my RTPCR test on August 15, which came negative, but I tested positive in the repeat test at 9 o’clock last night,” Garg tweeted in Hindi.“Whoever met me between August 16 and 18, should ideally get the test done. For any kind of help, you can talk to me or my colleague Rajendraji, Ajay Rajput too!” he added.Two ministers from the state, Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, recently succumbed to the viral disease and more than a dozen have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-minister-of-state-for-health-atul-garg-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-H7wNfIpdBcjWu0bDt3ff3M.html
18-08-2020||India||Ahead of session, UP legislators, council staff to undergo Covid test||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh legislative council will begin testing its staff for Covid-19 from today. The decision was taken after 20 staff members of the UP Assembly tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, days ahead of the monsoon session set to begin August 20. The development also comes in the wake of two state ministers -- Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan -- succumbing to the infection within a span of two weeks. “We will begin testing our staff for Covid-19 on Tuesday. We will also test the members of legislative council (MLCs) on August 19-20,” said chairman, Vidhan Parishad, Ramesh Yadav. Yadav held a meeting with leaders of political parties to discuss measures to enforce social distancing in the house during the monsoon session. In order to ensure that no two members are seated right next to each other, arrangements have been made for the legislators to sit in the ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ lobbies as well. Each lobby can accommodate 30 legislators. A visitors’ gallery has also been reserved for the MLAs to sit in. Uttar Pradesh has a bicameral house. While the state assembly has a sanctioned strength of 403 members, the upper house has 100 seats. Seven seats have fallen vacant in the lower house while the upper house of state legislature has 13 vacancies. The state assembly began testing its staff for Covid-19 on Monday. In all, 600 persons, including staff of state assembly and some other departments to be deployed for work during the monsoon session, were tested. Out of those, 20 were found positive for Covid-19, confirmed assembly speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit. He said Covid-19 testing centres would be established near the MLAs’ residences as they all have to be tested in a day. All the MLAs are being informed about the testing facility at the Vidhayak Nivas (MLAs’ apartment building) and at the Vidhan Bhawan. Use of mask has been made mandatory in both the houses. The three-day session will begin on August 20 and conclude on August 24 with Saturday and Sunday (August 22-23) as off days. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has demanded that adequate measures be taken to protect public representatives attending the monsoon session. “Given the spread of Covid-19 in the state, adequate measures should be taken to protect the public representatives from the disease,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-session-up-legislators-council-staff-to-undergo-covid-test/story-rRUW5xOZxKaPKrR3pFRz5K.html
18-08-2020||India||Congress writes to Mark Zuckerberg, calls for company probe into Facebook India’s hate-speech bias||The Congress party on Tuesday asked Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to probe allegations that the social media company’s India team meted out favourable treatment towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).KC Venugopal, Congress’ general secretary (organisation), has written to Zuckerberg referring to the Wall Street Journal report, which alleged that Facebook’s India policy head Ankhi Das ‘provided the Bharatiya Janata Party with favourable treatment on election-related issues’. He also asked Zuckerberg to set up a high-level inquiry into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations.“This is a damning and serious allegation of Facebook India’s interference in India’s electoral democracy,” Venugopal has said in the letter.“As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established electoral democracy through adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for,” he added.The Congress party has asked the company to make public all instances of hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform. The party has also suggested a new team to lead the India operations must be appointed till the high-level inquiry is completed.A war of words erupted between the Congress and the BJP following the Wall Street Journal report. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had accused the BJP and RSS of spreading “fake news” using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate, triggering a sharp counter-attack from Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. Prasad, on his part, reminded the opposition party of its involvement in the Cambridge Analytica issue.Congress and the CPI (M) have demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the allegations. Union parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi has dismissed the call for a JPC probe.Facebook is yet to comment over Congress’ demand.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-kc-venugopal-demands-high-level-inquiry-by-facebook-headquarters-into-india-leadership-team-in-a-letter-to-mark-zuckerberg/story-HDSjAISIwJhzkGhY9cbCBI.html
18-08-2020||India||Conducting physical exams amid pandemic a challenge: DU||A day after the Delhi High Court directed the Delhi University (DU) to conduct physical exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students from September 14, the university administration, teachers and students have raised concerns over its feasibility amid the Coronavirus disease (Covid-9) pandemic. The university had proposed holding physical examinations for students, who could not take the Open Book Exams (OBE) online and those who want to better their performance despite taking them, from September 20. But a bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the timeline was “quite unreasonable” and asked DU to advance the date. This comes days after the Union home ministry, in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, said that colleges could reopen to conduct final-year examinations. While ensuring precautionary measures such as social distancing while conducting the physical examination is a key concern for authorities, teachers say they will not have much time to complete the evaluation and declare the results for the ongoing online exams. The examination began on August 10 and will continue till August 31. A lot of students had left for their hometowns before the nationwide lockdown was announced. Travelling back to Delhi to take the examination, they say, will not only put their lives at risk but also add to the financial burden. DU’s Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said conducting exams while ensuring safety precautions during the pandemic would be a challenge. “State universities can conduct offline exams without challenges because their students live locally, unlike central universities, where students from all across the country study. Candidates from far-flung areas will face difficulties in coming to Delhi. Hostel accommodation will be risky due to Covid-19 restrictions. Students, especially those from economically weaker sections, might face difficulties in making these arrangements. Besides, students might be asked to quarantine; that will be another challenge,” he said. Principals across colleges said they will have to make elaborate arrangements to conduct physical exams. The acting principal of Miranda House Bijayalaxmi Nanda said, “We have to prepare because multiple things have to be done. There must be uniform protocols regarding health and safety because they are of paramount importance. If thousands of students come to the campus for offline exams, arrangements for social distancing and sanitisation and other things have to be made. If outstation students return, hostel arrangements have to be made. Limited resources have to be utilised, which will be challenging. Classes and evaluation are going on simultaneously.”Several principals said that conducting physical exams in October would have been better since DU’s admission process begins in September. Manoj Sinha, the secretary of Delhi University Principal’s Association and the principal of Aryabhatta College, said, “The date doesn’t seem feasible since there isn’t enough time to prepare for offline exams, given the Covid-19 scenario. The entire teaching staff will be busy evaluating OBE papers. We cannot compromise this because it would affect overall results. Starting physical exams will not be conducive to the functioning of the institutions at present, but we will do what the varsity administration decides.” DU is presently conducting online exams in open-book format for 260,000 final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, as a one-time measure given the Covid-19 pandemic. Several faculty members raised concerns over the comparison of students who are now appearing for the OBE to those who will appear for the offline exams in September. Rajesh Jha, a member of DU’s executive council (EC), said, “The problem is how to put the two sets of students in the same bracket. It is not scientific and against the basics of standardised examinations. The uniformity of yardstick is a basic tenet of examinations.” Most faculty members said completing the evaluation process of the ongoing OBE would not be possible before September 14. Pankaj Garg, an associate professor at Rajdhani College, said, “It’s not possible to declare results before September 14. All the major exams will be held by August 19 and miscellaneous exams will continue till August 31. How will students decide to appear in the second phase of examination before their results are announced?” Students also raised concerns about their safety during the prevailing situation. Amal Simon, a final-year BSc Hons (Physics) student at Ramjas College, said he and most of his friends are trying to write online exams to avoid travelling for offline exams. Simon, a resident of Kerala’s Palakkad, said, “We are visiting cyber cafes or friends’ places to write exams; we just want to get this over with. We can’t risk our lives by travelling to Delhi at a time when cases are increasing day by day.” Ram Govind, a final-year student of Rajdhani College, who lives in a village near Allahabad, said, “Even if train services resume and we manage to reach Delhi, where we will live? We had to let go of our rented accommodation when we returned to our hometown to save rent. Besides, our families won’t allow many of us to travel back due to the Covid-19 situation.” Many visually impaired students said that it would not be possible for them to travel to Delhi for exams amid the pandemic. Ramjatan Yadav, a visually impaired student from Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur, said, “Both decisions of conducting online and physical exams amid the pandemic are not inclusive and students like us were not kept in mind while making these decisions. How will we even travel and manage to stay without families in times like these?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conducting-physical-exams-amid-pandemic-a-challenge-du/story-9orwworvk09imv5YJ4MeoK.html
18-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: SC rejects plea seeking transfer of contributions from PM Cares to disaster fund and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court refuses to direct transfer of contributions made to PM CARES to disaster fundThe Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a petition by an NGO seeking transfer of contributions in PM CARES Fund to National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The NDRF is a statutory fund created under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Read moreFormer RSS ideologue Govindacharya wants parliamentary probe in workings of social media platformsPolitical parties should bury their differences and shed double speak on the issue of data sovereignty and right to privacy; to come up with solutions to the problems of social media platforms being largely unregulated and unchecked said KN Govindacharya, a former Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary and an RSS ideologue on Monday. Read moreCan you identify these two Indian legends for #TuesdayBrainTeaser? It’s easyWhen it comes to a good puzzle, trust people on Twitter to not back off from it. Tweeple are usually raring to go with their thinking caps on whenever a nice head-scratcher comes their way. And thanks to IPS officer Dipanshu Kabra they have a new one this week. Read more‘We were all awestruck’: When MS Dhoni drove team bus from ground to hotel in Nagpur during 2008 Test seriesFormer India captain MS Dhoni was known to be cool as a cucumber on the cricket field. In some of the most tense situations during a game, where some of the best captains would tend to crumble, Dhoni showed extreme patience and calm to make some tough decisions and lead his team to wins.  Read moreDucati Panigale V2 to launch in India on August 26After a lot of speculation surrounding the arrival of Panigale V2 in India, Ducati on Tuesday announced the launch details of the new sports bike which will go on sale on August 26. Needless to say, the Italian premium bike maker is going to conduct a digital launch on its social media platforms for obvious reasons. Read moreHere’s the secret behind South Korean actor Ha Ji-won youthful skin at 42As we progress towards a world of 8k resolution videos and television, there is constant pressure on celebrities to look flawless and that gets progressively more difficult with age. This, however, is no problem for the South Korean actor, Ha Ji-won. The 42-year-old actor incredibly manages to look like she is still in her 20s. Read morePlan for Covid test at airport for international flyers, govt starts talks on vaccine dealHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, recovery rate, authority’s plan for Covid test at airport for international flyers, pandemic’s impact on tourism, vaccine deal. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-sc-rejects-plea-seeking-transfer-of-contributions-from-pm-cares-to-disaster-fund-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LwHR9kr1oUA55t0bmgD3hP.html
18-08-2020||India||BJP chief Nadda hails Supreme Court verdict on PM CARES, targets Rahul Gandhi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda hailed the Supreme Court verdict on the petition against PM CARES Fund and used it to attack Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.“The verdict by Supreme Court on PM CARES is a resounding blow to the nefarious designs of Rahul Gandhi & his band of ‘rent a cause’ activists. It shows that the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates,” Nadda said on Twitter. The verdict by Supreme Court on PM CARES is a resounding blow to the nefarious designs of Rahul Gandhi & his band of ‘rent a cause’ activists. It shows that the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates.A three-judge bench of the apex court on Tuesday rejected a petition by an NGO seeking transfer of contributions in PM CARES Fund to National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The court held that individual and organisations are free to contribute to NDRF and there is no prohibition on the same.Also Read: PM Cares a public fund, not intended to circumvent NDRF, govt tells Supreme Court“Rahul Gandhi’s rants have been repeatedly dismissed by the common man who has overwhelmingly contributed to PM CARES. With the highest court also pronouncing its verdict, will Rahul & his ‘rent a cause’ activist army mend their ways or embarrass themselves further?” Nadda tweeted.“The Gandhi family treated PMNRF as it’s personal fiefdom for decades & brazenly transferred citizens’ hard-earned money from PMNRF to its family trusts.The country very well know that the orchestrated smear campaign against PM CARES is an attempt by the Congress to wash its sins,” he further said. The Gandhi family treated PMNRF as it’s personal fiefdom for decades & brazenly transferred citizens’ hard-earned money from PMNRF to its family trusts.The country very well know that the orchestrated smear campaign against PM CARES is an attempt by the Congress to wash its sins.The NDRF is a statutory fund created under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), had claimed that PM CARES Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the Disaster Management Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.The court held that individual and organisations are free to contribute to NDRF and there is no prohibition on the same. However, PM CARES is a separate fund established as a public charitable trust and no direction can be issued to transfer funds from that to NDRF, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan ruled.While disposing of the petition, the court said that there is no need for fresh national disaster relief plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-hails-supreme-court-verdict-on-pm-cares-targets-rahul-gandhi/story-TxkqgWc418zWGHy5IKPTNJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Mumbai building collapse leaves 1 dead, 1 injured||Mumbai: A 41-year-old man died and another person was injured after a portion of a vacant building near Rizvi College, in Mumbai’s Bandra (West), collapsed, late on Monday. The three-storey building had collapsed on the compound wall of the neighbouring building and also damaged its ground floor. Search and rescue operation was still going on at the time of filing of this report. Two fire engines were at the spot and the debris was being removed.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell, around 8.30 pm, Bharti Building collapsed on the four-storeyed Hardik Villa residential complex on Sherley Rajan Road.Fire brigade rescued seven people, two of whom were injured and were rushed to the hospital. The injured, Bruce D’Penha and Arjun Ramsagar Pandit (22) (41) sustained a leg and a head injury, respectively. D’Penha, who was visiting an electronic repair shop on the ground floor of Hardik Villa at the time of the mishap, succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday morning. Pandit is recovering at Bhabha Hospital.The collapse damaged the wall and compound area of Hardik Villa. Cars parked there were also damaged. After the incident, residents of Hardik Villa were evacuated.Locals said Bharti Building was over two decades old. It tilted towards Hardik Villa and collapsed within seconds. Sadiq Rizvi, a resident of a nearby building, said, “This structure had been vacant for the past 20 years and the authorities did not take notice. It had become dangerous and should have been demolished long back. This collapse could have caused major damage and casualties.”Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique said, “I have requested a thorough inquiry into the matter. The demolition of this building, provided no one was staying in the building, should have taken place before such an untoward incident happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-injured-in-mumbai-building-collapse/story-rDxi27PCroD99EFPF3gNMM.html
18-08-2020||India||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s vital parameters stable, still on ventilator support||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be on ventilator support after undergoing a brain surgery at Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) hospital on August 10. “There is no change in the medical condition of Former President Pranab Mukherjee. He continues to be on ventilator support and his vital parameters are stable,” a statement from the hospital said on Tuesday.The 84-year-old former President underwent the surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence and he has been in coma since then. He was also tested coronavirus-positive. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-s-vital-parameters-are-stable-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-support/story-DRswqqfWB5IhHhKZ3xOzyM.html
18-08-2020||India||SC rejects plea seeking fund transfer from PM Cares to NDRF||The PM Cares Fund set up by the central government is not in violation of the Disaster Management Act (DM Act) of 2005, the Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday, rejecting a plea seeking transfer of all contributions made to PM Cares Fund till date to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under said act.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan held that the two funds can exist separately and individuals and organisations are free to contribute to NDRF but funds from PM Cares need not be transferred to NDRF.“PM Cares Fund is an entirely different fund established as a public charitable trust. Funds in PM Cares cannot be directed to be deposited to NDRF,” the bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, ruled.Further, the court also turned down a prayer seeking formulation of a national plan for Covid management stating that the existing plan under the DM Act is sufficient to deal with the pandemic.The petitioner NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), had claimed that PM Cares Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.Reacting to the Supreme Court verdict, CPIL lawyer, advocate Prashant Bhushan tweeted, “Unfortunate that the SC allows the non-transparent and unaccountable PM Cares fund set up as a secret trust to garner money in the name of Covid relief, rather than transferring such funds to the Statutory NDRF which is accessible under RTI and audited by CAG.” “Now that the Supreme Court has adjudicated on the matter, we hope that the attack on the PM Cares Fund ends conclusively,” BJP spokesperson and Supreme Court advocate, Nalin Kohli told HT.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the Centre on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM Cares Fund. All the contributions being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM Cares Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act,” the petitioner submitted.On the necessity of national plan for Covid management, the petitioner had placed reliance on section 11 of DM Act.“Section 11 of the DM Act makes it mandatory for a national plan to be drawn up for disaster management for whole of the country but currently, there is no such national plan in place to deal with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic even though the same has been notified as a ‘disaster’ and numerous notifications are being issued to contain the same under the DM Act”, the petitioner had pointed out.In its affidavit before the top court in July 8, the Centre had rebutted this argument by stating that PM Cares is a fund established to carry out relief work and several such funds have been established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations,” the affidavit said.During the hearing before the apex court, the Centre, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had defended the PM Cares fund saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF as alleged by the petitioners.“Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations,” Mehta argued.The petitioner through their counsel, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, had pointed out that PM Cares Fund was not being audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) but by private auditors.“This government believes in transparency. Why should private auditors audit it (PM Cares)? NDRF, under DM Act, is audited by CAG,” Dave said.The bench had reserved its judgment in the case on July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-transfer-of-funds-from-pm-cares-to-ndrf/story-zZwPlSFbEwHxsr2xmzB1LN.html
18-08-2020||India||India tests record 8.97 lakh swab samples in a day||India continues to aggressively ramp up its daily testing count for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 8.97 lakh swab samples were tested on Monday. The country is close to achieving the daily testing target of around a million swab samples. India has conducted 309,38,400 Covid-19 tests to date since the first swab sample was diagnosed on January 23. There has been a threefold rise in conducting Covid-19 tests, as compared to a month ago, when 10 million samples were tested. “A new peak was achieved following 8.97 lakh Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours. Even with such a high level of testing, the positivity has remained low at 8.81%, as compared to the weekly national average of 8.84%,” said a release from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW). Aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of Covid-19 positive cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) is brought down through aggressive testing and efficient clinical treatment. The number of laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for diagnosing Covid-19 has also seen steady growth, experts said. From a single laboratory -- ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune on January 23, -- to 160 labs on March 23, India has consistently expanded its diagnostic network amid the viral outbreak. At present, the country has 1,470 approved laboratories across the country, including 969 and 501 government and private-run facilities, respectively. “Each day laboratories are being added to the network of Covid-19 testing facilities across India. Now, we are doing up to 800,000 Covid-19 tests in a day and it is a significant achievement in such a short span of time. Besides laboratories in the ICMR’s network, Covid-19 tests are being done in other government and private-run facilities that are showing good results,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified. India’s Covid-19-related death toll is also among the lowest, as compared with the other severely affected countries. Though the Covid-19 fatality count has crossed the 50,000 mark, the MoH&FW said the country is better placed than other nations such as the United States of America (USA) that clocked a similar fatality figure in 23 days, while Brazil and Mexico reached it in 95 and 141 days, respectively. On the contrary, India took 156 days to report 50,000 mortalities due to the raging viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-record-8-97-lakh-swab-samples-in-a-day/story-FE9D0UJ1T79NjHUBJzAxVI.html
18-08-2020||India||Maharashtra has more Covid-19 cases than South Africa, the sixth worst-hit country in the world||Maharashtra now has more Covid-19 cases--over 600,000--than South Africa, the sixth worst-hit country globally. South Africa has reported 5,89,886 Covid-19 cases as per the reference website worldometers.info.With 5,612,027 cases, the US tops the list of countries with maximum cases in the world. Brazil has reported 3,363,235 cases, India 2,701,604 and Russia 927,745, according to the website. Maharashtra alone recorded 604,358 cases till Monday, according to the state health department.Maharashtra crossed the 600,000 mark nine days after it recorded half-a-million cases on August 8. It recorded 8,493 cases on Monday and 11,111 on Sunday. Maharashtra has now 155,268 active cases.The state recorded first 100,000 cases in 96 days, the second in 22, third in 14, fourth in 11, and the fifth in just 10 days. In the first 17 days of August, Maharashtra reported 182,834 cases, or around 10,754 daily. It is much higher than previous months. As many as 247,392 cases were recorded in July, 102,172 in June, 57,157 in May, 10,196 in April and 302 in March.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a public health expert who heads the state government’s communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee, said the cases were rapidly rising in rural areas since the lockdown restrictions have been eased.“Distribution of cases started soon after the state opted for unlocking the restrictions. Before that, cases used to be reported only from urban areas but now it [infection] has spread to semi-urban and rural areas. The overall cases are also increasing in an accelerated fashion,” Dr Salunkhe said.Officials said another major cause of concern was Covid-19 fatalities. In the first 17 days of the month, the state has reported 5,271 deaths compared to 6,988 in July, 5,638 in June, 2,286 in May, 449 in April, and 10 in March. The case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra was 3.35% on Monday. It continued to be second highest in the country after Gujarat with 3.54% CFR and 2,785 deaths and 78,680 cases till Sunday, according to government data.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said the government does not have resources in terms of specialised staff and health infrastructure to deal with the situation, especially in rural areas.“Tertiary care treatment can only prevent Covid-19 fatalities. We need specialised staff to treat critical patients. Both the state and the Central government could not provide that quality of trained health staff and infrastructure in rural and semi-urban areas,” said Dr Pattiwar.He said the state needs to train its doctors and health staff in rural areas. There should be a system for regular interaction between doctors from semi-urban and rural areas with the members of task force formed to reduce Covid-19 casualties, which is not happening, added Pattiwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-has-more-covid-19-cases-than-south-africa-the-sixth-worst-hit-country-in-the-world/story-f11k1FIK8QhyTfO5vpiC4M.html
18-08-2020||India||Goa governor Satya Pal Malik transferred to Meghalaya||Panaji/New Delhi: Goa governor Satya Pal Malik was on Tuesday transferred to Meghalaya less than a year after he was shifted to the western state after helming Jammu & Kashmir when it was divested of its special status and split into two Union territories last year. Differences of opinion with Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant marked Malik’s tenure in the state.In a statement, the Press Information Bureau confirmed Malik’s transfer. It said Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is the governor of neighbouring Maharashtra, has been given the additional charge of Goa.Tathagata Roy, Malik’s predecessor in Meghalaya, said he was supposed to be relieved after the end of his tenure in May. “Upon receipt of news from Rashtrapati Bhavan [about the transfer], I spoke to Shri Satyapal Malikji, the new Governor-Designate and welcomed him to Shillong [Meghalaya]. It may take him a little time to come here. I was supposed to have been relieved on 20th May. Now the end of the road is in sight!” tweeted Roy.Malik and Sawant have been in the news over their disagreements. In July, Malik, 74, summoned Sawant to discuss the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. When Sawant sought to downplay the meeting, Malik accused the chief minister of putting words in his mouth. Malik has underlined the need for coming together and not criticising each other. He called for synergy among the ministers and officers amid the crisis.Malik wrote a letter to Sawant on August 1 opposing the construction of a new Raj Bhavan (governor’s house) “as irrational and imprudent” when the state is battling Covid-19 and reeling under financial crises. The letter followed Sawant’s move to go ahead with the construction. In May, Malik said news reports on “differences and divergences between him and the chief minister in handling the crisis” were “in bad taste”Malik’s criticism of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government gave opposition parties in the state a much-needed fillip and a handle to attack it.“Governor of Goa Satya Pal Malikji stood by truth, emotions & sentiments of every Goan on core issues like Mhadei, Economic Revival & Austerity Measures, Handling & Management of Covid Pandemic. Truth and @BJP4Goa cant go together. Goa needed him the most now,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat tweeted after news about Malik’s transfer broke.Vijai Sardesai, the leader of Goa Forward Party, echoed Kamat. “Who will want a Governor who speaks truth on Mhadei, Goa’s precarious Covid situation, need to prevent wasteful expenditure & not to do scams during pandemic & call out Goa CM [Sawant] for being uncultured? So Satyapal Malik who captured Goan hearts in his short tenure was expected to get transferred due to party pressure!”Malik was sworn in as Goa governor on November 4 last year in what was thought to be a more relaxed posting following his tenure in Jammu & Kashmir. He oversaw the transition of Jammu & Kashmir from a state to the Union Territory as its last governor.During his tenure in Jammu & Kashmir, Malik triggered a controversy when he claimed he had not received a letter from political parties staking claim to form the government in the then state after the BJP-People’s Democratic Party coalition collapsed in June 2018. He later said the fax machine in Raj Bhavan was not working.Malik, who began his political career in 1965, was first elected to the Rajya Sabha as a Lok Dal member in 1980. He was again elected to the Rajya Sabha as a Congress candidate in 1986. Malik joined the BJP and was elected as a Lok Sabha member in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-governor-satya-pal-malik-transferred-to-meghalaya/story-p4gsGnc2hFLnh342hO3ofM.html
18-08-2020||India||PM asks citizens to share their ideas for Episode 68 of Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for ideas and inputs on topics that can be picked up during his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on the last Sunday of this month.The 68th edition of PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme will be aired on August 30.The Prime Minister tweeted on Tuesday to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. Phone lines have been opened from August 10. “What do you think should be discussed during this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 30th?” he asked on Twitter.What do you think should be discussed during this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 30th?Record your message by dialing 1800-11-7800. You can also write on the NaMo App or MyGov. Looking forward to your ideas and inputs. https://t.co/wRagYSoaq0In his previous Mann Ki Baat episode, whose date coincided with the Kargil Vijay Diwas, PM Modi asked citizens to remember soldiers who fought valiantly against Pakistan’s forces during the Kargil War. He also said that despite efforts to establish cordial relations Pakistan remained resolute in pushing cross-border terrorism.PM Modi also reminded citizens to not let their guard down amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said that it is necessary to wear masks when outside and asked those who think wearing them is troublesome to reflect upon the amount of time frontline workers have to spend in a day wearing masks. He reiterated that people need to follow all precautions to prevent Covid-19.The PM asked citizens to visit - www.gallantryawards.gov.in - and share stories of valour with young citizens to inspire them. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-asks-citizens-to-shares-their-ideas-for-episode-68-of-mann-ki-baat/story-nZF97fr7nlDoN6ZN7goQPL.html
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses to direct transfer of contributions made to PM CARES to disaster fund||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a petition by an NGO seeking transfer of contributions in PM CARES Fund to National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF).The NDRF is a statutory fund created under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The court held that individual and organisations are free to contribute to NDRF and there is no prohibition on the same. However, PM CARES is a separate fund established as a public charitable trust and no direction can be issued to transfer funds from that to NDRF, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan ruled.While disposing of the petition, the court said that there is no need for fresh national disaster relief plan.The NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), had claimed that PM CARES Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the Disaster Management Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.Also Read: PM Cares a public fund, not intended to circumvent NDRF, govt tells Supreme CourtThe PM CARES Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.The central government had rebutted this argument stating in its affidavit before the top court on July 8 that the PM CARES is a fund established to carry out relief work and there are several such funds established on similar lines in the past.During the hearing before the apex court, the central government through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had defended the PM CARES Fund saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF as alleged by the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-direct-transfer-of-contributions-made-to-pm-cares-to-ndrf/story-5mrxIX16qmMNbvEH6jA5aO.html
18-08-2020||India||India is already establishing itself as an important global player, says UKIBC’s Jayant Krishna||The UK India Business Council (UKIBC) has appointed Jayant Krishna as its group chief executive officer in India for the first time. Krishna spoke to Rajeev Jayaswal about the plans of UK firms to set up their manufacturing bases in India. Edited excerpts: Many multi-nationals are considering exiting China and looking for India as one of the alternatives. What is the view of the UK industry on this matter?UK firms, like many multi-nationals, have started looking at diversifying supply chains as a result of the [Covid-19] pandemic, and India, with its already large and growing market, presents an attractive destination. The UK industry has long invested in India across sectors. It is not just the shift to reducing reliance on China or other areas that will see that grow, but directly the rapid improvement in the operating environment in India – the rise of India in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings is testament to that - and the growing opportunities as the Indian economy continues to achieve its full potential on the world stage.Why would British firms prefer India over China?UK businesses are and will look to India as an incremental base for manufacturing and research and development, among other areas. I cannot say now how many British firms are looking to shift from China to India but some of them are contemplating exploring India as a manufacturing destination in addition to their existing investments in China. But I would say that India is an extremely attractive country for British firms to invest in.How do you see India as an investment destination?I think it is widely agreed that India is already establishing itself as an important global player, both economically and geopolitically, and that journey is moving forward. In not so distant a future, India will be the largest country by population and the third largest in terms of the size of its economy; and quite understandably, businesses want to be a part of that.From a UK perspective, that thought process is heightened by Brexit, in which the UK is forging new trading relationships, post-Covid-19.In terms of policy changes, those mentioned previously in the priority sectors of food and drink, life science and healthcare, and digital and data services, should be the focus, and ultimately make it easier for the UK firms to do business in India.India has significant legal and regulatory barriers still to overcome, as our members have told us every year in our annual Doing Business in India survey run since 2015. Progress has been made but making the regulatory framework more equitable would indeed be very positive for attracting more investments.Is the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India Initiative) congruent to enhanced bilateral trade between India and UK?UK businesses remain committed to India and want to be part of and support India’s Atmanirbhar Bharat mission. With that being said, it is vital that India remains open to international trade and investment.India has made great progress in terms of economic development since opening up to international markets in 1991 and the ambition to become the world’s manufacturing powerhouse is quite appropriate. But to do so, India will need imports and technology and knowledge transfers if it wants to be a competitive exporter.Should India remain open and speaking with senior government officials I am reassured that it will, I see no reason why bilateral trade between the UK and India will not grow. At the JETCO [UK-India Joint Economic Trade Committee], both governments were in agreeance that the relationship has grown in recent years and the pandemic, Brexit and India’s global ambitions present an opportunity to revitalise the relationship.There are great complementaries between India’s needs and the UK’s offering and it was very positive to hear that Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the centrality of sectors such as manufacturing, infrastructure, energy, pharma, space, and defence, to global cooperation. These are all areas ripe for India-UK collaboration in creating Aatmanirbhar Bharat, underpinned by both nations’ strong track record in technology and innovation.How much have India-UK trade and investment increased?Since the turn of the century, the UK has been one of the largest investors in India, totaling over £22 billion in last two decades, and making it the second-fastest-growing G20 investor in India. And in trade, it is clear that businesses and consumers share confidence in one another – demonstrated by growth in trade to £24 billion in 2019. Likewise, FDI [foreign direct investment] from India reached £11 billion in 2019.What are the problems and prospects of trade and investment relations between India and the UK?The prospects for trade and investment between the UK and India are certainly upbeat. At the JETCO at the end of July, UK secretary of state for international trade Liz Truss and India minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal recommitted to important progress to remove non-tariff barriers in core sectors of food and drink, life science and healthcare, and digital and data services, in the shape of an Enhanced Trade Partnership.Business-led joint working groups highlighted the key challenges to trade and made formal recommendations to overcome these. The next round of JETCO is scheduled to take place in autumn where the ministers will discuss how to support these recommendations, which include greater standards alignment and a UK-India data adequacy agreement, and in due course make it easier to do business between and in both countries.In addition to the identified sectors, manufacturing will be a key sector for UK trade and investment and we at UKIBC have consistently advocated that the UK government amend visa policies to ensure that talented people from India can study, train and work in the UK. UKIBC has been particularly active in the area around the post-study working visa. India now receives more than half of all UK tier-2 working visas and the second most tier-4 study visas. The new UK Graduate Immigration Route for this year, which allows students to stay for up to two years post-study to find work, is a very welcome move and should help to attract Indian talent to the UK, and strengthen the living bridge between the UK and India.Is an India-UK FTA expected soon? What are the possible areas of early harvest agreements?The UKIBC has welcomed the governments’ shared ambition for a future FTA that came out of JETCO. The commitment to an Enhanced Trade Partnership is seen as a road map to such an agreement, starting, rightly, by focussing on market access issues and the ease of doing business.The three priority sectors – food and drink, life science and healthcare, and digital and data services – are important starting points for such action.So, the priority is to remove market access barriers and ultimately make it easier for businesses in the UK-India trade and economic corridor, with a view to a future FTA, and I think both governments are aligned to that view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-already-establishing-itself-as-an-important-global-player-says-ukibc-s-jayant-krishna/story-DdkICvXQMSMF8BSnrfPlBI.html
18-08-2020||India||Satya Pal Malik appointed as Meghalaya Governor||Satya Pal Malik has been transferred as the Governor of Meghalaya, replacing Tathagata Roy who completed his five-year tenure on the post in the northeastern state, from Goa, a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said on Tuesday.Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Governor of Maharashtra, has been asked to discharge the functions of the Goa Governor in addition to his own duties, the communique said.Malik takes over from Roy, who completed his five-year tenure by serving as governor of Tripura for three years and the remaining in Meghalaya.Malik was the governor of Jammu and Kashmir from August 2018 to October 2019. He was appointed as the Goa Governor in October last year soon after Parliament passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, which paved the way for the bifurcation of the state into two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.Malik during his tenure in Jammu and Kashmir stoked a controversy after he claimed that he did not received a letter from political parties staking claim to form the government in the former state after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) coalition government fell. He later said the that the fax machine in Raj Bhavan was not working.In Goa too, he vetoed the government’s proposal to construct a new Raj Bhavan and said the construction should be put off till the state’s financial condition improves.Malik’s political journey began in 1965 and was first elected to the Rajya Sabha, representing the Lok Dal, in 1980. He was also elected to the Rajya Sabha as a Congress party leader in 1986. Malik later joined the BJP and was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satya-pal-malik-appointed-as-governor-of-meghalaya-rashtrapati-bhavan/story-lOuArqHENiZo4NxO4Oy2ZK.html
18-08-2020||India||Shah admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care after fatigue||Union home minister Amit Shah has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for post-Covid-19 care after complaining of fatigue and body ache, the hospital said on Tuesday.Shah, 55, was admitted in AIIMS on Monday night, three days after being discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on testing negative for the coronavirus disease. He had been admitted in Medanta on August 2 after becoming the first Union minister to test positive for the viral disease.“Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister, has been complaining of fatigue and body ache for last three or four days. He has tested negative for Covid-19. He has been admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from the hospital,” AIIMS said in an official statement.Shah has been admitted in the VIP ward at the Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre (CNC) of the hospital“Today my Covid-19 test report has come negative. I thank god. And, I also express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who supported me and my family by wishing me good health. I will be in home isolation for few days on advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted on his discharge from Medanta.He had also announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had posted on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-aiims-for-post-covid-care-hospital-bulletin/story-jJs5KepQOB5l7JNlhdG3WI.html
18-08-2020||India||Union home minister Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS, Delhi for post-coronavirus care||Union home minister Amit Shah was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Monday night for medical care after recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week, the premier institution said on Tuesday.“Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid -19.He has been admitted to AIIMS for post COVID care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital,” Dr Aarti Vij, the chairperson of AIIMS’ media and protocol division, said.The Union home minister was discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on August 14 after testing negative for Covid-19. Shah had said then he will follow home isolation on the advice of doctors after confirming that he has tested negative for the coronavirus disease.“Today my corona test report has come negative. I thank God and at the moment I express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who blessed me and my family by wishing me well. Will stay in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted in Hindi.He also thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital for treating him and helping him fight the infection.He had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-union-home-minister-amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-in-delhi-for-post-coronavirus-care/story-RKvL1gfpffOxqocQ0UXMpL.html
18-08-2020||India||Former RSS ideologue Govindacharya wants parliamentary probe in workings of social media platforms||Political parties should bury their differences and shed double speak on the issue of data sovereignty and right to privacy; to come up with solutions to the problems of social media platforms being largely unregulated and unchecked said KN Govindacharya, a former Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary and an RSS ideologue on Monday. Speaking in the backdrop of the controversy stoked by an article in the Wall Street Journal that alleges that Ankhi Das, public policy director, Facebook, for India, South and Central Asia, had opposed action against BJP leaders accused of hate speech; Govindacharya said a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe as demanded by the Congress should be used as an opportunity to address “fundamental and systemic problems”. “Instead of trading accusations the political parties will do well to address the basic question of accountability and work on creating a mechanism for drafting the necessary laws for doing so. They speak one language in power and another when in the opposition,” he said. Govindacharya, who has been leading a campaign seeking regulation of social media platforms and has filed a petition in the Delhi high court (HC) for rules to make companies such as Facebook and Google establish their servers in India, has also been pushing for fast tracking the Personal Data Protection Bill to make internet technology companies pay more taxes. In 2014, he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to call off his meeting with Facebook’s co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, until issues such as data protection, taxation and user privacy are not resolved. “Parties should not replace conviction with convenience. They should use the JPC to address the concerns of right to privacy, the selective and biased approach to taking down content; there have to be curative solutions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-rss-ideologue-govindacharya-wants-parliamentary-probe-in-workings-of-socia-media-platforms/story-Xwea7amzRxjixSYChZwvrO.html
18-08-2020||India||India records decline in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths; tally over 2.7 million||India saw 55,079 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 875 deaths, the lowest in nearly a week, in the last 24 hours, bringing the country’s case count to 2,702,742, according to the Union health ministry data.There has been a decline in the daily number of Covid-19 cases for the last three days--there were 63,490 infections last Sunday and 57,981 on Monday, the health ministry’s data showed.The health ministry’s dashboard showed that the number recovered patients climbed to 1,977,779 as 57,937 people were cured of Covid-19 between Monday and Tuesday morning. With that, India’s recovery rate climbed to 73.17%. The gap between the active cases at 673,166 and recovered cases in the country has widened further at 1,304,613. The country’s death toll from the coronavirus disease is now at 51,797. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said 3,09,41,264 samples were tested up to Monday for Covid-19. Of these, 8,99,864 samples were tested on Monday, the top research body said. “A new peak of 8.97 lakh #COVID19 tests were done in the last 24 hours. Even with such a high level of testing, the positivity has remained low i.e. 8.81% compared to the weekly national average i.e. 8.84%,” the health ministry said in a tweet on Tuesday.“Focused implemention of Centre-led strategies has ensured prompt identification, timely isolation & effective clinical treatment, leading to reduced Case Fatality Rate. 30 States/UTs performed better than the national average,” it added.The government has asked five pharmaceutical firms, including three that have candidates in clinical trials, prepare and a present a comprehensive note on the way forward by Thursday on how soon they can produce large quantities and what pricing they expect if their shot is approved.The meeting was held between an expert group spearheading India’s vaccine strategy and involved Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila – all three have vaccine candidates in human trials. Serum Institute is licensed to produce up to some quantities the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is largely considered the front runner globally.The two others were Biological E and Gennova, both of which have candidates in preclinical phases. Trial data of none of the India-made vaccines is yet to be made available.“Even as scientists are working to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, we are simultaneously working on procuring the final product to ensure availability and access to our population,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said following Monday’s meeting. “. As part of India’s proactive, pre-emptive and graded response to Covid-19 since January, the expert group is holding consultations with vaccine manufacturers to plan ahead for the production, pricing and distribution of the vaccine, whenever it is ready,” he added.India has not struck a pre-production deal with any of the vaccine developers that are in the race for a successful candidate, a strategy several advanced economies such as United States, United Kingdom and some European Union nations have adopted in order to jump what might be a long waiting line.Of these countries, the US has the most number of infections at 5,437,851, followed by Brazil with 3,359,570 cases. There have been more than 21 million cases of the coronavirus disease and 773,152 deaths across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-7-million-mark-with-over-55-000-cases-876-deaths-in-a-day/story-n32OfFNmTrBQraUxREYOKL.html
18-08-2020||India||With no jobs in Bengal, migrant workers from Murshidabad leave home again||As unemployment hits migrant workers who returned home to West Bengal over the past five months, a non-government welfare organisation is helping people in Murshidabad district return to the states they left in a hurry because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to data from the 2011 census, Bengal ranks fourth among the states from where people migrate. Between 2001 and 2011, 5.8 lakh people had migrated from Bengal. The number is now over 11 lakh, according to the state government. Murshidabad accounts for the most migration among all districts. Citizens for Social Justice, an organisation formed by people from different walks of life, has helped over 2,000 migrants from Murshidabad return home between April and July by raising funds. The organisation is now sending people back in buses and even providing them with an accident cover of ₹2 lakh, fitness certificates issued after medical tests and subscriptions to a doctor-on-call service. “We sent off 200 people last week. Since they bear a portion of the transportation cost, it helps us hire big buses suitable for interstate travel. In each of Murshidabad’s 28 community blocks, there are people whose skills are in demand in south and north India,” Arindam Das, a Calcutta High Court lawyer and the secretary of Citizens for Social Justice, said.  “Many of these people have been getting calls from former employers, but they don’t know how to return. We are arranging for antigen tests and providing healthy people with medical certificates,” Das said. Members of the group track the buses throughout the journey. “The other day, authorities stopped a bus at the border of Tamil Nadu. When I talked to a superintendent of police from that area, he immediately identified Murshidabad as the district where thousands of workers are from. He let the bus in after checking the papers,” Das said. “If these people stayed home without jobs, it would have led to socio-economic problems and caused a headache for the administration. The word has spread and many people from other districts have sought our help. Some even want to go to Delhi, where there is a demand for skilled construction workers,” Das added. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has welcomed the development. “Skilled people who work in the construction, textiles or the jewellery industry will not find jobs that pay as well as employers in other states. Jobs that our government provide for 100 days under the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) are not enough for these people,” Apurba Sarkar, the spokesperson of the TMC in Murshidabad district, said. “Their skills fetch good money in states where these industries have boomed. The social welfare organisation is doing a good job,” Sarkar added. For chief minister Mamata Banerjee, migrant workers from Bengal have been a major issue ever since the pandemic started. On March 26, Banerjee wrote to the chief ministers of 18 states, urging them to provide basic shelter, food and medicine to stranded migrants from Bengal. The Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 20 to provide employment to migrant workers affected by the lockdown, became a political issue in Bengal since the state was not included in the scheme. In the initial announcement, 116 districts in six states, including Bihar and Odisha, figured among the beneficiaries. The Centre selected districts where over 25,000 migrants returned home. TMC and the Left parties took umbrage, alleging that millions of those who returned to Bengal were ignored for political reasons. The chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee expressed his anguish in a tweet. “Shri @narendramodi Ji, why have you blatantly ignored the concerns of 11 Lakh migrant workers from #Bengal who’ve recently returned to their homes. Why has WB been left out of the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan? Why this apathy towards the people of Bengal?” tweeted Banerjee on June 22.The BJP Bengal unit responded by saying that the TMC government did not implement important Central schemes, such as Ayushman Bharat, that benefit the poor, and was reluctant to let special trains bring migrant workers back to Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-jobs-in-bengal-migrant-workers-from-murshidabad-leave-home-again/story-3R9wJaFcoCPhLluPKqTAoI.html
18-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh Police files FIR against Facebook’s Ankhi Das||Chhattisgarh Police registered a first information report (FIR) against Ankhi Das, the public policy director of Facebook for India, South and Central Asia, and two others in Raipur late at night on Monday. They have been booked under sections 295 (a) (deliberate and malicious acts that are intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs); 505 (1) (c) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community); 506 (criminal intimidation); 500 (defamation) and (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a complaint filed by a Raipur-based journalist, Awesh Tiwari, on Monday. The FIR was registered after Tiwari was named in a complaint registered by Delhi Police’s cyber cell on the basis of a charge levelled against him by Das on Sunday. In her complaint, Das alleged receiving death threats and social media abuse after a report in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) suggested that Facebook was biased towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in censoring hate speech. Earlier, a controversy had erupted after an article was published by WSJ on August 14, which reported that Das opposed the idea of removing incendiary posts by the BJP leaders, as she had warned that this could hurt the company’s “commercial interests” in India. Das had also not revealed that Facebook had deleted fake news pages connected to the BJP, the WSJ report stated. Das alleged that she was threatened and filed an FIR under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to sexually coloured remarks, vulgar gestures through words, and criminal intimidation. On Monday night, Das, Ram Sahu, a resident of Mungeli, Chhattisgarh, and Vivek Sinha, an Indore resident, were named in the FIR registered at Kabir Nagar police station in Raipur. The FIR, which HT has a copy, stated that complainant Tiwari had put out a Facebook post on Sunday following the WSJ report. “There were comments over the facts of the story, which was published in the newspaper (WSJ). I have also mentioned the role of Ankhi Das, which was there in the story. The story mentioned that Das was forcing her subordinates not to remove hate speech posts from Facebook before last year’s Lok Sabha election for political gains. She had told her subordinates that political relations with the government would be affected because of their (the posts) removal,” Tiwari’s complaint stated. He alleged in the FIR that following his post, Sahu and Sinha sprang to Das’s defence and asked why should she support the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist rebels, the traitors from the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and indulge in politics that favoured Muslims. They argued that Das is a Hindu and is talking about the faith’s benefit. Sahu allegedly had posted derogatory and communally-sensitive photographs and also threatened Tiwari. The FIR stated Tiwari is receiving threatening calls after his post against Das and they are claiming to “destroy” him. Das, Sahu, and Sinha are spreading communal hatred due to which his life is under threat and he is living in constant fear, Tiwari further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-files-fir-against-facebook-s-ankhi-das/story-PDGluaa304G1YYxm9U5lPO.html
18-08-2020||India||MNNIT scholar generates power from Ganga soil||A research scholar at the department of electrical engineering in Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Prayagraj, has developed a technique to generate electricity from the soil of the Ganga riverbed, for which he has been selected for the prestigious Sristi-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award (GYTI Awards)-2020. President Ram Nath Kovind will present the award to Jeetendra Prasad, the scholar. According to Prasad, the technique could come in handy for lighting remote areas of the country. Using this technology, Prasad successfully charged a 12-volt battery, converted the generated current into AC with a voltage of 230 volts, and illuminated an electric bulb for nine hours. “The technology will provide a source of power for electronic devices and military wireless sensors in remote areas,” he said. The GYTI Awards are a Sristi (Society for Research and Initiatives for Sustainable Technologies and Institutions) initiative to encourage youth-driven technology innovations in 42 categories. After four stages of evaluation, seven teams are selected for the award and 15 are selected for the Sristi-GYTI appreciation award. MNNIT is the only national institute of technology to receive this award among all 31 institutes in the country this year, according to MNNIT officials. Much of Prasad’s research work has been published internationally by Wiley, ScienceDirect and IEEE.Prasad said, “I have developed 35 sediment microbial fuel cell (SMFC) reactors and used 500 grams of Ganga sediment to charge each reactor. Microbes in the sediment create electrons in the anode chamber. These electrons flow from anode to cathode via an electric circuit and produce voltage. Each SMFC reactor generates a voltage of 1.16 volts. By connecting all SMFCs in series-parallel connections, a voltage of 5 volts is harnessed.” Further, the voltage can be increased up to 12 volts using an electronic circuit. A charged 12 volt battery can then convert it into an AC voltage of 230 volts, which is enough to illuminate an electric bulb for nine hours, he said, adding that this technology does not create pollution while generating electricity.  This work has been published in Journal of Power Sources in January 2020, International Journal of Hydrogen Energy in July 2020, and International Journal oh Energy Research in 2019.Prasad was born in Shakkarpur village of Ghazipur district (UP). His father, Ramkrit Prajapati, is a retired electrician who worked with the UP State Bridge Corporation Ltd. Prasad receives a stipend under the Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme for Electronics & IT from the Union Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mnnit-scholar-generates-power-from-ganga-soil/story-TVsUcHZo5Np9D2LPqZ610N.html
18-08-2020||India||Ganesh Chaturthi: Covid-19 diminishes demand for large-sized Ganesha idols in Haryana||As the Covid-19 outbreak has changed the way religious festivals are celebrated, it has also diminished the demand for Ganesha idols in several parts of the country including Haryana.Ganesh Chaturthi is just round the corner on August 22. Many of the idol makers in Haryana’s Ambala have claimed that they are not receiving any demand for large-sized Ganesha idols. “This year, demand for idols taller than 7-feet is very low as they are normally used in processions and much larger gatherings. Booking for smaller three to four-foot idols are coming as usual but we have not received any orders for the large-sized idols due to restrictions due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” Chamba Lal, an idol maker told ANI, adding that by this time last year, he had nearly sold out all idols prepared by him.According to Satish Gupta, the President of the Sri Siddhivinayak Seva Mandal in Ambala, this year, the festival will not be celebrated with usual grandeur but will be a more muted affair in accordance with the government’s prescribed precautions.“We have been celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi for the last seven years with splendour, but this year due to the pandemic, we will not put up a pandal. We normally celebrate with a seven to 10-foot idol but this year we will have a three-foot idol.” Gupta said“If anyone wants to distribute prasad, they must do so from a distance in their own individual capacity. All those coming to worship Lord Ganesha will have to wear a face mask and sanitise their hands,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganesh-chaturthi-covid-19-diminishes-demand-for-large-sized-ganesha-idols-in-haryana/story-x10zFspv4oE9BHUGD9e14L.html
18-08-2020||India||More than 400 students, faculty members sci-tech institutes demand bail for Varavara Rao, GN Saibaba||More than 400 students, faculty members, and alumni from various science and technology institutes in the country have signed a petition to the Central government, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, demanding bail and medical care for Varavara Rao and GN Saibaba, who are in jail for their alleged Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist links, and the release of other political prisoners. Rao (81), an acclaimed Telugu poet and a human rights activist, is booked in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case and is undergoing treatment at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital in Mumbai after he had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive in July. Saibaba, who is 90% physically handicapped, is a Delhi University (DU) professor and was convicted in 2017 along with five others for their links with Left-wing extremist (LWE) organisations and for waging war against India. The petition, signed by the researchers and scientists from various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs), makes three specific demands. The petitioners are seeking immediate and proper medical treatment and bail for Rao and Saibaba. The petitioners are seeking the release of all political prisoners arrested in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case in Maharashtra and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, protests in New Delhi following a spike in Covid-19 cases in prisons across the country. They are also seeking the repeal of the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA), 2019. “The government, in a bid to stifle dissent, is using the pandemic as an opportunity to arrest political activists such as Dr. Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Dr. Kafeel Khan, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha and Devangana. They have been arrested, as they were active in the anti-CAA protests,” said a researcher from IIT-Bombay and a signatory to the petition. “The government is putting their lives at grave risk amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in prisons,” he said. Delhi Police had arrested students of Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University following the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February and during the anti-CAA protests last year. Pregnant Jamia student Safoora Zargar and IIT-Bombay alumnus Sharjeel Imam are among the prominent activists, who have been arrested by Delhi Police. Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, both students of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), were slapped with the stringent UAPAA, 2019, which empowers the government to take action against activities that are against the integrity and sovereignty of the country. “We can clearly see that the government is continuously attacking activists, writers, poets, lawyers, students, and professors, who are critical of its anti-people agenda. As socially-conscious citizens associated with some of the best institutions of our country, it is our duty to make our society more equitable. We must raise our voice in solidarity to demand the release of all political prisoners,” read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-400-students-faculty-members-sci-tech-institutes-demand-bail-for-varavara-rao-gn-saibaba/story-ZyXxXd6uhrzwaWOPjWdibJ.html
18-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IT parliament committee divided on summoning Facebook and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.House IT panel divided on summoning FacebookThe information technology (IT) parliamentary committee is split over summoning Facebook executives to explain reports of it displaying a bias towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) when it comes to censoring hate speech. Read more here. 13.5% decline in suicide cases during lockdown period in PuneThere has been a drop of 13.5 per cent in suicides during March-July 2020 as compared to the same period last year, says a study conducted by SNDT Arts and Commerce College for Women, Pune. Read more here. MS Dhoni’s approach to cricket is spiritual, writes Sanjay ManjrekarWhen it comes to exceptional cricketers, the murmurs about them start way before they play for India; and those murmurs go right to the top, to the dressing room of the Indian team. Read more here. Elon Musk becomes world’s fourth-richest billionaire after gaining $8 billionMusk’s fortune has grown by $57.2 billion this year, the second-biggest increase on the index. Read more here. Happy Birthday Gulzar: As the wordsmith turns 86, a look at how he remains relevant for fans of all agesAs Gulzar celebrates his 86th birthday on Tuesday, here is a look at 15 of his most popular songs that are relevant to all ages. Read more here. Gunjan Saxena’s coursemate Sreevidya Rajan says ‘I was the first woman pilot to fly in Kargil’, slams ‘factually incorrect’ biopicAfter the IAF objected to its ‘undue negative’ portrayal, Gunjan’s coursemate, Flight Lieutenant (retd) Sreevidya Rajan, has said that the makers of the Janhvi Kapoor-starrer have ‘twisted the facts’. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-it-parliament-committee-divided-on-summoning-facebook-and-all-the-latest-news/story-X9jRf7SfYNKDEbhtfp3XlK.html
18-08-2020||India||7 dead in Rajasthan, over 80 lakh affected in Bihar as heavy rain triggers flood-like situation||As heavy rains batter vast swathes of the country, the threat of floods has increased in many states. From the eastern part of the country, which has been experiencing rainfall and flood for over a month now, the southwest monsoon is now moving along the western border where heavy downpour has been forecast in many states.In Rajasthan, seven people drowned in flooded water bodies, and the weather department has forecast heavy rainfall in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa (all on the western side of the country). The situation continues to be grim in Bihar, where more than 80 lakh people are affected and 25 have died in flood-related incidents.In the Northeast, three districts of Assam - Dhemaji, Lakhimpur and Baksa - are still inundated and 11,900 people are reeling under the impact of the flood.Here are the latest developments on flood-like situation across the country:• The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast enhanced rainfall activity in northwest India, including Western Himalayan region, till August 20. East Rajasthan could experience extremely heavy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, the IMD said.• In view of heavy rain forecast in Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed officials to make all arrangements. He told the officials to explore possibilities of constructing small dams in various catchment areas. Authorities have deployed teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in three districts and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams have been kept ready in 20 districts in view of possibilities of heavy rains. Churu and Nagaur have received maximum rainfall so far, authorities said.• The Central Water Commission (CWC) issued a flood advisory for several states, warning some hill districts in the north of likely flashfloods and landslides. The advisory for Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh said there is likelihood of rise in water levels in several rivers including the Ganga, Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Ghaggar and Yamuna due to the heavy to very rains forecast there.• In Bihar, 16 districts are now affected by floods. The water level in Ganga continued to rise on Monday in Buxar, Munger, Bhagalpur, Kahalgaon and Digha Ghat in Patna, as per a bulletin issued by the state Water Resources Department. Several other rivers, including Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Punpun, Khiroi and Ghaghra, are flowing above the danger level at different places in the state.• In Uttar Pradesh, 15 districts are hit by floods. The Sharda river at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur Kheri and the Saryu and the Ghaghra at Barabanki’s Elgin Bridge, Ayodhya and Ballia’s Turtipar are flowing above the danger mark. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to maintain social distancing in relief camps. He asked them to segregate those who have fever, cold and headache and get them tested for Covid-19, if required.• West Madhya Pradesh is also likely to get heavy to very rains for next 3-4 days and there is a likelihood of rise in water levels in rivers such as Chambal, Mahi, Sabarmati, Kalisindh and Banas. The Indravati River is likely to rise in Dantewada, Narayanpur and Bijapur districts in Chhattisgarh, according to forecasts by respective regional weather centres.• Heavy downpour since August 13 has created a flood-like situation in several parts of Odisha, snapping road connectivity, damaging mud houses and crops, and killing two people, officials said. The state is likely to get more downpour over the next few days with a fresh low-pressure area brewing over the Bay of Bengal. Odisha has been battered by heavy rainfall due to three back-to-back low-pressure areas so far this month.• In Andhra Pradesh, Godavari river is swelling by the hour, inching towards a record flood level. Over 55 villages in West Godavari district and about 100 in East Godavari district remain marooned or inundated. The river’s water level is rising to dangerous levels in neighbouring Telangana too.• In Maharashtra, water level of the Krishna, Warna and Koyna rivers in Sangli has risen due to continuous rain. An orange alert has been sounded for Kolhapur and Satara districts for Tuesday after the regional weather department predicted heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places.• Several areas in Karnataka, especially in the northern belt, are also staring at flood-like situation as rain resumed after a brief respite. Districts that come under the Krishna basin are threatened by the rising water level. Several parts in the border district of Belagavi are submerged, and low-lying areas, roads and bridges and crops are under water in parts of Gadag, Bagalkote and Dharwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-dead-in-rajasthan-over-80-lakh-affected-in-bihar-as-heavy-rain-triggers-flood-like-situation/story-9URRmc7IgqL7FhaBiOEMiN.html
18-08-2020||India||2 IIT-Bombay start-ups develop steriliser that can keep surfaces bacteria, virus-free||Two start-ups incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay have developed an alcohol-free steriliser that can keep surfaces free from bacteria and virus for 10 days. Launched on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on August 15, Avran is a virucide powered by nanotechnology. It has been developed by Navork Innovations Private Ltd, a start-up working in the domains of nanotechnology, chemicals, textile, and material science, in association with Abstract Ideas, a design, and aesthetics start-up. Avran is one of the products selected by the Union Ministry of Science and Technology’s Department of Science and Technology under an initiative called the Centre for Augmenting War with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) health crisis (CAWACH). The two start-ups, mentored by the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT-Bombay, came together to develop the product following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have received a Rs 1-crore grant from CAWACH for developing and marketing the product. Our first batch of sterilisers were dispatched on Monday,” said Diptesh Mukherjee, an IIT-Bombay alumnus and a co-founder of Abstract Ideas. Agastya Bouyant, incubated at IIM-Calcutta, that manufactures inflatables for cleaning of water surfaces of rivers and sea, too, was a part of the product development. The steriliser is alcohol-free and a single spray can protect a surface from both virus and bacteria. The product has been tested at a laboratory that is accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The steriliser provides five levels of protection by providing a coating of nanoparticles, positively-charged molecular chains, antiviral and antibacterial film, nitrogen and halogen-based organic compounds (halamines) and naturally-occurring coconut and lemon extracts. “Our product can kill 99.999% virus and bacteria in five minutes only. The surface will remain bacteria and virus-free for 10 days,” said Abhishek Sahgal, an alumnus of IIT-Delhi and KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden, and the co-founder of Navork. Manufactured at IIT-Bombay and a facility in Taloja in Navi Mumbai, the sterilisers are high in demand, according to the founders. “The demand for the product is almost 10 times that we had estimated. Around 40% of our customers are distributors of medical supplies, 30% are companies established in the industry and the rest (30%) are the general public,” said Sahgal. A 250-millilitre (ml) spray bottle is priced at Rs 240 and a 500-ml bottle is available for Rs 360. While for a five-litre jar, the disinfectant is available for Rs 1,750. A patent for the technology was filed four months ago and the product will be available on e-commerce portals from September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-iit-bombay-start-ups-develop-alcohol-free-steriliser-that-can-keep-surfaces-bacteria-and-virus-free-for-10-days/story-527AOKg9LGdTGPzVXwuiiN.html
18-08-2020||India||Only 44% state information commissions conduct hearings: CHRI survey||The working of the state information commissions (SICs) dropped from 80% in June to 44% in July, a survey by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) has found.The CHRI is an organisation working towards greater transparency in governance. The survey was conducted by contacting each of 28 SICs across the country via phone calls and emails and tracking their websites. The first survey (in April) had found that none of the SICs were working, but during the second survey (in May) 12 SICs had opened their offices. However, only eight were conducting hearings. According to its third rapid telephonic survey, the organisation found the SICs that had started attending to litigants in June had stopped by July.“We found, out of the 29 Information Commissions nearly 80% (23 Commissions) had resumed hearings during Unlock1.0 starting on 1st June, 2020,” says CHRI’s report. The Central Information Commission began functioning in mid-April.“We continued to track the working of information commissions during the Unlock 2.0 phase also as several state governments had imposed local lockdowns to contain the spread of Covid-19. Once again we surveyed the websites of the state information commissions (SICs) and made phone calls to their offices to ascertain whether local lockdowns have affected their work. This time we found, only 44% information commissions under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, i.e., 13 out of 29 Commissions were conducting hearings during Unlock 2.0 starting 1st July,” the report adds.They also found that the SICs of Bihar, Goa, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh continue to function without a chief information commissioner. SIC officials say that reason for the hearings getting stopped in July is the exponential spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, with nearly 60,000 cases being added every day. However, the inability to conduct the hearings has drawn criticism from social activists for denying people access to information.According to an information commissioner (IC) in Bihar who did not wish to be named, the reason hearings could not be conducted is because the state had limited public transport.“There has been a steep rise in cases across Bihar,” the IC said. “Most of the people could not be present for physical hearings due to the lack of public transport.” However, the IC added, that virtual hearings had been held using WhatsApp for the litigants who agreed to them.“Only 25% of the litigants who come to the commission use WhatsApp,” the Bihar IC said. “We reached out to all of them, either by text or on WhatsApp to see if they’d want a virtual hearing. Some agreed to it, but many also opposed it. We even tried Google Meet and Microsoft Teams to hold virtual hearings.” The Bihar IC added that they had also written to the state government to make arrangements to hold the hearings using NIC software. “It is the health of the litigants and our officials that was kept in mind when we decided to reduce the number of physical hearings.” According to social activist and programme head at CHRI Venkatesh Nayak, the SICs were denying people access to information under the garb of Covid-19. “It is very distressing to know the SICs haven’t resumed work,” he told Hindustan Times. “They have once again gone back to shutting the door to information. There must be over 2 lakh cases pending across the country. This is the time they should be most active.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-44-state-information-commissions-conduct-hearings-chri-survey/story-tMT6otWRcVxyeC0nM7jCNN.html
18-08-2020||India||Tripura Chakmas observe ‘Black Day’ against injustice against community in Bangladesh||The Chakma community in Tripura on Monday observed a ‘Black Day’ to protest the occupation of the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh allegedly illegally by Pakistan in 1947 and the injustices meted out to their community after that. Two days after India’s Independence from the British rule, the Chittagong Hill Tract comprising 97.5% non-Muslim population was illegally awarded to erstwhile East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) as per the mandate of Bengal boundary commission headed by Sir Cyril Radcliffe, said Chakma National Council of India (CNCI), a forum to raise voice for rights of the community.After the inclusion of Chittagong Hill Tracts with East Pakistan, over 50,000 Chakmas took shelter at different relief camps in Tripura and Mizoram in 1986. Many of them also took refuge at Arunachal Pradesh. “The Chakmas became the biggest victim of Partition. Our community faced years of deprivation even after these years of independence. Like previous years, we have observed today as black day against this injustice,” said Aniruddha Chakma, vice president of CNCI, Tripura chapter. He claimed that inclusion of the Chittagong Hill Tract with India could be a solution to their problems. The protests were organised at different parts of the state including Agartala, Pecharthal, Kanchanpur, Gandacherra, Karbook, Silacheri etc. There are more than 300,000 Chakmas in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-chakmas-observe-black-day-against-injustice-against-community-in-bangladesh/story-RSF4DA0TfedTz8hqRaacSN.html
18-08-2020||India||CWC flood advisory for several states; cloudburst, flashfloods likely in hilly districts in north||The Central Water Commission Monday issued a flood advisory for several states, warning some hill districts in the north of likely flashfloods and landslides, as heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in parts of the country and water level in rivers rises. The advisory for Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh said there is likelihood of rise in water levels in rivers such as the Ganga, Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Ghaggar, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Alaknanda, Ramganga, Sarda, Sarju and Ghaghra due to a forecast of heavy to very rains there. “There is likelihood of flashfloods in some of the hill districts in these states in association with cloudburst. Necessary precautions have to be taken for possible landslides and blockages of river flows due to landslides in high ranges of these states,” it said. The advisory for Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Telangana, Vidarbha (Maharashtra) and Chhattisgarh during next 24 hours. Due to the ongoing extremely heavy rainfall, the Godavari River is also getting good flows due to rain in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Telangana, the advisory said. The Polavaram project on Godavari in Andhra Pradesh is likely to get around 40,000 cumec (cubic metre per second) and Laxmi Barrage around 20,000 cumec till Monday night and is expected to rise in view of the rainfall forecast, it said.The Indravati River is likely to rise in Dantewada, Narayanpur and Bijapur districts in Chhattisgarh. while river Sabari is likely to rise rapidly in Koraput, Malkangiri districts of Odisha and in Sukma district in Chhattisgarh and east Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh, it said. The advisory for Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa said there is likelihood of rise in water levels in the basins of lower Mahi, lower Narmada, lower Tapi and Damanganga. Water level for Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga rivers are likely to rise rapidly due to rains which are predicted over next 4-5 days, it said. Madhuban dam in Valsad District is likely to get heavy inflows. At present, the dam has storage of 67.09 per cent. A close watch is to be maintained and release of water, if any has to be done, it should be with due care and after informing all downstream districts including Union Territory of Daman, the CWC said.Other dams in this region such as Kadana Dam on river Mahi, Panam Dam on river Panam, Sardar Sarovar Dam on river Narmada, Ukai Dam on river Tapi are also expected to get increased inflows. The Hatnur Dam in Jalgaon district of Maharashtra is likely to get an inflow of around 1,505 cumec till Monday night and Ukai Dam is also expected to receive around 3,703 cumec till Tuesday morning. “Due to the forecast of extremely heavy rain in their catchment, there is likelihood of sudden rise in inflows which may have to be regulated properly following the rule curves and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) after informing all downstream districts well in advance,” it said.As the rainfall of higher intensity is likely to continue for at least 1-2 days, there is likelihood of rise in levels of rivers along the west coast in Maharashtra and Goa in the west flowing rivers between Tapi and Tadri. “Necessary precautions have to be taken on road and rail bridges which pass through these areas as they are prone to submergence. Care should be taken to regulate road and rail traffic to avoid any incidents,” the advisory said.East Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh are likely to get heavy to very rains for next 3-4 days and there is a likelihood of rise in water levels in rivers such as Chambal, Mahi, Sabarmati, Kalisindh, Banas. Most of the dams in these rivers are having storage between 35 to 70 percent, care should be exercised to monitor the situation very closely, the advisory said. The advisory for Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh said inflows have started increasing in Panchana dam, and Parwan Pickup Weir and have crossed the threshold limit. The advisory for Tamil Nadu and Karnataka said due to continuous inflows from the previous spell of rainfall in the southern states, most of the dams in Cauvery Basin have reached very close to 90-97 per cent storage. A round the clock watch has to be maintained for proper reservoir operation and information to all downstream districts as well as to lower riparian states has to be provided well in advance, it said. Most of the dams in Krishna Basin are also having storage between 86 to 97 per cent. Hidkal Dam on Ghataprabha River is filled to 97 per cent of its full capacity and hence a close watch has to be maintained for any increased inflows likely due to the very heavy rainfall forecast for central Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days, the advisory said. Due to water flows from upstream areas of Krishna River, the Almatti and Narayanpur dams are getting heavy inflows and since these dams are filled around 90 to 92 per cent of the capacity, both the dams are releasing the excess flow. The advisory for Bihar said many rivers the state continue to flow in severe to above normal flood situation with falling trend. The situation will continue for another three-four days, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-flood-advisory-for-several-states-cloudburst-flashfloods-likely-in-hilly-districts-in-north/story-hQAFO1x6V5PW4F1YLR22xL.html
18-08-2020||India||Rave parties happening in Goa even during Covid-19: Minister||Goa minister and BJP MLA Michael Lobo on Monday said rave parties have been happening in private villas in the coastal belt of the state even during the Covid-19 pandemic where drugs are consumed, days after a similar party was busted by the police.The minister, who represents coastal Calangute constituency, was responding to a a query on the raid conducted at Vagator on August 15 night.Lobo said such parties happen in the name of birthday bash or some other programme where drugs are consumed.“There are guest houses, resorts which are shut for general public but rave parties are organised there in the name of birthday bash or some other functions during the pandemic,” he said, adding that drugs are consumed at such parties.He said the state government would crack the whip to curb the menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rave-parties-happening-in-goa-even-during-covid-19-minister/story-ZokhGSaNusTwzV5FnjYUMO.html
18-08-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: NIA opposes bail pleas of Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday opposed the bail pleas of activist Sudha Bharadwaj and poet-activist Varavara Rao , arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case, in the Bombay High Court.Eighty one-year-old Rao has been undergoing treatment at the Nanavati Hospital in the city since July 16 after he tested positive for coronavirus. Additional Solicitor General, Anil Singh reminded the court that Rao had been denied bail on merit on previous occasions by the HC. He added that “this was a case in which the petitioner was involved in anti-national activities.” “He (Rao) was shifted from JJ Hospital to Nanavati Hospital, one of the best super speciality hospitals in the city, at the family’s request. Jail authorities are taking best care in prisons.The NIA also said authorities at the Byculla prison, where Bharadwaj is lodged were capable of attending to her medical needs.After hearing arguments from the NIA, the HC, however, directed the state prison authorities to permit Rao’s family members to contact him through video call and directed the Maharashtra government to submit the latest health report of the Bharadwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-opposes-bail-pleas-of-sudha-bharadwaj-varavara-rao/story-jlOD4HmcloviErsJSXV6eJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It is yet another mystery surrounding coronavirus disease numbers. South Africa, the S of the expanded BRICS grouping — C, China was where it all began, R, Russia is at #4 in terms of cases, I, India, is at #3, and B, Brazil is at #2 — is the fifth in the world in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. It has seen close to 600,000; yet, the next country from the African continent on the list is Egypt, at #29. Then comes Nigeria at #49. Then starting with Morocco at #52, come another 16 countries within the top 100. Egypt has seen fewer than 100,000 cases; Nigeria, a little less than 50,000. The numbers are all from worldometers.info as of Monday evening. Experts, including some from Africa, caution against taking the numbers at face value — most African countries aren’t testing enough, and record-keeping is poor in many. Others point to the low case fatality rates in South Africa and Nigeria (just around 2% in both) and say the high incidence of infectious diseases in Africa may have given its people some level of protection against the SARS-CoV2 virus which causes Covid-19. Egypt, with a fatality rate of 5.3% is an exception.Also read: Govt kick-starts talks to explore Covid-19 vaccine dealThe relatively slow march of Covid-19 through Africa, and the low fatality rates have encouraged talk of how countries on the continent could well follow the strategy that the United Kingdom erroneously tried to adopt at the beginning of the pandemic — aspire for herd immunity. It is likely the results of such an approach will be similar to what they were in the UK — a near disaster, and a sharp U-turn into a more conventional test-trace-isolate-treat strategy. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage With more countries, and, in India, more states and cities conducting antibody tests on a sample of the population (sero-surveys as they are called) to assess the prevalence of the disease and understand just what proportion of people have antibodies against the virus (and are, therefore, immune), herd immunity is one of those concepts that is always likely to be in the news. Delhi, where a random sero-survey across 11 districts showed that almost one in every four of those examined had been exposed to the disease, has completed its second sero-survey, and its results are expected later this week. It will be interesting to see whether its results match that of the first survey. From Delhi’s perspective, the best result will be a number that is higher than the 23% of the first survey (which was conducted in late June and early July; the second survey was conducted in early August; Delhi plans to conduct one every month). A higher number will mean more residents of the Capital have been exposed to the disease, and that the city is a step closer to achieving herd immunity. A similar exercise in Mumbai (not as representative, though, because of its smaller sample and restricted coverage) came up with the finding that 57% of those surveyed in slums and 16% of those surveyed in apartments (or residential societies) had been exposed to the disease. On Monday, Pune’s first sero-survey (covering 1,664 people and conducted in late July and early August) showed consistently high exposure to the virus across the city’s five administrative zones (from 36% to 65%), with 56-62% of those who live in slums, 44% of those who reside in bungalows, and 33% of apartment dwellers having been exposed to it. Pune is India’s worst affected city after Delhi, but these numbers, while unrepresentative, should bring it some cheer.Also read: Many delaying treatments for fear of Covid, putting their lives at risk, say doctorsPune’s numbers are close to the new estimates for herd immunity that experts are moving towards. A paper released on August 14 in Science, based on a mathematical model by researchers at the University of Nottingham and Stockholm University that took into account differences in age and activity levels in a population found that the herd immunity for Covid-19 could be around 40% (a June news report based on the same research put the number at 43%). The model does not take into account two other factors: not everyone exposed to the disease gets infected; and not everyone who gets infected passes it on to others. That would seem to suggest that the actual herd immunity level for Covid-19 may be lower, although this can only be established by more (and deeper) research. Still, if that is the case, and Pune, Mumbai, and Delhi’s numbers hold up to scrutiny, they are either safe or on their way there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-3v27kECrZsxV4LzBciT8hP.html
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court recommends 11 names for Kerala, Gujarat, Allahabad HCs||The Supreme Court collegium recently recommended the appointment of 11 new judges to three high courts.The decision was taken at a meeting of the collegium on August 14. The central government will now have to clear the eleven recommendations.While three names were recommended for the Gujarat high court, four names each were recommended for appointment to Allahabad and Kerala high courts. Sanjay Kumar Pachori, Subhash Chandra Sharma, Subhash Chand and Saroj Yadav have been recommended for appointment to the Allahabad high court, which is currently functioning with 99 judges even though its sanctioned strength is 161.For the Kerala high court, Murali Purushothaman, Ziyad Rahman AA, Karunakaran Babu and Dr. Kauser Edappagath have been recommended. The three names recommended for elevation to the Gujarat HC are Vaibhavi Devang Nanavati, Nirzarkumar Sushilkumar Desai and Nikhil Shreedharan Kariel. All three are lawyers. There are only 27 judges at the Gujarat HC which has a sanctioned strength of 52.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-recommends-11-names-for-kerala-gujarat-allahabad-hcs/story-DJ24fDqIoqB1yUUIGxX6zH.html
18-08-2020||India||Two terrorists shot dead in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla||Security forces shot dead two terrorists, hours after they killed three security personnel in an attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday, the police said. According to the police, the terrorists opened fire on a joint checkpoint of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the J&K police in the Watergam Kreeri area of Baramulla.“In the firing, two CRPF jawans and one SPO [Special Police Officer] of J&K police were killed. Soon after the attack, forces launched a search operation. The attackers were chased and killed,” Kashmir’s inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. He added that the gunmen were suspected to be the members of Pakistan-based terrorist outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. Officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that after the attack, the terrorists fled with the security personnel’s weapons, which were recovered from their possession. Kumar said it seemed that the terrorists had changed their strategy in the Valley and are now attacking security checkpoints. “It is a matter of concern. The number of forces on a naka point [checkpoint] is less and is normally in a remote area where they [the gunmen] conceal themselves by coming along with civilians and then fire on the forces. We have faced losses and they have managed to flee a few times, but, we will soon find a response to this tactic and end this problem,” he said.This was the third attack on security forces in Kashmir in less than a week. On Friday, two policemen were killed and another injured after suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists opened fire on a police team in Srinagar’s Nowgam area. On August 12, a soldier was injured in an attack in Sopore’s Hygam area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-shot-dead-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-baramulla/story-t8bLJIIcDqCxZ5xQQeLF6K.html
18-08-2020||India||Doyen of Hindustani classical music Pandit Jasraj dies at 90||“A huge pillar of Hindustani classical music has fallen,” poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar said on Monday. “I have been with Pandit Jasraj in India and abroad and I have seen how people responded to him — the kind of reverence and admiration they had for him reflected his genius and his humility.” Speaking on Monday, the day of Jasraj’s passing — the legendary vocalist died aged 90, from cardiac arrest, in New Jersey — Akhtar recalled an event at which they performed together in New Delhi a few years ago. “The event was called Tiranga and was conceptualised by his daughter Durga Jasraj. All the elements of the Indian national flag had to be described through poems recited by me, without directly mentioning nationalism or patriotism. He performed, singing about the colour orange. And only by his voice, his taan and his singing he created the whole atmosphere that the poem sought to convey,” Akhtar recalled. He was a teacher till the very end, his daughter Durga said on Monday. “What he did for Indian classical vocal music was unprecedented. He had schools for classical music all over the world — in North America, in Canada in Mumbai, Kerala and Pune. Even at 90, he was teaching via [the video chat app] Zoom. He had no mental blocks about technology or anything else. He even did three virtual concerts recently.” Jasraj’s love of music really did transcend. The proponent of the Mewati Gharana made his debut as a tabla artist in 1937. His first concert as a vocalist was in the darbar of King Tribhuvan Bik Bikram Shah of Nepal in 1952; he was 22. It was here that the genius of his voice was first recognised, and he was awarded 5,000 mohurs. As he put it in a 2019 interview with HT, “The sum was more than I could count.” In 1995, percussionist Aneesh Pradhan remembers meeting Jasraj at the Pandit Motiram Pandit Maniram event that the latter organised annually in Hyderabad. . “I was sitting in the green room with my tabla and Pandit Jasraj reached out and said, ‘Let me give it a go’,” Pradhan said, “and after so many years, he was perfectly in command of the instrument. It was quite astounding.” In those few minutes, Pradhan said, he witnessed the wonder of a music-lover rediscovering an instrument. “There was no element of his being a star. It was just a musician doing what he loved, and it was heart-warming.” Durga said love of music spilled over and enchanted others around the world. “He was born in a very small village in Haryana and he captivated an entire world and also became a planet last year.” In September 2019, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) named a minor planet the Panditjasraj 300128, the number reflecting the date of his birth in reverse. It whirls between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, in a band of others also named after classical musicians — there’s a Pavarotti, a Beethoven, a Mozart. Jasraj received honour after honour here at home too, including the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. The tribute that meant most to him, he said, was when the people of his village of Pilli Mandori built a park in his name. Jaraj was an innovator. In the 1970s he introduced a unique form of the jugalbandi, called the Jasrangi, where a male and female vocalist sang different ragas simultaneously, in their natural pitch, and eventually merged into one uniform sound. It evolved from the idea of equality. He revived old forms of music such as the haveli sangeet, once performed only in temples. He sang for films and listened to all forms of music, including Bollywood tunes. “What a blessing to sing till the very end,” Durga said of her father on Monday. “If you listen to one of those online concerts today you’ll ask yourself, was he ever 90?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doyen-of-hindustani-classical-music-pandit-jasraj-dies-at-90/story-DHVyam4iY8nSrNxSxZxZJM.html
18-08-2020||India||India may take fresh action on China on economy front||With the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) still holding forward positions on Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs area of Ladakh and showing no signs of a promised de-escalation, the Narendra Modi government is contemplating further action against China on economic front to drive home the message that India means business.According to senior government officials familiar with the matter, the apex China Study Group (CSG) met on Monday to discuss the PLA action on the ground in Ladakh and its military posture in occupied Aksai Chin region of Tibet. The CSG, which has India’s senior most ministers, military leaders and bureaucrat as members, is the body that recommends the country’s course on action with China.While China wants India to normalize diplomatic relations on an as-is-where-is basis, the Modi government firmly believes that anything short of status quo ante in Ladakh sector is unacceptable with a cost attached to it. Despite being the aggressor, the PLA believes that its troops are well within it own perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Thus, it is holding on to the positions at both Gogra-Hot Springs as well as the green top of finger four feature of Pangong Tso lake while making unacceptable demands on Indian Army posts.According to officials, the Indian Army has been asked to remain in forward positions along the 1597 km LAC in Ladakh.On July 5, the Indian Special Representative on boundary dialogue spoke to his Chinese counterpart for more than two hours . Also read: PLA still at LAC, India plans new ways to counter China’s wolf-warrior diplomacyThe two decided that both sides fully disengage and then de-escalate but a month later, the situation has reached a stalemate with the Chinese offering a diplomatic face-saver to India without any corresponding withdrawal on the ground.Now that the US has taken action against Huawei and its supporting entities for spying, it is quite evident that India will also keep the Chinese communication and power companies out of any future projects. Also read: Indian Rafales practise mountain night flying for Ladakh in Himachal PradeshThe Modi government is clear that the bilateral ties are directly linked with the border peace and will not allow them on a parallel track as in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-take-fresh-action-on-china-on-economy-front/story-DJGmMSHcQ4eKjd3IUPGATO.html
18-08-2020||India||Visva Bharati university closes campus after clashes||Santiniketan’s Visva Bharati university on Monday decided to temporarily close its campus following violent protests against its decision to construct a boundary wall around the venue of its annual fair. The protesters demolished two of the university’s gates and threw construction material stocked to build a wall around an open ground, where an annual fair is held in December, police said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor of the central university.The fair, popularly known as Poush Mela, is a prestigious annual cultural event started more than a century ago and draws thousands of people and foreign tourists. Locals and traders — the fair is a major source of income for many — have been staging demonstrations against the boundary wall since Saturday. However, Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, has refused to stop the construction.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee disapproved of the wall and said: “I do not want any construction that destroys the beauty of Visva Bharati. The governor called me to seek the state’s intervention. I have told the police to let the district magistrate call a meeting where students, locals and the vice-chancellor can express their views. I will urge the vice-chancellor not do anything that destroys the heritage of Tagore and Bengal.” The vice-chancellor did not comment. Anirban Sircar, the only designated spokesperson of Visva Bharati did not take calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-university-closes-campus-after-clashes/story-NQZFDuDgkffPIHbPjPpnFM.html
18-08-2020||India||Chinese mystery man under I-T, ED scanner||What is known is that Charlie Peng is the Chinese national being questioned by the income-tax department who detained him earlier this month for his alleged involvement in a Rs1,000 crore cross-border money laundering racket using shell companies.Around two years before income-tax detectives got to him, Peng, 41, was arrested by Delhi police on charges of forgery. In 2018, he was a Chinese man living illegally in India using forged papers. To his neighbours in the Dwarka neighbourhood where he lived, Peng posed as a northeast Indian who ran a successful pharmaceuticals business, had an office in Gurugram and moved around in swanky cars, including a Toyota Fortuner, and seemed to have plenty of money.Nobody knew much more about the short, middle-aged, bespectacled man. Until he was caught this month, no one in the neighbourhood knew that in 2009 Peng had fled China, trekking from Tibet to Nepal. No one knew that for six years he had lived as a monk at a monastery in Nepal and then travelled to India,where he became a garments trader. Many in the Delhi police recall him as a smooth talker who knew a lot about India, which enabled him to pass off as an Indian citizen. When he was first arrested on a rainy evening in September 2018, he tried to pass himself off as an Indian businessman. On the evening of September 12,2018, at 6.30, a police informant tipped off inspector Sanjay Gupta about a Chinese national who had forged papers and was living in India under a false identity. The informant told Gupta that the man, who identified himself as Charlie Peng, may be engaging in “anti-national” activities using fake identity documents. Less than an hour later, Gupta and his team were in Majnu Ka Tila, looking for a Toyota Fortuner with Haryana licence plates, that the informant had alerted the police about. The informant had told inspector Gupta that Peng was meeting an accomplice in Majnu Ka Tila, a Tibetan refugee settlement on the banks of the Yamuna near north Delhi.“At 7.10 pm, we spotted a Fortuner car coming and the informer pointed to us that he was Charlie Peng. He could have escaped, but because of the heavy traffic...could not. We stopped his car. He was seated next to the driver. He said his name was Charlie Peng,” read Delhi police’s charge sheet, filed in a city court after his arrest in 2018. Delhi police officers who questioned Peng in 2018 said he was living at an apartment in Dwarka and had an office in Gurugram’s Phase 5. Police then recovered two Aadhaar cards in the name of Charlie Peng, which showed he was a resident of Dwarka and another showing him to belong to Churachandpur in Manipur.His real name, according to police records, is Luo Sang. “In Dwarka, none of the neighbours knew about his past. He had told them that he was from the northeastern state. He had also married a woman from Mizoram. Our team had gone to Manipur and also spoken to the sarpanch of the village. No one knew him at the Manipur address mentioned in his Aadhaar card,” said an officer who questioned him.The beginningsPolice records show that Peng was born in Tibet in 1978. He told police his parents had a troubled marriage. When he was eight, his mother met a man named Li Peng, who helped them flee Tibet and shift to Nanjing in Jiangsu, China, where Li Peng ran an auto spare parts business.“He was not good in studies and had developed bad habits. When he was 18, he went to Tibet to meet his biological father. He stayed with his father for a year. He worked as a businessman dealing in medicines. He started trading of a local medicinal herb, dong chong xia cao. He earned handsome money from this business because he knew the Chinese language and could bargain hard with the Chinese people,” his interrogation report in 2018 reads.Peng told police that he wanted to expand his business and illegally entered Nepal on foot with six other Tibetans in the summer of 2009. Police say Peng’s motive was to come to India and that Nepal was only a transit point. In Nepal, Peng stayed for six years until 2014, living as a monk at the Gelug Monastery near Kathmandu and continued to trade in dong chong xia cao. He told his interrogators that the business was so good that many people from the monastery and outside became dependent on him. “Some acquaintances in the monastery suggested to him to go to India to earn a fortune. In 2014, he came to India at Majnu Ka Tila, New Delhi from Kathmandu by bus,” a report on his confession before the police’s investigating officer reads.Detailing his early days in Delhi, police said Peng had stayed in the Punjabi Basti area opposite Majnu Ka Tila and used documents from the monastery to get an identity card as a Tibetan refugee. According to records, Peng then started importing noodles from China and sent them to monks in south India. When he made money, he shifted to importing Chinese goods through an online firm. “As he knew Mandarin, he was able to converse with Chinese exporters and earned their faith. Gradually he developed links with them. From Punjabi Basti, New Delhi he went to Bangalore as his imports were destined to Bangalore. Thereafter he again shifted to New Delhi and took a flat in Dwarka,” a police officer told a court in 2018.Move to GurugramPolice said that by 2016, when Peng’s business grew, he shifted from Dwarka to Gurugram and also opened a company by the name of Sunhara Bird Pvt. Ltd. According to information of different search engines, the company is shown to be a financial planning firm. “We always suspected that he was into money laundering and other crimes but we had little evidence then. We only charged him for fraud and forgery then,” a second police officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Police then found that Peng operated a money exchange business from his Gurugram office. Two bank accounts --at IndusInd Bank and ICICI Bank--were opened using fake Indian identity cards. There was at least Rs20 lakh in the ICICI Bank account and about Rs70,000 in IndusInd bank, according to the bank account statement details police mentioned in his interrogation report.Currently under investigation for his handling of the finances of several firms and laundering money using shell companies, Peng is suspected to have created a web of sham entities to transfer hawala funds to and from China, income-tax officials said. Currently out on bail in the forgery case, Peng was posing as a businessman who dealt in the import and export of medical and electronic goods to mislead authorities. After his arrest, the Central Bureau of Direct Taxes said that “ the subsidiary of a Chinese company linked to Peng and its related concerns had taken over Rs100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms...”Income tax officials said that during raids on August 11 and 12, they recovered a large number of documents apart from over Rs50 lakh in cash, from premises in Delhi, Gurugram and Ghaziabad linked to his associates, such as chartered accountants, bank officials and representatives of a few Chinese firms who helped him. “He had made it big. He had even married a woman from Mizoram. Initially, she also did not know about his past. He had got a tout to prepare a fake Indian passport from a tout in Manipur. He had money then and that money was possibly not earned from just selling clothes,” a third police officer who questioned Peng in 2018 said, also requesting anonymity.“Currently, he has approached the court to release his passport. He may not have thought that he would be arrested and that the government would find evidence. If the investigators go deeper, they will find more about Peng and the Chinese residents for whom he has been working for all these years,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-mystery-man-under-i-t-ed-scanner/story-bx06Ca03elSLdU2fjP1fJP.html
18-08-2020||India||Functioning of state information panels takes a hit: Survey||The working of the state information commissions (SICs) dropped from 80% in June to 44% in July, a survey by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) has found. The CHRI is an organisation working towards greater transparency in governance. The survey was conducted contacting each of 28 SICs. The first survey (in April) had found that none of the SICs were working, but during the second survey (in May) 12 SICs had opened their offices, but only eight were conducting hearings. According to its third rapid telephonic survey, the organisation found that the commissions that had previously started attending to litigants June had stopped by July. “We found, out of the 29 Information Commissions nearly 80% (23 Commissions) had resumed hearings during Unlock1.0 starting on 1st June, 2020,” says CHRI’s report. The Central Information Commission began functioning in mid-April. “We continued to track the working of Information Commissions during the Unlock 2.0 phase... This time we found, only 44% Information Commissions under The Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act), i.e., 13 out of 29 Commissions were conducting hearings during Unlock 2.0 starting on 1st July,” the report adds. SIC officials say that reason for the hearings stopping in July is because of the spike in Covid-19 cases across the country. However, the inability to conduct the hearings has drawn criticism from social activists for denying people access to information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/functioning-of-state-information-panels-takes-a-hit-survey/story-1WiHY27q6qtinvRLchO2IM.html
18-08-2020||India||Congress hits out at Sanjay Jha over claim of rumblings within party||Did some Congress leaders sent an SOS letter to their party president Sonia Gandhi criticising the current state of the main opposition party? Former party spokesperson Sanjay Jha’s claim to that effect may have been denied by the party, but at least one other person confirmed that a letter had indeed been written and delivered on Independence Day to 10, Janpath, Gandhi’s residence. The signatories, this leader said, included former ministers and Chief Ministers although neither was available for comment and HT was unable to verify this.The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala took to Twitter to rebut Jha whose claim created a buzz in Congress circles. He called it a ploy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divert attention from the issue of the ruling party’s links with Facebook.“Special Misinformation Group on Media-TV Debate Guidance in its Whatsapp of today directed to run the story of a non-existent letter of Congress leaders to divert attention from Facebook-BJP links. Of course, BJP stooges have started acting upon it,” Surjewala tweeted.His reference is to the controversy surrounding a Wall Street Journal story that said Facebook’s India policy chief had advised against acting against an account belonging to a BJP leader for hate speech.Earlier in the day, Jha claimed that about 100 leaders of the Congress party, including Members of Parliament, wrote to Gandhi on the leadership issue , seeking transparent elections to the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC. Watch this space,” Jha had tweeted.In a virtual news conference, Congress spokespersons Supriya Shrinate and Pranav Jha said “no such letter has been written or received” by the party, alleging the issue is being raised at the behest of the BJP to divert the attention its nexus with Facebook.Jha was suspended from the Congress last month for “anti-party activities and breach of discipline” following his criticism of the leadership over the handling of the political turmoil in Rajasthan in the wake of rebellion by Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators.And before that, Jha was sacked as a Congress spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-sanjay-jha-over-claim-of-rumblings-within-party/story-znpuub6l6ykjtWEaVLoaVM.html
18-08-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia attacks Congress over questioning talent||Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Monday that questions are raised against capable leaders in the Congress, citing the example of Sachin Pilot, who briefly rebelled against the Rajasthan unit of the party.“Sachin ji is my friend. He has been with me for the past 20 years on the path of service to people. The pain and anguish he has undergone is known to all. And we also know how the Congress is trying to put its house in order after a delayed approach. The truth is not hidden. Today, in the Congress, questions are raised against capabilities and it’s sad,” Scindia said.In an attack on former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, Scindia said leaders of the Congress are only interested in reclaiming power and have nothing to do with public service. “Congress leaders are struggling to get their chair back. They want that they should anyhow get their chair back. They have nothing to do with public service or with the promises they had made to people,” he said. He was responding to a query on Nath’s statement that the Congress would bounce back to power after by-elections.“I am confident that people are with the BJP and in the coming by-elections, these people (Congress leaders) will get a strong reply in the court of the common people,” the BJP MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jyotiraditya-scindia-attacks-congress-over-questioning-talent/story-vVRSaUXDENiOpqFJqERGVK.html
18-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh journalist booked for Facebook post saying tribals killing each other||A journalist based out of Chhattisgarh’s Surguja has been booked for provocation and criminal intimidation over a Facebook post.A case was registered against Manish Soni for a post on Facebook that tribals were killing each other. Chhattisgarh police said Soni was booked under section 153 (A), 153 (B) and 504 (B) on Sunday and investigation has started.“On the complaint of one Alok Dubey, a case has been registered but no arrest has been made. We have started investigation and further action will be taken. The journalist will be given a chance to submit his views,” Surguja Range inspector general of police K L Dangi said.Soni is a reporter of a regional channel operating in Surguja district. On March 25, he shared the photographs of personnel of district reserve guard (DRG) who were killed in a Maoist attack on March 18, and wrote on Facebook: “Marne valon kee jaati dekhein aur maarne valon kee pehchaan hone dein sab ek hi jaati ke honge .. Ab marvaane valon ko samjhiye ..jawaab mil jaayega.. ab inhe saheej kahke shaadat ko salaam kijiye aur agali baar kee ghatna ka intezaar kijiye.. adivasi ko adivasi se ladakar hi jungle pe kabza kiya sakta hai …(The caste of those who died and the killers ...will be the same. Now understand the people behind the killings and you find the answers. Call them martyrs, salute them and wait for the next incident. The jungle could only be encroached upon by making tribals fight each other).” Soni was unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts. Interestingly, Chhattisgarh government has set up a committee to draft Chhattisgarh Protection of Mediapersons Act for the protection of journalists working in the state.“Police have registered a case against Soni because he was constantly writing about custodial death of a Pankaj Baik,” said Kamal Shukla, one of the journalists who had initially demanded the law for the protection of journalists in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-journalist-booked-for-facebook-post-saying-tribals-killing-each-other/story-hgk1vXuSJDD3kI1wpxhjeO.html
18-08-2020||India||Foreign secy Harsh Shringla to visit Bangladesh, likely to meet PM Sheikh Hasina||Indian foreign secretary Harsh Shringla will make a previously unannounced visit to Bangladesh on Tuesday, during which he is expected to meet Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, people familiar with developments said. This will be Shringla’s first trip abroad since the Covid-19 outbreak. It will also be the first visit to Bangladesh by a senior Indian official since travel restrictions were imposed due to the pandemic. Shringla, who earlier served as the Indian envoy in Dhaka, is expected to carry a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Hasina, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The people said Shringla’s discussions in Dhaka are expected to focus on ways to further strengthen the bilateral relationship. He is expected to return home the same day. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry regarding the visit. Hasina visited India last October, while Modi’s planned visit to Bangladesh in March to participate in events marking the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was called off due to the pandemic. The two leaders have spoken on phone several times this year, most recently in May. Ties between the two sides have been under some strain since last year, when Bangladeshi leaders were irked by comments from BJP leaders about deporting illegal migrants from Assam. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the implementation of the National Register of Citizens also hit ties, and Hasina had questioned the need for CAA during an interview earlier this year. India has taken several steps in recent weeks to improve connectivity with Bangladesh, including handing over 10 railway locomotives last month. This was done days after the first container train made its way from India to Bangladesh and the first shipment of goods was sent from Kolkata to Tripura via Chattogram port. After taking over as foreign secretary in January, Shringla had visited Dhaka in March. Shringla had met Prime Minister Hasina during his last visit to Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-shringla-to-visit-bangladesh-likely-to-meet-pm-sheikh-hasina/story-tsXna6EEa2qCsXiBPmmZ5I.html
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court admits plea on MP Congress MLAs who defected||The Supreme Court on Monday admitted a PIL by a Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA demanding that 12 defected Congress MLAs be restricted from continuing as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chauhan-led government in the state. The petition also complained against the assembly speaker for facilitating the MLAs to continue as ministers by delaying a decision on the disqualification petitions against 22 Congress MLAs, including the 12, pending since March 12. These 22 Congress MLAs, who joined the BJP, led to the downfall of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde issued a notice on the PIL filed by Jabalpur North MLA Vinay Saxena, and sought responses from the speaker and Vidhan Sabha through its Principal Secretary by September 21. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha, representing petitioners, said that the Speaker is bound by a recent decision of the apex court to decide disqualification petitions expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-admits-plea-on-mp-congress-mlas-who-defected/story-TTRPoDzoOjEgm3EYL0THFI.html
18-08-2020||India||HRD Ministry is now officially Ministry of Education as it gets President’s nod||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday gave assent to the change in name of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) as ministry of education, an official notification said. The name change was among the key recommendations of the draft new National Education Policy (NEP), which was also cleared by the Union Cabinet last month. A gazette notification published on Monday night said the President had given his nod to changing the name of HRD ministry to ministry of education. The heading ministry of human resources development stands substituted to ministry of education, it said. The ministry of education was renamed as the HRD ministry in 1985 during the tenure of then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. The NEP was introduced the next year and it was later amended in 1992. P V Narasimha Rao became the first HRD minister in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet. A panel headed by former ISRO chairman K Kasturirangan, tasked with working on the new NEP, had first proposed that the name of the ministry should be changed again. In 2018, the idea was also mooted by Ram Bahadur Rai, chairman of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts and also chairman of the joint organising committee of the Conference on Academic Leadership on Education for Resurgence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-nod-to-change-of-hrd-ministry-s-name-to-ministry-of-education/story-XHcCZzUeYnFwIYM0GPyWTI.html
18-08-2020||India||‘Can’t waste a year’: SC rejects NEET, JEE delay||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for those aspiring to join top engineering schools will be held on schedule in September after the Supreme Court on Monday rejected a plea seeking postponement of the two entrance tests in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the National Testing Agency (NTA) to hold the examinations in September.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year?” justice Mishra asked the petitioners’ counsel, Alakh Alok Srivastava.The petition, which was filed on August 7 by 11 students who are planning to appear for JEE/ NEET, sought postponement of the exams until after the Covid-19 crisis has passed.JEE is scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6 and NEET for September 13. JEE and NEET, which were initially scheduled to be held in April and May, respectively, were postponed because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Last year, around 960,000 students appeared for JEE and over 1.4 million for NEET. The postponement of the exams has already disrupted the academic calendars of engineering and medical colleges across India. When contacted, Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director of NIT, Jalandhar, said, “The students and their parents face a lot of pressure as they prepare for these exams. It is important that they are held so that the academic session can move on.” On July 3, the NTA, the central government body tasked with conducting JEE and NEET, came out with public notices to hold JEE and NEET in September.Srivastava pointed out that various other examinations like the ones organised by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) had been postponed and sought parity with those for NEET and JEE. He also submitted that the petitioners were not seeking an indefinite postponement, and wanted the exams to be on hold until the development of a vaccine for Covid-19, which, he said, may be discovered soon. “Vaccine for Covid-19 is on its way. I am not seeking an indefinite postponement,” he saidThe bench wondered how lawyers were demanding the resumption of physical hearings in the courts while filing petitions seeking postponement of entrance and other competitive examinations because of the viral disease.“You (lawyers) are demanding opening of physical courts. But you want exams to be postponed. Why can’t exams be held with precautions?” the court asked.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the NTA, opposed the plea, stating that all safeguards were in place for holding the examinations.“The career of students cannot be put in peril. We find no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, ordered.A government official said the NTA was already working on a thorough plan to ensure social distancing is followed. Another petition praying that NEET and JEE be held on schedule was withdrawn by the petitioner after the court rejected the plea seeking their postponement.Sumit Chandra Das, a JEE aspirant, said the uncertainty or frequent postponement of exams were not easy on students as they went through nervousness and anxiety. “COVID-19 is a concern but exams should be held and with proper arrangements,” he said.JEE scores are the basis for admission to engineering schools like the National Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institutes of Technology. Admission to medical and dental undergraduate courses is based on NEET scores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-waste-a-year-sc-rejects-neet-jee-delay/story-7RGAOR9uLU3z9oXzO4ZjaM.html
18-08-2020||India||Govt kick-starts talks to explore Covid-19 vaccine deal||The government took the first steps on Monday to potentially secure a procurement deal for a Covid-19 vaccine, asking officials of five pharma firms, including three that have candidates in clinical trials, to present a road map within three days of how soon they can produce large quantities and what pricing they expect if their shot is approved. India is yet to strike a pre-production deal with any of the vaccine developers that are in the race for a successful candidate, a strategy several advanced economies such as United States, United Kingdom and some European Union nations have adopted in order to jump what might be a long waiting line. “Even as scientists are working to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, we are simultaneously working on procuring the final product to ensure availability and access to our population. As part of India’s proactive, pre-emptive and graded response to Covid-19 since January, the expert group is holding consultations with vaccine manufacturers to plan ahead for the production, pricing and distribution of the vaccine, whenever it is ready,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said following Monday’s meeting. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe meeting was held between an expert group spearheading India’s vaccine strategy and involved Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila – all three have vaccine candidates in human trials. Serum Institute is licensed to produce up to some quantities the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is largely considered the front runner globally. The two others were Biological E and Gennova, both of which have candidates in preclinical phases. All five are Indian companies. Trial data of none of the India-made vaccines is yet to be made available.The expert group asked the representatives of these companies to prepare and a present a comprehensive note on the way forward to the government by Thursday. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We first need to get a sense of how prepared vaccine manufacturers are. There is no final number at the moment that the government is looking to pre-order, even though initial projections made a few months ago among the various departments involved talked about roughly 680 million vaccines being required, including primary and booster shots,” said a person aware of the discussions in the vaccine strategy-making process, asking not to be named. “The target group is likely to be between 18 and 65 years. However, there is no final number decided as yet,” this person added. The expert panel is headed by Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The other members of the panel are department of biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup, Indian Council of Medical Research director general Dr Balram Bhargava, and department of pharmaceuticals secretary PD Vaghela.Also read| ‘Very worrying’: Few UK Asian volunteers in Covid-19 vaccine trialsIn its official release, the health ministry confirmed representatives of the five manufacturers attended the meeting with the expert group. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration today met leading domestic vaccine manufactures — Serum Institute of India, Pune; Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad; Zydus Cadila, Ahmedabad; Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Pune; and Biological E, Hyderabad. The meeting was mutually beneficial and productive. It provided the National Expert Group with inputs about the present stage of various candidate vaccines being developed by the indigenous manufacturers as well as their expectations from the Union Government,” said a statement. UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca and United States’s Moderna-NIAID are the global front runners for a coronavirus vaccine and are undergoing tests in the largest of the trials yet. India too is looking at these options, top government officials told HT earlier.The national vaccine expert group has referred the matter of selection of the right vaccine candidate for use in the country to the Standing Technical Sub-Committee of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). NTAGI is an advisory committee consisting of multidisciplinary groups of experts advising the government on vaccine and immunisation policy based on available evidence.The government will also closely track the progress of candidates being tested by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the AZD1222 vaccine.The centre has already decided to take charge of procurement of the vaccine as and when it is ready. “The states have been told not to approach companies directly for procurement related requests,” confirmed a second official in the government in the know of things, who did not wish to be identified.The first meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 was held on August 12 with all states. India has decided to support its key neighbours and development partner countries for Covid-19 vaccines.India has some of the biggest vaccine makers by volume and is also likely to receive some doses as part of multilateral mechanisms such as the World Health organization-led Covax Facility that is meant to ensure equitable distribution of doses between rich and emerging economies. “This is just the right time to start planning as the competition for Covid-19 vaccine is going to be steep globally. It makes sense to plan for the logistics now to avoid last minute procurement rush, especially when you do not know which one of these vaccines is going to finally materialise,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.The health ministry announced earlier that the delivery mechanism will go digital to check last mile delivery on a real-time basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-kick-starts-talks-toexplore-vaccine-deal/story-DMDnHJVDs2zPTA9oM2XzHM.html
18-08-2020||India||Naidu writes to PM over ‘phone tapping’||Hyderabad Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday demanded that the Centre order a high-level inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former Andhra Pradesh chief minister alleged that the YSR Congress government in the state was tapping of phones of opposition leaders, advocates, journalists and social activists. He accused the CM of perpetrating a “jungle raj” on the people of the state. The TDP chief alleged that the ruling party and some private individuals were using sophisticated technology and illegal software to tap phones. “This is in a violation of the Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India that protect the fundamental rights of citizens. The ruling YSRCP is using illegal tactics to safeguard its power by intimidating and blackmailing the opponents and dissenting voices. These illegal activities are posing a serious threat to the right to privacy in the State,” he said. “It appears that the ruling YSRCP has now even targeted judiciary, the third pillar of the democracy, as it is facing hurdles from the judiciary,” Naidu said. Naidu said the Centre should take stringent action in this regard. “If these nefarious activities were not put to an end, they would emerge as a bigger threat to national security and sovereignty of the country as a whole,” he said. In a related development, YSRC rebel lawmaker K Raghurama Krishnam Raju made similar complaints to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Sunday. Alleging that the state intelligence department was tapping his two numbers, he requested that the Centre order a probe against Jagan government. On Monday, senior advocate Sravan Kumar also filed a petition before the Andhra Pradesh high court seeking an inquiry into the alleged telephone tapping. He presented certain evidences before the court, which agreed to take up the hearing on the petition on Tuesday. Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha refuted the allegations. She accused Naidu of making baseless allegations to tarnish the image of the Jagan government. “Are you an anti-social element or a terrorist? Or are you afraid that your money laundering activities will come out if telephone tapping is done?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-writes-to-pm-over-phone-tapping/story-RkemecyTtBMxOyPb2JUQpM.html
18-08-2020||India||Bhushan contempt case: SC to examine when can a judge be accused of corruption||The Supreme Court on Monday indicated that it was in favour of closing a 2009 contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan, but added that it would first examine whether alleging corruption against judges in the public is permissible and to put in place a procedure by which such statements can be dealt with even if they involved a retired judge.Bhushan gave an interview to Tehelka magazine published on September 5, 2009 alleging that half the past 16 chief justices of India (CJIs) had been corrupt. The matter will now be heard next Monday.The Court had on August 10 agreed to proceed with the contempt case against Bhushan. Along with Bhushan, former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal is also charged with contempt. The apex court convicted Bhushan of contempt last week for two tweets directed against the present CJI SA Bobde and the judiciary. On Monday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra expanded the scope of its earlier order and said, “We like to be addressed on the issue that in what circumstances can such a statement on corruption be made and the procedure to be adopted in this regard, with regard to sitting and retired judges.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who had offered apology on behalf of Tejpal on the earlier occasion, told the bench: “This matter can be given a quietus.” The bench replied: “We want to give a quietus to the case but it involves a question as to the circumstances in which you can allege corruption by speaking to the press.”Bhushan, who is represented by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, demanded the matter to be sent to a Constitution bench of five judges. He formulated five issues, the important among them being, “Whether the expression of a bona fide opinion about the extent of corruption in any section of the judiciary would amount to contempt of court.” And If yes, “Whether the person who expresses such opinion…is obliged to prove that his opinion is correct or whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion.”The bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, posted the matter for hearing next Monday and said: “Even on referring the case to Constitution bench we will hear all parties….if we shirk our responsibility, it may not be proper for the future of the (judicial) system.”Since these questions are bound to arise in the other contempt case decided against Bhushan, Dhavan said that the judgment passed by the apex court convicting Bhushan of contempt on August 14 has to be challenged as it suffered from “grave imbalances”. He intends to file a review plea against the judgment, Dhavan said. He referred to decisions by the Supreme Court wherein disparaging comments against retired judges was not held to be contempt.In a related development, the same bench on Monday heard a public interest litigation filed by a petitioner, Subhash Vijayran, who demanded that no aspersions be cast against judges in public. The petitioner said: “Judges are not politicians. Any imputation or motive attributed to judges cannot be defended by them in the media.” The bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked the petitioner if he could cite any law or judgment in support of his case. The Court gave two weeks to the petitioner to prepare the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-contempt-case-sc-to-examine-when-can-a-judge-be-accused-of-corruption/story-9UzMthZ4TBpmVCRioS45dM.html
18-08-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar urges farmers to plant trees on agricultural land||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday encouraged farmer to plant trees on their lands which can be sold and transported when ready. Addressing a virtual meeting with forest ministers of all states and Union territories, Javadekar said, “Farmers shouldn’t fear that their land will become forest land. The land will remain theirs. They can sell the trees when needed and transport them.” With the Compensatory Afforestation Fund money available with states, water and fodder augmentation projects will have to be taken up in one forest in each state; afforestation of river banks and floodplains of all major rivers will be taken up; school nurseries will be developed in 2000 schools across the country and urban forestry projects will also be taken up with private participation, he added.The Union environment ministry had released Rs 47,436 crore to 27 states for compensatory afforestation and other forest conservation work last August.“At least 80% of the compensatory afforestation funds are to be utilised only for afforestation and rest of the 20% can be utilised for capacity and infrastructure development like buildings or vehicles. The money should not be used for payment of salaries, traveling allowances and medical expenses,” he said. Javadekar also asked states to come up with an outline of Project Dolphin (which was announced by PM Modi on Independence Day) within a fortnight. The project will involve long-term conservation of Gangetic dolphins and dolphins in the sea along the coasts.Sanjay Kumar, director general of forests, said there is a sub-mission on agroforestry under the ministry of agriculture which provides 50% subsidy to farmers for plantation. The environment ministry is also considering making common lands accessible to private parties with an arrangement of benefit sharing with locals. “An arrangement has to be developed which is friendly and acceptable to local people because common lands provide various benefits to locals. We have received a number of suggestions and requests on this matter. But it’s a complex matter and the policy is in conceptual stage,” he said.“The Environment Ministry had put out a draft Forest Policy in 2019. The policy had aimed to take us back to the 1980s when state forest departments were basically operating as commercial plantation growing agencies with no care for India’s forest diversity or the relationships between communities and forests. The 2019 policy was heavily criticised by many for various reasons and it never got finalised. This new announcement by the minister reflects this draft policy and it may take us back to those years of heavily funded plantation forestry. The policy is completely unsuitable for the new ecological realities we are in today,” said Manju Menon, senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-urges-farmers-to-plant-trees-on-agri-land/story-TbBTDnwsM2n4cytMqitPnM.html
18-08-2020||India||Delhi committee likely to probe Facebook officials over charges||New Delhi: The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee on Monday said it will soon summon Facebook India executives including its public policy director Ankhi Das as it seeks to investigate alleged instances of “intentional and deliberate inaction” by the social media company to curtail hate speech by members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The committee, headed by Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Rajendra Nagar, Raghav Chadha, said it had received “several complaints” after the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14 published a report titled Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics. The WSJ report alleged that Facebook executives, particularly Das, cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked to the BJP, despite them being internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence.Chadha said the committee will also investigate whether Facebook executives were complicit in the alleged orchestration of the February riots in northeast Delhi riots that left 53 people dead and around 400 injured.“Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony has received several complaints emanating from a scathing article published in the WSJ. These complaints pertain to the alleged role of Facebook in deliberate and willful inaction on the part of the social media company to rein in hate speech and to impose and implement its own policies when it comes to curbing hate mongers. The complaints prima facie indicate that Facebook allegedly provided a platform for breeding communal discord. The committee has evaluated the complaints and has come to the conclusion that immediate cognisance of the matter is required. The proceedings of the committee have been set in motion from Monday,” Chadha said after the first meeting of the panel on the issue.When contacted, Facebook declined to comment on the matter.Chadha said the panel shall be sending summons to Facebook executives including Das.“The committee shall convene its meeting this week to initiate the proceedings forthwith. The committee aims at redressing the issue at the earliest, therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion. If needed, it will also give its recommendations to the Assembly. The sole intention is to ensure and promote peace and harmony in the NCT {national capital territory} of Delhi. No unholy nexus or no alliance between a social media platform and hate mongers can be allowed to breed with a view to disturbing the communal harmony in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-committee-likely-to-probe-facebook-officials-over-charges/story-P1vqMTpFr2rx9iUiVsltDJ.html
18-08-2020||India||Facebook India exec files FIR over ‘violent threats’||Delhi Police’s cyber cell on Monday registered an FIR on a complaint by Ankhi Das, public policy director of Facebook India, who alleged receiving death threats and social media abuse after a report in the Wall Street Journal suggested the company displayed bias towards the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in censoring hate speech.In her complaint, Das said she was receiving threats and demanded an FIR under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to sexually coloured remarks, vulgar gestures through words, and criminal intimidation. “The content, which even includes my photograph is evidently threatening to my life and body and I fear for my safety as well as that of my family members. The content also maligns my reputation based on a news article and I am subjected to name-calling, cyber bullying and eve-teasing online,” she said.She also demanded police protection at her home in south Delhi.Das emailed her complaint to the cyber cell unit of South Delhi district police. Delhi Police’s specialised Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) team examined her complaint and registered an FIR. “On a complaint regarding online threats and harassment received from Ms. Ankhi Das, Facebook India, a case has been registered under relevant sections of law on August 17 and investigation has been taken up by CyPAD Unit of Delhi Police,” a statement released by the police said. The police neither commented on the sections applied in the FIR, nor on her request for security. In her complaint, Das said the threats began on Friday evening after the WSJ report appeared. The alleged harassment included death threats on Twitter, threats on Facebook and circulation of her photographs on social media with defamatory comments.In her email, 49-year-old Das attached links to two alleged threats on Twitter, two on Facebook, screenshots of other forms of harassment and the link to the WSJ article that she alleged was being further published in a “mischaracterised and distorted manner” by publications in India.A Facebook spokesperson said, “We take the safety and security of our employees seriously and care for their well-being. However, we do not comment on individual employee matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-india-exec-files-fir-over-violent-threats/story-vF3shevVZfaOYPm8gDqIxL.html
18-08-2020||India||Charles Allen, author of Ashoka, no more||“I’m very conscious that I’m a writer of history, not a historian,” Charles Allen once said at a literary festival in India in 2015, while talking about his book Ashoka – the Search for India’s Lost Emperor, which had released in 2012. The work was well-received, and Allen travelled with it, speaking at panels, including the Jaipur Literary Festival, marveling often at the number of youngsters who had come to hear him speak about the Mauryan emperor who, over two millennia ago (from 270 to 233 BC), popularised Buddhism and respect for all sects and communities as a reformed ruler. Allen’s books achieved a good deal of success, not only because they were written skillfully — reviewers across the world spoke highly of his ability to tell a story well — but also because they made history, and particularly history of the British in India, more accessible to readers.Long-time associate Toby Sinclair, who worked with Allen on the documentary Bones of The Buddha in 2013, which was broadcast by National Geographic Channel said, “Charles talked about the many layers of Indian history and he walked the land he wrote about. Without giving too much prominence to the European rulers, Allen focused on the men or women in the field who studied India, be they local historians or British or European academics, interlinking different bits of information across a wide area of research. It was well written accessible history backed up by rigorous research.”Nowhere was this more prominent than in the books on Buddha that Allen wrote. In 2002, The Buddha and the Sahibs, Allen wrote of James Princep, an assay master in the Calcutta Mint who helped decrypt the Brahmi Script of the third century BC, and of the legwork of members of the Asiatic Society who studied Ashoka’s edicts inscribed on slabs across the subcontinent. In The Buddha and Dr Fuhrer: An Archeological Scandal, which was published in 2008, Anton Fuhrer, an unscrupulous archeologist who trafficked in forged Buddhist relics, is part of the very title of the book. As a review of the 2012 book on Ashoka in the Guardian read, Allen was adept at putting back together such a vast academic jigsaw for the reader’s benefit.Allen has been critiqued for not adequately acknowledging the study of the subcontinent’s natural and political history during the British rule as an exercise of colonial aggrandizement — an exercise that was brought into sharp focus with critical theorist Edward Said’s seminal work, Orientalism.Yet, Allen was not a stranger to these criticisms. After all, in the same 2015 literary festival alluded to above, he went on to say, “We use that word history — we bandy it about too seriously. History is a minefield. It has always been used as propaganda. We have to look at it with an open mind.”Allen’s association with India went back generations. He was born in Kanpur in 1940, and authored several books, including Plain Tales from the Raj: Images of British India in the Twentieth Century and Kipling Sahib: India and the Making of Rudyard Kipling. He passed away at his home in England on August 16. He is survived by his children and his wife, Elizabeth.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charles-allen-author-of-ashoka-no-more/story-xY0MCNa26FNPUFuvV4x1hL.html
18-08-2020||India||Govt plans cyber security system for financial sector||The government is in the process of setting up a system to secure the country’s financial sector from cyber attacks after agencies pointed to its vulnerability due to the increase in number of digital transactions over the past few months on account of Covid-19, and threats from hostile countries such as China and Pakistan, three officials aware of the plans said on condition of anonymity.At present, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) deals with all types of cyber security threats but officials in the administration have been discussing the need for a specialised agency, which could be called Cert-Fin, the officials said, asking not to be identified. “This is a work in progress. Several rounds of discussions have been held at the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) on the matter of securing the financial sector from cyber attacks,” one of the officials said.FSDC is an apex body for coordination between the various regulators of the financial sector, and is chaired by the finance minister. Its members include top bureaucrats and heads of financial sector regulators such as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority of India (PFRDA), the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) and the Forward Markets Commission (FMC).“The government may set up a Computer Emergency Response Team for Financial Sector (CERT-Fin). This has been also discussed at FSDC, but a final decision is awaited as the government wants to take a comprehensive view of cyber security” a second official said. CERT-Fin was first proposed on February 1, 2017 by then finance minister, the late Arun Jaitley.Banking and ATM networks have been the target of cyber criminals for several years, with attackers often disrupting operations and attempting to steal sensitive data. In one of the biggest attacks of this kind, the data of 3.2 million debit cards used in India was stolen after a malware was injected in a back-end banking system in 2016.A third official said cyber security, in general, tops the government’s agenda since it can disrupt social and political harmony and dislocate financial systems. Based on inputs from agencies such CERT-In and complaints received by agencies, the government recently decided to ban 59 mobile applications mostly of Chinese origin over what it said was concerns that they may be jeopardising user data. The security of the financial system has been accorded high priority ; Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the matter in his Independence Day speech on Saturday. CERT-In functions under the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY).The finance ministry and MeitY did not respond to queries on this matter.The PM announced on Saturday that a draft of new cyber security policy would be unveiled soon. He said that the government was aware of cyber threats “to the social fabric” and the “economy”. According to the proposal under consideration, Cert-Fin will draw expertise from various financial sector agencies such as the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA), the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO), the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL) and the Goods and Service Tax Network (GSTN). RBI’s latest Financial Stability Report also flagged the issue of cyber threats to the financial sector. “Cyber security preparedness requires continuous and synchronous efforts from multiple stakeholders with varied levels of cyber security preparedness,” it said.Quoting a report by VMware Carbon Black, Shree Parthasarathy, partner and national leader- Cyber Risk Services at Deloitte India said that hackers from various countries attempted over 40,000 cyber attacks on India’s Information Technology infrastructure and banking sector over five days in the last week of June. Cyber attacks against banks and financial institutions globally have increased 238% amid the Covid-19 crisis between February and April 2020. Ransomware attacks increased by nine times during the same period.“Cyber threats are fast evolving and the threat landscape is dynamic. It will be foolhardy to assume current set of controls are adequate,” he said adding that “the CERT-Fin is necessary though it may not be adequate.” “The combination of a sudden pandemic, quarantine and unconventional work from home situations has exacerbated this security threat,” said GV Anand Bhushan, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.“India was ranked 23rd in the UN Cyber security Index amongst 165 nations. We need to view India as a ‘maturing’ and ‘evolving’ category of countries which are continually trying to improve cyber security measures,” he added.Bhushan described CERT-Fin as a grand vision. Unfortunately till date there has been no budgetary allocation for setting up such a body, he said, adding that it was however clear that CERT-In alone would not be able to meet the emerging challenges in the space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-cyber-security-system/story-bHRwwBeFVGLIrA3VMmOaDO.html
18-08-2020||India||House IT panel divided on summoning Facebook||The information technology (IT) parliamentary committee is split over summoning Facebook executives to explain reports of it displaying a bias towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) when it comes to censoring hate speech. IT panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the committee would like to hear an explanation from the social media company after a report in the Wall Street Journal said that its policy head Ankhi Das advised against taking acton against a BJP leader. Committee member and BJP MP Nishikant Dubey told Hindustan Times that Tharoor could not call Facebook to seek an explanation because the House rules don’t allow it . Also read: Delhi committee likely to probe Facebook officials over charges“As the chair, Tharoor’s powers are conferred upon him by the speaker,” said Dubey. “Rule 269 states that it is the secretary general who has the power to summon a witness.” Dubey earlier tweeted out a similar message, sparking a controversy on the microblogging site with Trinamool Congress MP and committee member Mahua Moitra coming to Tharoor’s defence. “Am IT committee member -- agenda item was already agreed & bulletinized with Speaker’s approval at the beginning of the year,” Moitra tweeted. “When to schedule each item and who to call is Chairman’s prerogative. Amazing how BJP jumps up & down at anything to do with FB’s interests.” Tharoor too responded late on Monday evening, saying that Dubey has brought the “committee’s work into disrepute”. “You are absolutely right, Mahua Moitra, & by imputing motives to my decision, @nishikant_dubey has brought the Committee’s work into disrepute, a matter I will take up. Extraordinary that an MP would suggest that a matter of such great public interest should NOT be taken up by us,” he wrote on Twitter. According former Lok Sabha secretary general P.D.T Achary, the committee can take up a special subject under rule 276 of the procedure. “A committee may, if it thinks fit, make a special report on any matter that arises or comes to light in the course of its work which it may consider necessary to bring to the notice of the Speaker or the House, notwithstanding that such matter is not directly connected with, or does not fall within or is not incidental to, its terms of reference,” is what the rule says. Achary told Hindustan Times that the secretary general is the administrative head, but not all documents need to necessarily be signed by him. “There is a secretariat attached to each committee,” Achary said. “The chairperson can request a third party to come and offer an explanation. It then goes to the secretariat for approval.” Achary added that issue here would have been whether the subject can be taken up, but since there is provision for a “special subject” that does not hold in this case. “Once a subject is taken up, which at the discretion of the chairperson unless there is wide opposition from the committee a request can be made to call a third party.” The IT committee has 30 members, 15 of whom are from the BJP and its allies. Also read: Ravi Shankar Prasad says Rahul Gandhi’s attack on RSS, BJP relies on a myth, asks a counter questionThe Congress on Monday stepped up its attack, saying Facebook’s “inaction against hate content destabilises” democracy in India, and reiterated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) into the charges. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, however, told Hindustan Times that a JPC was out of the question. “The allegations are a manifestation of the frustration of the Congress and Rahul (Gandhi). They have been disrespecting institutions like CAG { Comptroller and Auditor General} , EC {Election Commission}, SC {Supreme Court} and also the electronic voting machine by raising doubts. Facebook is a new chapter from their frustration book.” The Congress, however, isn’t the only opposition party to have raised the issue. “I spoke on this issue on the floor of #Parliamentin June 2019,” tweeted TMC spokesperson Derek O’Brien. In his speech, O’Brien had alleged the existence of a connection between the BJP and the senior management of the social networking site which he referred to as “de facto campaigners for the BJP,“ alluding to Das. “Facebook’s Delhi office is virtually an extended BJP IT cell. Facebook censored anti-BJP news and put other parties in jeopardy,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-it-panel-divided-on-summoning-facebook/story-ZYM1eJtqaEranngnPAojgN.html
18-08-2020||India||Ready to fight with indigenous arms: Army vice chief||At a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government, army vice chief Lieutenant General SK Saini on Monday said developing indigenous capabilities to face security challenges was imperative because during crunch situations, technologies developed by other countries would either not be available or be at the cost of India’s strategic autonomy. At a Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) webinar, Saini assured the industry of the army’s unequivocal commitment to the Make in India initiative and sought to dispel the notion that the force has an import bias. He said the army was more than ready to fight with locally produced equipment provided it passed stringent quality tests and manufacturers adhered to delivery timelines. Saini said it was critical to equip the army with the best weapons and systems to fight its adversaries as heavy costs were imposed on the runner-up. Also read: India seeks investments from UAE in infrastructure, defence“Self-reliance in defence production through advanced technologies and manufacturing capacity consolidated indigenously and expeditiously will be imperative for an effective and independent foreign policy,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). The army is pursuing a raft of projects through the indigenous route including third-generation anti-tank guided missiles, upgrades of infantry combat vehicles, precision ammunition, tank ammunition, drone kill systems and a variety of radars. In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi covered the significance of self-reliance in the defence sector and steps being taken to attain the goal. He said the government had imposed an import ban on 101 types of weapons and ammunition — from missiles to transport aircraft and assault rifles to light combat helicopters --- to provide a push to self-reliance in the defence sector. The military hardware on the negative import list, released by the government on August 9, includes assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition. Speaking at the webinar, Raj Kumar, secretary, defence production, said the government was working on the second negative import list of defence items and it would be expanded periodically. He said that the announcement of the first set of embargoed items on imports would accelerate the process of indigenisation. “Industry will also have to meet the needs of future wars with future products. The industry will now have to shoulder the responsibility of catering to the requirements of embargoed items domestically,” a FICCI statement quoted Kumar as saying. Kumar said the domestic defence industry would hold online interactions with the representatives of friendly countries to understand their defence needs, and country-wise profiles of weapons and systems they may require would be prepared to promote exports. From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) limits in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government had announced a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector in May 2020. Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers. India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-fight-with-indigenous-arms-army-vice-chief/story-3vaa2jxUYwXgz592xPtY5K.html
18-08-2020||India||Modi-Abe summit likely in early Sept||New Delhi: The much-awaited summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is scheduled to take place next month with the signing of the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) on the cards and the possibility of some Japanese manufacturers shifting production to India from China. The December 15-17, 2019 summit in Guwahati was postponed because of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , or CAA, in Assam.According to South Block officials, the virtual summit between Modi and Abe will be held on September 10, subject to the health of Abe. It will take place at a time when both countries are facing off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh and the Senkaku Islands, respectively.The virtual summit will not only discuss the Chinese aggression in Ladakh and the South China Sea, but also cement the QUAD, a four-nation strategic forum, with both the US and Australia ready to deter Beijing’s wolf warrior diplomacy and keep the sea lanes of communication open for freedom of navigation. While the decision of inviting Australia to the Malabar naval exercises at the end of the year is more or less a mere formality, the two leaders will discuss the Indo-Pacific region and the challenges it faces from the Middle Kingdom.ACSA, which is key to India and Japan extending logistics and other support to each other’s military, is expected to be initialled by the two leaders; India has a similar agreement with the other two members of the QUAD.According to senior government officials, the two leaders will further cement economic cooperation with India opening the doors to Japanese manufacturing activity and perhaps involving Tokyo in ramping up port infrastructure in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.While India has linked peace and tranquility on its border with China to overall bilateral ties, Prime Minister Abe is also under pressure from his own Cabinet members to adopt a tough line on China. Beijing’s expansion drive is not limited to Ladakh, but has created security concerns with Japan over the ownership of Senkaku Islands. China, which calls them Diaoyu Islands, claims ownership of them with any eye towards extending its exclusive economic zone and strengthening its hold beyond the South China Sea. The Japanese are not only in favour of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Tokyo being cancelled, but also want the Abe government to be more critical of Beijing on the new Hong Kong security law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-abe-summit-likely-in-early-sept/story-NczOyZXJHLL60rZaetTWBO.html
18-08-2020||India||Over 30 million samples tested for Covid-19 : Health ministry||India has conducted in excess of 30 million tests for Covid-19, rapidly ramping up its testing infrastructure to detect infections and curb the spread of the viral disease, according to Union health ministry data released on Monday.The country has so far tested 30, 041,400 samples after conducting 731,697 tests in the past 24 hours and is on course to testing one million a day by the end of August. The tests are being done across 1,469 diagnostic labs, with 969 labs in the government sector and 500 private labs approved for Covid-19 testing across the country, where the first sample was tested on January 23.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe government has attributed India’s low case fatality rate and improved recovery rate to aggressive testing, improvements in clinical treatment, supervised home isolation, use of non-invasive oxygen support and improved ambulance services to bring patients to hospitals without delay. “The key is to identify those infected early and isolate them in time. The way testing has been ramped up in such a short span of time; it has significantly contributed in keeping the numbers low. The strategy of test, track and treat has proved highly effective, and will be continued further,” a government official said, requesting anonymity.Epidemiologists suggest that India needs to keep testing aggressively because the positivity rate is still on the high side. India’s positivity rate, the people who test positive for the virus as a percentage of those tested, as of August 17 is 8.81%.Also read: Govt kick-starts talks to explore vaccine deal“The cases are still rising and the positivity rate is not going down; that suggests aggressive testing should continue as transmission cycle has not been completely broken yet. The virus is still in circulation. Ideally, the positivity rate should be 5% or below,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable disease, Indian Council of Medical Research. The overall Covid-19 situation in India is seeing improvement. While India’s Covid-19 deaths have crossed the 50,000 mark, the health ministry says India is better placed than other countries such as the US, where the fatalities exceeded 50,000 in just 23 days, Brazil (95 days) and Mexico (141 days). It took India 156 days to reach the grim milestone.India’s case fatality rate, the percentage of deaths with respect to the total number of positive cases of the disease, has seen a steady decline. From 3.33% on June 8, the death rate dropped to 1.92% as of August 17, suggesting the measures that the government has taken to curb the viral outbreak are working well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-million-samples-tested-for-covid-19-health-ministry/story-tqmcsBxFo2bOpyzKlDzqdI.html
18-08-2020||India||Pune Covid-19 sero survey suggests 51.5% have antibodies||The first sero survey conducted in Pune has revealed that 51.5% of the residents of five areas of the city highly affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have developed antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease. A total of 1,664 people above the age of 18 were covered by the survey. The study was conducted by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in collaboration with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU); Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad; Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore and funded by Persistent Foundation. According to the findings, extensive spread of the SARS Cov-2 infection was found in five areas of Pune covered by the survey . Lohiya Nagar ( Kasewadi ) in Bhavani Peth accounted for the highest seropositivity -- 65.4% . followed by Navipeth ( Parvati ) at 56.7%, Yerawada (56.6%), Rasta Peth (45.7%) and Kasba Peth (Smowarpeth) at 36.1%. Pune recorded 919 cases on Monday and its tally stood at 80,407 cases. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, admitting that the survey was not comprehensive, said two more sero surveys will now start and include a larger samples. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Dr Aurnab Ghose, associate professor at ISSER, said that 52.8% of men and 50.1% of women covered by the survey were found to have a seroprevalence of antibodies.He added that blood samples were collected from 1,664 people who were asymptomatic or symptomatic, but undetected from the five areas with a collective population of 366,000. Those tested didn’t know they had been infected by the virus at some time, which means they could have passed on the infection to more people without realizing it. Findings of similar surveys conducted in July in Delhi and Mumbai showed a seroprevalence of 23% and 36.5%, respectively.Also read: Govt kick-starts talks to explore Covid-19 vaccine deal“This study does not prove that those with antibodies are immune to the virus. For that we need a separate study which is more expensive and time-consuming. The study definitely proves that the spread of the virus is across all socio-economic strata. Serological testing for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in a representative sample population can estimate the cumulative incidence of infection in the population,” said Ghose of ISSER.The study will now help the administration take necessary steps to contain the spread, said divisional commissioner Rao. “It is true that we are at the peak and there is no denying that. This study will help us draw measures to reduce the spread. Pune city’s testing has been ramped up and contact tracing is completed in 2-3 days. We will now test even more and also the other two sero surveys will also help us understand the situation even better,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-survey-suggests-51-5-have-antibodies/story-9MlFUJfmiWnNOrzujCwKIP.html
18-08-2020||India||Only quarter percent of 80 million migrants got govt food aid||States were able to hand out free food under a federal programme to a mere quarter percent of an estimated 80 million undocumented migrant workers who fled distressing conditions in cities during the recent lockdown, data cited before a parliamentary panel show. The Union government’s target of reaching free food to an estimated 80 million migrant workers has been impacted by significant last-mile bottlenecks in various states which are overwhelmed by migration from cities due to the coronavirus pandemic, official data show. The Biju Janata Dal’s Bahtruhari Mahtab, who is chairman of the labour standing committee, at a review Monday sought information about the progress of free food-grains programme for migrants. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThis programme aimed to reach food to a large section of the country’s migrant population who otherwise don’t opt for regular cheap rations because they are scattered across the country. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in May announced providing 800,000 tonne of emergency ration to the estimated 80 million migrants under the Union government’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat programme for distribution during May and June. Each migrant is entitled to receive up to 5 kg foodgrains a month free. The Mahtab-led panel was informed that out of the 800,000 tonne foodgrain to be allotted to 80 million migrant undocumented migrant workers, slightly over 600,000 tonne food grains had been withdrawn by states. Till August 5, just over 200,000 tonne had been distributed to 20.3 million beneficiaries. The food secretary said states were slow distributing the food aid. Food secretary Sudhangshu Pandey informed the parliamentary panel that guidelines for distribution had been strengthened and said states were slow to reach food to migrants. Data accessed by HT show state authorities, overwhelmed by largescale migration, were able to hand out a mere 10.9% of cereals they had drawn from federally-held stocks in back in May. In June, state governments were able to distribute just 7.5% of the total stocks they had for the purpose. Food disbursal to migrants not covered under the National Food Security Act 2013 should have been quicker because the Union government and states had agreed to waive off time-consuming processes to qualify for food assistance. Also read| Food rationing system digitised in 24 states: CentreThese requirements include the mandatory linking of the 12-digit biometric identification, Aadhaar, to a national food-disbursal database. Migrant workers are also provisionally exempt from meeting any poverty criterion. The number of migrants who have been covered by emergency food handouts are far lower than the total target, i.e. 80 million. In May, only 8.7 million beneficiaries were covered, while till June 20, about 6 million received ration. Cumulatively, over the two months so far, 14.7 million migrants received food handouts. That’s only nearly 18% of the total number targeted. Also read| Covid-19 could kill more through hunger, 122 million more may be pushed to starvation: OxfamFood distribution happens through a network of fair-price shops that act as final points of delivery. “The issue really is reaching any benefit to an undocumented beneficiary will be a challenge in itself. States should not rely on just the public distribution route, which would have been overwhelmed, nor should federal authorities insist on it,” said economist Abhijit Sen, who oversaw policymaking in the erstwhile Planning Commission. Authorities should distribute food at any convenient point for migrants, whether it is a “bus-stop or quarantine centres”, he said. The lockdown has pushed migrant workers and day-wagers into a survival battle, as they fled urban economic hubs in large numbers back to home states. Bihar and Jharkhand account for the largest number of migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-quarter-of-80-million-migrants-got-govt-food-aid/story-HBnQrzNtYhrrPqPn1npWvO.html
18-08-2020||India||Aviation industry may take a big hit: Govt note||Domestic and international air traffic to and from India may decline by at least 50% in the current financial year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, causing significant job losses and force some airlines to ground aircraft to tide over the situation, according to an official note reviewed by Hindustan Times on Monday.Meanwhile, the tourism ministry has cited Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) estimates to suggest that the loss of revenue to tourism can range between Rs 72,000 crore and Rs 1.58 lakh crores in 2020-21. According to the ministry, branded hotels will take the biggest hit in the tourism sector, followed by tour operators. Also read: Plan for Covid-19 test at airport for international flyersThe civil aviation ministry’s note also stated that the sector and its stakeholders were focusing on reforms for a sustainable, safe and efficient revival of the aviation industry. The government suspended domestic and international flights in March to control the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic; they have since resumed in a limited way. India, which witnessed double-digit growth in air traffic before the Covid-19 pandemic, is staring at “a significant hit on airline and airport revenue,” the official note said. Based on the preliminary estimates by airlines,the sector may be set for a reduction of 50-60% in international traffic and up to a 50% drop in domestic traffic, the note said. It also added that “there might be a significant but temporary loss of both direct and indirect jobs in the sector.” It also estimated that due to such losses, “it is also likely that some aircraft may have to be grounded” and “a significant reduction is also expected in the air cargo handled at airports across India.” Click here for complete coronavirus coverage India has two full service airlines, Air India and Vistara, apart from budget carriers IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir and Air Asia. Apart from these airlines, there are some small airlines that, along with Indigo, operate on routes under the Udaan scheme, meant to improve regional air connectivity and make air travel affordable to the masses.. Kapil Kaul, CEO of aviation consultancy Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) - India, said: “The entire civil aviation sector is at a breaking point. CAPA expects domestic traffic to decline by over 60% and international traffic by 70-80 % in financial year 2021. Work force impact is likely to be over 30% for the entire aviation sector. Airlines are expected to have around 250 surplus aircraft in the current financial year. We expect the industry to see pre-Covid traffic only by the end of financial year 2023.”According to aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation, domestic air passenger traffic slumped 82.3% in July compared with the same month a year ago. From January to July, airlines carried a total of 37.28 million passengers, a decline of 54.84% compared to the corresponding period a year ago. The aviation ministry has restarted domestic flights in many major routes and while scheduled international flights are still not allowed, it has created bilateral travel bubbles and allowed special repatriation flights both by Indian carriers and foreign airliners to carry stranded citizens back home. At present the centre has allowed only 45% capacity utilisation on domestic routes. Domestic flights were allowed to resume from May 25, two months after a blanket suspension since the first lockdown was announced. The Centre has also extended the suspension of international flights until August 31. “Traffic projections will depend entirely on the behaviour of the Covid-19 disease. Our traffic footfall is slowly picking up each month now since the lockdown (ended). As on August 16, there were 947 departure flights ferrying 93,639 passengers. Comparing the numbers from July 16 where there were 783 departure flights ferrying 61,772 passengers, there has been a big improvement . We are expecting it to pick up significantly over the next two three months,” civil aviation ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. The ministry’s note added that greater clarity will emerge in the next few months; and that the potential impact of Covid-19 on the aviation sector will depend on the intensity, duration and spread of the viral disease. According to credit rating agency CRISIL, Indian airlines will face a revenue loss of Rs 1.3 lakh crore between fiscal 2020 and 2022 because of the pandemic. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), airlines in the Asia-Pacific region will be the hardest hit by the health crisis, with losses expected to be around $29 billion for 2020. This is more than a third of the $84.3 billion industry losses globally. For India alone, IATA expected passenger demand in 2020 to shrink by 49% compared to last year. The potential impact on employment in the aviation and sectors dependent on it could be to the tune of 3 million jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-industry-may-take-a-big-hit-govt-note/story-pIS4Dhx3zpcYnRCSMd3AhI.html
18-08-2020||India||SC to decide on Tuesday if PM CARES Fund violates Disaster Management law||The Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on Tuesday on a plea that all contributions made to the PM CARES Fund till date should be transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (DM Act).The verdict, which will be pronounced by a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, will also decide whether the PM Cares Fund violates the legal provisions contained in the DM Act.The petitioner NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) had claimed that PM CARES Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM CARES Fund. All the contributions being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM CARES Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act,” the petitioner submitted.The central government had rebutted this argument stating in its affidavit before the top court on July 8 that the PM CARES is a fund established to carry out relief work and there are several such funds established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM CARES Fund which provides for voluntary donations,” the affidavit said.During the hearing before the apex court, the central government through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had defended the PM Cares fund saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF as alleged by the petitioners.“Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations,” Mehta argued.The petitioner through their counsel, senior advocate Dushyant Dave had pointed out that PM Cares was not being audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) but by private auditors.“This government believes in transparency. Why should private auditors audit it (PM Cares)? NDRF under the DM Act is audited by CAG,” Dave had said.The bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, had reserved its judgment in the case on July 27.Another petition against the PM CARES Fund filed by Rajasthan government in June, is also pending before the Supreme Court. The Rajasthan government has challenged exclusion of contributions made towards Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) meant for Covid-19 mitigation from the purview of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities while allowing contributions made to PM CARES Fund as CSR, stating that it is irrational and violates Article 14. That petition will be heard separately.The Companies Act of 2013 mandates that corporates having net worth of at least Rs. 500 crore or turnover of Rs. 1,000 crore or more or a net profit of at least Rs. 5 crore during the immediately preceding financial year have to spend at least 2 per cent of their profits towards activities listed as CSR activities under schedule VII of the Act.“To allow the PM CARES Fund for Covid-19 as CSR but to exclude the CMRF for the very same purposes is creating a distinction without a difference. This is gross infraction of Art. 14 of Constitution of India,” the Rajasthan government had told the apex court.This argument was also raised by senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for an intervener, in the CPIL petition. Sibal had pointed out that contributions made towards PM Cares come within the purview of CSR and corporates would, therefore, prefer making donations to PM Cares. “There are CSR benefits attached to this fund. Why will any person contribute to NDRF when they get so much relief under PM Cares?” Sibal had asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-decide-on-tuesday-if-pm-cares-fund-violates-disaster-management-law/story-74Nqo9Dzn41HCIJwzHJ3mL.html
18-08-2020||India||Army denies Uttarakhand jawan succumbed to injuries in Galwan clash, says he died of cancer,||A day after 42-year-old army jawan was cremated by his family in his hometown in Nainital, Indian Army authorities on Monday denied that he succumbed to injuries suffered in Galwan Valley clash but died of colon cancer for which he was undergoing treatment at command hospital in Chandimandir. On Sunday, the jawan identified as Havildar Bishan Singh, a native of Haldwani, was cremated by his family members. They claimed that he died during treatment after suffering injuries during the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in June this year. The denial was given by the Army in a statement issued by it stating, “Reports in a section of media on the death of Hav Bishan Singh of 17 KUMAON attributing it to Galwan are not true.” “The individual was a case of Colon Cancer admitted to GH Leh on 29 June. He was later shifted to CH Chandimandir on 03 July and passed away at 1:30 AM on 15 August 20.” Clarifying the development, Singh’s younger brother Jagat Singh, who retired from Indian Army as Naik in 2014, said, “He had suffered internal injuries in Pangong Lake clash on May 5 and not in the Galwan Valley” “His son while speaking to media persons on Sunday got confused between the two and mentioned Galwan instead of Pangong Lake where he was posted with his unit 17 Kumaon,” said Jagat. Jagat Singh however, insisted that his deceased brother didn’t inform them about the colon cancer earlier and was perfectly fine. “I only got to know from the doctor on August 11 when I went to visit him at the army command hospital in Chandimandir where he was undergoing treatment and later succumbed.” Editor’s note: An earlier version of the story went by the family’s claims and said the soldier died due to his injuries. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-clash-soldier-succumbs-to-injuries-cremated-in-his-home-district-nainital/story-V0NWOIDFDZOnfTOo8abMyN.html
