19-08-2020||India||Daily deaths cross 1,000 for the third time in last 10 days||New Delhi: The daily death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 1,000-mark for the third time in the last 10 days as the country reported 1,103 new fatalities on Tuesday, highlighting the recent rise in number of daily deaths in the country. Before Tuesday, daily deaths in the country have crossed the 1,000-mark four times – 2,004 fatalities were lodged on June 16; 1,130 deaths registered on July 22; 1,018 deaths on August 9 and 1,010 deaths on August 13. On the first instance (June 16), the cause of the spike in daily deaths was Delhi and Maharashtra reporting a reconciliation of deaths. On the second instance (July 22), the death reconciliation panel in Chennai corrected discrepancy in the city’s Covid-19 numbers by adding 444 deaths to the toll. This means that all actual instances of the daily deaths touching four-digits (if we exclude days when backdated deaths were lodged in the tally) have been reported in the past 10 days. “Country’s current case fatality rate is under 2%, which means fewer Covid-19 patients in India are dying of the disease. The sudden rise in mortality figures on some days does not necessarily mean these are deaths that happened in a single day rather it could also be because of the data backlog sometimes,” explained a government official in the know of things, who did not wish to be identified. The total cases in the country have climbed to 2,763,712 as of Tuesday night. Among these, a total of 53,010 people have died, while 2,034,828 patients have recovered and been discharged. At present, there are 675,874 active cases in the country. India has the third highest number of infections in the world after the United States (5.6 million cases and over 175,000 deaths) and Brazil (3.4 million cases and over 110,000 deaths). However, India’s case fatality ratio – the proportion of confirmed cases that end up dying – is far lower than the other two nations. Around 1.9% of Covid patients in India have succumbed to the disease, while 3.1% cases have resulted in deaths in the US and 3.2% in Brazil. Globally, there have been more than 21 million cases of the coronavirus disease and 773,152 deaths – taking the global CFR to 3.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-deaths-cross-1-000-for-the-third-time-in-last-10-days/story-7KEXzh9fnnqBLWJxLbWDWN.html
19-08-2020||India||GST meet to focus on compensation to states||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has scheduled two crucial meetings -- on August 27 it will consider a proposal to borrow money from the market to compensate states for their revenue shortfalls, and on September 19 the apex federal body will take up other issues such as resolution of the inverted duty structure, tax on pan masala and more measures for ease of doing business, two officials said.As told by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after the 40th meeting of the council on June 12, the August 27 meeting will be special as it will discuss only one matter how to pay compensation to states at a time when the compensation cess collection has plunged because of weak economic activities due to Covid-19 pandemic, the officials said requesting anonymity.While briefing reporters after the 40th meeting, Sitharaman had said on request of members the Council would meet again in July to discuss only “one-agenda item” -- compensation to states. “Compensation, which has to be given to states, and, if at all, it results into some kind of borrowing, how and who is going to pay for it,” she had said. The meeting was, however, deferred to August, due to some technical reasons, officials said.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022) and their revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco products. The 41st meeting of the Council is to resolve the difference between the Centre and states over the responsibility of the cess liability. While states argue that it is the Centre’s responsibility to pay compensation in time, the Centre cited the GST law where the responsibility lies with the GST Council, the officials said. GST Council is headed by the Union finance minister and finance ministers of states are its members. Usually, the Council’s decisions are unanimous. One of the officials mentioned above said although the GST law assured a 14% increase in annual tax revenue of states, but GST collection in 2020-21 is unlikely see such growth. “There is virtually no money left to pay compensation to states from April 2020, hence market borrowing is one of the solutions, but who will take the guarantee is a big question that needs to be resolved,” he said. The states were paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation in 2019-20, even as total cess collection for the fiscal year was a mere Rs 95,444 crore. This gap is expected to be larger this year because of pandemic, he said. “Law is very clear, compensation has to be paid from the amount collected through compensation cess and not from the Consolidated Fund of India,” he added. According to a note circulated in the 40th GST Council meeting held on June 12, compensation cess collected in 2017-18 was Rs 62,612 crore, rose to Rs 95,081 crore in 2018-19 and further to Rs 95,444 crore in 2019-20. Compensation paid in 2017-18 was however, less than the total collection at Rs 41,146 crore and Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19.Officials said it is up to the Council to find a solution, how to augment revenue collection and how to pay the compensation. Theoretically, the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise tax rates, include more items under the compensation cess or increase the compensation cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund, they said. States, particularly ruled by the Opposition parties, however, said that timely payment of full compensation is the responsibility of the Union government. Officials said, the 42nd meeting of the Council on September 19 is generic in nature and may consider revising tax on several items that suffer from inverted duty such as fertilisers, footwears, renewable energy devices, tractors and man-made yarns and fabrics. Inverted duty structure is a situation in which inputs are taxed at a higher rate than finished goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-meet-to-focus-on-compensation-to-states/story-52Hj4zCJP1i4hL1ISZHYqI.html
19-08-2020||India||Cong urges NBSA to regulate TV debates||New Delhi: A Congress delegation on Wednesday urged the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) to strictly enforce a code of conduct to curb the “sensationalist, slanderous and toxic nature” of televised debates and ensure that they do not become a platform to spread acrimony. The delegation, comprising spokespersons Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Jaiveer Shergill, and party secretary Pranav Jha, held a virtual meeting with NBSA chairperson Justice (retd) AK Sikri and other members, and urged them to issue an advisory to all the media houses in this regard. The meeting followed a representation filed by Shergill on August 14 in the wake of the death of his party colleague Rajiv Tyagi, who suffered a heart attack hours after participating in a TV debate on August 12.On behalf of the Congress delegation, Singhvi argued that media houses, journalists, anchors and spokespersons must be held accountable for their actions and conduct. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) holds the authority to ensure compliance with its guidelines and instructions, he said. “The TRP paradigm drives the sensational, slanderous and sardonic debate panels. There is an eminent need for adherence to the code of conduct and need for institutional reform in India with respect to holding of TV debates,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-urges-nbsa-to-regulate-tv-debates/story-7puuCJKRmw8x6fevZd9hKN.html
19-08-2020||India||KTR’s role in governance triggers speculation that he may be Telangana’s next CM||The proactive role being played by Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and state industries and information technology minister KT Rama Rao in the Telangana government has triggered fresh speculation that he may take over the mantle from his father K Chandrasekhar Rao, as the chief minister soon. For the last few weeks, KTR, as the chief minister’s son is popularly known, has been addressing official meetings and holding virtual conferences. There have been instances of KTR holding official meetings of other departments as well – like the meeting on Kaleshwaram irrigation project he had held on July 3 – which was attended by senior officials of these departments. What led to the latest speculation about KTR’s role as de facto chief minister was an informal meeting of the council of ministers convened by him in the absence of his father to discuss food processing and logistics at Pragati Bhavan, the camp office of the chief minister last week. Apart from all his cabinet colleagues, the meeting was attended by top bureaucrats including chief secretary Somesh Kumar, government chief advisor Rajiv Sharma, principal secretaries of various departments and Telangana state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar. Though KTR clarified later that he had held the eight-hour long meeting with all his cabinet colleagues to discuss the food processing and logistics policies “as directed by the chief minister,” it led to a debate as to whether KCR was slowly delegating his powers to his son. Telangana Congress legislature party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka raised objections over KTR heading a cabinet meeting in the absence of the chief minister. “In what capacity and under which rule did KTR chair the cabinet meeting? Was the chief minister not in a position to attend the cabinet meeting?” he asked. Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said there was no clarity as to whether it was a cabinet meeting with a specific agenda and protocol or just an informal meeting of the council of ministers. “If it was not a formal cabinet meeting, it cannot be questioned technically. But politically, it shows KTR’s clout as the chief minister’s son. One wonders whether any other minister – be it finance minister T Harish Rao or health minister Eatala Rajender can call for such informal cabinet meetings,” he said. Unlike his father who is mostly confined to running the government from Pragati Bhavan, KTR has been extensively touring districts to inspect the implementation of government schemes and holding official meetings. He prefers to go to the people and interact with them directly to solve their issues. When the entire northern Telangana region was reeling under heavy floods, the chief minister was confined to his camp office reviewing the situation, while KTR chose to make a whirlwind tour of the affected areas to personally monitor the relief and rehabilitation measures. “Wherever KTR goes, the official machinery in the district goes providing him with all protocol measures though he is only one of the cabinet ministers, because he is the chief minister’s son,” an official in the revenue department said on condition of anonymity. Interestingly, KTR’s visit to the flood-hit areas of Warangal and other parts was covered by the publicity wing of the CMO, rather than his personal public relations team. The official release and the photographs were shared with the media by the CMO, lending credence to the speculations that KTR might be on his way to being the next CM. TRS legislator from Bodhan in Nizamabad district Mohammad Shakeel expressed hope that KTR would be made the chief minister of the state soon. “Young and dynamic minister KT Rama Rao has all the abilities and eligibility to become the CM of the state,” he observed. Nageshwar said there was no surprise if it happened sooner or later. “When KTR was made the TRS working president soon after the December 2018 elections, it was evident that he would succeed KCR. It is only a matter of time that KTR is anointed as the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktr-s-role-in-governance-triggers-speculation-that-he-may-be-telangana-s-next-cm/story-LSmItY54MRJVph7ViZ4ScN.html
19-08-2020||India||Cabinet approves new agency to streamline govt recruitment||New Delhi: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to set up a National Recruitment Agency (NRA), which will conduct a common eligibility test (CET) for all non-gazetted posts including Group B and Group C (non-technical) jobs, setting in motion a major move aimed at streamlining government recruitment.Under the new system, around 25 million aspirants, who appear for separate, multiple examinations to join more than 125,000 government jobs every year, will have to take a single online exam whose score will be valid for a period of three years and will serve as a preliminary screening mark for all eligible posts across various central government agencies.The creation of NRA was first proposed by the government in Union Budget 2020. “The #NationalRecruitmentAgency will prove to be a boon for crores of youngsters. Through the Common Eligibility Test, it will eliminate multiple tests and save precious time as well as resources. This will also be a big boost to transparency,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted soon after Wednesday’s Cabinet announcement. NRA, which will have representatives from the ministry of railways, ministry of finance/department of financial services, the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) and the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS), has been envisioned as “a specialist body bringing the state of the art technology and best practices to the field of central government recruitment”, according to a press release by the government.“At present, candidates seeking government jobs have to appear for separate examinations conducted by multiple recruiting agencies for various posts, for which similar eligibility conditions have been prescribed. Candidates have to pay fee to multiple recruiting agencies and also have to travel long distances for appearing in various exams,” the release said. “These multiple recruitment examinations are a burden on the candidates, as also on the respective recruitment agencies, involving avoidable/repetitive expenditure, law and order/security related issues and venue related problems. A common eligibility Test would enable these candidates to appear once and apply to any or all of these recruitment agencies for the higher level of examination. This would indeed be a boon to all the candidates,” it added. Officials aware of the matter that under the new CET system, no limit on the numbers of attempts will be imposed on the candidates taking the exam. They added that the test will be conducted for the graduate, higher secondary (12th pass) and the matriculate (10th pass) levels with a common curriculum, and will serve as a screening system based on which candidates can apply for jobs in different government agencies. Based on their CET score, the candidates may have to take additional examinations at the agency level.The government said it will also work towards enhancing examination infrastructure across the country with special focus on 117 aspirational districts. “#CabinetDecision to set up National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct Common Eligibility Test (CET) for preliminary selection to various Government vacancies is a revolutionary reform brought in by visionary intervention of PM @narendramodi,” minister for personnel, public grievances and pensions, Jitendra Singh, wrote on Twitter. “This will bring ease of recruitment, ease of selection and thereby ease of living for aspirant candidates. It will provide level playing field, a great boon particularly for economically deprived who cannot afford travelling to multiple centres, youth in far flung areas with difficulty to reach different centres and women candidates who are unable to travel to different cities because of constraints of travel and stay,” he added. “There are more than 20 recruitment agencies in the central government,” department of personnel and training secretary C Chandramouli said at a press conference. “Right now, we are bringing three agencies under the National Recruitment Agency and will eventually bring all of them under it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-likely-to-begin-around-sept-10/story-JYkP6Zi5lk3vVY9iKSzOjP.html
19-08-2020||India||Why SC ordered CBI probe in Sushant case||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Here are five factors the top court cited while ordering a CBI probe, and the laws and procedures it invoked:1. Maharashtra police yet to launch full investigationThe court noted that the Maharashtra police was only conducting a limited inquiry under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) into the cause of unnatural death of Rajput.Section 174 of CrPC confers powers on police to enquire into suicide death, find out the reason for such death, and submit a report of the same to the district magistrate. The Supreme Court said that an inquiry under Section 174 is limited in scope and cannot be equated to a full-fledged investigation. Mumbai Police has only made the limited inquiry under Section 174 and has not registered a first information report (FIR) into the incident.2. Patna police has jurisdiction to register FIRRajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty argued that Bihar Police does not have jurisdiction to deal with the matter and register an FIR since the incident occurred in Mumbai. The Supreme Court, however, turned this down stating that registration of FIR is mandated when information on cognisable offence is received by the police.“Precedents suggest that at the stage of investigation, it cannot be said that the concerned police station does not have territorial jurisdiction to investigate the case,” the court said in its judgment.Moreover, Rajput’s father, whose complaint was the basis for Bihar police to register an FIR, alleged criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money. The consequences of the incident would , therefore, arise in Patna as well. “The allegation relating to criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money which were to be eventually accounted for in Patna (where the Complainant resides), could prima facie indicate the lawful jurisdiction of the Patna police,” the court held.The finding that an FIR by Bihar Police was valid turned out to be crucial because CBI took over the probe based on the request made by Bihar Police.3. Need for independent agency due to conflict between two state governmentsThe apex court noted that there is a conflict between the two state governments in the matter, and though the steps taken by Mumbai Police cannot be faulted, stakeholders have raised allegations of unfair investigation against Mumbai Police.“Because both states are making acrimonious allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation has come under a cloud. This court (Supreme Court) must strive to ensure that search for the truth is undertaken by an independent agency, not controlled by either of the two state governments,” the judgment said.4. Need to avoid uncertaintyThe court said that CBI has already registered a case and commenced investigation at the instance of the Bihar government. If Mumbai Police also decides to commence probe, then it could add to uncertainty and confusion.“Uncertainty and confusion must be avoided in the event of Mumbai Police also deciding to simultaneously investigate the offence, based on their findings,” the judgment said.5. Justice for Rajput’s father and RheaThe court noted that Rajput was a talented actor in the Mumbai film world and died well before his full potential could be realised. An impartial probe and its outcome will ensure that Rajput’s father and Rhea get justice. Moreover, Rhea herself had called for CBI investigation, the court added. “His family, friends and admirers are keenly waiting the outcome of the investigation so that all the speculations floating around can be put to rest. Therefore a fair, competent and impartial investigation is the need of the hour,” the court said.Law invoked by Supreme CourtThe court invoked Article 142 of the Constitution, which confers wide power on the Supreme Court to pass an order for doing “complete justice” in the matter before it. It is invoked to grant reliefs which are beyond the scope of the petition or not sought by the petitioners.The court invoked the Article in this case stating that to ensure public confidence in the investigation and to do complete justice in the matter, it would be appropriate to exercise the powers conferred by the said Article.Supreme Court’s powers to order a CBI probeAs per Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, CBI can investigate a crime only based on the recommendation of the concerned state which is probing the matter.However, that does not bar constitutional courts (high courts and the Supreme Court) from recommending CBI probe as has been held in a long line of Supreme Court judgments in the past, the court said.‘No power to transfer investigation’Chakraborty had filed the transfer petition under section 406 of CrPC seeking transfer of probe from Bihar to Maharashtra. Section 406 confers powers on the Supreme Court to transfer cases from one high court to another or from a lower court in one state to a lower court in another state.The Supreme Court held that the provision does not grant power to the top court to transfer a matter which is only at the investigation stage from one state to another.“Having considered the contour of the power under Cection 406 CrPC, it must be concluded that only cases and appeals (not investigation) can be transferred,” the court ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-sc-ordered-cbi-probe-in-sushant-case/story-HHek830xe9MmGPA6cwmIDL.html
19-08-2020||India||Another round of India-China talks likely soon||New Delhi: India and China will hold another round of talks on Thursday under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs in an effort to break the impasse along the Line of Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said. The meeting between diplomats of the two sides, to be held via video conference, comes at a time when military talks on reducing tensions along the disputed border have hit a roadblock, and the Indian Army has adopted a tougher line in its efforts to restore status quo ante in eastern Ladakh. This will be the fifth engagement at the diplomatic level since the border standoff emerged into the open in early May, and the Indian side is expected to reiterate its call for China to work sincerely towards complete disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Amid a growing realisation in New Delhi that there is unlikely to be a breakthrough through the talks between the corps commanders, the Indian envoy in Beijing, Vikram Misri, has been tasked to reach out to top Chinese leaders to discuss ways to end the standoff, the people said. Misri met Maj Gen Ci Guowei of the Central Military Commission’s (CMC) office of international military cooperation, and Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee’s foreign affairs commission, in Beijing last week. The people said more such meetings were on the cards. There was no official word from either India or China on the WMCC meeting, though the people said it would meet on Thursday afternoon. “We have already said China needs to work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation on the LAC as the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the border. That continues to be our position,” said one of the people cited above. The Indian side has also made it clear that the sanctity of the LAC is non-negotiable, the people added. Five rounds of talks between the corps commanders have failed to break the deadlock due to serious differences in the Finger Area near Pangong Lake and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said India had shown “ample commitment and efforts” to end the standoff and much would now depend on China’s response. “It seems to me the WMCC meeting should show some of the results of the efforts by our envoy in Beijing, who has met officials of CPC and CMC. These meetings were also put in the public domain by the Indian side to reflect the sincerity of its efforts through all possible channels,” he said. “There is also a feeling among military experts that the talks at the military level should now stop, as this matter should really be the responsibility of diplomats and the standoff should be addressed through the existing political and diplomatic channels,” he added. “The Chinese are playing things down and saying that they attach importance to our relations and that they want good ties. We should keep an open mind and hope they will start responding meaningfully to India’s efforts,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-round-of-india-china-talks-likely-soon/story-dA7JBtNqxNxgCFoV8Y2pMN.html
19-08-2020||India||Govt orders withdrawal of 10k paramilitary forces from J&K||New Delhi: The Union government on Wednesday decided to immediately withdraw 100 companies (around 10,000 personnel) of central paramilitary forces from Jammu and Kashmir after a security review, officials familiar with matter said on condition of anonymity. The central paramilitary forces whose companies were withdrawn on Wednesday are 40 companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and 20 each of Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). The ministry of home affairs has asked them to report to their respective locations. Earlier, the MHA withdrew around 82 companies (72 in December 2019 and 10 in May this year) from the valley based on feedback from the forces and intelligence agencies. With the latest decision, around 400 additional companies of paramilitary forces are still deployed in J&K in additional to CRPF’s regular 67 battalions (around 67,000 personnel) and army and J&K police. The officials cited above said the decision was taken because the security situation in the valley has improved and terrorists are on the back foot. The officers added that large number of troops were deployed in the valley for over a year now, but that they now need to rest and also get back to training. The security grid in J&K was strengthened with an additional 600 odd companies (around 60000 troops) being rushed there just ahead of government’s decision to withdraw the special status of J&K and bifurcate it into two union territories on August 5, 2019. These troops were stationed at various locations in different districts and were deployed in law and order duties, counter terror operations as well to keep stone-pelting protestors at bay. Senior officers deployed in the valley have claimed that locals don’t disrupt the counter-terror operations anymore and there is more support from public in general. According to latest government data, the number of stone pelting incidents has drastically reduced this year as compared to 2019 and 2018. In 2018, there were 532 incidents of stone pelting in Kashmir, and there were 389 in 2019 but only 102 such incidents have been reported thus far this year. One officer said that there could be more withdrawal of troops in the coming weeks but enough numbers will be maintained in valley to make sure terrorists and Pakistan doesn’t take advantage. “It’s a welcome step and obviously it means that security situation is well under control,” former RAW Chief A S Dulat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-withdrawal-of-10k-paramilitary-forces-from-j-k/story-faTFsmpqTZKQtMDqOxeUBJ.html
19-08-2020||India||MP CM announces Re 1 per kg wheat, rice and salt to 37 lakh poor, opposition calls it vote politics||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced Re 1 per kg wheat, rice and salt for as many as 37 lakh such poor people across the state not covered under the national food security scheme till now, as per an official statement. At present there are more than 1.16 crore below poverty line (BPL) and Antyodaya cards holders in the state covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA), as per the state government’s data. The CM’s announcement comes before the bypolls to as many as 27 assembly constituencies, which will decide the fate of the BJP government. The communiqué quoting the CM said, “The poor of the state, who were not getting fair price ration till now, will now get wheat, rice and salt at the rate of Re 1 per kg from September 1. Every month, 5 kg fair price ration per person will be given. Apart from this, 5 kg free ration per person will also be provided to poor families till the month of November. As many as 37 lakh poor beneficiaries will gain from the decision taken by the government.” As per the official information, CM has instructed all the collectors to ensure issuance of eligibility slips to all new beneficiaries and their aadhaar number seeding by August 31, so that they could get ration from September 01. Also Read: MP man pedals bicycle for 105 km to take son to exam centre. He has a dreamThe CM’s announcement came during a meeting held on Wednesday to discuss the public distribution system (PDS). It was attended, among others, by civil supplies and consumer protection minister Bisahulal Singh, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and principal secretary of food and civil supplies department Faiz Ahmed Qidwai. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “Why chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reminds himself of the poor only before elections. It was before the 2018 assembly polls that he talked of labourers of unorganised sector and now ahead of assembly bypolls he has announced food for the 37 lakh beneficiaries. But the fact is neither did his government give benefit to the poor earlier nor does he intend to benefit them now. His announcements are purely vote-politics-driven announcements which are never implemented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-announces-re-1-per-kg-wheat-rice-and-salt-to-37-lakh-poor-opposition-calls-it-vote-politics/story-lhZxrXYkyyck365JSC3p5O.html
19-08-2020||India||Sars Cov-2 may have infected 6.6 lakh Hyderabadis, reveals a sewerage study||At least 6.6 lakh people in Hyderabad could have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 with the majority of them being asymptomatic, according to a collaborative study conducted on the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in sewerage water in the city by Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT). The CCMB revealed the study findings on Wednesday. Both CCMB and IICT are institutions working under the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).According to the study, Covid-19 infected individuals release virus not only through nasal and oral routes but also through faeces.“This provides an opportunity to use sewage/wastewater samples to estimate the spread of the infection in a given locality or area. The SARS-CoV-2 in sewage samples is non-infectious, thus making sewage samples suitable for epidemiological studies,” a CCMB release said. The team of scientists from CCMB and IICT harvested and processed sewage samples from major sewerage treatment plants (STPs) for detecting the presence of SARS-CoV-2 viral RNA to estimate the number of potentially infected individuals in the city.The study covered about 80 percent of the STPs.“Since only 40% of Hyderabad’s sewage reaches STPs, this data can be used to extrapolate the overall number of potentially infected people, which turned out to be approximately 6.6 lakhs, that is, around 6.6% of the city’s population. A conservative estimate of active cases shedding the virus may be around 2.6 lakh,” the CCMB release said. Also Read: Emergency authorisation of Covid vaccine could be considered if govt decides: ICMR The cases include symptomatic, asymptomatic, and also recently recovered individuals in a time window of about 35 days. “The findings are posted on preprint server, MedRxiv, which is yet to be peer reviewed”, the CCMB release added. Also Read: Mystery grows over Covid-19 spread via contaminated food packaging“Our finding clearly indicates that a large segment of the affected individuals is asymptomatic and did not need hospitalisation. This is also in agreement with the observation that hospitalisation rush or mortality (rate) is way lower than otherwise expected with such a large infection rate at a given time. It explains why our healthcare system has been able to handle the situation reasonably well during the pandemic,” CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sars-cov-2-may-have-infected-6-6-lakh-hyderabadis-reveals-a-sewerage-study/story-5t2RmqFOjKuhEZpdvmHw8J.html
19-08-2020||India||SC completes 100 days of hearing cases via video conferencing, over 15,000 cases heard||The Supreme Court has heard more than 15,500 cases through video conferencing from March 23 till date.Nearly 3,419 of those cases were connected cases, that is, cases involving the same issue which were heard along with the main case. The apex court also disposed of approximately 4,300 cases during this period.August 20 will be the 100th working day for the Supreme Court through the video conference facility.The court started hearing cases through video conference on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The top court also issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases would be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The summer vacation which is usually seven weeks long was cut short to two weeks this year so as to make up for the reduced number of cases which are being heard through video conference.The hearings in the Supreme Court are conducted through the Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. The platform is hosted on the servers of the National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre.While the judges on the bench join the video conference from the residence of one of the judges or the Supreme Court, the lawyers join from their respective houses or chambers.The number of benches hearing cases through video conference has increased steadily with time and so has the number of cases which are being heard per day. Initially the court used to hear 15 to 20 cases per day with 1 or 2 benches sitting each day. Currently, 5 to 6 benches sit everyday and hear more than 200 cases per day.The number is still less in comparison to normal times when at least 500 to 700 cases are heard by the apex court on a single day alone.The court is expected to resume physical hearing of cases in a limited manner in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-completes-100-days-of-hearing-cases-via-video-conferencing-over-15-000-cases-heard/story-bYRkmnFAwaYI5tcqa839aL.html
19-08-2020||India||Emergency authorisation of Covid vaccine could be considered if govt decides: ICMR||A top ICMR official told a parliamentary panel on Wednesday that phase-two clinical trial of two indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates have almost been completed and emergency authorisation of a vaccine could be considered if the Centre decides so.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava informed members of the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs that the vaccine candidates developed by Bharat Biotech, Cadila and the Serum Institute of India are at different stages of trial, said an MP present in the meeting.The Covid-19 vaccine candidates coordinated by Bharat Biotech and Cadila are nearing completion of phase-two trails.The one being handled by the Serum Institute of India and developed by Oxford University will enter phase-2 (b) trials this weekend for which 1,700 patients have been identified at 17 centres across the country, the MP said.According to MPs who attended the meeting, when asked how long people will have to live with the pandemic, Bhargava replied that normally the final trial takes about six to nine months but if the governments decides, an emergency authorisation could be considered.Responding to queries by the panel about the saliva test cleared by FDA in the US for rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2, Bhargava said informed that taking samples from gargled water is already under consideration and further details will be available soon, said another MP who attended the meeting.Members of the parliamentary committee cutting across party lines complemented the ICMR in particular and the medical fraternity in general for their committed role in fighting the pandemic.They appreciated the ICMR for its pioneering role in coordinating the scientific and medical aspects of the battle against Covid-19 and appreciated AIIMS, Delhi, for its effective contribution as a lead mentor for hospitals across the country on various aspects of the pandemic management.The committee members expressed concern over stigmatisation of infected people both by kin and neighbours and noted that those afflicted by Covid-19 and have recovered are not harmful, instead beneficial to the society.About the mental stress among the people due to the pandemic, ICMR agreed to the panel members’ suggestion of reviewing the existing limited set of guidelines relating to management of psychological stress, an MP in the panel said.The apex medical research body also told the committee that it may soon come out with comprehensive revised guidelines so as to help all the concerned to cope with the stress caused by the outbreak of the viral disease. Among various issues raised, the panel members drew the ICMR’s attention to the situation being faced by school children in particular, as with online learning they are required to spend long hours in front of computers and other gadgets which is adversely impacting their eyesight and causing psychological stress.The meeting, chaired by senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma, lasted for over four hours and discussed various aspects of management of the Covid-19 pandemic and also its impact on the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. Secretary, Ministry of MSMEs, Arvind Kumar Sharma also appeared before the panel and briefed it about the impact of pandemic on the sector.Chairman of the parliamentary standing committee Anand Sharma stressed that the sector which contributes 50 per cent of the total exports, 30 per cent of GDP besides employing over 11 crore people was among the worst hit by the pandemic.The Secretary in the Ministry of MSMEs informed the panel that only 9 per cent of the total 6.33 crore MSME units have been shut due to the pandemic and there has been an improvement in capacity utilisation over the last few months. Anand Sharma said the committee would like to present a detailed report on the handling of pandemic to both the Houses of Parliament in the Monsoon Session based on the experiences of various stakeholders and lessons learned which would serve as a useful guide for the future, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-authorisation-of-covid-vaccine-could-be-considered-if-govt-decides-icmr/story-7yoDvUApT7eS0NVd5srIGM.html
19-08-2020||India||Former Congress MLAs from Manipur join BJP||Five former Congress MLAs formally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in the capital on Wednesday in the presence of chief minister Biren Singh and national general secretary Ram Madhav and national vice president Jay Panda. A sixth MLA could not be present for the induction. Earlier this month the Biren Singh government sailed through a trust vote after proving its majority with a comfortable margin of 28-16 during a special assembly session held on August 10. These six are among the eight Congress MLAs who defied the party whip and skipped the trust vote. Also read: ‘Extend my warmest welcome’, says Manipur CM after former Congress MLAs join BJPThey submitted their resignation from the assembly on August 11 and announced their exit from the party. Their resignation were accepted by the Speaker. Henry Okram, nephew of former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Ibobi Singh, Panonam Broken, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Ginsuanhau Zou were inducted into the BJP fold at an event in BJP office today. Congress, which had won a total of 28 seats to emerge as the single largest party in the 60-member Manipur house after the 2017 polls, has seen a dozen-odd members exit the party fold to join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-congress-mlas-from-manipur-join-bjp/story-HvQEDhLMlVYZfhREJkLVaJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Odisha man builds memorial for electrocuted elephant to honour his mother’s word||The death of an elephant in a region where they get electrocuted, run over by speeding trains and trucks, or hunted by poachers is mostly a matter of statistics for state wildlife department, but a 62-year-old tribal man in Keonjhar district was determined not to let it remain just like that.In November 2009, when a tusker from Jyotipur reserve forest stomped towards paddy field near Jali village of Champua block in Keonjhar district on Odisha-Jharkhand border, little did it know about the sagging electric lines. But no sooner did it reach the paddy field of Padmini Naik to chew on the ripening paddy after quenching its thirst at the nearby river, the tusker raised its trunk only to touch the sagging high voltage power lines. Within seconds it fell to the ground as huge amounts of electric current coursed through its body.“My mother was too shocked about the elephant dying on our field as she considered her vehicle of Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth. She asked me to build a memorial for the dead elephant on our paddy field where it died. She was so heartbroken over the death that she did not take food for next 2-3 days,” said Dr Krushna Chandra Naik, son of Padmini.Respecting her mother’s wish, Dr Naik, a retired Odia teacher in a local college in January 2019 erected a 35-feet tall memorial for the dead elephant on the same paddy field and called it “Hathi Minar”.“After the elephant’s death, my mother kept telling me and my younger brother that the pachyderm’s death was a bad omen. The next year my younger brother died in a road accident and a year later, my mother passed away too. The twin tragedies steeled my resolve to build the elephant memorial at any cost,” said the retired teacher.With her mother’s last wish to see a memorial for the elephant uppermost on his mind, Naik started earmarking a portion of his profits from the farm and dipped into his personal savings. Though villagers suffered crop loss to rampaging elephants, they also came forward to help him in construction of the memorial. He donated five acres of land to develop the site into a children’s park and planted 30,000 saplings for a herbal garden.“In January 2019 I opened it to the public where people could come and pay tribute to the fallen elephant. More than 5000 people had gathered at the site for inauguration of the Hati Minar. Since then, people have been flocking to the place,” said Naik. “I hope the memorial makes people aware of the importance of elephants who are facing a massive crisis of habitat.”After the death of the tusker in 2009, there have been numerous incidents of elephants being electrocuted in Keonjhar district, known for iron and manganese mines. In June this year, two elephants — an eight-year-old tusker and a 30-year-old female elephant — were found electrocuted dead in Baitarani reserve forest of the district raising suspicion of poaching.The district, which had 112 elephants in 2002 reported just 40 in 2017 elephant census, mostly due to large-scale mining as the pachyderms deserted the area for neighbouring Dhenkanal district. The destruction of elephant habitats has seen rising human-elephant conflicts over the years. In January this year, a 10-year-old girl in Hariharpur village of the district was trampled to death by a rampaging tusker while she was playing outside her home. In 2019-20, as many as 115 people were killed and 132 injured in 204 human-elephant encounters in Odisha.Noted elephant conservationist Biswajit Mohanty said Padmini Naik deserves a posthumous award for her enormous contribution to elephant conservation awareness for public. “The distressed elephants of Odisha face an uncertain and dangerous future and the safety of our national heritage animal in Odisha is in peril. Once the pride of Odisha, the state has turned into a graveyard for elephants. I hope more and more people would visit the elephant memorial so that they become a little more sympathetic towards the majestic animal,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-builds-memorial-for-electrocuted-elephant-to-honour-his-mother-s-word/story-9KuJGf9lycahpeocodYm3O.html
19-08-2020||India||On maiden visit to Tonk after his rebellion, Pilot wants Congress workers to be rewarded||Former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said that everyone who had worked to bring the Congress party to power in the state should be involved in the government on the basis of their seniority and merit. On his first visit to his assembly constituency Tonk, after the rebellion in mid-July, Pilot said people who struggled with him for six and a half years should be sufficiently rewarded even as he maintained that he had no attraction for top posts. “When I came here as PCC president six-and-a-half years ago, we were only 21 MLAs. People used to say the Congress cannot rise again because there’s Vasundhara Raje in Rajasthan and Narendra Modi in Delhi… People who faced lathis, demonstrated on streets, organised marches and sit-ins, did gheraos and went to districts should be sufficiently rewarded for their contribution and sacrifice according to their seniority and merit,” Pilot said at the Circuit House in Tonk. “I have not asked for any post for myself – I am happy being among my people,” he added. Pilot, along with 18 other Congress MLAs, had camped in Haryana, demanding a change of leadership in the government. Three Independent MLAs had also supported him. The Ashok Gehlot government herded the remaining Congress MLAs in a hotel and removed Pilot, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena from the council of ministers for the rebellion that had put the government at the risk of being toppled. The stalemate was resolved after the Congress party decided to form a three-member committee to redress issues raised by the Pilot camp. Earlier, Pilot had said at his Jaipur residence that the committee will solve “all issues”. “The Congress president has formed the committee very fast. It will discuss and decide how it wants us to work. Whatever we need to say, we will say on the party platform so that our issues reach the high command through the committee,” Pilot said before leaving for Tonk. He said the road map that the party had decided for Rajasthan would be implemented soon. On the question of whether he would be back in the council of ministers, Pilot said members of the committee will decide who needs to be used where. “The party will decide who should work in the government and who should work in the organization,” said the former president of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC). “All issues will be discussed with the committee and solutions will come from this committee only,” he added. The Congress leader said he loved being among the people. “People have supported me in every condition so I want to be with them to share their sorrows and pain and to ensure their participation in governance,” he said. Pilot visited Tonk last in April when he had reviewed the management of Covid-19 in the district. He said on the Covid-19 front a lot of work has been done. “We should not become complacent and work more to control the rise of this infection,” he said. The Congress leader received a grand welcome on the way to Tonk, especially in Chaksu, the constituency of Ved Prakash Solanki, who was in the Pilot camp during the political turmoil in the state. Several people turned up to garland Pilot and welcome him. Pilot also received a grand welcome in Tonk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-maiden-visit-to-tonk-after-his-rebellion-pilot-wants-congress-workers-to-be-rewarded/story-3EEiGUxZ9nmEkCB8afuyaI.html
19-08-2020||India||MP man pedals bicycle for 105 km to take son to exam centre, he has a dream||A tribal labourer from Madhya Pradesh’s Dhar district, 251 kilometres south west of capital Bhopal, pedaled a bicycle for about 105 kilometres to take his son to an examination centre at the district headquarters on Tuesday, according to the labourer and his son. Shobharam, a resident of Bayadipura in Manawar tehsil of Dhar district, was spotted by people at Dhar district headquarters on Tuesday morning when he reached the examination centre-- Bhoj Girls Higher Secondary School-- pedalling the bicycle with his son, a class 10 student, sitting on the frame of the cycle.Shobharam said, “After the lockdown restrictions buses came to a halt. The buses are not operating even now. There was no one to help me at the village, hence I decided to come here on my bicycle. I left from Dhar on Sunday night itself and stayed overnight at Manawar town. I reached Mandu at 4 am on Tuesday and the exam centre at Dhar just 15 minutes before the examination was to begin.” He said he will stay in Dhar till August 24 when his son’s examinations will get over. He has brought food grains and other essential items to cook meals stuffed in a gunny bag which he carried on the bicycle. He said, “Though I am a labourer and not a literate, I have a dream for my son that he becomes an officer. Since there is no teacher and tuition available in the village, my son couldn’t get good marks in three subjects. We came here since my son didn’t want to lose the opportunity to write the exam again and pass it.” Shobharam’s son is supposed to write his exam under MP State Open School Board’s Ruk Jana Nahi scheme under which the students of class 10 and 12 who couldn’t pass the examinations conducted by MP Board of Secondary Education are given another chance to clear the test. But since the re-exam centre was chosen at the district headquarters, the father and the son had to travel more than 100 kilometres. Also Read: Another minister in Chouhan cabinet tests positive for Covid-19The boy said, “I didn’t lose my chance. I insisted on reaching Dhar and writing the examination, but since there is no bus service my father said he would take me to the examination centre.” Assistant commissioner, Tribals Welfare department in Dhar district Brijesh Chandra Pandey said, “I came to know about the painstaking efforts of both father and son. It’s really inspiring. Since they are supposed to stay here till August 24, we have made an arrangement for their lodging and food and we will also make arrangements for their travel back to their village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-pedals-bicycle-for-105-km-to-take-son-to-exam-centre-he-has-a-dream/story-dxZMZMpV8wR5CBraFvWLcJ.html
19-08-2020||India||6 lakh may have been coronavirus-infected in Hyderabad: Study||There may be at least six lakh people in the city who have been infected by coronavirus with a large number of them asymptomatic and need no hospitalisation, a study said on Wednesday. Conducted by CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, the study said individuals infected by SARS-CoV-2 shed virus not only through nasal and oral routes but also through faeces.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage In a joint effort, CCMB and IICT harvested the sewage samples of different sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city to estimate the number of potentially infected individuals, it said. According to the study, 80 per cent of the STPs revealed nearly two lakh people are shedding viral materials and only 40 per cent of the sewage reach STPs which may indicate that about six lakh people in the city carried or are carrying the virus. “This study, covering about 80 per cent of the STPs in Hyderabad, revealed that there are nearly 2 lakh people who are shedding viral materials. Since only 40 per cent of the sewage reach STPs, this data can be used to extrapolate the overall number of potentially infected people, which turned out to be approximately six lakh, that is, around six per cent of the population, which includes symptomatic, asymptomatic, and also recently recovered individuals in a time window of about 35 days,” the CCMB said. The findings are posted on preprint server MedRxiv, which is yet to be peer reviewed, it added. According to a press release from the Telangana government, as on August 18, there are 95,700 positive cases reported in the state. Director, CCMB, Rakesh Mishra said if such studies are carried out in coordination with civic bodies, it would help identify the hotspots and take necessary measures. “Our finding clearly indicates that a large proportion of the affected individuals are asymptomatic and did not need hospitalisation. This is also in agreement with the observation that hospitalisation rush or mortality is way lower than otherwise expected with such a large infection rates at a given time,” the CCMB director said. “It explains why our healthcare system has been able to handle reasonably well the situation during the pandemic,” he said. All the experiments were conducted at the CSIR-CCMB COVID- 19 testing facility and the teams were from CSIR-IICT and CSIR-CCMB, according to the release. PTI GDK NVG NVG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-lakh-may-have-been-coronavirus-infected-in-hyderabad-study/story-BiL6g4fW0jc4PeBIHnmsRJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Bengal BJP targets CM Mamata Banerjee with new anti-corruption campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit on Wednesday launched a new campaign against corruption to mount pressure on the ruling Trinamool Congress before the upcoming 2021 assembly elections. The campaign has been named ‘Bengal against corruption’. Though it does not specifically name Mamata Banerjee it is obvious that she is the target because the campaign’s posters and video focus on the words “Satatar Pratik” (symbol of honesty), which TMC had earlier used in election cutouts and billboards carrying Banerjee’s image. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh launched the public helpline (7044070440) which is registered as ‘Durnitir biruddhe Dilip Da’ (Dilip Da against corruption) and an e-mail id (durnitirbiruddhe@amaderdilipda.in). “Anybody can call this number between 10 am and 5 pm on weekdays and let us know about any type of corruption in any part of West Bengal. We will look into it,” said Ghosh. BJP also launched the campaign’s video on YouTube which has been compiled with media reports exposing corruption such as irregularities in distribution of relief after Cyclone Amphan, corruption in mid-day meal in schools and chit fund scams in which several TMC leaders were accused. Ghosh’s voice plays in the background of the video. TMC leaders did not react to the BJP campaign, but the party uploaded on a social media platform, a letter from the Japan-based United Nations World Peace Association (UNWPA) addressed to TMC minister Nirmal Maji. The letter says that UNWPA got to know from its representative that the state government has done a commendable job during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-targets-cm-mamata-banerjee-with-new-anti-corruption-campaign/story-ZTJfhjZi2hXT1s6VefjltM.html
19-08-2020||India||Ganga surges, flowing above danger mark in Patna, further rise in level likely||After the north Bihar rivers, the Ganga is in spate, crossing the danger level (DL) at Patna and Bhagalpur on Wednesday, inundating a vast stretch of diara areas and low-lying areas in the bordering Saran district.Officials of the water resources department (WRD) have been put on alert following the release of more than 1.25 lakh cusec of water from Bansagar dam in the Sone River. Currently, the Sone is being fed in the range of 47,000 to 53,000 cusec water from Indrapuri barrage in Dehri. Officials said that the water released from Bansagar dam in Madhya Pradesh may take a couple of days to reach Patna. The Sone is a tributary of the Ganga River.The Ganga has crossed the DL (48.60 metre) by 11 cm at the Gandhi Ghat in Patna, 21cm at Hathidan and by 18cm at Kahalgaon. The river may top the DL at Digha and Buxar soon, if the current rising trend is any indication, said a WRD engineer.Alarmed by the situation, WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha undertook an inspection of the Gandhi Ghat and other ghats in Patna and reviewed the department’s preparations to meet any eventuality. The minister, however, ruled out any immediate threat of flooding to Patna from Ganga as the river was flowing about 1.85 metre below the highest flood level (HFL) of 50.52 metres at Gandhi Ghat, registered in 2016.Meanwhile, the rivers of north Bihar like Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Khiroi and Ghaghra continued to flow above the DL at different stretches in Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria and Siwan districts.“The rivers are exerting tremendous pressure on their respective embankments at several points. WRD engineers are maintaining round the clock vigil and carrying out flood fighting work to protect the embankments,” said an executive engineer engaged in flood protection works.Heavy discharge from Valmikinagar barrage in Gandak has complicated the problems for people in East Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran districts, which are facing floods after the river breached embankments in the concerned districts. Countering the charges of lapses on part of the officials, WRD minister Jha said the breach in embankments on Gandak was due to the unprecedented discharge of water from Valmikinagar barrage from Nepal side.“On July 20, around 4.34 lakh cusec water was released in the river. Heavy rains in Champaran, amounting to 200mm in a day, have added to around 1 lakh cusec water in the already swollen river,” said the minister.The minister said that WRD officials tried to keep the flow of the river within the embankments by putting extra sacks of sands and other materials. “But the water overtopped the reinforced embankment and demolished it at three places in East Champaran and Gopalganj despite the best of flood fighting efforts. WRD staff, however, managed to prevent the breach at more than 100 by resorting to mechanized and manual strengthening of embankments,” said Jha.According to the disaster management department (DMD), flood waters have flushed into five more panchayats, taking the total count of panchayats hit by the floods to 1,317 in 130 blocks of 16 districts. More than 81.67 lakh people have so far been hit by the floods. The current spell of floods has claimed 25 lives across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-surges-flowing-above-danger-mark-in-patna-further-rise-in-level-likely/story-3U8Y3z283nlPg8IXWojYQK.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Extend my warmest welcome’, says Manipur CM after former Congress MLAs join BJP||Five former MLAs who recently resigned from Congress, joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday during a function at the party office in Delhi. The five former MLAs are Ngamthang Haokip (Saitu), Paonam Brojen (Wangjing Tentha), Oinam Lukhoi (Wangoi),Okram Henry (Wangkhei) and Ginsuanhau (Singhat).Confirming the development when contacted, Okram Henry said that they joined (BJP) to have a stable government and bring peace and tranquillity among the people of the state under the new hope and new thoughts of the party.BJP’s national general secretary Ram Madhav, national vice president Baijayant Panda and Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh were present at the event held in the national capital at around 4.30pm, a source said.Earlier in the day, state chief minister welcomed the former Congress MLAs in a post on Twitter.“I extend my warmest welcome to the five former Congress MLAs from Manipur, Ginsuanhau, O Lukhoi, Ngamthang Haoikip, P Brojen and O Henry on joining @BJP4India today in New Delhi in presence of Shri@rammadhavbjp ji and Shri @PandaJay ji,” he wrote on Twitter. I extend my warmest welcome to the five former Congress MLAs from Manipur, Ginsuanhau, O.Lukhoi, Ngamthang Haokip, P.Brojen and O.Henry on joining @BJP4India today in New Delhi in presence of Shri @rammadhavbjp ji and Shri @PandaJay ji. pic.twitter.com/flrq0gzBXULater Chief Minister Biren along with the two BJP national leaders and five ex-MLAs called on party’s national president JP Nadda at the latter’s office, sources said.On August 10, six Congress MLAs-Md Abdul Nasir(Lilong), Ngamthang Haokip (Saitu), Okram Henry(Wangkhei), Paonam Brojen(Wangjing Tentha), Oinam Lukhoi (Wangoi) and Ginsuanhau (Singhat) Manipur resigned from Manipur State Legislative Assembly and congress party.Later on August 16, state Chief Minister Biren Singh along with the ex-MLAs left for New Delhi to meet the BJP national leadership in New Delhi. The team is expected to return to Manipur within 2-3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-former-congress-mlas-of-manipur-join-bjp/story-t2SEJl06oiZ5K76d5ZXrJP.html
19-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Indian Navy is prepared to meet any challenge, says Rajnath Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Navy prepared to meet any challenge, says Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday expressed confidence in the Indian Navy’s preparedness to meet any challenge through its proactive deployment of warships and aircrafts, at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in eastern Ladakh. Read moreIndia, China to hold another round of diplomatic talks on border standoff on ThursdayIndia and China will hold another round of talks on Thursday under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs in an effort to break the impasse along the Line of Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said. Read moreKerala poll officer seeks proxy voting for Covid infected, stirs political debateAs Kerala is getting ready for civic and local body elections, state election commissioner V Bhaskaran has sent a letter to the state government on Wednesday to make necessary amendments in the state panchayati raj act to facilitate proxy voting or postal ballot facility for Covid-19 infected voters and others in quarantine. Read moreDeath on the Nile trailer: Ali Fazal is in star-studded company of Gal Gadot, Armie Hammer in Kenneth Branagh’s new Hercule Poirot mysteryThe makers of Death on the Nile have released the first trailer. The film is directed by Kenneth Branagh and is based on Agatha Christie’s novel by the same name. Read more‘Dream11 as a fantasy sports brand will grow engagement of IPL with its fans’: IPL Chairman Brijesh PatelA day after fantasy sports brand Dream11 won the IPL 2020 title sponsorship rights, an official media advisory from the league confirmed the same on Wednesday. “The IPL Governing Council has announced Dream11 as the new Title Sponsor of the 2020 edition of the Indian Premier League. Read moreZoom calls are coming to Google Nest Hub Max, Amazon Echo Show and Facebook PortalVideo-conferencing platform Zoom on Wednesday announced that its Zoom for Home platform was coming to Amazon Echo Show series, Google Nest Hub Max and Facebook portal later this year. To give you some context, Zoom announced Zoom for Home platform last month. Read moreThese transparent toilets in Japan may baffle you. But they’re not what they look likeOften, the idea of using a public restroom can make one quite uncomfortable, its cleanliness being a primary concern. So, in an effort to offer a clean bathroom space for people, The Nippon Foundation has come up with a series of eye-catching toilets. Read moreFestive wear inspiration for Ganesh ChaturthiWhile we didn’t get enough reasons to dress up due to the ongoing pandemic, with festive season upon us, it’s time to deck up and cheer up our mood. Though social gatherings are still prohibited, it shouldn’t be a reason to not look your ethnic best on Ganesh Chaturthi. Read moreWatch: What top politicians said on SC order on Sushant Singh death case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-indian-navy-is-prepared-to-meet-any-challenge-says-defence-minister-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tNPMGyGaoe977IDgVEoXBI.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI team to visit Mumbai for probe into actor’s death||After getting a nod from the Supreme Court to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, a CBI team will visit Mumbai to investigate the case further, the agency said on Wednesday. The CBI, which took over the probe into an FIR registered by the Bihar Police on the basis of a compaint by Rajput’s father KK Singh, is yet to visit the megacity regarding the investigation. It has collected relevant material from the Bihar police and has also spoken to some stakeholders in the case, they said. The Supreme Court on Wednesday handed over the probe to the CBI which has already registered an FIR in the matter.Also read | ‘Truth will remain same, whichever agency investigates’: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer on SC order “The investigation releated to death of Sushant Singh Rajput is continuing. A CBI team will visit Mumbai in due course for further investigation. Other details cannot be shared at this stage,” CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police was probing the case but was yet to file an FIR in the case. The top court’s verdict came on a plea filed by actress Rhea Chakraborty who sought transfer of an FIR, lodged against her and six others at Patna by Rajput’s father accusing them of abetting the actor’s suicide, to Mumbai.Also read | Nitish claims vindication in Sushant case, says it is about justice, not politics The court noted that while Rajput’s father and the Bihar government have alleged that Mumbai Police is attempting to shield the real culprits under political pressure, the Maharashtra government has strongly refuted it saying Patna Police has no jurisdiction to investigate the crime as the incident has taken place in Mumbai. It said political interference has been alleged against both the states and that has the potential of discrediting the investigation. The legal process must therefore be focused upon revelation of the correct facts through credible and legally acceptable investigation. It must be determined whether the unnatural death was the result of some criminal acts. In order to lend credibility to the investigation and its conclusion, it would be desirable in my view, to specify the authority, which should conduct the investigation in this matter,  the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-team-to-visit-mumbai-for-probe-into-actor-s-death/story-HnQYGSF2EliiHhLSTxbQ8K.html
19-08-2020||India||Centre withdraws 10,000 soldiers from Kashmir to send a message||A security review last week on Jammu and Kashmir led the government to order the withdrawal of 10,000 troops from the union territory, a move that is seen as part of the Centre’s outreach to the Kashmir valley. The review was ordered by the Home Minister Amit Shah when he was still recuperating in a Gurugram hospital earlier this month.The review, and the withdrawal of about 100 companies of central security forces, comes around the time that the government has spotlighted development activities and appointed senior politician Manoj Sinha as Lieutenant Governor of the centrally-administered territory.An official underscored that the timing of the two developments, one after another, was not a coincidence, but designed to message people that the government was willing to address their concerns.One view has been that far too many security personnel are deployed in the union territory to prevent about 200 hardcore terrorists trained across the border from carrying out strikes.Also Read: New L-G Manoj Sinha fuels hope of political revival in J&KAt last week’s security review, there was some acknowledgement within the security establishment that the forces could do with fewer numbers, particularly given its successes over the last one year in eliminating top terrorist commanders. Security officials have also claimed that there has been some improvement in how the public responds to counter-terror operations.A team of security officers next travelled to Jammu and Kashmir on 15 August to interact with field commanders and lay the groundwork for the troop withdrawal. A few hours before the team landed, Prime Minister Narendra Modi - addressing the nation from Red Fort in Delhi - described the past year as ‘a very important milestone’ for the development journey of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh regions and spoke about assembly elections in J&K as soon as the election commission completes the delimitation exercise.“It was felt that the kind of force deployed in J&K may be fairly construed to be disproportionate under the existing security situation, which could lead to inconvenience to the local population,” a top police officer who was part of the process told Hindustan Times.Apart from top army commanders, top officers of the Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force and other central and forces were part of the review.There was a view that instead of relying too much on check-posts in Srinagar and elsewhere in the valley, the security establishment should step up reliance on technology to target terrorists. Simultaneously, the security forces in the Kashmir valley have also been told to carry out more night domination patrols to restrict movement of terrorists in districts that are counted as terror hotspots such as Kulgam and Anantnag districts in south Kashmir and Baramulla district in the north.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-withdraws-10-000-soldiers-from-kashmir-to-send-a-message/story-dRvpuA9uQuG8gbRS6ae5fP.html
19-08-2020||India||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari gets additional charge of Goa||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was sworn in as the Governor of Goa on Wednesday evening at a simple ceremony hosted at the Raj Bhavan. Koshyari, who succeeds Satya Pal Malik, will hold additional charge as the Governor of Goa. Earlier today, Malik left Goa in a special flight from Goa’s Dabolim airport and is expected to take charge as the Governor of Meghalaya succeeding Tathagata Roy. The Governor was sworn in by the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court Dipankar Datta, who also flew down to Goa for the ceremony. Koshyari took oath in Konkani, Goa’s official language reading out from the text and despite some fumbling appeared fairly deft at the language. On his arrival, Koshyari was welcomed to the state by chief minister Pramod Sawant, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, chief secretary Parimal Rai. Malik it is believed was transferred out of Goa as his relationship with chief minister Pramod Sawant quickly soured due to his differences with the chief minister on at least three occasions. He also regularly hosted delegations of people and politicians who sought his intervention on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-gets-additional-charge-of-goa/story-NDOIJI0zhiXNLFFlaWh0CK.html
19-08-2020||India||India, China to hold another round of diplomatic talks on border standoff on Thursday||India and China will hold another round of talks on Thursday under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs in an effort to break the impasse along the Line of Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said. The meeting between diplomats of the two sides, to be held via video conference, comes at a time when military talks on reducing tensions along the disputed border have hit a roadblock, and the Indian Army has adopted a tougher line in its efforts to restore status quo ante in eastern Ladakh. This will be the fifth engagement at the diplomatic level since the border standoff emerged into the open in early May and the Indian side is expected to reiterate its call for China to work sincerely towards complete disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Amid a growing realisation in New Delhi that there is unlikely to be a breakthrough through the talks between the corps commanders, the Indian envoy in Beijing, Vikram Misri, has been tasked to reach out to top Chinese leaders to discuss ways to end the standoff, the people said. Misri met Maj Gen Ci Guowei of the Central Military Commission’s (CMC) office of international military cooperation, and Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) central committee’s foreign affairs commission, in Beijing last week. The people said more such meetings were on the cards. There was no official word from either India or China on the WMCC meeting, though the people said it would meet on Thursday afternoon. “We have already said China needs to work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation on the LAC as the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the border. That continues to be our position,” said one of the people cited above. The Indian side has also made it clear that the sanctity of the LAC is non-negotiable, the people added. Five rounds of talks between the corps commanders have failed to break the deadlock due to serious differences in the Finger Area near Pangong Lake and the PLA’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims as Indian territory. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said India had shown “ample commitment and efforts” to end the standoff and much would now depend on China’s response. “It seems to me the WMCC meeting should show some of the results of the efforts by our envoy in Beijing, who has met officials of CPC and CMC. These meetings were also put in the public domain by the Indian side to reflect the sincerity of its efforts through all possible channels,” he said. “There is also a feeling among military experts that the talks at the military level should now stop, as this matter should really be the responsibility of diplomats and the standoff should be addressed through the existing political and diplomatic channels,” he added. “The Chinese are playing things down and saying that they attach importance to our relations and that they want good ties. We should keep an open mind and hope they will start responding meaningfully to India’s efforts,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-another-round-of-diplomatic-talks-on-border-standoff-on-thursday/story-dyiJKQn1YCqe2tYexwYInI.html
19-08-2020||India||Centre withdraws nearly 10,000 security personnel from Jammu and Kashmir||The Centre on Wednesday decided to withdraw 100 companies (around 10,000 personnel) of central paramilitary forces from Jammu and Kashmir after a security review, officials familiar with the development said. They said the decision was taken as a large number of troops were deployed in the valley for more than one and a half years now who needed to be rested. Significantly, the security situation in the valley has improved and terrorists are on the back foot, the officers said. On Wednesday, 40 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and 20 each of the Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) were withdrawn by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and were asked to report back to their respective locations. Earlier, the MHA had withdrawn around 82 companies in December last year. The security grid in J-K was strengthened with an additional 600 odd companies (around 60,000 troops) rushed there just ahead of the government’s decision to withdraw the special status of J-K and bifurcate it into two union territories on August 5, 2019. These troops were stationed at various locations from where terrorist incidents, stone pelting incidents were reported. According to the latest government data, stone pelting incidents have drastically reduced this year as compared to 2019 or 2018. In 2018, there were 532 incidents of stone pelting in Kashmir, 389 in 2019 but only 102 such incidents were reported this year so far. Senior officers deployed in the valley have claimed that the locals don’t disrupt the counter-terror operations anymore and there is more support from the public in general. With the latest decision, around 400 additional companies of paramilitary forces are still deployed in J-K in additional to CRPF’s regular 67 battalions (around 67,000 personnel) and army and the J-K police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-withdraws-100-companies-of-security-personnel-from-jammu-and-kashmir/story-PkgP4oIJzXGvQAjCl6LcVO.html
19-08-2020||India||Navy prepared to meet any challenge, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday expressed confidence in the Indian Navy’s preparedness to meet any challenge through its proactive deployment of warships and aircrafts, at a time when India and China are locked in a border row in eastern Ladakh. The navy is on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region (IOR) where scores of ships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the developments along the northern border and its P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircrafts are being used for surveillance of the Ladakh sector and gathering intelligence on Chinese deployments across the Line of Actual Control. Addressing a conference of the navy’s top commanders, Singh complimented the navy personnel for their role in protecting the country’s maritime interests. The navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR, which, it believes, China will inevitably try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 29.While speaking on the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the defence minister congratulated the navy for carrying out its biggest repatriation effort Operation Samudra Setu, which resulted in more than 4,000 Indians being brought home from different countries. Singh lauded the navy’s role in providing medical aid to countries such as Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles and Madagascar.He said the navy had effectively carried out mission-based deployment to protect India’s maritime interests by deploying warships and aircraft at sensitive locations in the IOR. The navy has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and the choke points in the IOR under its mission-based deployment model and the vessels can be diverted for any mission. Indian warships are deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.During the three-day conference, the commanders will discuss ways to optimise joint planning, tri-service synergy, operational readiness, procurement and functional reorganisation within the navy to enhance efficiency.Deliberations will also cover larger security imperatives in the Indo-Pacific region. The conference comes at a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. Several of the 101 defence items in the negative import list, released on August 9, include naval weapons and systems including conventional submarines and ship-borne cruise missiles. The navy will be steering one of the costliest Make in India programmes to build six next-generation submarines in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-prepared-to-meet-any-challenge-says-rajnath/story-TeCcNibacSkm3NJRYI6JiO.html
19-08-2020||India||US provides second shipment of 100 ventilators to India to help fight Covid-19||The US on Wednesday donated the second shipment of 100 ventilators to India to help in the country’s fight against Covid-19, saying it had fulfilled President Donald Trump’s commitment to provide critically needed supplies. The US-made ventilators are compact and easy to deploy, and will provide India flexibility in treating patients. In addition to the ventilators, US Agency for International Development (USAID) is funding a package of support that includes warranties and additional supplies and components needed to operate the machines. The first shipment of 100 ventilators was donated by the US government in June. These machines have been deployed to support the care of Covid-19 patients at the eight regional All India Institutes of Medical Sciences. US ambassador Ken Juster said, “We are very pleased to hand over the final tranche of 100 ventilators to India, fulfilling President Trump’s commitment to provide these critically needed supplies to support India’s pandemic response.” USAID is also working with the Indian government to enhance the capacity of health facilities using the ventilators by facilitating setup, orientation, and clinical training for healthcare personnel responsible for operating the machines. USAID’s efforts have strengthened the India’s healthcare system’s readiness and response capacity in several states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases. As of August, a total of three million people in India have directly benefited from USAID support, said a statement from the US embassy. USAID has also trained 40,700 health workers on best practices to integrate Covid-19 prevention and risk mitigation into essential health services, and 46,000 frontline workers on risk communication. It has provided 950 healthcare facilities with support to increase social distancing, infection prevention control, and patient management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-provides-second-shipment-of-100-ventilators-to-india-to-help-fight-covid-19/story-rl0XKQa6ReC8SBGJo3Px8J.html
19-08-2020||India||Over 3 lakh stranded J-K residents evacuated during Covid-19 lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has so far evacuated over three lakh residents of the union territory stranded in other parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to official data.A total of 119 special trains arrived at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations from different parts of India with about 1,01,244 passengers, while about 2,27,976 people from other states and UTs, including 906 from abroad, have been evacuated by the government via road till date, the data showed.As many as 1,059 passengers reached Jammu from Delhi on Wednesday in the 98th special train.A total of 85,548 stranded passengers belonging to different districts have reached Jammu in these 98 special trains, while 15,696 passengers have reached Udhampur in 21 special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-lakh-stranded-j-k-residents-evacuated-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-jWqGSGc71tvSnq1wj5tqSO.html
19-08-2020||India||People will teach lesson to those who betrayed Congress: Digvijaya Singh||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh has said people will teach a lesson to those who betrayed the party.As many as 25 MLAs in the 230-member Madhya Pradesh House resigned from the Congress and their Assembly membership in the last few months after former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the party and joined the BJP.Asked about the Congress’s strategy for the Assembly bypolls, Singh told reporters in Chhindwara on Tuesday night that “people will teach a lesson to those who betrayed the party”. He did not take any name.Singh also said the Congress has full faith in the leadership of Madhya Pradesh party president and former chief minister Kamal Nath, and lauded his hard work for the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-will-teach-lesson-to-those-who-betrayed-congress-digvijaya-singh/story-XhrJItiDLdODQRy1v90OUL.html
19-08-2020||India||Centre to withdraw 100 companies of paramilitary forces from Jammu-Kashmir||The Centre on Wednesday decided to withdraw 100 companies of security forces from the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The decision was taken after a security review by the ministry of home affairs (MHA). The companies of paramilitary personnel to be withdrawn include 40 companies of CRPF and 20 each of the BSF, CISF and SSB from the Kashmir Valley, officials said.The decision was finalised after the MHA reviewed the deployment of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in the union territory.A total of nearly 100 CAPF companies have been asked to withdraw “immediately” and go back to their base locations in the country from where they were mobilised to the UT after the abrogation of Article 370, in August last year.A CAPF company usually has an operational strength of about 100 security personnel.The home ministry had last withdrawn about 82 CAPF companies from Jammu and Kashmir in December. So after the new MHA order, 182 companies of security forces stand withdrawn now in the Kashmir Valley.According to the MHA order, a total of 40 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and 20 each of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), will be moved out of Jammu and Kashmir by the end of this week.With the latest withdrawal of security personnel, the CRPF will have a strength of about 60 battalions (about 1,000 personnel in each battalion) in the Kashmir Valley apart from very few units of other CAPF staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-decides-to-withdraw-100-companies-of-paramilitary-forces-from-jammu-kashmir/story-Xvu15wrX38253R8XdPOiiP.html
19-08-2020||India||India tests over 8 lakh samples for Covid-19 on second consecutive day||Focusing on the “test, track and treat” strategy, India has tested more than 8 lakh samples for Covid-19 for the second consecutive day in a row, taking the cumulative tests to 3,17,42,782 so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.  With a strong resolve to rapidly increase the number of tests done per day to touch 10 lakh per day testing capacity, 8,01,518 samples were tested in a span of 24 hours on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The total recoveries from Covid-19 have surged to 20,37,870 in the country, pushing the recovery rate to 73.64 per cent, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am. “The cumulative testing as on date has reached 3,17,42,782. The Tests Per Million too have seen a sharp rise to 23,002,” the ministry said. “It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified, their contacts tracked and isolated as well as prompt treatment can be ensured through timely medical care.  The sustained level of high testing has played a key role in India’s increasing rate of recovery, widening gap between the recovered and active cases, and also progressively declining fatality rate,” the ministry said. India followed the track of a graded and evolving strategy, steadily strengthening its nationwide network of labs in the public and private sectors. Starting from one lab in January 2020, presently there are 1,486 labs in the country, with 975 labs in the government sector and 511 in the private sector.   With 64,531 people testing positive in a day, India’s Covid-19 tally increased to 27,67,273, while the death-toll climbed to 52,889 with 1,092 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-over-8-lakh-samples-for-covid-19-on-second-consecutive-day/story-pW5ndB0bvRDLySF7hprbyJ.html
19-08-2020||India||National Conference calls party leaders’ meeting after HC told none of them in detention||The National Conference has decided to convene a meeting of its senior leaders on Thursday after the local administration informed the Jammu and Kashmir High Court that none of the 16 leaders, that the party claimed were in illegal confinement, were detained and that they were free to move around.In a statement issued Wednesday, the National Conference said it had taken note of the government’s stand in the High Court on the petition filed by party president Faqrooq Abdullah and his son Omar to secure the liberty of its various leaders who have been under illegal house detention.“On a perusal of the reply the party has noticed that the government has unequivocally submitted before the High Court that no leader is under detention and that they are free to move subject to necessary security arrangements,” the statement said.“Now relying fully on the stand of the government before the HC that the members are free to move and expecting no hogwash on part of the government, the party president Farooq Abdullah has invited senior party members including Ali Mohammad Sagar, Abdul Rahim Rather, Mohammad Shafi Uri and Nasir Aslam Wani for a meeting at his residence on 20.8.2020 at 5 pm,” it said.The party also made it clear that it is mindful of the present pandemic and accordingly the meeting with various leaders that have been under detention will be done in batches of four members per meeting. “Needless to add that all standard operating procedures shall be strictly followed by all concerned,” the party statement said.The party is hopeful that the liberty of the members under detention is now absolute and the meeting will be held successfully on the appointed day, it said.The Abdullah father-son duo had filed a bunch of habeas corpus petitions on July 13 seeking their release. A habeas corpus is a writ requiring a person under arrest to be brought before a judge or into court, especially to secure the person’s release unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention.Filing the replies before the High Court earlier this month, senior additional advocate general Bashir Ahmad Dar said the contention of the pleas was “not only surprising but shocking as well” as there were neither any legal proceedings underway nor was it being contemplated.The similarly worded replies, vetted by Inspector General of Police (Kashmir range), however, said in the wake of Constitutional amendments carried out in the Article 370, “it was apprehended that inimical elements may disturb the peace” and the leaders “may provoke them to cause aggravation in the disturbance”.However, no order of detention either under preventive detention law or substantive law was issued against the party leaders, it said, adding, the leaders were free to move with certain precautions “as deemed fit” for their security.The reply said the petitioner being a categorised person has been advised not to visit any vulnerable areas without informing the concerned authorities” and reasoned that it was to ensure proper security.The Abdullahs had filed 16 petitions on July 13 for as many NC leaders contending that they were being held in “brazen violation” of Constitutional guarantees of the right to liberty.The writ petitions filed under Article 226 of the Constitution lists NC general secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar, provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani, senior leader Aga Syed Mehmood, party’s chief spokesperson Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi, among the leaders being detained at their residences illegally and wrongfully without serving them grounds of detention. The leaders have been forcibly restricted by police personnel stationed outside their residences for the past 11 months, the pleas claim.Other leaders for whose release the petitions have been filed were Abdul Rahim Rather, Mohammad Khalil Bandh, Irfan Shah and Sahmeema Firdous, Mohammad Shafi Uri, Chaudhary Mohammad Ramzaan, Mubarak Gul, Dr Bashir Veeri, Abdul Majeed Larmi, Basharat Bukhari, Saifudin Bhat Shutru and Mohammad Shafi.The senior Abdullah has filed the habeas corpus petitions for seven leaders while Omar has filed for the remaining nine.Both Abdullahs, who were first taken into preventive custody and then detained under the stringent public safety act for several months since the intervening night of August 4 and 5, hours before Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was revoked by the centre, have pleaded that the detainees be set at liberty.The reply of the home department said the petitioner being protected persons were well within the charter of duties of the administration to ensure their safety and security. “...it is emphatically denied that currently or in the past any detention order is in the force against” the leaders and the administration was functioning “strictly within the parameters of law”.There is no infringement or brazen violation of the law as claimed in the petition. “The respondents have shown utmost respect for the law of the land,” it said and pleaded for dismissal of the petition with costs.The party leadership moved the High Court after the petitions of these detained leaders to the Home Secretary of Union Territory on June 30 seeking removal of restriction on their movement and set them at “absolute liberty” remained unanswered.The party, before moving the High Court, had expressed hope that the legal system will come to the rescue of their colleagues, who have been suffering for no fault ever since the abrogation of provisions of Art 370, Art 35A on August 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-conference-calls-party-leaders-meeting-after-hc-told-none-of-them-in-detention/story-nmzjqp58ua7usCtYP5muJO.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: 5 factors behind SC order for CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a CBI probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Below is a list of 5 factors that played a role in the court’s decision.1. Maharashtra police yet to investigateThe court noted that the Maharashtra police was only conducting a limited inquiry under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) into the cause of unnatural death of Rajput.Section 174 of CrPC confers powers on police to enquire into death by suicide and submit a report to the district magistrate. The Supreme Court said that an inquiry under section 174 is limited in scope and cannot be equated to a full-fledged investigation. The Mumbai police have not registered an FIR or started investigation into the incident.Also read| ‘Not a Loss’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut after SC hands Sushant Rajput case to CBI2. Patna police has jurisdiction to register FIRRajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty had argued that Bihar police does not have jurisdiction to deal with the matter and register an FIR since the incident occurred in Mumbai. The Supreme Court, however, turned this down stating that registration of an FIR is mandated when information on a cognizable offence is received by the police.“Precedents suggest that at the stage of investigation, it cannot be said that the concerned police station does not have territorial jurisdiction to investigate the case,” the court said in its judgment.Moreover, Rajput’s father, whose complaint was the basis for Bihar police to register an FIR, had alleged a criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money. The consequences of the incident would, therefore, arise in Patna as well.“The allegation relating to criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money which were to be eventually accounted for in Patna (where the Complainant resides), could prima facie indicate the lawful jurisdiction of the Patna police,” the court held.The finding that the FIR by Bihar police was valid turned out to be crucial because the CBI had taken over the probe based on the request made by Bihar police.3. Need for an independent agency due to conflict between two state governmentsThe apex court noted that there is a conflict between the two state governments in the matter and though the steps taken by Mumbai police cannot be faulted, stakeholders have raised allegations of unfair investigation against Mumbai police.“Because both states are making acrimonious allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation has come under a cloud. This Court (Supreme Court) must strive to ensure that search for the truth is undertaken by an independent agency, not controlled by either of the two state governments,” the judgment said.Also read| Sushant Singh Rajput’s family on SC verdict: ‘We love our country more than ever’4. Need to avoid uncertainty due to possible parallel investigationsThe court said that CBI has already registered a case and commenced investigation at the instance of the Bihar government. If Mumbai police also decides to commence probe, then it could add to uncertainty and confusion.“Uncertainty and confusion must be avoided in the event of Mumbai Police also deciding to simultaneously investigate the offence, based on their findings,” the judgment said.5. Justice for Rajput’s father and RheaThe court noted that Rajput was a talented actor in the Mumbai film world who died well before his full potential could be realised. An impartial probe and its outcome will ensure that Rajput’s father and Rhea get justice. Moreover, Rhea herself had called for CBI investigation, the court added.“His family, friends and admirers are keenly waiting the outcome of the investigation so that all the speculations floating around can be put to rest. Therefore a fair, competent and impartial investigation is the need of the hour,” the court said.Law invoked by Supreme CourtArticle 142 of the Constitution confers wide power on the Supreme Court to pass an order for doing complete justice in the matter before it. It is invoked to grant reliefs which are beyond the scope of the petition or not sought by the petitioners.The court invoked Article 142 in this case stating that to ensure public confidence in the investigation and to do complete justice in the matter, it would be appropriate to exercise the powers conferred by the said article.Also Read: ‘Not a Loss’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut after SC hands Sushant Rajput case to CBI Supreme Court’s powers to order CBI probeAs per section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, CBI can investigate a crime only based on the recommendation of the concerned state which is probing the matter. However, that does not bar constitutional courts (i.e high courts and Supreme Court) from recommending CBI probe as has been held in a long line of Supreme Court judgments in the past, the court said.No power to transfer investigation from one state to another in a transfer petitionChakraborty had filed the transfer petition under section 406 of CrPC seeking transfer of probe from Bihar to Maharashtra. Section 406 confers powers on the Supreme Court to transfer cases from one high court to another or from a lower court in one state to a lower court in another state.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law says his family represents aspirations of IndiaThe Supreme Court held that the provision does not grant power to the top court to transfer a matter which is only at the investigation stage from one state to another.“Having considered the contour of the power under section 406 CrPC, it must be concluded that only cases and appeals (not investigation) can be transferred,” the court ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-here-are-the-reasons-why-sc-ordered-cbi-probe/story-FaKw0lnYqXYvVu3spaei4M.html
19-08-2020||India||Bihar health brass raps Patna Medical College Hospital after docs on Covid-19 duty found absent||Bihar health department on Tuesday asked officials at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) to tone up its functioning after senior doctors were found absent from duty at the Covid-19 wards during a surprise inspection carried out on August 14.A 100-bed Covid-19 ward was carved out of the hospital which has the capacity of around 2,300 beds and dates back to 1925. The dedicated Covid-19 ward was made functional last month.Discrepancies in the duty chart and attendance sheet of doctors, anomalies in their stipulated and actual work duration, to the total absence of faculty members and medical professionals were some of the glaring lapses which the additional secretary, health, Kaushal Kishore referred to in his letter to the PMCH principal and the superintendent on Tuesday.The letter followed a surprise inspection by Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, to the Covid-19 wards of the hospital on August 14.Also read: Bihar board proposes 30% cut in syllabus, govt refers it to expertsThe letter said the roster duty chart of doctors and nurses was not put on display and there were discrepancies in the name mentioned in duty chart and the attendance sheet. Kishore advised the administrators to ensure that the roster chart was strictly followed. On faculty members’ absence from duty, he asked the principal to review the situation and take action.There were also issues with equipment like portable X-ray and ultrasonography machines for Covid-19 patients, besides arterial blood gas analyser in the intensive care unit. The superintendent could not give a convincing reply when asked about an attendant’s complaint that he had to buy insulin from the market for his patient, the letter said.The government has already asked the hospital authorities to take full responsibility of medical treatment of a Covid-19 patient, including pre-diagnosed ailments (diabetes, cardiac conditions, etc.), while also having a diet chart for patients on each bed.Earlier this month, the health department had directed its Covid care facilities to have dedicated teams of personnel to arrange for medicines required for patients or source them from suppliers rather than asking the attendants to get them.The letter also referred to the fact that the 24x7 “May I Help You” booth was unmanned when Amrit visited the hospital late in the evening. Telephone calls to the hospital’s dedicated helpline number also went unanswered.“We have addressed all concerns which our principal secretary had pointed out during his inspection,” said PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak.“We have made available some drugs for co-morbidity, as prescribed in our SOP (standard operating procedure) for Covid-19 patients, and displayed the list where the attendants sit. We are also making the “May I Help You” booth functional 24x7. We have also requisitioned services of 50 additional ward boys on a contract basis to which the principal secretary has agreed,” he said.On the absence of doctors, Dr Karak said, “Assistant professors have now been deputed in each shift and instructions have been passed on to doctors not to leave their work station till their reliever comes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-health-brass-raps-patna-medical-college-hospital-after-docs-on-covid-19-duty-found-absent/story-FmuaDbM7nfcngmvMBwRWQM.html
19-08-2020||India||‘NRA will prove to be a boon for crores of youngsters’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday took to Twitter to laud the Cabinet’s decision to set up a multi-agency body called the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) that will conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) to screen candidates for Central government jobs.“The National Recruitment Agency will prove to be a boon for crores of youngsters. Through the Common Eligibility Test, it will eliminate multiple tests and save precious time as well as resources. This will also be a big boost to transparency,” PM Modi said in a tweet.The Centre has approved funds to the tune of Rs. 1517.57 crore to set up the National Recruitment Agency. The expenditure will be undertaken over a period of three years. Besides setting up the NRA, the government will also spend on setting up proper examination infrastructure in the nearly 117 districts.ALSO READ | Centre to set up national recruitment agency, one CET soon for job seekersThe move will benefit a large number of rural aspirants who try for Central government jobs every year. The CET will now be available in multiple languages and would help aspirants from different parts of the country to take the examination and get equal chances of being selected.A single eligibility test would also significantly reduce the recruitment cycle. Some government departments had indicated their intention to do away with any second level test and go ahead with recruitment on the basis of CET scores, physical tests and medical examination.ALSO READ | Common Eligibility Test to help 2.5 crore job aspirants annually: All you need to knowBringing in transformational reform in the recruitment process for central government jobs, the Cabinet has announced the creation of a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to make the process of applying for such jobs easier for the youth.There are more than 20 recruitment agencies currently under the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nra-will-prove-to-be-a-boon-for-crores-of-youngsters-pm-modi/story-th1aQ5vWboN5gOobkeUENL.html
19-08-2020||India||At least 221 Uttarakhand police personnel have tested for Covid-19 till August 17||Dehradun: At least 221 Uttarakhand Police personnel have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive until Monday, according to the data compiled by the state police headquarters. The police personnel from the hill state’s Haridwar district was the worst affected at 58, following by Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts at 49 and 42, respectively. The data showed that 132 personnel has been treated, of whom 88 have recovered from their viral infection and have resumed their duties. Altogether, 1,970 police personnel was also quarantined for Covid-19, of whom 1,658 has recovered from their viral infection and rejoined work. The police have booked 27,701 people across the state for violating social distancing norms, while 2.10 lakh were pulled up for not wearing masks in public places. A majority of the offenders booked for flouting social distancing norms were from Haridwar district at 7,851, followed by 4,194 and 4,123 from Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Garhwal districts, respectively. Similarly, the maximum offenders for not wearing masks were from Dehradun district at 86,594, followed by 29,354 and 22,848 from Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts, respectively. The police have also booked 211 people for allegedly spreading rumours regarding the pandemic on social media. Another 902 people were booked for flouting quarantine norms. Ashok Kumar, director-general of police (DGP), (law & order), Uttarakhand Police, said, “Many police personnel tested Covid-19 positive. But fortunately, more than half of them have recovered from their viral infection and resumed work.” He added: “The personnel has been asked to take all necessary precautions while on duty in a bid to prevent contracting the viral infection. We have also directed them to take strict action against anyone found violating Covid-19 norms in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-221-uttarakhand-police-personnel-have-tested-for-covid-19-till-august-17/story-tCMNcusqLAEAWXtLXycrcK.html
19-08-2020||India||Section of Goa govt employees protest against state authorities, demand safer workplace||Panaji: A section of Goa government employees gathered at the foyer of the state secretariat to protest against the state authorities for the latter’s callousness about the safety and precautionary measures against the raging the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. They alleged that the state government has refused to put any safety mechanism and precautionary measures in place, despite several requests from the employees raising concerns about risks of the viral infection due to the contagion. “Covid-19 cases are rising by the day. On Wednesday, it came to our notice that at least a dozen Covid-19 cases have been reported from the state secretariat. The state government appears callous about our safety and wellness. We have been requesting the state government to give us some relief such as either close down the secretariat or work with 50% of its strength. We sit in close proximity, which prevents us from maintaining social distancing norms,” alleged Sukarna Pai, an employee of the state revenue department “If the situation persists, many of us will contract SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and gradually the state administration will collapse. The state government needs to introduce preemptive measures. We cannot work from home because many of us don’t have the requisite amenities. At least we can work at 50% of our strength. However, we need clarity about the workflow,” she said. “Besides, many of us have children and senior citizens at home. While several employees have comorbidities such as diabetes, blood pressure, etc.,” she added. Another employee Amol Dangui stressed that the employees were not against the government, but wanted prompt action to ensure their safety. Around 150 state government employees took part in the protest at the state secretariat and a few also called on the chief secretary Parimal Rai to request him to allow either a 50% workforce or staggered work hours. State government employees have largely contributed to Goa’s viral caseload, as many police personnel and healthcare workers, who are at the frontline battling the pandemic, have tested Covid-19 positive, including some staff from the revenue department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-of-goa-govt-employees-protest-against-state-authorities-demand-safer-workplace/story-BkOU8RiSHB4wbOyBDVN5EJ.html
19-08-2020||India||We can’t allow Covid-19 pandemic to hold democracy to ransom: Sanjay Jha||The upcoming assembly election in Bihar, which is expected to take place on schedule in October-November, despite the nation-wide raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, is not a game of T20 cricket, but a five-day classical test match to be led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, said Sanjay Jha, state minister for water resources department, and national general secretary of the ruling Janata Dal (United), JD(U). In an interview to HT, Jha spoke about why elections in the state should be held on schedule; the quibbles within the National Democratic Alliance partners such as the JD(U) and the Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) and how the state government is confident of returning to power, despite the twin challenges such as the unprecedented Covid-19 outbreak and annual flood woes. Excerpts from the interview: Your party is an NDA ally. Yet, there seems to be a lack of cohesion on issues such as the election schedule and earlier about the state government’s stance on bringing back migrant workers during the Covid-19-triggered lockdown restrictions? The LJP has been singling out your party. We are in close and constant communication with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). I can say with confidence that we are clear in our thinking that a sacrosanct democratic exercise such as election is always above political parties and politics. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has the mandate to decide on the poll schedule, and we will abide by its decision. That said, we are equally convinced that holding the election as close to the stipulated schedule will only bolster efforts being made on all fronts at national and global levels to overcome the Covid-19 impact and resume normal functioning of the public from all walks of life. With regard to the perceived differences on the issue of bringing back migrant workers and even students, the situation must be viewed in its extraordinary context. In keeping with the central government directive of lockdown norms, CM Kumar was the first one to respond. In fact, Bihar had the blueprint ready for our stranded people. In one of his first directives immediately after allocating Rs 150 crore from the CM’s Relief Fund to fight the pandemic, he had instructed officials on April 2 to remit Rs 1,000 directly to the bank accounts of stranded Bihari workers. Later, when Delhi and other states allowed massive exodus of migrant people, all arrangements were made such as ensuring trains from all over the country to putting in place a robust testing mechanism, isolation, and quarantine facilities to providing last-mile support to help them return to their native villages. In the case of students, too, our continuing concern has been about their health and well-being, as they were away from their homes. Eventually, we made special arrangements for getting them back home safely. In this backdrop --- and this is a small example --- I wonder why anyone would target us? These are difficult times, as we face the double whammy of Covid-19 and annual flood woes. We would rather focus on our primary dharma of addressing people’s concerns than respond to shallow, meaningless political barbs! What about the LJP’s remarks? Time and again the BJP top brass has stated that the election will be fought under the leadership of CM Kumar and that should end all speculation. Several parties want elections deferred owning to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the state is also struggling with the floods. Did the NDA partners hold talks on these issues? There is a global consensus that life needs to go on, and we must learn to live with Covid-19. Haven’t we started opening up the economy? Haven’t we rolled out trains, domestic flights, transport services, and opened markets? We must not allow Covid-19 to hold democracy to ransom. The naysayers and apologists would continue to sulk and sully the state’s pride, as it suits their agenda. The Covid-19 bogey is being raised by the perennial naysayers, who are faced with the fear of the inevitable --- an imminent defeat in the coming assembly elections. Let me also give some more facts because they pertain to my ministry, the water resources department. Floods are not unique to us. Across the globe, millions face this nature’s wrath every year. The issue is not flooding, but its management. Bihar government has been responding to the situation of the overflowing rivers with incredible alacrity. I am pleased to share that our teams have successfully deployed new tools, including Artificial Intelligence and modern early warning systems, in a bid to ensure an effective yet timely response. While flood is a global phenomenon, our ability to respond to the crisis and ensure low fatalities are at par and among the best. Our trenchant critics must have noted that each of the flood-affected families is getting a one-time relief of Rs 6,000 within a week. Apart from the state of economy and jobs, there are two issues that will stand out in the forthcoming elections -- the response to the pandemic and the migrant workers, who returned to the state during the lockdown. Do you think the government has given a good account of these challenges? Our response to the pandemic has been the most comprehensive, innovative, and diligent. Even as many states were struggling about how to respond, the Bihar government on the CM’s instructions set up 52 relief centres across 12 cities in the country that distributed cooked and packed foods to millions of people. We set up a 60-line state helpline, and by end-April, we had ensured affirmative action for over 2.5 million people. At present, third-party credible data showed that the pandemic situation in Bihar is under control. Our case fatality rate (CFR) is 0.5%, which is among the lowest in the country in the context of a state with a similar population and our viral caseload per million is 1,049. Our reaction was careful and judicious as far as the migrant crisis was concerned. Around 35 lakh people returned to Bihar. We were the first state in the country to have done the skill mapping of all the workers and developed a framework for engaging them productively. After mapping the skills and creating a database of workers, we also started to work on deploying them through district-level workers’ advisory centres. We reviewed the Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy to create a more enabling environment in a bid to attract more industries to the state. During the lockdown, 5.43 crore human days of work were created across 4.46 lakh government schemes. The Central government, too, is helping us in this exercise through some interventions including an application developed by Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), an autonomous body under the Department of Science and Technology. Bihar has a sizeable Muslim population and there is a perception that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, and the proposed National Register for Citizens (NRC) will have a bearing on the election outcome. The AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen) has also thrown its hat in the ring. Will it be an advantage mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in such a scenario? Muslims have been integral to CM Kumar’s politics and governance for all these years. The community has enormous faith in him, and any theory to the contrary is poor imagination and cheap thrills of fantasy. In all his social welfare schemes since 2005, the Muslim community has been an equal beneficiary – as our model of nyay ke saath vikas symbolises. We have stood for inclusive growth, with a special focus on the minorities and backward and extremely-backward classes. CM Kumar’s regime has been free of even a sprinkle of communal tension. In his 15 years’ rule, I can vividly recall, only in one town, we had to impose curfew and that, too, only for a few hours. Isn’t that an achievement, especially in a state with a long history of communal riots? He has also ensured speedy justice for all the victims of past riots. He instituted a special commission to get justice for the victims of Bhagalpur and other riots. What issues and achievements will the state government seek re-election on? The metamorphosis of Bihar: from a state ravaged by crime, plundered by a clique comprising politicians and bureaucrats, punctuated as BIMARU, and punctured by the apathy of the ruling elite, their naked nepotism and favoritism to a state that stands for nyay (justice), vikas (development), and pragati (progress). CM Kumar inherited a plundered legacy of 55 years, and he had to first reckon with addressing the fundamental issues of what I call RASTRA --roti, ashmita (dignity), samanta (equity), tathasta (indifference of governance), roads and adhikar (rights).Our CM is a visionary leader, who thinks ahead of time. He has addressed all these issues on a priority basis. We shall go to voters with facts. At present, 7.39 crore people, or 60% of Bihar’s population, are covered under the state’s food security programme. We issued 23.39 new ration cards during the Covid-19 crisis. CM Kumar was clear that the basic necessities of people must be taken care of. Pucca roads, uninterrupted electricity and piped water reaching all households are among his many achievements. Significantly, we have broken stereotypes. Now, girls ride bicycles, women head panchayats, and availing government services is no longer a drudgery. Prohibition has brought about a qualitative change in family lives. Jeevika is a silent revolution unfolding across our tiny villages, whose reverberations will not be felt unless you see it. The awakening of half of our population, our womenfolk, has taken place during CM Kumar’s rule. Unsurprisingly, women have vouched for and stood by him through successive elections. We are at the threshold of a new era, where Bihar yearns for an exalted identity, affirmation, and equity. And who better to deliver on this other than the one who crafted and steered the phenomenal turnaround, and the new Bihari pride! Our CM, of course! In 2020, we are not into a game of T20, but a classical Test match. The slog overs start now, with our CM as the captain!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-can-t-allow-the-pandemic-to-hold-democracy-to-ransom-sanjay-jha/story-JyviGg5sNwHuqtofiRXs9I.html
19-08-2020||India||Covid-19: US hands over second shipment of 100 ventilators to India||The US on Wednesday handed over to India 100 ventilators, as part of President Donald Trump’s offer of assistance to New Delhi in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The ventilators are manufactured in the US and are compact, easy to deploy and provide India with flexibility in treating patients affected by the virus, the US embassy said in a statement. The US government, through the US Agency for International Development (USAID), in coordination with the Indian government and the Indian Red Cross Society, donated the second shipment of 100 new, state-of-the-art ventilators to assist India in its fight against Covid-19, the statement said.Also read| Rich can’t get priority for Covid-19 vaccine, poor need help: Pope Francis US Ambassador Kenneth Juster said, “We are very pleased to hand over the final tranche of 100 ventilators to India, fulfilling President Trump’s commitment to provide these critically needed supplies to support India’s pandemic response.” In addition to the ventilators, USAID is funding a package of support that includes warranties and additional supplies required to operate these machines, such as tubes, filters and other necessary components, the statement said. USAID is also working in close coordination with the Indian government to enhance the capacity of the health facilities using these ventilators by facilitating setup, orientations and clinical training for health care providers responsible for operating the machines, it said.Also read: 3.17 crore samples collected for coronavirus testing so far, says ICMR The first shipment of 100 ventilators arrived in India on June 14. Since then, the ventilators have been deployed to support the care of Covid-19 patients at the eight regional All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the statement said. “The total donation of 200 ventilators builds on the long history of US-India collaboration in the health sector and the assistance that USAID has committed to India in response to the Covid-19 pandemic,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-us-hands-over-second-shipment-of-100-ventilators-to-india/story-XYq2d9d5hAENGdbHJzoEJL.html
19-08-2020||India||GST Council to discuss compensation cess on Aug 27, other issues on Sep 19||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council has scheduled two crucial meetings on August 27 and September 19. On August 27, the Council’s 41st meeting would consider a proposal to borrow money from the market to compensate states for their revenue shortfalls, and on September 19, the apex federal body 42nd meeting would take up other issues such as the resolution of the inverted duty structure, tax on pan masala and more measures for the ease of doing business, two officials said, requesting anonymity. Earlier, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said after the 40th meeting of the Council on June 12 that the August 27 meeting would be special, as it would discuss a single matter. The meeting’s only agenda will be how to pay compensation to states at a time when the compensation cess collection has plunged because of weak economic activities owing to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. While briefing media persons after the 40th meeting, Sitharaman had said on request of members, the Council would meet again in July to discuss a “one-agenda item” --- compensation to states. “Compensation, which has to be given to states, and, if at all, it results in some kind of borrowing, how and who is going to pay for it,” she had said. The meeting was, however, deferred to August, due to some technical reasons, the officials said. At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022) and their revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal, and other tobacco products. The 41st meeting of the Council is to resolve the difference between the Centre and states over the responsibility of the cess liability. While states argue that it is the Centre’s responsibility to pay compensation in time, the latter cited the GST law, where the responsibility lies with the Council, the officials said. The Council is headed by the Union finance minister and finance ministers of states are its members. Usually, the Council’s decisions are unanimous. One of the officials mentioned above said although the GST law assured a 14% increase in annual tax revenue of states, the GST collection in 2020-21 is unlikely to see such growth. “There is virtually no money left to pay compensation to states from April. Market borrowing is one of the solutions, but who will take the guarantee is a big question and that issue needs to be resolved,” he said. The states were paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation in 2019-20, even as total cess collection for the fiscal year was Rs 95,444 crore. This gap is expected to widen this year because of the pandemic, he said. “Law is very clear, compensation has to be paid from the amount collected through compensation cess and not from the Consolidated Fund of India,” he added. According to a note circulated in the 40th GST Council meeting, compensation cess collected in 2017-18 was Rs 62,612 crore, rose to Rs 95,081 crore in 2018-19, and to Rs 95,444 crore in 2019-20. However, compensation paid in 2017-18 was less than the total collection at Rs 41,146 crore and Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19. Officials said it is up to the Council to find a solution about ways to augment revenue collection and pay the compensation. Theoretically, the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise tax rates, include more items under the compensation cess or widen the net, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund, they said. However, states, particularly ruled by the Opposition parties, said that timely payment of full compensation is the responsibility of the Central government. Officials said, the 42nd meeting of the Council on September 19 would be generic in nature and could consider revising tax on several items that suffer from inverted duty such as fertilisers, footwears, renewable energy devices, tractors, man-made yarns, and fabrics. Inverted duty structure is a mechanism, where inputs are taxed at a higher rate than finished goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-to-discuss-compensation-cess-on-aug-27-other-issues-on-sep-19/story-XlXdRZwcM0HaHIL27eiujP.html
19-08-2020||India||South Bengal districts, Kolkata included, to get heavy rain over one week||With two back-to-back low pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department has issued an orange warning of heavy rain in the districts of south Bengal, including Kolkata, over the next one week. While one low pressure system has formed over the sea on Wednesday morning and is likely to intensify into a depression by Thursday, a second low pressure is likely to develop over the weekend. “Due to these two consecutive low pressure systems, widespread heavy rain is expected over the districts of south Bengal till August 25,” said a senior official of the regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea. Meteorologists have also warned that there could be water logging in low lying areas of the city and its suburbs. Water level in rivers across south Bengal could also rise. The colour red is used to denote the highest level of warning in the IMDs four-stage colour-coded weather warning system. Orange comes next and denotes that administration must stay alert. On May 20, West Bengal was hit by cyclone Amphan with wind speed gusting up to 185 km per hour that killed 98 people while displacing many thousands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-bengal-districts-kolkata-included-to-get-heavy-rain-over-one-week/story-NP4q9YBFVfWNCQ3neSkG8H.html
19-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre to set up national recruitment agency, one CET soon for job seekers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre to set up national recruitment agency, one CET soon for job seekersThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a National Recruitment Agency to conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) for job hunters. The new decision will benefit job seekers of the country and help in selecting candidates for different sectors, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar said at a briefing. Read morePak army chief Gen Bajwa’s apology doesn’t help, gets a royal snub in Saudi kingdomPakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa who started his Saudi Arabia visit on Monday to calm diplomatic strains has been declined a meeting with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Read moreBarcelona appoint Ronald Koeman as new coachBarcelona on Wednesday announced the appointment of Ronald Koeman as their next coach, following the sacking of Quique Setien earlier this week. The football club made the announcement in a club statement. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family on SC verdict: ‘We love our country more than ever’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family have released a statement on the Supreme Court’s verdict in the case on Wednesday. Read more‘Love isn’t in grand gestures, it’s in the little things’: This couple’s story will put a big smile on your faceIf you’re looking for something to brighten up a gloomy day, this story of a couple who were high school sweethearts and have been married for over 30 years may be just what the doctor ordered. Read moreWorld Photography Day 2020: Aurora meets airglow in NASA’s spectacular throwback pictureSky gazers and space lovers woke up to a treat from National Aeronautics and Space Administration on World Photography Day as the US space agency shared a spectacular throwback picture of when aurora met airglow above the Earth before dawn. Read moreSC order on Sushant case: Kangana Ranaut, Chirag Paswan & Fadnavis respondThe Supreme Court has allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation to take over probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-to-set-up-national-recruitment-agency-one-cet-soon-for-job-seekers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3r0LYCG1JflNasdktklRnN.html
19-08-2020||India||Common Eligibility Test to help 2.5 crore job aspirants annually: All you need to know||The country will soon get a multi-agency body called the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) that will conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) to screen candidates for the Group B and C (non-technical) posts of Central government jobs. The NRA will have representatives from the Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Finance and Department of Financial Services, the SSC, RRB and IBPS. It will be created as a specialist agency that will introduce state-of-the-art technology to the field of Central government recruitment. “The Union Cabinet led by PM @narendramodi ji today took a revolutionary decision for the youth of New India. A ‘National Recruitment Agency’ for conducting a Common Eligibility Test (CET) has been approved. The historic move will benefit nearly 2.5 crore aspirants every year!!” Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Wednesday.The Centre has sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 1517.57 crore to set up the National Recruitment Agency (NRA). The expenditure will be undertaken over a period of three years. Besides setting up the NRA, additional costs will be incurred for setting up proper examination infrastructure in the nearly 117 districts.Here’s all you need to know about the new government decision:1. Examination centres in rural districts of the country would help students living in far-off areas get access to the entrance examination. Students will benefits in terms of expenditure, effort and safety.2. It will also motivate rural candidates to take the examination and hence increase their chances of getting a Central government job.3. Currently, candidates have to appear in multiple examinations conducted by multiple agencies. Apart from the examination fees, candidates have to spend additionally on travel, boarding, lodging and a lot more. A single examination would reduce the financial burden on candidates to a large extent. 4. Women candidates from rural areas go through a number of hardships in appearing for multiple examinations since they have to arrange transport and also find accommodation in places that are far away. The location of test centres in every district would help such women candidates from rural areas.5. The CET score of the candidate shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of declaration of the result. The best of the valid scores shall be deemed to be the current score of the candidate. 6. There shall be no restriction on the number of attempts made by a candidate to appear in the CET subject to the upper age limit. 7. Relaxation in the upper age limit shall be given to candidates of SC/ST/OBC and other categories according to the existing policy of the government.8. The National Recruitment Agency shall conduct a separate CET each for the three levels of graduation, higher secondary and the Class X board examinations for candidates for those non-technical posts to which recruitment is now carried out by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). 9. Based on the screening done at the CET score level, a final selection for recruitment shall be made through separate specialised Tiers (II, III etc) of examination which shall be conducted by the respective recruitment agencies. 10. The curriculum for this test would be common as would be the standard. 11. Candidates will soon have the facility of registering on a common portal and given a choice of examination centres. Based on availability, they would be allotted centres. 12. The NRA will also work towards a stage wherein a candidate can schedule his or her own test at an examination centre of his or her choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-eligibility-test-to-help-2-5-crore-job-aspirants-annually-all-you-need-to-know/story-XMIQ3GkBdSQtfcsk6ZWsFK.html
19-08-2020||India||NEP 2020: CM Adityanath forms task force for implementing education policy||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday formed a 17-member task force to formulate an action plan for effective implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020) in the state.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was named the chairman and basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi the vice chairman of the task force, tweeted the chief minister’s office.Last month, the Union cabinet approved NEP- 2020, paving the way for reforms in schools and the higher education sector in the country.A senior government official said the task force will prepare a road map on implementing NEP effectively in the state so that the state education system improves further and students become more employable.The other task force members include UP State Council of Higher Education chairman Prof Girish Chandra Tripathi, additional chief secretary (ACS) (basic education) Renuka Kumar, ACS (technical education) S Radha Chauhan, ACS (higher education) Monika S Garg and ACS (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla.Former secretary, government of India, Anil Swarup, former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly, APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) vice chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak and former director (secondary education) Krishna Mohan Tripathi are also part of the task force.The other members include three Lucknow University professors Arvind Mohan, Nishi Pandey and Abbas Nayar, Uttar Pradesh Sanskrit Sansthan president Vachaspati Mishra and former director (secondary education) VP Khandelwal. Director general education (Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan) Vijay Kiran Anand is the member-secretary.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “The new education policy that was approved by the Modi government will be a game changer. After a gap of about 35 years, the country has come up with a revamped policy that will strengthen the education system. It will encourage students towards vocational education and children to learn the mother tongue.”Expressing his happiness at being made a member of the task force, former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said, “It will have a great impact on UP. We need a plan of action — a short-term plan of two years and a long-term plan of seven years. The pre-schooling pattern in UP is in a haphazard state and learning at the primary level is poor.”He further said: “UP has immense potential to take a lead in implementation of NEP, thus changing the course of school education in the country.”He also felt “massive teacher training” will be required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-2020-cm-adityanath-forms-task-force-for-implementing-education-policy/story-vcGM0tagAl7jSqlD2fgvwL.html
19-08-2020||India||One militant killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Shopian||One unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of South Kashmir on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Based on specific inputs about the presence of militants in Chitragam village of south Kashmir district, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, PTI reported quoting a police official.He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired on a search party of the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing exchange of fire, one militant was killed, the official said.The encounter is still underway.More details are awaited.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-south-kashmir-s-shopian/story-LfXKuLjnOa7DCLc8ASHYnJ.html
19-08-2020||India||3 die by suicide after family member succumbs to Covid-19 in Andhra: Cops||Three members of a family died by suicide and their bodies were found in the Godavari river in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in the early hours of Wednesday, said the police. The incident took place three days after the head of the family died of Covid-19. According to Kovvur deputy superintendent of police K Rajeshwara Reddy, the deceased were a 50-year old woman, her 25-year-old son and 23-year- old daughter. The woman’s husband (52) died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district on August 16 and was cremated by the civic authorities the following day. “Preliminary enquiries revealed that the family came to the road-cum-rail bridge on Godavari river at Kovvur in a car at around 1 am and jumped into the river, which has been in full spate due to heavy floods,” Reddy said. The police recovered a note from the car they were travelling in. “Apparently, they were in a state of depression after the death of the head of the family and none of their relatives had called on them,” the DSP said. The bodies were yet to be recovered from the river due to heavy floods. “Investigation is going on,” Reddy said. Suicide helpline in Andhra Pradesh: Government General Hospital, Kakinada – 98499 03870 Centralised helpline for anxiety, depression, suicidal tendencies and alcoholics in times of Covid-19: 104/1902||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-die-by-suicide-after-family-member-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-andhra-cops/story-vW1RatC93LASGVMJv6OzLN.html
19-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu CM announces Rs 3 lakh each for Kerala landslide victims, they were Tamils||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami has announced ex-gratia of Rs three lakh each to kin of the 62 deceased in the Rajmala landslide incident in Kerala’s Idukki earlier this month. He also announced a financial assistance of Rs one Lakh each for the severely injured in the incident, reported news agency ANI. Bodies of 62 people have been found so far from the muddy rubble left by the landslide that took place in Kerala’s Idukki on Aug 7.All the victims were from families of Tamil settlers who had relocated from Tamil Nadu three to four generations ago and worked at Rajmala as tea plantation workers in the neighbouring state of Kerala.Also Read: HC rejects Vedanta plea to reopen Sterlite plant in Tamil NaduApart from the assistance announced by Palaniswami, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to kin of the deceased and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the victims.Four more bodies have been found in the last 24 hours from the landslide site in search operations that have continued since August 7 when torrential rains led to the disaster. Three bodies were found in the search operations carried out in Pettimudi, Rajamala landslide area.Nine more persons are to be traced after they were reported missing since the landslide.The Kerala government has promised to rehabilitate the families affected by the Pettimudi, Rajamala landslide.Watch:Kerala’s rescue boats converted into ambulances to help Covid patientsEarlier, the district Information Office said that two NDRF teams, a full unit of Idukki fire and rescue team, a team each from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, and a team which received special training are leading the rescue operations in Idukki’s Rajamala.Two Ground Penetrating Radars (GPR)s from Chennai along with a four-member team joined the search operations by Tuesday afternoon, Idukki collector H Dineshan told PTI.The radars have been brought from the Institute of Oceanography, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-rs-3-lakh-each-for-kerala-landslide-victims-they-were-tamils/story-P7Ay3z4pGS2rSO9uWIhqqK.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Truth will remain same, whichever agency investigates’: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer on SC order||As Supreme Court upheld the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer said that “the truth will remain same” no matter which agency investigates the case.Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court allowed the CBI to continue with its probe into the case filed against Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Sushant Singh. The case was filed on the complaint of Sushant’s father, KK Singh, in Patna last month. On August 5, CBI took over the investigation in the case after the Bihar government transferred it to the federal agency.Also read: Nitish claims vindication in Sushant case, says it is about justice, not politicsThe verdict was announced during the hearing of plea filed by Chakraborty seeking transfer of the FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai. The court rejected the petition, saying the Bihar government was competent to give consent to CBI for probing into the Patna FIR.While pronouncing the verdict, the apex court observed that due to the allegations made by the two states (Bihar and Maharashtra) of political interference against each other, it would be in the interest of justice to hand over the case to the CBI.Following this, Chakraborty’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, said in a statement that the actress will appear before CBI and face the investigation as she herself had demanded a probe by the federal agency.“Since the court has transferred the investigation to CBI invoking its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, she will appear and face the investigation by the CBI as she has done earlier with the Mumbai Police and the Enforcement Directorate. Rhea maintains that the truth will remain the same whichever agency investigates the case,” Maneshinde said in a statement.Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide on June 14 in his apartment in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truth-will-remain-same-whichever-agency-investigates-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-on-sc-verdict/story-3tp9oOBrE0khCncRXJjgXO.html
19-08-2020||India||Wildlife conservationists demand probe into death of 18 elephants in Odisha||Wildlife conservationists have demanded an investigation into the deaths of 18 elephants in Odisha over the last two years, citing information obtained under the Right To Information (RTI) that suggests they may not have died of anthrax as previously thought.Biswajit Mohanty, a wildlife conservationist who filed an RTI application with Phulnakhara’s Animal Disease Research Institute (ADRI), said the information revealed that only two of the tissue samples of the 20 tested positive for the bacterial disease. ADRI found that the deaths of only two elephants in the Hadagada forest range of Keonjhar forest division in May 2018 could be ascribed to anthrax.Mohanty said by citing anthrax as the cause, officials eliminated the need to carry out proper autopsies and investigation for any other cause of death. “The bodies were either cremated or deep burials were carried out on the basis of suspicion of anthrax without even waiting for a preliminary test report,” Mohanty said anthrax has become a convenient reason to cover up foul play or unnatural causes of deaths.Mohanty has now lodged a complaint with Odisha’s chief wildlife warden.Anthrax is an infectious zoonotic disease caused by Bacillus anthracis bacteria. Cattle, sheep, goats, horses, mules, and elephants can contract the disease when they come in contact with contaminated soil, plants, or water. The disease can also be transmitted from animals to humans.In Odisha, officials have blamed anthrax for the deaths of 20 elephants between April 2017 and June 2020. They include a female elephant, whose carcass was found in Gayalmunda forest in Keonjhar district in 2019.Mohanty wondered how could the state wildlife officials have missed the mysterious absence of anthrax infections among other wildlife species as well as cattle in the area while elephants continued to die. “Unless there is proper and truthful reporting of cause of deaths of elephants, the protection of our national heritage animal in Odisha is seriously imperiled.”Mohanty said elephant carcasses have been cremated or buried after their deaths of suspected anthrax over the last 10 months as well in Rairakhol, Keonjhra, and Angul forest divisions. Their tissue samples were neither sent to ADRI nor to the veterinary college of Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, he added.In January, the Union environment ministry revised its standard operating procedures (SOP) on anthrax deaths of wild elephants after a four-year-old elephant was suspected to have died of the disease in Sambalpur district.As per the SOP, the chief wildlife warden has been vested with the overall authority of investigation such deaths under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The SOP had laid down rules for the constitution of a team to oversee the assessment and disposal of elephant carcasses suspected to be infected with anthrax.Wildlife activist Aditya Panda said the RTI documents have raised questions on the wildlife authorities’ attempts of attributing most elephant deaths to anthrax without going through the proper procedure. “It needs to be investigated how these elephants had died. The government owes everyone a clarification,” he said.Chief wildlife warden, HS Upadhyay, said anthrax has very obvious symptoms. “And in all cases, it is certified by local veterinary surgeons. So, the accusation of misreporting is incorrect.”In Odisha, the elephant mortality rate is rising alarmingly. The average deaths annually, which were 33 from 1990 to 2000, increased to 46 from 2000 to 2010. Since 2010, the average has been 78.As many as 463 elephant deaths were recorded from 2000 to 2010. The number grew sharply to 784 from 2010 to 2020. Of the 784 deaths in the last 10 years, 281 (36%) elephants died of unnatural causes. In 160 (20%) cases, the causes of death could not be ascertained primarily because their bodies were highly decomposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-conservationists-demand-probe-into-death-of-18-elephants-in-odisha/story-PbUxTVaWWYeHnzpiKSI0YP.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Not a Loss’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut after SC hands Sushant Rajput case to CBI||It is not a loss, underlined Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday soon after the Supreme Court approved the ongoing CBI probe recommended by the Bihar government into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The Sena leader said that he does not intend to politicise the matter after the SC has given its order. Rejecting the charge that the top court’s order was a major setback for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, he said, “It is not a loss; when there is a legal battle such things happen.”Refusing to comment further, Raut did add that creating a question mark on the ability of Mumbai police to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput case was a “conspiracy”. “Until we read the copy of the order we cannot react to it. Once the order is received, either the advocate general or the state DGP will talk about it. Raising questions on the ability of the Mumbai police was a conspiracy. According to me, the Mumbai police carried out the probe effectively. Now, that the SC has given its judgment in the matter, someone who is not in the government should not speak on it,” said Raut.The apex court also asked the Mumbai police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. The state of Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order.Putting a quietus to the ongoing high-decibel political statements for and against the CBI probe, the top court held that Patna Police had not committed illegality in lodging an FIR against Chakraborty and six others on the complaint of Rajput’s father, who has accused them of abetting the suicide of the 34-year-old actor.The verdict came on a plea filed by Chakraborty who had sought transfer of the FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai.“Therefore, while according approval for the ongoing CBI investigation, if any other case is registered on the death of the actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the surrounding circumstances of his unnatural death, the CBI is directed to investigate the new case as well. It is ordered accordingly,” the bench said, while invoking the plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-loss-sena-s-sanjay-raut-after-sc-hands-sushant-rajput-case-to-cbi/story-BzZUhXkd2Yv75M0sxJlldJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Centre to set up national recruitment agency, one CET soon for job seekers||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a National Recruitment Agency to conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) for job hunters. The new decision will benefit job seekers of the country and help in selecting candidates for different sectors, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar said at a briefing.There are more than 20 recruitment agencies currently under the Central government. “Although we are taking exams of only three common agencies as of now, in course of time we will be able to have one Common Eligiblity Test for all recruitment agencies in the country,” Secretary C Chandramouli said.Bringing in transformational reform in the recruitment process for central government jobs, the Cabinet has announced the creation of a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to make the process of applying for such jobs easier for the youth.The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will encompass the first-level test by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and the Institute of Banking Service Personnel (IBPS). A common eligibility test will be held to screen candidates at the first level for SSC, RRBs and IBPS. The CET will be held online for graduates, those students who have cleared the Higher Secondary and the Class X board examinations.The Cabinet has also approved a proposal for leasing out of the Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports, under the Airports Authority of India (AAI), through the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model.One-time relaxation for the Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation for extending loans to DISCOMs above the limit of working capital of 25% of last year’s revenues, under the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana, has also got a nod from the Union Cabinet, Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-set-up-national-recruitment-agency-one-cet-soon-for-job-seekers/story-t4Hxq6fITbznwZ0zXLpx9K.html
19-08-2020||India||In absence of Parliament session, social activists start consultation on key policy issues||Several social organisations have come together to discuss key policy issues from education to environment through People’s Parliament in the absence of regular sessions of legislative bodies in the country.Jan Sarokar, a conglomeration of social organisations, has started a virtual consultation this week on 10 themes with over 200 speakers.Launching the initiative, former National Advisory Council member Aruna Roy said that since there has been no Parliament session for the last five months, there has been no parliamentary oversight of the executive either.The monsoon session of Parliament has been delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the secretariats of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha intend to hold the session in September while enforcing social distancing norms. As per Constitutional norms, there cannot be a gap of over six months between two Parliament sessions. Officials said they have until September 23 to hold the session. The budget session ended on March 23, two days before the 68-day national lockdown kicked in. “This (not holding the Parliament session) shocks us as Parliament is a platform to discuss the pandemic at multiple levels,” Roy said.She said that in the absence of the Parliament session, important policy decisions such as an amendment in labour and agriculture laws and the introduction of changes to education and environment policy were being taken without Parliamentary oversight.“There is no accountability of those in power,” she said.In his inaugural speech, former Delhi High Court judge AP Shah, said several countries across the world such as Brazil, Italy and France had held Parliament sessions during the pandemic, providing a voice to the people, but India had failed to do so. “During the 1962 and 1971 wars, Parliament sessions were held. Even a day after the Mumbai attack, Parliament met. If parliamentary standing committees can meet virtually, why can’t Parliament sessions be held,” he said. Shah said Parliament was intended to keep a check on the executive. If Parliament stops working, it “compounds the problem of leadership” as it allows the executive free hand, he said. He also claimed that constitutional institutions have been weakened and the civil society stifled in the recent past.“Our aim should be to revive liberal democratic values of our democracy,” he said.Jignesh Mewani, a Dalit rights activist and an independent MLA in Gujarat assembly, said that as an MLA he was unable to raise important issues that affect the people as the Gujarat assembly session has not been held in the past five months.“I could have raised questions regarding the non-availability of life-saving injections in government-run hospitals in Gujarat and the government could have been made accountable. In the absence of the assembly session, I can’t raise my voice,” he said.Mewani also said that the way changes in labour and agriculture laws have been introduced during the pandemic shows that the government has tried to push an executive agenda without legislative checks and balances.Nikhil Dey of National Campaign for People’s Right to Information said the Janata Parliament was being held to raise people-centric issues during the pandemic and to ensure that the voice of poor and needy reaches the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-absence-of-parliament-session-social-activists-start-consultation-on-key-policy-issues/story-Ngn7W2zJLtFyszOcjhxz2N.html
19-08-2020||India||China’s J-20 fighter jets near India border? State media downplays report||The deployment of China’s most advanced J-20 stealth fighter near the border with India should not be over-interpreted in context of the Sino-India border friction as the tension is de-escalating, Chinese state media has said.The long-range jets’ deployment, which is yet to be confirmed by the People’s Liberation Army Airforce (PLAAF), could be for the aircraft’s long-distance flight practice and part of the warplane’s protocols to adapt to different environment, Global Times, the nationalistic tabloid, said in an article.The article was referring to a news article published in Forbes, which cited satellite imagery to claim that two J-20 fighter aircraft have been deployed by the PLAAF near the India-China border.The J-20 is China’s fourth-generation medium- and long-range fighter aircraft, and it was commissioned into air force combat service in 2018.The aircraft were spotted, some 320 km from the border, at the Hotan airport in northwest China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).China’s armed forces have so far not made any announcement about deploying fighter aircraft near the border though it is likely fighter jet squadrons are stationed near the long and disputed border with India.“The J-20 is a long-range heavy fighter jet. So, when deployed in Hotan, it can potentially cover many areas in Central and South Asia,” it said.The nationalistic tabloid, known for its anti-India rhetoric, however, sought to play down the development.The deployment if true is “…likely part of normal training on long distance flight and environment adaptation,” Chinese military aviation expert Fu Qianshao said.China is a large country with many airfields in various terrains and under different climate conditions, and the J-20 needs to fly in more regions to adapt, Fu said.The border tensions have already been de-escalating, and foreign media’s reports could have ulterior motives, the state media article said.Earlier this month, experts had told the tabloid that the Rafale fighter jets were no match for its J-20 stealth fighter jets, days after the first batch of five French-made warplanes landed in Ambala. Chinese experts told state media that the Rafale is only a third-plus generation fighter jet and does not stand much of a chance against a stealth, fourth-generation one like the J-20. Saying that the Rafale is superior to the Su-30 MKI in certain aspects, the acquisition does not yield a significant qualitative change for India, it said. “In some combat performance areas, the Rafale is superior to the Su-30 MKI fighter jets, which are in service in the Indian Air Force in large batches, but it is only about one-fourth of a generation more advanced and does not yield a significant qualitative change,” it said.The J-20 made its maiden flight in 2011 and was first shown to the public at the 11th Airshow China in Zhuhai, Guangdong province, in south China, in November 2016, according to the official news agency, Xinhua.The fighters made their parade debut when the PLA marked its 90th anniversary in July 2017 at Zhurihe military training base in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.In the backdrop of the ongoing border tension, India last week called on China to work jointly for “complete disengagement and de-escalation” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying the future of the bilateral relationship is dependent on the situation along the disputed frontier. Chinese troops are said to have pulled back from Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties, and some friction points, but the troop withdrawal hasn’t moved forward in the Finger Areas of Pangong Lake, Gogra and Depsang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-j-20-fighter-jets-near-india-border-sate-media-downplays-report/story-bykPwWTFxJO2XmtKfHzZbK.html
19-08-2020||India||Nitish claims vindication in Sushant case, says it is about justice, not politics||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has cited the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput to claim vindication of his government’s stance which led to a confrontation with the Maharashtra government.Kumar also said that the court’s decision also shows that Mumbai Police’s handling of the case including alleged non-cooperation with Bihar Police’s parallel investigation into Sushant’s death was wrong. He also stressed that the court battle over jurisdiction was not about politics but justice for the budding actor, who was found dead in suspicious circumstances at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14.“These things are not about politics, they are about justice. We are focused on providing justice. What was said was not right. Probe will speed up now. Today it was proved that we abided by law in the steps we took,” Nitish Kumar was quoted by news agency ANI as saying.Nitish government had transferred to CBI, a case registered with Bihar Police by Sushant’s family living in Patna against his former girlfriend Rhea Chakarborty, accusing her of mentally harassing the actor, diverting large funds from his account, confinement and abetting his death by suicide among other charges.Several leaders in the Maharashtra government said Nitish Kumar government’s move to transfer the case to CBI was political in nature keeping in mind the pending Bihar assembly elections. The Maharashtra government had also been opposing a parallel probe into Sushant’s death by the Bihar Police.Responding after the SC verdict the Bihar chief minister said that the verdict demonstrated that the alleged attempts by Mumbai Police to block a probe by Bihar Police in the case-- before it was transferred to the CBI-- was wrong.“It was the duty of Bihar Police to probe after a complaint, but they didn’t get cooperation in Mumbai. Behaviour meted out to our IPS officer is known to all. With the SC verdict, it’s clear what happened wasn’t right. Any political comment in this situation isn’t right,” Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI.Suggesting that politics should be kept out of the investigations, Nitish added that the entire country was concerned about Rajput’s mysterious death and the CBI probe offered assurances of justice.“Supreme Court verdict makes it clear that the probe by Bihar Police and the FIR registered here were correct. Not just Sushant Singh Rajput’s family or people of Bihar, the entire country is concerned over the matter. With a CBI probe, people can trust there’ll be justice,” Nitish Kumar said.Also Read: CBI probe in Sushant Singh Rajput’s case: Parth Pawar tweets, ‘Satyamev Jayate’Leaders of Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) coalition that runs the government in the state also insisted that the Supreme Court’s decision should not be viewed from the prism of politics.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who has been very vocal in his opposition to demands for a CBI probe into Sushant’s death earlier said that it is “not right” for him to make any political comment on the order. He insisted that “no one” is above the law in Maharashtra and the justice system in the state is fair to all. He was talking to the news agency.The BJP, however, has taken a broad swipe at the Maharashtra government saying the “hidden hands” interfering in the Mumbai police’s investigation in Rajput’s death will be exposed now that the case is with the CBI.Also Read: ‘Hidden hands will be exposed’: BJP after SC order on Sushant Rajput case There are several theories doing the rounds about Sushant’s death including one claiming he was murdered and another suggesting he was driven to suicide by big cliques in Bollywood that do not let outsiders flourish in an industry that is run like a “family affair” by few big production houses. Suggestions have also been made about involvement of a young influential Mumbai politician in the case. However, Shiv Sena MLA Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the son of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has denied having anything to do with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-claims-vindication-after-sc-order-in-sushant-case-says-it-is-about-justice-and-not-politics/story-r3BROejh5FXbVnMt5OfGrL.html
19-08-2020||India||3.17 crore samples collected for coronavirus testing so far, says ICMR||A total of 3,17,42,782 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing in India as of Wednesday, informed the Indian Council of Medical Research. The figure includes 8,01,518 samples that were tested on Tuesday. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWith a spike of 64,531 cases and 1,092 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count reached 27,67,274 on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.The Covid-19 count includes 6,76,514 active cases, 20,37,871 discharged/migrated patients and 52,889 deaths, according to the Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-17-crore-samples-collected-for-coronavirus-testing-so-far-says-icmr/story-TI5JPcFb5yROqunTB4G6lK.html
19-08-2020||India||How CRPF’s helpline ‘Madadgaar’ assisted Kashmiris during Covid-19 lockdown||When the country was under strict Covid-19 lockdown in April, a five-day-old baby from Srinagar needed an immediate surgery within two weeks for a congenital heart defect. The baby’s parents, Humaira and Tahir, a daily wager, did not have the Rs 500,000 needed for the surgery. As the parents struggled to raise the money, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) stepped in and contacted doctors at Srinagar’s Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences. The doctors suggested an emergency procedure since the surgery was not immediately possible. The procedure cost Rs 55,000. Tahir managed to pay Rs 30,000 while CRPF offered the rest of the amount. The procedure was successful and the baby is stable now.Tahir and Humaira are among thousands of Kashmiris, who have benefitted from CRPF’s Madadgaar initiative, as Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted livelihoods over the last five months.A Madadgaar helpline (14411) is run under special CRPF director general (Kashmir) Zulfiquar Hasan’s command. Under the scheme, all kinds of assistance are provided to Kashmiris across the country. The assistance ranges from issues related to water, electricity and road construction, medical emergencies, and domestic violence, dowry harassment, career, education, sports.The initiative was launched in June 2017. Since its inception, the helpline has received 573,000 calls from Kashmiris in distress. In 98% of cases, help has extended, according to CRPF data.The Madadgaar team attended to 53,333 grievances on a special Covid-19 helpline launched on March 26 a day after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to check pandemic spread. Between March 26 and August 1, the helpline received 50,757 calls. As many as 1,616 distress messages were received through WhatsApp, SMS and on Twitter.CRPF said Madadgaar teams provided over 35,000 food packets to 4,538 Kashmiri and 2,941 migrant labourer families. Over 5,800 calls were received for information on Covid-19 testing and treatment centres. Other calls pertained to information about medical experts and essential services. Another 21,928 calls were received from people seeking information on procedures to return to their homes.CRPF came to migrant worker Mohammad Arif’s rescue when he began his journey from Mumbai to his home in Panjgrain near the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district in April on a bicycle as his father, Wazir Hussain, suffered a brain stroke. It ensured Arif reaches his destination and helped his father by having him airlifted to Chandigarh for treatment. Arif reached Chandigarh after crossing five states with CRPF’s help. Hussain is stable now.Hasan said the helpline has been working in coordination with CRPF units and other departments across the country to help the people in distress. “Over 4,040 patients suffering from chronic ailments have been provided medicines, haemodialysis, surgeries, blood donations... The Madadgaar Tel Me telemedicine scheme is also in operation to provide consultations to the patients...” said Hasan. “Since we have a presence everywhere in Kashmir, we play a pivotal role in rendering assistance to the locals and mitigate the problems of the common man... The scheme has been very successful and has helped in building a closer and friendly interface with the public.”There was a surge in calls made to Madadgaar helpline after August 5 last year when the Centre divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. A large number of calls were received from abroad as well with people wanting to know the well-being of their families and for assistance.CRPF assistant commandant Junaid, a Kashmiri who heads the Madadgaar unit, said since August 5 last year, they have handled 240,000 calls and provided special assistance in 14,446 cases. “We have received over 300 international calls from countries like the UAE, Oman, Germany, Saudi Arabia, the US and the UK etc where Kashmiri families wanted to inquire about the well-being of their kin living in Kashmir and about the situation in general. It has been a challenging period but we have worked tirelessly in extending all possible help.”Ajai Sahni, an internal security expert, said initiatives like Madadgaar may not significantly alter the sentiments of people but they certainly have an impact in building a relationship. “We should not forget that Kashmir is not just Anantnag, Pulwama or Kulgam [where terrorism incidents are mostly reported from]... a larger opinion is not actively hostile if not actively supportive of Indian forces. Maybe none of these is going to have an effect on the hardliners but such programmes definitely help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-crpf-s-helpline-madadgaar-assisted-kashmiris-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ZWJmx4eXFzJWXZCEllSMtJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Gujarat ATS arrests man sent by Chhota Shakeel to kill BJP’s ex-minister Gordhan Zadafia||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad has arrested a ‘sharp shooter’ who was allegedly sent here by gangster Chhota Shakeel to kill a BJP leader, a senior ATS official said on Wednesday.The man, who was staying in a hotel on Relief Road in Ahmedabad, fired one round at the ATS team during the late Tuesday night operation following which he was nabbed, the official said.“Based on a tip-off that Chhota Shakeel has sent a sharp shooter to kill a BJP leader, our team raided the hotel late last night. The accused fired one round at us when we tried to catch him. Luckily, no one was hurt. We eventually overpowered him,” he said.Two pistols were recovered from the possession of the man, whose identity will be revealed after completion of preliminary questioning, he said.According to the hotel manager, a Mumbai resident booked a room there on Tuesday and was later caught and taken away by the ATS team.Meanwhile, talking to reporters in Gir Somnath district, state BJP leader Gordhan Zadafia said he was informed that the man was sent to eliminate him.“Gujarat Home Minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja has informed me that a sharp shooter has been caught before he could harm me,” said Zadafia, who is on a four-day tour of the Saurashtra region with state BJP chief C R Paatil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-ats-arrests-man-sent-by-chhota-shakeel-to-kill-bjp-leader/story-bDThejfuRqOoja9cD72LcK.html
19-08-2020||India||Babri mosque demolition case in last leg, CBI told to file written reply||The trial in the Babri Masjid demolition case is set to enter its last stage after the Central Bureau of Investigation was asked to submit its written reply in the case by Friday.A special CBI court in Lucknow that completed the recording of statements of all the 32 accused in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case last month, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, among others, has asked the premier investigation agency to file its reply by August 21.The CBI had to file its reply on Tuesday, but its lawyers sought two more days’ time. “The court has ordered the CBI to file its written reply in the Babri Masjid demolition case by Friday (August 21). The central agency had to file its reply on Tuesday but could not do so,” said lawyer Manish Tripathi, who is representing BJP MP from Kaisrganj parliamentary seat in Bahraich district, Brij Bhushan Saran Singh. He is one of the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The trial in the Lucknow court is going on in regard to the demolition of the disputed structure in 1992 in pursuance of the two FIRs lodged with the Ayodhya Police.The Supreme Court on July 19 last year had extended by six months the time frame for completing the criminal trial in Ayodhya case and also set a deadline of nine months for the final order. The deadline expired on April 19 this year and the special judge wrote to the apex court on May 6, seeking an extension. The Supreme Court on May 8 issued a new deadline of August 31 with instructions to deliver the judgment by then. However, legal experts are of the opinion that the CBI court will need further extension of about two months to deliver judgment in the case. “Legal documents in the case run into several thousand pages. It is no easy job to document all proceedings in the case. I think the CBI court will need another extension to deliver its judgment,” said lawyer KK Mishra, who is representing senior BJP leader LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, among others, in the CBI court. On April 19, 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered the special judge to conduct a day-to-day trial, concluding it in two years. Calling the demolition of the disputed structure a crime which shook the “secular fabric of the Constitution”, it allowed the CBI plea for restoration of criminal conspiracy charge against the VIP accused. The court had termed the Allahabad high court’s February 12, 2001, verdict dropping conspiracy charges against Advani and others as “erroneous”. Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, there were two sets of cases relating to the demolition, going on in Lucknow and Rae Bareli. The first case allegedly involving unnamed “kar sevaks” proceeded in a Lucknow court and the second set of cases relating to eight VIPs was being heard in a Rae Bareli court. In April 2017, the Supreme Court transferred the Rae Bareli case to the Special CBI court in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-mosque-demolition-case-in-last-leg-cbi-told-to-file-written-reply/story-NhhCXvhLPWRQFn2gTjkd8K.html
19-08-2020||India||Do donors to PM CARES fund include Chinese firms, asks P Chidambaram||Rasing several questions over the functioning and donations made to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said that while the Supreme Court order on the matter is final, the judgement will be contested in academic circles for a long time.Also read: Supreme Court turns down PM Cares transfer to disaster fundChidambaram, taking to Twitter, said that there are other aspects of PM-CARES fund including transparency, disclosure and management practices on which the Supreme Court had no occasion to pronounce judgement.“Supreme Court has delivered a judgement on the legality and legal accountability of PM-CARES FUND. The judgement is final but will be contested for a long time in academic circles,” Chidambaram tweeted. Supreme Court has delivered a judgement on the legality and legal accountability of PM-CARES FUND. The judgement is final but will be contested for a long time in academic circles.He also asked who are the donors who gave Rs 3,076 crore in the first five days in March 2020 and questioned whether the donors include Chinese firms. He also raised the query about the amount received since April 1, 2020, and the donors.“There are other aspects of PM-CARES FUND on which the Supreme Court had no occasion to pronounce judgement. These are transparency, disclosure and management practices concerning the Fund,” Chidambaram tweeted.Also read: BJP, Congress lock horns over Supreme Court judgment on PM Cares“What is the procedure to allocate money from the Fund to various Covid-19 mitigating activities? Who are the recipients of money from the Fund since its inception?” he added.In another tweet, Chidambaram said, “Are utilisation certificates (UC) demanded and received from the recipients? If the Fund is beyond the ambit of RTI, who will answer these vital questions?”Chidambaram’s remarks come a day after the Supreme Court refused to order the transfer of funds from PM CARES to the National Disaster Response Fund observing that they are two different funds with different objectives and purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-donors-to-pm-cares-fund-include-chinese-firms-asks-p-chidambaram/story-Ts79ZG3JHgw01goaDnbEAM.html
19-08-2020||India||Not right for me to comment on SC’s verdict: Sanjay Raut on Sushant Singh Rajput case||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that it is “not right” for him to make any political comment on Supreme Court’s latest order in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case.“Supreme Court has given its verdict, it is not right to make political comments. Our state’s justice system has always been one of the best in the country, no one is above law here and to provide justice to all has been the norm,” Raut said while speaking to ANI.“Those in the government who know the law, the Mumbai Police Commissioner or our Advocate General can talk about it, it is not fit for me to comment on the verdict of Supreme Court,” he added.Notably, holding that the FIR registered in Bihar’s Patna over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput was legitimate, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the CBI to investigate the case.The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said that the Bihar Government was competent to recommend transferring the case to the CBI.The apex court also asked Mumbai Police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. The state of Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar Government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by KK Singh, Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-fit-for-me-to-comment-on-sc-s-verdict-sanjay-raut-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-HDsXcL5MBevKNUvwtcmllO.html
19-08-2020||India||As Covid-19 care centres gradually close, Mumbai’s civic body to transfer medical equipment||As the Covid-19 pandemic curve continues to flatten in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is shutting down several Covid Care Centre (CCC) facilities. Medical equipment from these centres will be transferred to civic-run peripheral, maternity hospitals and health posts to plug shortages of devices. When Covid-19 pandemic broke out in Mumbai in March, the BMC started CCC facilities in all civic wards to quarantine high-risk contacts and asymptomatic patients. In June, however, when the curve started plateauing in Mumbai, the BMC was conducting around 4,500 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests every day, and an average 1,100 new Covid-19 cases were reported.With the inclusion of the rapid antigen test, the daily average testing has gone over 7,000 per day, with the civic body conducting more than 10,000 tests on some days. Despite the increase in testing, the number of daily Covid-19 cases has stayed below 1,000 in the city. The positivity rate has come down from 22 percent in July to 19.51 percent in August. Also read: BMC to appoint consultant to curb waterlogging in cityWith the number of Covid-19 cases reducing in Mumbai slums, almost 70 percent CCCs are lying unused. The civic body has therefore gradually started handing over rented lodges, schools, auditoriums, hotels to its owners where these centres were created. Medical equipment like oximeters, glucometer, oxygen cylinders, blood pressure monitors, beds among others from the facilities will be used in the secondary health care facilities. “Annually, peripheral hospitals, dispensaries and health posts have their own demand for medical devices. So, the equipment will be sent to these facilities for future usage,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner.“At present, we aren’t handing over all the equipment. We have to remain prepared in case Mumbai is hit with the second wave of Covid-19 infection.” The BMC has 16 peripheral hospitals, 175 municipal dispensaries, 29 maternity homes with over 200 health posts all across the city. The civic body has spent around Rs 850 crore in the ongoing pandemic including salaries, equipment and construction of CCCs.Nearly Rs 130 crore has been spent on buying essential machines. “Most equipment is being donated by philanthropists which will be used at the secondary health care facilities along with the purchased ones. While the rented ones will be handed over to their owners,” said Kakani. At present, Mumbai has 332 CCC-1 facilities for high-risk contacts with over 48,000-bed capacity. There are a total of 173 CCC-2 facilities for positive asymptomatic patients with over 23,000 beds. Health activists have welcomed the civic body’s decision. Pradeep Patil, a local RTI activist from Bandra who is associated with non-government organisation Jan Kalyan said, “Even though health posts and peripheral hospitals form the backbone of the healthcare system in Mumbai, they lack basic amenities. It will be a great boost for medical infrastructure if the BMC can also shift all additional equipment, like ventilators and x-ray machines, for Covid-19 patients to these centres once the pandemic gets over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-care-centres-gradually-close-mumbai-s-civic-body-to-transfer-medical-equipment/story-56XUjgb3AugTYD8UH5Rj9H.html
19-08-2020||India||BMC to appoint consultant to curb waterlogging in Mumbai||In the aftermath of heavy water logging that Mumbai experienced during the monsoon this year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will appoint a technical consultant who will study reasons for waterlogging in the city, the design of roads and stormwater drains, and provide solutions and technical support.The consultant will be given a list of chronic waterlogging spots, such as Hindamata, Gandhi Market near Matunga, Chembur colony, Andheri subway, for the study.A senior officer of the stormwater drains department said, “We are appointing a consultant for Mumbai to find a permanent solution to waterlogging at problematic spots in the city. This will be an extensive survey, with a special focus on chronic flooding spots and low lying areas. We need to check if a permanent solution can be found, such as deep tunnelling.”Also read: Tablighi Jamaat money laundering case - ED raids at four locations in MumbaiThe officer added, “Despite our efforts, waterlogging was quick to surface across the city this year too.”The BMC will hire a consultant with technical and engineering expertise for stormwater drains along with prior experience in handling such projects.The decision comes on the back of the last four years of allocating and spending dedicated budgets to study and find solutions to curb waterlogging at individual 273 spots across the city. After the monsoon of 2018, the BMC had changed the methodology by micro-planning to deal with flooding.The stormwater drains department was tasked with studying each chronic flooding spot individually and come up with personalised solutions to prevent waterlogging. While this method did not replace the earlier plan of cleaning water entrances, laterals and desilting drains and nullahs, it was expected to curb flooding.On August 4 and 5, Mumbai experienced very heavy rainfall that resulted in severe waterlogging in various parts of the city. It also took several hours of the water to drain out, like in 2019.Subsequently, the BMC pumped out 17,145 million litres of water from the city. This is equivalent to twice the capacity of Tulsi lake - 8,046 million litres, one of the seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai.Waterlogging was reported at 9 prominent locations in the island city, 4 locations in the Eastern Suburbs and 3 locations in the western suburbs. Many areas submerged in two or three feet deep water. In South Mumbai, many locations that had not flooded previously were inundated this year, such as Babulnath, Girgaum Chowpaty, and Nariman Point. However, this can be partly attributed to the heavy rainfall. On August 5, the Colaba weather station recorded 293.8mm of rain in 12 hours (between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm), the highest ever in August since 1974.Out of the 273 water logging spots identified across the city over 2017 and 2018, the BMC said only 69 spots remained to be tackled before the monsoon of 2020. Moreover, 49 other flooding spots out 273 were categorised as localised flooding spots - where waterlogging takes place due to a local and temporary reason such as very heavy rainfall in a short duration combined with high tide, hence they do not face the threat of submerging every monsoon just like chronic flooding spots.The BMC’s budget for 2020-21 declared that during the monsoon of 2020, only 24 waterlogging spots would remain, as the others had been dealt with over the past three years. However, with the outbreak of Covid-19, the civic body lost out on crucial months of March, April, and May for its monsoon-preparedness work and was unable to complete the fixing process of over 40 waterlogging spots this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-appoint-consultant-to-curb-waterlogging-in-city/story-LV6zybXXfuD7S3RyzffWcI.html
19-08-2020||India||Pak army chief Gen Bajwa’s apology doesn’t help, gets a royal snub in Saudi kingdom||Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa who started his Saudi Arabia visit on Monday to calm diplomatic strains has returned home after been declined a meeting with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Gen Bajwa had to settle for a meeting with the Deputy Defence Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Salman, also the younger brother of the Crown Prince, as well as Maj Gen Fayyad Al Ruwaili, the kingdom’s chief of general staff, people familiar with the matter in Riyadh and New Delhi.Bajwa is learnt to have conveyed the Imran Khan government’s apology over foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s statement that criticised Saudi Arabia over the reluctance of the Organisation of Islamic Countries to convene a meeting of OIC foreign ministers to discuss Kashmir.But the regret conveyed to Deputy Defence Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Salman during their meeting on Tuesday, didn’t get Islamabad any further in Riyadh. General Bajwa’s interactions in the kingdom were limited to Saudi’s defence establishment, just as Pakistan military had claimed after news of General Bajwa’s trip was leaked back home.This version was, however, contradicted by Pakistan minister Sheikh Rasheed on Saturday who told a news channel that the army chief was visiting Saudi Arabia to iron out outstanding minor differencesGeneral Bajwa is accompanied on this visit by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt General Faiz Hameed.There has been a buzz in Islamabad that PM Khan was not averse to dropping Qureshi, who crossed the red line with Saudi Arabia when he threatened to call a conference of Islamic countries outside the OIC if it did not call a conference of foreign ministers to discuss the situation in Kashmir.Pakistan has long pressed the Saudi-led OIC to convene a high-level meeting to highlight alleged Indian violations in the part it controls but hasn’t got its way so far.“If you (OIC) cannot convene it, then I’ll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir and support the oppressed Kashmiris,” Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi told local media last week.An Indian diplomat said after India cemented its ties with Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries over the last six years, Pakistan had distanced itself from its projected Arab legacy and moved towards Erdogan’s Ottoman revival. Turkey’s position on Kashmir mirrors Pakistan’s stand.At his meeting in Riyadh, Gen Bajwa is also learnt to have floated a proposal for a meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) contact group on Kashmir on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly meeting to be held under Turkey. The OIC contact group on Kashmir, formed in 1994, is a smaller group of OIC foreign ministers.It has already met on June 22 this year to discuss Kashmir when foreign ministers of Azerbaijan, Niger, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey attended the meeting. A diplomat in Delhi said the proposal appeared to be a face-saver for Imran Khan vis-a-vis his Pakistan’s domestic audience.Imran Khan hasn’t commented on Qureshi’s statement so far but over the last one week, there has been an effort to distance PM Khan from Qureshi. Minister for Human Rights Dr Shireen Mazari was the face of this effort when she publicly criticised the country’s foreign affairs ministry by saying that it had let down both the Kashmiris and PM Khan. The criticism was a sharp contrast to PM Khan telling the National Assembly just weeks earlier that Pakistan’s foreign policy, mostly directed at Kashmir, was the biggest achievement of his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gen-bajwa-s-saudi-trip-an-apology-snub-and-then-a-new-proposal/story-5wYoIHlJAAJoLS4KsyZ8IP.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Hidden hands will be exposed’: BJP after SC order on Sushant Rajput case||Soon after the Supreme Court confirmed a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the BJP took an aim at the Maharashtra government on Wednesday, saying that the “hidden hands” interfering in the Mumbai police’s investigation of actor Sushant Singh Rajput will be exposed. The “immature” Parth Pawar, grandnephew of Sharad Pawar, too tweeted soon after the court order. Parth tweeted “Satyamev Jayate (Truth prevails)”, however, he made no mention of the case. A few weeks ago, Parth had written a letter to state home minister Anil Deshmukh demanding a CBI inquiry into the young actor’s death. Parth’s position was at odds with that of the party’s which had expressed confidence in the Mumbai police. The BJP too had demanded a CBI probe. “He is immature. There is no value to what he says. I have 100% trust in the Maharashtra and Mumbai Police. But if anyone wants to make a demand, then nobody can object,” Sharad Pawar had said last week, dismissing the young leader’s demand for a CBI investigation. The BJP blamed the Maharashtra government for the alleged mishandling of the case. “The ‘hidden hands’ that have been interfering in the police investigation will now be exposed. Who were the people who did not allow Mumbai police to investigate the case. Will the state government take the responsibility of ‘forcible goof ups’ by the Mumbai police? Thank you to the Supreme Court. Pub and Party gang which enjoyed illegally, while 15000 plus Mumbaikars died in lockdown! Note- Justice will be done,” Bharatiya Janata Party’s former Mumbai chief Ashish Shelar said in a series of tweets. Noted IPS-officer-turned lawyer YP Singh termed the verdict as a setback for Mumbai police and even the state government. “Doubts were raised over the investigation and conduct of the Mumbai police. To clear all doubts and ensure justice, the SC has rightly handed over the case to the CBI,” he said. The Mumbai police failed to come out clearly and maintain transparency in the investigation by briefing on a regular basis on the findings, he added. The act of quarantining the Bihar SP Vinay Tiwari, said Singh, was immature and could have gone against the state. Shiv Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab said, “We are yet to receive the copy of the court order. Once we read it thoroughly, we will respond to it in detail, including responding to the allegations of the BJP.”Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the apex court verdict will have far reaching consequences as it has given a new viewpoint to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure code.“Honourable SC judgement has given a new viewpoint to the provisions in CrPC. Now cases will be registered at any place leading to the complications. This will have a larger and far reaching impact on the future inter-state as well as intra-state working as far as the jurisdiction of the police investigation is concerned,” said Sawant.The top court has asked the Mumbai police to hand over the case records and evidence to the CBI. It also asked the Maharashtra government to cooperate and assist in the CBI investigation. The verdict was was based on a plea filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty to transfer an FIR of abetment to suicide registered against her in connection with the death of Suhant Singh Rajput from Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satyamev-jayate-immature-parth-pawar-after-sc-order-in-sushant-case/story-NUBlrgUy0ASWwuvmdwjI9N.html
19-08-2020||India||15-year-old girl found dead in Uttar Pradesh town||A 15-year-old girl was found dead by her family members in a small town in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal district.According to the police, the girl studied in Class 11.The police further said that the incident took place on August 14. The family members later discovered a note written in one of her school notebooks which is addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the police said.They said that the girl discussed the issues being faced by many people and sections of the society in her 19-page note. She also expressed her willingness to meet the prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-girl-found-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-town/story-JtYkuGUPpylxkhZ7kIOIHM.html
19-08-2020||India||Don’t need to be Congress president to strengthen it: Rahul in new book||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has indicated that he will not assume the reins of the party in the immediate future and maintained that he stepped down from the post after the 2019 Lok Sabha election debacle to develop a culture of accountability in the organisation, according to a new book.“I’m here, standing by the Congress party and ready to fight for it because I believe in the Congress party. I don’t need to be the Congress president in order to fight for the Congress party or to work on strengthening it,” he said in an interview with US-based authors Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah for their book ‘India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next Generation of Political Leaders’.Gandhi was asked by the authors if he would be open in the future to lead the party once again if his colleagues want him back as the Congress president.Gandhi has indicated on many occasions that he is not willing to reconsider his decision and has often referred to his letter to Congress workers on July 3 last year to make his point.He had resigned as the party chief at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on May 25 last year following the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress managed to win just 52 seats in the 543-member House while the Bharatiya Janata Party returned to power with a bigger majority of 303 seats.At the CWC meeting, Gandhi slammed the veterans for “placing the interests” of their sons above the party, and also mentioned that some leaders had even lost the election from their strongholds even as he criticised a section of the so-called GenNext for hankering for posts.He brought finality to his decision to step down as the party president on July 3 when he tweeted a four-page farewell note listing the reasons why he resigned.In the letter, Gandhi took a dig at his party colleagues for the electoral drubbing the Congress received and spoke about the lack of support to him, saying he had stood completely alone in the fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS).“I personally fought the Prime Minister, the RSS and the institutions they have captured with all my being. I fought because I love India. And I fought to defend the ideals India was built upon. At times, I stood completely alone and am extremely proud of it,” he wrote.Asked by the authors why he resigned from the post, Gandhi said, “The Congress party lost the 2019 elections, under my command. The Congress has to develop a culture of accountability and that begins right at the top. I’m pretty clear in my mind that I am accountable for the 2019 loss and that I had to step down as a consequence.”Asked if his family supported his decision, the former Congress chief said: “We’ve obviously discussed this as a family and I’ve listened to and appreciated my mother and sister’s perspectives. But I feel that the culture of accountability is missing at present in the Congress party and the only way to inject that into the Congress system is by beginning at the top.”To another question on the Gandhi family being the Congress’s biggest asset but also a liability because the BJP keeps bringing back the ‘namdaar versus kamdaar’ issue, he dismissed it just propaganda.“I can give you a list of over a hundred senior RSS–BJP leaders all of whom come from political dynasties. As far as my mother, my sister, and I are concerned, we are driven by ideology. We fundamentally believe in the Congress ideology and will not compromise with our belief just to grab political power. The RSS–BJP that keeps changing like a chameleon in its blind pursuit of power, understands the power of the Gandhi family’s commitment to the Congress ideology. In fact, they fear it, which is why we are the primary targets of their propaganda and systematic disinformation,” he said.Asked what role he envisions for himself and his sister, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in the party, Gandhi said, “My sister is an extremely capable person, who has to chart her own political course. I’m happy that she’s working in Uttar Pradesh because I think there’s a huge opportunity for the Congress party to make a strong comeback in the next state elections over there.”To another question, if it easy to convince her to join the politics, the former Congress chief said, “Priyanka and I had spoken about this before and her view was that while her children were growing up and still in school, she wouldn’t be able to do justice to a full-time political career. Now that they’re going to college, she can immerse herself fully and do justice to the role she has agreed to play as a general secretary of the Congress party.”Concluding the interview, when asked how he would like to be remembered after his retirement, Gandhi said, “I’m not too bothered about what people will say about me after I’ve gone. I’m more interested in the here and now and in what I do, what I stand for, who I stand with, and who I can help. Jawaharlal Nehru said that he’d like his ashes to be scattered in the Himalayas. He didn’t even want a memorial in his name. I don’t think he was too bothered about what people were going to say after he was gone. Or whether they would remember him or not. I think he was much more bothered about his actions, while he was still alive! I think that’s a good model to follow.”In the interview, Gandhi also talked about his hobbies, passions, and interests outside the Congress.“I’m passionate about Aikido, a Japanese martial art in which I have a Black Belt. I’m a pilot. I love diving and I’m both a free diver and a scuba divemaster. I enjoy running and cooking. In fact, I can cook you the best omelettes you’ll ever have!”“By nature, I’m a curious person. When I get interested in something, I tend to deep dive into it, to understand its nature. That’s just the way I operate. I will tend to go into detail and build a certain level of competence and understanding in that subject. Amongst the broad sweep of subjects, I’m interested in are Indian philosophy, Buddhism, the history of the Mongols, WWI/WWII history, Middle Eastern history, Pakistani history, and Chinese.”When pointed out that a lot of his critics have said that it seems like he is in politics out of compulsion and not passion, Gandhi said: “I hate labels. Politics is a label…Politics is very important to me, it takes up a lot of my time, but, I have other interests as well. My political approach is built around listening to people and trying to help them achieve what they want to achieve. I go to people who I think need my help and I will raise their issues and try and fight for them. I spend a lot of time thinking about politics and discussing it. I love what I do. I’m passionate about it. I’m certainly not doing what I do out of any compulsion.”Asked about the criticism regarding his frequent vacations, he said: “In India, I live my life surrounded by security men, 24X7. As a consequence, in India, I have very little privacy, other than when I’m in my own home. When I’m out of India, I have more space, more privacy. I enjoy learning from other cultures and I love interacting with people from different parts of the world. I don’t see my trips abroad as vacations. For example, when I’m in the United States and if I visit Berkeley to interact with students over there, I learn from that experience. There are new ideas I’m exposed to; new ways of looking at things. These are extremely enriching experiences and that’s what I enjoy most about travelling abroad.”Gandhi alleged that this perception has been created by the RSS and the BJP as they see him as a threat.“The truth is, I’m up against a formidable RSS–BJP political machine that attacks me 24X7, because it sees me as a threat, because it sees the ideas that I represent as a threat. So it has to paint me as someone who isn’t interested, as someone with no understanding, as someone who only wants to go abroad on vacation. The fact that you are asking me this question, proves that their propaganda is somewhat successful,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-need-to-be-congress-president-to-strengthen-it-rahul-in-new-book/story-9K6uFShcKimXeXmUpfUKxI.html
19-08-2020||India||President accepts Ashok Lavasa’s resignation as Election Commissioner||President Ram Nath Kovind has accepted the resignation of Ashok Lavasa as Election Commissioner, a notification by the Ministry of Law and Justice said on Wednesday.Lavasa had on Tuesday sent his resignation as Election Commissioner to the Rashtrapati Bhavan.“...the President is pleased to accept the resignation tendered by Shri Ashok Lavasa, Election Commissioner with effect from the 31st August, 2020,” the notification said.Lavasa was next in line to head the poll panel. He would soon be joining the Asian Development Bank as vice president, sources said. He would be joining the Philippines-based ADB sometime in September, they added.“The ADB has appointed Ashok Lavasa as Vice-President for Private Sector Operations and Public-Private Partnerships,” the multilateral lending agency had said in a statement last month. “ He will succeed Diwakar Gupta, whose term will end on August 31.Lavasa’s term in the EC would have ended in October 2022 had he become the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC). He is the second election commissioner to step down from the poll panel before the completion of his term. In 1973, CEC Nagendra Singh resigned after he was appointed a judge in the International Court of Justice at The Hague.Lavasa’s resignation comes at a time when the Election Commission is preparing to hold Bihar assembly polls amid the coronavirus pandemic.Lavasa, a career bureaucrat, joined as Election Commissioner on January 23, 2018, and being senior most on the poll panel would have become CEC in April next year after the term of incumbent Sunil Arora ends.Lavasa made headlines during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when he gave a dissenting note to the Election Commission of India (ECI) giving a clean chit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former BJP president Amit Shah on allegations of violating the Model Code of Conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-accepts-ashok-lavasa-s-resignation-as-election-commissioner/story-rkfCirRJcVfWq1ti1kPjBJ.html
19-08-2020||India||SC allows CBI to probe Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to continue with its probe into the case filed against actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The case was filed on the complaint of Rajput’s father, KK Singh, in Patna last month. On August 5, CBI took over the probe in the case after the Bihar government transferred it to the federal agency.Chakraborty moved the apex court questioning the lodging of the case against her in Patna and sought its transfer to Mumbai. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy refused to grant this relief to her and instead agreed that Bihar police will have jurisdiction in the case. “Bihar police was competent to give the consent to CBI [for probe],” it said.The court said contents of the complaint did indicate the Mumbai police does also have jurisdiction. “If any other case or complaint is registered in connection with the unnatural death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the CBI can register a new case as well and carry out the probe,” it added.Chakraborty’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, said the court noted his client has called for a CBI report. “The Hon’ble Supreme Court, after examining the facts and circumstances of the case and the report of the Mumbai police, has observed that it will be the desired justice as Rhea herself called for a CBI investigation. The Hon’ble Supreme Court also observed that due to the allegations made by the two states [Bihar and Maharashtra] of political interference against each other, it would be in the interest of justice to hand over the case to the CBI.”He added Chakraborty will face the CBI investigation as she has done earlier in case of the Mumbai police and the Enforcement Directorate probe. “Rhea maintains that the truth will remain the same which ever agency investigates the case.”Singh, in his complaint, referred to about Rs 15 crore transaction from his son’s bank account and suspected Chakraborty of blackmailing his son and seizing control of his bank documents and credit cards.CBI had informed the court that it will only probe the case registered in Patna. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI, submitted the Maharashtra police had only registered an accidental death report under which they can only conduct an inquiry into the suicide of the actor. The court had reserved judgment in the case on August 11 after hearing the lawyers appearing for Chakraborty, Singh, the Bihar and Maharashtra governments, and CBI.Chakraborty challenged in her petition the Bihar police’s move to register the case against her since Rajput died in Mumbai. The 34-year-old actor’s body was found at his Mumbai home on June 14.Singh’s lawyer argued since his client lives in Patna, it gives the Bihar police the jurisdiction to lodge and investigate the case.Maharashtra linked politics to the lodging of the case in Patna and claimed a news report suggested Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar pressurized the police to register the case. It argued allowing the Bihar police to probe the case will be against the principle of federalism, which allows autonomy to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-cbi-to-probe-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-z3L2nefKsifFmWkH5CmcoO.html
19-08-2020||India||MoU signed for first unit of Defence Category Industry in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh government has signed an MoU for establishing the first manufacturing unit of a Defense Category Industry in the state.The industrial unit will manufacture bulletproof jackets and helmets for Government of India’s armed forces, infantry, BSF, CRPF and state government’s armed forces.“The MoU was signed between Chhattisgarh Government’s Industry Department and M/s ATMASTCO Ltd., Durg on Monday for establishing the industrial unit for defence equipment. This industrial unit for defence equipments at Birebhant village of Durg district in Chhattisgarh” said a senior IAS officer.Also read: Heavy rains expected over North West and central India for next 2 to 3 daysAs per the press release issued by the Chhattisgarh government, capital investment worth nearly Rs 87.50 crore will be done by the company and the unit will generate employment for around 150 people. “In the first phase, the industrial unit will manufacture one lakh bulletproof jackets and one lakh helmets,” the official said.The MoU was signed by principal secretary Manoj Kumar Pingua on the behalf of industry department and by MD of M/s ATMASTCO Ltd S Swaminathan. “The defence category has been enlisted as the top-priority category in the new industrial policy of the Chhattisgarh Government. The unit will start production by November month,” said Pingua. As per the release, M/s ATMASTCO Ltd, Durg had signed a contract for defence technology under license and agreement with the Government of India on 25 March 2019. Under this contract, permission for establishing this unit for production of bulletproof jackets and helmets was issued on 5 May 2020. Subsequently, the state government signed an MoU on Monday for the issuance of the license by Government of India for establishing the industrial unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mou-signed-for-first-unit-of-defence-category-industry-in-chhattisgarh/story-PYwSACEkO9OBmRtFMSoopN.html
19-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Priyanka agrees with Rahul that non-Gandhi should be Congress president, according to new book and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Agree with Rahul that non-Gandhi should be Congress president, Priyanka in new bookCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra agreed with her brother, Rahul Gandhi, last year when he said that a non-Gandhi should lead their party, according to a new book -‘India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next generation of Political Leaders’ written by US academicians Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah. Read more.‘Faceless assessment system will not displace tax officials’: CBDT chairmanCentral Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman PC Mody has assured income-tax officials that the faceless assessment scheme will not result into either a large-scale transfer of taxmen or reduction in existing resources of the income-tax department, two officials said. Read more.Why naval commanders’ meet is significant: 5 reasonsIndia’s top naval commanders will discuss important operational issues during a three-day conference in New Delhi beginning today, amid the ongoing border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh. The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region (IOR) where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row. Read more.Sacking coach may not bring an end to Barcelona’s woesIs Quique Setien’s sacking part of Barcelona’s root-and-branch overhaul following the 2-8 defeat to Bayern Munich which bookended a stuttering, trophy-less season that began with a loss to Athletic Bilbao in La Liga? Or is it mere scapegoating? Read more.10-year-old skater kept on failing but refused to give up, then this happened. WatchIt is often said that it’s better to keep on trying until you succeed. This video of a 10-year-old skater exemplifies that statement aptly. This inspirational video shows how a girl, despite failing several times, didn’t give up on her endeavour of jumping over a wall made of skateboards while riding one. Read more.Massive traffic snarls in Delhi-NCR after heavy rainsDelhi and its adjoining areas such as Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad received rainfall in the morning, which led to waterlogging and traffic snarls at various major junctions. Read more.‘Puppet of a Radical Left wing movement’: Trump attacks Biden on immigrationUS President Donald Trump portrayed Joe Biden as soft on illegal immigration during his Arizona speech. Trump slammed Biden saying he is the ‘puppet of a Radical Left wing movement’. “Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left-wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of America’s borders and boundaries. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-agree-with-rahul-that-non-gandhi-should-be-congress-president-priyanka-in-new-book-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zWgTSyWkYF7bUTdw0f92jN.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Faceless assessment system will not displace tax officials’: CBDT chairman||Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman PC Mody has assured income-tax officials that the faceless assessment scheme will not result into either a large-scale transfer of taxmen or reduction in existing resources of the income-tax department, two officials said.CBDT chairman, through a virtual meeting with income-tax officials on Tuesday, dispelled doubts in the field formation that the faceless assessment will lead to a reduction in the workforce and a large scale of transfers, the officials present in the meeting said requesting anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 13 announced three key structural tax reforms under the ‘Transparent Taxation - Honouring the Honest’ platform – Faceless Assessment, Faceless Appeal and Taxpayers Charter. While faceless assessment and taxpayers’ charter were formally implemented from Thursday, the faceless appeal will be implemented from September 25. The technology-driven faceless assessment system aims to end overreach by officials and the charter defines the rights and responsibilities of taxpayers.Also read: What is ‘faceless’ tax assessment? All you need to knowThe faceless tax assessment system was first proposed by the prime minister in 2017 and received a mention in the first budget of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 5, 2019. The system was subsequently launched on October 7, 2019. The system enables a random selection of tax cases through Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, with reduced discretion from for or no human interface with the income-tax department. The objective of faceless assessment is to completely eliminate physical contact between the taxpayer and the taxman to make tax administration objective, transparent and corruption-free. The system works under the National Assessment Centre (NeAC) headquartered in Delhi and eight Regional Assessment Centres (ReACs) located in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.CBDT chairman and its members on Tuesday explained taxmen about the implementation of the faceless assessment system and constitution of NeAC and ReACs including the reallocation and reorganisation of the manpower, the officials said.Mody told officials that the faceless assessment is being implemented with existing manpower preferably at the existing locations. “He sought to dispel all kind of misgivings and misapprehensions which may have been reflecting on the minds of the officers and officials of the department with regard to the national launch of the faceless assessment scheme,” one of the officials said.Mody reiterated that the implementation of the faceless assessment scheme was important to uphold the dignity of the service and, also, to change the narrative of negative public perception into a positive one.He expressed confidence that given the immense talent pool within the income-tax (I-T) department, the officials would definitely rise to the occasion and make the transition to transparent taxation a reality.The CBDT also made a presentation on the newly introduced taxpayers’ charter. “The officers were sensitised about the rights of the taxpayers as enshrined in the charter. It was emphasised that the charter be implemented in letter and spirit,” the official said.Officials said the demand management strategy to be adopted by the I-T department was also discussed in the meeting to identify and clean-up pending demands so that the correct demand, if any, could be made available to the taxpayers.“As a part of cleaning-up of demand, all pending rectifications and appeal effects were to be attended on priority as this was also one of the key factors of a transparent tax administration,” another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faceless-assessment-system-will-not-displace-tax-officials-cbdt-chairman/story-P0wdz7awBu0QFCa9J2aTeI.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Goa needs him, will launch protest’: Congress as Satya Pal Malik moves out||Less than 24 hours after his transfer orders were signed by the President, Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik packed his bags and jetted off to Shillong, his new home and assignment, on Wednesday. The Congress, however, has sought cancellation of his transfer orders. Malik had pulled up the Pramod Sawant government for the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in the state and publicly reprimanded him for claiming that he (the Governor) was happy with the state’s response. It was one among the series of fallouts Malik had with the chief minister. Malik omitted any reference to CM Sawant in his farewell message to Goa. “I’m glad that I had an opportunity to serve in a beautiful state like Goa. During my tenure in Goa, which was almost 10 months, the experience has been nothing but pleasant. Goa is blessed with natural beauty. The people of Goa are very warm and generous. I have got tremendous love from the people of Goa. Goa has its own unique identity. People have their own way of living. I would love to visit Goa in times ahead and the state of Goa will always be close to my heart,” Malik said. “I wish to convey my best wishes to the people of Goa and pray that the state remains strong with all its solidarity and harmony,” Malik said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, however, belatedly thanked Malik for his services to Goa.“Extended warm send-off to Hon. Governor Shri Satya Pal Malik Ji, on his dep at Dabolim Airport. I thank him for all the support & guidance during his tenure in Goa. I congratulate him for his new assignment in Meghalaya & extend my best wishes to him in all his future endeavours,” CM Sawant tweeted. Digambar Kamat, leader of opposition in the state, was present at the airport to see off the Governor. He said it was unfortunate that Malik was transferred. “He was told to leave when Goa needed him the most. He has made a place in the heart of every Goan. Goa will always hold him in highest esteem. God bless him with health, happiness, peace & long life,” Kamat said. The Congress has demanded that Malik’s transfer orders be cancelled and vowed to organise protests to press for their demand. “The @INCGoa demands @rashtrapatibhvn to CANCEL transfer order of Hon’ble Governor of Goa SatyaPal Malikji. Goa now needs him the most. We will launch protests from 19th August @ 4pm at Azad Maidan demanding cancellation of his transfer order,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar tweeted. The people from the state praised Malik for placing the state’s interest above everything else. “He had been very vocal about spike & mismanagement of coronavirus cases in Goa, Mhadei water crisis, and other stupid actions of Goa govt, infuriating the BJP,” Shruti Chaturvedi, an entrepreneur in Goa, said. “Goa Governor Satyapal Malik could have saved Goa, he always advocated Goa’s Interest above the Government interest, he took stand on #Mhadei #COVID-19 situation in the State and where @DrPramodPSawant failed,” Hrudaynath Shirodkar, an activist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-needs-him-will-launch-protest-congress-as-satya-pal-malik-moves-out/story-VCw6vUIB7nLq9kKrD3zCbI.html
19-08-2020||India||Vikas Dubey encounter: SC rejects plea against composition of probe panel||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea questioning the appointment of retired Supreme Court judge, justice BS Chauhan, as the head of a three-member judicial commission constituted to probe the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said it is rejecting the plea seeking replacement of justice Chauhan but stated that it is laying down some safeguards regarding the manner in which the commission has to conduct the probe.The petition filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay questioned the choice of justice Chauhan as the head of the commission, claiming that two relatives of the retired Supreme Court judge were part of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh. Placing reliance on an article published on an online news portal, Upadhyay alleged that justice Chauhan’s younger brother Virender Singh is a BJP member of the UP Legislative Council who, along with his son, switched loyalties to BJP last year from the Samajwadi Party. It was on Upadhyay’s petition the Supreme Court had earlier directed the UP government to set up a commission to probe the allegations against Uttar Pradesh police in relation to Dubey’s killing. The commission, which was set up on July 22, has retired Allahabad high court Chief Justice Shashi Kant Agarwal and former UP DGP KL Gupta as its other members During the hearing of the case on August 11, CJI Bobde took exception to Upadhyay’s submissions stating, “We will not allow you to cast aspersions on a former judge of this court based on a newspaper report.” The bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “Is any of Justice Chauhan’s relative connected with the encounter or the enquiry….Is belonging to a political party an illegal act. There are many judges whose fathers or uncles are Members of Parliament. Are they all corrupt?” Upadhyay said, “I am on the independence of inquiry. It will not be fair.” He had also given suggestions on persons who could replace the members in the judicial commission in the event his petition was accepted. Expressing dismay at such allegations being levelled against a former judge of the apex court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for UP, said, “The allegation is that a former judge of this court is connected to the Government (of Uttar Pradesh). This is highly derogatory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-encounter-sc-rejects-plea-against-composition-of-probe-panel/story-1kNQRcnBMxdrxOYb8gLUYP.html
19-08-2020||India||28-day vaccination drive launched to save cows from foot and mouth disease in Prayagraj||The Prayagraj animal husbandry department has launched a massive drive to inoculate cows and other cattle from the deadly ‘muhpaka and khurpaka’ disease (Foot and Mouth Disease – FMD). The 28-day drive was launched on Monday and will continue till September 16.As many as 68 teams will spread out to vaccinate cows across the district against FMD, free of cost.Also read: Chaat, paan cravings make people of Kanpur more vulnerable to Covid-19‘Muhpaka and khurpaka’ is a fatal disease which claims the lives of hundreds of cattle and other hoofed animals each year in rural areas, causing heavy losses to farmers and dairy owners. As a special drive this year, to save the lives of cattle, Prayagraj Animal Husbandry department has launched the vaccination drive on a massive scale.Chief veterinary officer RP Rai said that the vaccination drive has been launched in all parts of the district. For the purpose, 68 teams have been constituted on block development level across the district. All 68 teams comprise 1,000 vaccinators who will approach every cattle owner and dairy farmer as per the roster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-day-vaccination-drive-launched-to-save-cows-from-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-prayagraj/story-VzG5NMzUXF2D3Uwn7ZPNgO.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Truth will surface’: Politicians welcome Supreme Court verdict in Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Supreme Court’s judgement to order to allow the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to continue with the probe against Rhea Chakraborty in the Supreme Court has been hailed by the politicians.“We welcome the decision of the Supreme Court to allow CBI to continue with its probe of Sushant death case on the basis of FIR filed in Bihar. Our stand vindicated,” Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said on Twitter.BJP MLA Ashish Shelar also appreciated the apex court for allowing CBI enquiry into the late actor’s case stating that “hidden hands” misguiding police would “be exposed”.“Thanks Hon’ble SC! CBI enquiry = #Justice4ssr! “Hidden hands” misguidinh (misguiding) police investigation will be exposed! Jail time for “Pub & party gang” who enjoyed illegally, while 15,000+ Mumbaikars died in lockdown! Note- Justice will b done, Shelar tweeted”Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan said the court’s order has brought relief to Rajput’s family.“Not only the truth will surface now but those name will also come out who were behind disrupting the investigation in the case. I hope the Court’s order has brought relief to Sushant Singh Rajput’s family,” he said after the verdict.A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy refused to grant relief to Chakraborty and instead agreed that Bihar Police will have jurisdiction in the case. As a consequence, the court said, “Bihar Police was competent to give consent to CBI.”Chakraborty had approached the apex court questioning the lodging of FIR against her at Patna and sought it’s transfer under Section 406 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to Mumbai. “Our family thanks the Supreme Court, and all those who were a part of this movement for justice. Now, we are certain that Sushant will get justice,” said Niraj Singh Babloo, Bihar BJP MLA.The apex court also agreed with Mumbai Police and Chakraborty that contents of the complaint did indicate Mumbai Police does possess jurisdiction. However, the court stated, “If any other case or complaint is registered in connection with the unnatural death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the CBI can register a new case as well and carry out probe.”The court had reserved its judgment on August 11 after hearing the lawyers appearing for Rhea Chakraborty, Sushant’s father, Bihar government, Maharashtra government and CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truth-will-surface-politicians-welcome-supreme-court-verdict-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-n2JgJ5YiNmmg6oWHydO0ZK.html
19-08-2020||India||HC refuses pre-arrest bail to trader booked for claiming fraudulent input tax credit of Rs 63.50 cr||Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of a Mumbai-based trader, who is accused of fraudulently claiming the input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 63.50 crore on the materials that were never purchased by his firm and passed on the ITC to a web of firms across the country with whom he had never traded. Justice Sandeep Shinde rejected the pre-arrest bail plea of Ashok Kumar Chandrapal Singh, a partner in M/s. Sheela Sales Corporation. Central Goods and Sales Tax (CGST) authorities have alleged that the firm indulged in circular trading and claimed the ITC between July 2017 and September 2019 on the basis of invoices valued at Rs 352.92 crore, which were issued by M/s. Jai Bajrang Traders, an Uttar Pradesh (UP)-based company. CGST’s investigation has revealed that Singh passed on the ICT to six inter-linked firms, owned by the accused’s close relatives, and those firms, in turn, distributed it among 360 other companies located across the country. Singh and his wife, Sheela, also a partner in the firm, had moved HC for anticipatory bail apprehending arrest in connection with the fraud. It was argued on their behalf that CGST Act, 2017, prescribes a procedure for the tax assessment, even in cases where discrepancies are found in the information furnished in return sheets, and unless a summary assessment or special audit was conducted for determining liability, the prosecution could not be initiated and the couple cannot be arrested. Their counsel also argued that once returns were filed, CGST authorities could, at the most, impose a penalty. HC, however, refused to accept the argument. Justice Shinde perused the CGST file notings and Singh’s statements recorded under provisions of the CGST Act, 2017. CGSTThe judge said prima facie, the accused is complicit in availing ITC of Rs. 63.50 crore without movement of goods on forged invoices in breach of Section 16 of the CGST Act, 2017, which is a cognisable offence. HC primarily took note of the fact that Singh had in his statement admitted that neither his firm had received any goods from M/s. Jai Bajrang Traders, nor had it made any payment to the UP-based firm. “In terms of Section 136 of the CGST Act, 2017, disclosure in the statement is ‘relevant’ for proving any offence under the Act,” said the judge while rejecting Singh’s anticipatory bail plea. “Under these circumstances, the fraudulent ITC claim of Rs. 63.50 crore is a matter of grave concern and requires thorough investigation for which applicant’s (Singh’s) presence is necessary,” the judge said. HC, however, granted bail to Singh’s wife because as a homemaker she was a dormant partner and had no role to play in the financial matters of the partnership firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-trader-booked-for-claiming-fraudulent-input-tax-credit-of-rs-63-50-cr/story-rLnEMd0ufP2X1rZakVo9ZP.html
19-08-2020||India||GST fraud Odisha tax officials bust Rs 712 crore GST fraud, arrest one person||Bhubaneswar: Officials in Odisha have busted a GST invoice racket allegedly involving Rs 712 crore. They have also arrested a businessman for carrying out fake transactions.Odisha GST commissioner Sushil Lohani said GST officials arrested Madhumita Steels Industries Private Limited director Kashmira Kumar Agrawal for allegedly transferring bogus input tax credit of Rs 129 crore to recipients in and the state Odisha through fake invoices worth Rs 712 crore.He said Agrawal had hired middlemen who collected documents, like PAN card, Aadhaar card and photographs, from people in Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts seeking employment, in exchange for money. He, then, allegedly misused the documents to create dummy firms in the name of these people. Agrawal also allegedly transferred huge sums of money to dummy firms. In case of one firm, he had shown to have purchased goods worth Rs 13 crore but had transferred Rs 38 crore through its bank accounts. Agrawal was arrested under section 69 of OGST Act, 2017 for cognizable and non-bailable offence u/s 132(1)(a) and (b) read with section 132(4) of OGST Act. On conviction, he can be imprisoned for up to five years.In other cases, documents showed that Agrawal’s firm despatched tonnes of goods, such as steel and iron items, through scooters, motor cycles, tractors and even cars, raising the suspicion of tax sleuths.The arrested businessman created fake bank accounts in which he transferred huge sums of money. At least Rs 2 crore was seized by the enforcement wing of Odisha GST from some accounts. He used to change his address to Rourkela, Haryana, Tata as well as Sambalpur. Some of the accused involved in the racket were arrested earlier.The detection of GST fraud has come at a time when the state’s collection in the first quarter of 2020-21 fiscal went down by 32.79% compared to the corresponding period of the last fiscal. The total collection in the three months was Rs 1,560.2 crore as against Rs 2,321.39 crore collected during the corresponding period of 2019-20 fiscal.GST, the indirect tax regime rolled out in July 2017, has been plagued by rampant tax evasion with fraudsters using technology to create fake e-way bills and GST returns.Odisha GST officials said at least two cases of major GST frauds have been detected in 2020 apart from the Agrawal case. In January this year, state’s GST enforcement authorities arrested two persons for frauds worth Rs 212 crore through 28 dummy firms in the name of daily wage labourers, private tutor, unemployed youths and homemakers.In March, they busted a fraud in which fake invoices to the tune of Rs 294 were generated by 11 dealers in Bhubaneswar. Two persons were arrested in that case.Last month, the Orissa high court had expressed its concern over increasing trend of GST fraud through non-existent firms and raised questions whether there were certain inherent flaws in the GST system, which is prone to such abuse. Dismissing the bail petition of a person accused of committing GST fraud, HC judge, Justice SK Panigrahi had said fraudsters are taking advantage of the inadequacy of electronic trails of all transactions by employing ingenious methods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-fraud-odisha-tax-officials-bust-rs-712-crore-gst-fraud-arrest-one-person/story-DTt4CknfIUbYvhYNsSf6VI.html
19-08-2020||India||Agree with Rahul that non-Gandhi should be Congress president, Priyanka in new book||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra agreed with her brother, Rahul Gandhi, last year when he said that a non-Gandhi should lead their party, according to a new book.The book, ‘India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next generation of Political Leaders’ written by US academicians Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah, also quotes Priyanka Gandhi as having said that the Congress should have its own path.“Perhaps not in the (resignation) letter but elsewhere he has said that none of us should be the president of the party and I am in full agreement with him,” the book quotes Priyanka Gandhi as having said in her interview to the authors. Commenting on it, a senior Congress functionary said, on the condition of anonymity, that “a 15-month old comment of Priyanka Gandhi is being projected as a fresh interview”. The authors had met Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on July 2019 for the interview and they had also spoken to Rahul Gandhi around the same time. Congress leaders recall that Rahul Gandhi had offered his resignation from the president’s post at a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on May 25 last year, taking responsibility for the party’s crushing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Rahul Gandhi remained firm on his decision and posted a farewell note to his supporters on July 3 last year to put a stamp of finality on his resignation.In the CWC meeting, Rahul Gandhi slammed the veterans for “placing the interests” of their sons above the party, and also mentioned that some leaders had even lost the election from their strongholds even as he criticised a section of the so-called GenNext for hankering for posts.Also Read: Don’t need to be Congress president to strengthen it: Rahul in new bookHe also told the CWC a non-Gandhi should be elected as the new Congress chief. In the same meeting, Priyanka Gandhi, while insisting that only one person could not be held accountable for the poll debacle, had agreed with her brother that a non-Gandhi should become the Congress president.The Congress did try to find a non-Gandhi as its chief but failed to do so.Ahead of another CWC meeting on August 10, its members were divided into five groups to interact with state leaders from five regions of the country and evolve a consensus on the party chief’s name.While Sonia Gandhi was in the group that interacted with the leaders from the eastern region of the country, Rahul Gandhi was in the group for the west. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was part of the group for the north, Manmohan Singh south and Ambika Soni for the northeast.Priyanka Gandhi had outright rejected the demands for her to take over the party.On August 1, at a meeting of Congress general secretaries and in-charge of states to discuss preparations for the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on August 20, Priyanka Gandhi vetoed a suggestion that she assume the leadership role, squarely telling her party that she did not want to be dragged into this. Her move was aimed at firmly spiking an idea that has been supported by several senior Congress leaders over the last few weeks.A section of the Congress, including Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Thiruvananthapuram lawmaker Shashi Tharoor, had backed her for the post of the party president.These developments have surfaced at a time when several members among the party have been demanded that Rahul Gandhi be reinstated as the party president. Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari have also put forward a suggestion that the party should hold internal elections if Rahul Gandhi does not withdraw his resignation. Several ministers, MPs and former chief ministers have urged Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to settle the leadership issues and uncertainty in the Congress party. Priyanka Gandhi’s response came when a party general secretary, in the course of the meeting, suggested that she should come forward and assume the leadership role. She firmly told him and others present to desist from taking her name as her brother’s replacement. “Don’t drag me into this,” she had said.Before the CWC meeting on August 10 last year, senior leader Mukul Wasnik had emerged as one of the frontrunners for the top party post.However, consensus eluded the meeting and finally, the CWC requested Sonia Gandhi to once again accept the responsibility and after Rahul Gandhi turned down repeated demands to withdraw his resignation. She had given up the post in December 2017 when Rahul Gandhi assumed the reins of the party.Initially, Sonia Gandhi refused to accept the request but agreed after repeated pleas by party leaders on the condition that she would stay on interim chief only till the election to choose a full-time president was held.Sonia Gandhi has then said her returning as the party chief would again give a handle to the opponents to attack the Congress on grounds that the Gandhi family was unwilling to give up its hold over the party. Priyanka Gandhi’s remarks created a buzz in Congress circles amid a clamour for Rahul Gandhi to take up the responsibility once again. Leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari have suggested that there should be internal elections if Rahul Gandhi refuses to withdraw his resignation. There is also a talk in the party that many leaders, including former chief ministers and MPs, have written to Sonia Gandhi to settle the leadership issue and end the uncertainty at the top.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agree-with-rahul-that-non-gandhi-should-be-congress-president-priyanka-in-new-book/story-t4VoYDYbXUh59rW6bmmE7H.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: ‘Family very happy with SC verdict’||Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision to have the CBI continue to probe the death case. Bihar BJP MLA and Rajput’s relative Niraj Singh Babloo said that the family is certain that the late actor will get justice. “Our family thanks the Supreme Court and all those who were a part of this movement for justice. Now, we are certain that Sushant will get justice,” Babloo said. Rajput’s father KK Singh’s lawyer described it as the victory for the entire family.  Also read: Supreme Court orders CBI investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death caseOur family thanks the Supreme Court, and all those who were a part of this movement for justice. Now, we are certain that Sushant will get justice: Niraj Singh Babloo, Bihar BJP MLA & relative of #SushantSinghRajput pic.twitter.com/rfJiWhoZfJ“The SC ruled on all points in our favour. The Court also clearly said that the FIR registered at Patna was correct,” Vikas Singh, KK Singh’s lawyer said. He hoped that the justice will be pronounced very soon. “The family is very happy with the verdict,” the lawyer added. The Supreme Court on Wednesday held that Bihar government was competent to give consent to CBI for probing into the Patna FIR in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and the CBI will, therefore, continue with the probe.The top court refused to accept actor Rhea Chakraborty’s plea for transfering the FIR from Patna to Mumbai. SC also said that any other FIR registered in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput's death will also be investigated by the CBI. We hope that we should get justice very soon. The family is very happy with the verdict: Vikas Singh, Lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput's father https://t.co/93a6w4HoqAA bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy on Wednesday held that the contents as disclosed by Patna FIR do indicate that even Mumbai Police has jurisdiction. The Court has further directed that if any new case is filed in the ongoing case, the CBI will be competent to probe the matter.“The FIR registered at Patna was correct. The state of Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order,” the Court announced. In July, Rajput’s father had registered an FIR with Patna Police against Chakraborty and others, calling them responsible for abetment of his son’s death. The thirty-four-year-old actor was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. Mumbai Police said Rajput died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-father-kk-singh-s-lawyer-says-family-is-very-happy-with-sc-verdict/story-nAWUnI05POv76LtlRS3JlL.html
19-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee develops lung infection, health declines: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition declined on Wednesday as he developed features of lung infection, said the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.The hospital in the Delhi Cantonment area also said that Mukherjee continued to be on ventilatory support and was being managed by a team of specialists.Earlier in the day, Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit Mukherjee said his father’s medical condition was stable and his vital parameters continued to remain under control.“With All Your good wishes & sincere efforts of the Doctors , my father is stable now ! His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable ! Positive signs of his improvement is noticed ! I request you all to pray for His speedy recovery !Folded hands,” Abhijit, who is the son of the ex-president tweeted. With All Your good wishes & sincere efforts of the Doctors , my father is stable now ! His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable ! Positive signs of his improvement is noticed ! I request you all to pray for His speedy recovery !🙏#PranabMukherjeeThe 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-s-decline-in-pranab-mukherjee-s-health-says-hospital/story-nUutwmXTPg6ONQOUazrMHN.html
19-08-2020||India||Covid centre built by Congress, CPI (M) in Bengal; BJP has a question for TMC||The Congress and the CPI (M) units in Bengal have christened portions of a Covid centre jointly built by them in Kolkata after veteran leaders from both the parties in a sign of growing closeness between the two in the build-up to the state polls next year. Political experts see this as an initiative by the two parties to take their bonhomie a notch higher in a bid to emerge as a third alternative to the ruling Trinamool Congress and the key opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2021 elections. The Covid centre, in the Dum Dum area, has been developed by the two parties and the project was overseen by the local CPI (M) MLA Tanmoy Bhattacharya. The wards will be inaugurated on Wednesday afternoon. While the treatment unit (a liaison cell to help Covid patients get proper treatment and support their families) and the safe home have been named after Shyamal Chakraborty and Sankar Sen, former veterans of the CPI (M) who died recently, the oxygen supply unit has been named after Somen Mitra, veteran Congress leader who passed away on July 30.“The CPI (M) has always shared a cordial relation with the Congress in Dum Dum. This initiative would further boost the friendship,” said Bhattacharya. The BJP took a dig at the new centre saying that first the CPI (M) leaders should get clearance from the government. “They are naming a child who is yet to be born. Will the government give clearance to such centres? The health minister should answer this first,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of BJP. The Trinamool too panned it as a “publicity stunt”. “It would have been better had they named the three sections after three stalwarts of three parties – the CPI (M), the Congress and the BJP - because they are all the same. They have done nothing for the people in the past 34 years and now doing some publicity stunts fully aware that such centres mean nothing without government clearance,” said Chandrima Bhattacharjee, minister and senior TMC leader. Mitra, during his tenure as Bengal Congress president, remained a staunch proponent of a Left-Congress tie-up, both while organising a joint movement on the streets and also in the elections. Since going solo and the disastrous results that followed in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the CPI (M) and the Congress are gearing up in the state to put up a united fight in the state polls up ahead, which will likely see a high-octane battle between the TMC and the BJP. The CPI (M) and the Congress’ top leaders in the Assembly - Sujan Chakraborty and Abdul Mannan, respectively - have been frequently seen together over the past few months. A few months ago, the Congress supported the Left in the Rajya Sabha elections to get the CPI (M)’s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya elected. Political analysts see in the CPI (M)’s overture to the Congress, the CPI (M) Bengal chapter’s keenness in contesting the elections together, even though the Marxist party’s central leadership has repeatedly blocked any formal alliance in Bengal because they fight the Congress in other states, especially Kerala. The two parties, which were once arch-rivals in the state and elsewhere too, are now seeking each other out. This bonhomie began in 2016 when the vote share of both parties started dwindling. While the CPI (M)’s vote share took a nosedive from 30% during the 2011 assembly elections when the TMC ended the 34-year-rule of the Left rule in the state to around 6.3% in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls; the Congress’ vote share too has plummeted and has come down to 5.6% in 2019 from 9% in 2011. A senior CPI (M) leader who did not want to be identified said that both parties have realised from the outcome of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections that sticking together is of utmost importance to save the party organisations from the TMC and BJP. “Former West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra and CPI (M) politburo member Biman Bose had decided that alliance between the two parties would not be just for the sake of elections but to address the grievances of people of Bengal. This initiative would definitely boost the relation,” said Amitabha Chakraborty, a senior Congress leader. But over the past few months the relation between the two parties have soared to new highs with the Left Front leaders going to Bidhan Bhavan, the headquarters of the state Congress committee, to offer tributes to the former West Bengal chief minister and legendary doctor Bidhan Chandra Roy on his birth anniversary. Somen Mitra played a crucial role in forging an electoral understanding of left parties and the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Also Congress MLA Asit Mitra attended Shyamal Chakraborty’s remembrance ceremony at the CPI (M) state office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-centre-built-by-congress-cpi-m-in-bengal-bjp-has-a-question-for-tmc/story-rPLzjd2WTkC84Fqb93modL.html
19-08-2020||India||Delhi wakes up to early morning shootout on Wednesday||The Delhi Police’s special cell team arrested a 19-year-old suspected criminal, the son of gangster Manoj Bakkarwala, after a brief chase and exchange of bullets in outer Delhi’s Prahladpur near Shahbad Dairy in the early hours of Wednesday.The arrested criminal, Ashish Bakkarwala, had been released from Delhi’s Tihar Jail in April as part of the Delhi government’s move to decongest prisons to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was in jail for committing a murder, senior police officers associated with the early morning operation said.Five bullets were exchanged between the special cell sleuths and Ashish, who suffered a bullet injury in the right leg and has been admitted to a government hospital, where he is being treated. Of the three bullets Ashish fired, one hit the bulletproof vest of a sub-inspector, who escaped unhurt, senior special cell officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that after being released as part of the prisons’ decongestion move, Ashish attempted to extort two persons for ₹1 crore each and shot at them in outer Delhi’s Bakkarwala near Mundka in May.The gangster father-son duo belongs to the Bakkarwala locality in outer Delhi. The city police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh on Ashish’s arrest.“Ashish was wanted for both cases. On Tuesday, our team received information that he would be coming to Prahladpur area to kill someone. Accordingly, we laid a trap, and around 4am, spotted Ashish riding a scooter. Our team members asked him to surrender. But he opened fire in a bid to flee. Our officers fired in self-defence and one bullet hit Ashish’s right leg. We overpowered him and admitted him to a hospital,” said DCP Yadav.A special cell officer, who is not authorised to speak to the media, said on condition of anonymity that Ashish committed the two serious crimes within an hour on the night of May 17. Around 10pm, Ashish and his associate went to the house of a property dealer in Bakkarwala, fired two shots in the air and threw down a piece of paper asking the property dealer to pay ₹1 crore and threatening him of dire consequences, the officer said, quoting the contents of the first information report registered on the complaint of the property dealer, who is constructing a school in the neighbourhood.Within an hour, the officer said, Ashish went to an under-construction hospital site in the same locality, put a gun to a security guard’s head and asked him to inform the hospital owner to arrange ₹1 crore as “protection money”. Both the cases were registered at the Mundka police station.According to the officer, to avoid arrest, Ashish hid out in Punjab and Haryana and visited Delhi only to extort people for money or commit other crimes.“Ashish entered the world of crime while he was a juvenile. He has been involved in at least six other crimes, including a murder. We are collecting details,” the officer added.Between mid-2000 and 2012, Manoj Bakkarwala ruled Delhi’s crime world and was involved in more than 300 cases of carjacking and vehicle thefts. Manoj, who allegedly started his criminal career in 1998, was first arrested the same year. Manoj has escaped from police custody on at least three occasions and is reportedly on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-early-morning-shootout-wednesday/story-jJqFmMj8DVRk6s1PPpsM2J.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Supreme Court orders CBI investigation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected actor Rhea Chakraborty’s petition to transfer the investigation from Patna to Mumbai in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The court said that said Bihar government was competent to give consent to CBI for probing into the Patna FIR.A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy pronounced the judgement.The bench held that the contents as disclosed by the FIR registered in Patna indicate that even Mumbai Police has jurisdiction.The apex court had reserved its judgement on Chakraborty’s petition after a hearing on August 11.In her petition, Chakraborty said that the Bihar Police have no jurisdiction in the case and that the actor’s death was being used for political gains ahead of elections in the state. Heightened media attention and sensationalising of the case is another ground on which Chakraborty has sought the transfer of the case to Mumbai.Based on Rajput’s father KK Singh’s complaint that Rhea Chakraborty was responsible for abetment of his son’s suicide, Patna Police registered an FIR on July 25.Singh also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s bank account. However, the actor has denied all allegations and maintained that she will cooperate with an investigation launched by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Meanwhile, Singh was quizzed by the ED on his son’s finances on Tuesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also registered a case against Chakraborty and three members of her family members.Sushant Singh Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-cbi-investigation-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case/story-faDVyVENasV2bsp8u1kQ8I.html
19-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 daily death toll crosses 1,000-mark for third time in 10 days||The daily death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 1,000-mark for the third time in the last 10 days as the country reported 1,103 fatalities on Tuesday, highlighting the recent rise in the number of daily deaths in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBefore Tuesday, daily deaths in the country have crossed the 1,000-mark four times – 2,004 fatalities were recorded on June 16, 1,130 on July 22, 1,018 on August 9 and 1,010 on August 13. In the first instance (June 16), the cause of the spike in daily deaths was Delhi and Maharashtra reporting a reconciliation of deaths. On July 22, the death reconciliation panel in Chennai corrected a discrepancy in the city’s Covid-19 numbers by adding 444 deaths to the toll.This means that all actual instances of the daily deaths touching four-digits (if we exclude days when backdated deaths were added to the tally) have been reported over the past 10 days. This also means that Tuesday’s deaths were the highest single-day deaths reported in the country if we exclude reconciled deaths.The total cases in the country went up to 2,763,712 as of Tuesday night. Among these, 53,010 people have died, while 2,034,828 patients have recovered and been discharged. At present, there are 675,874 active cases in the country.India has the third-highest number of infections in the world after the US (5.6 million cases and over 175,000 deaths) and Brazil (3.4 million cases and over 110,000 deaths). However, India’s case fatality ratio – the proportion of Covid-19 patients who have died of the disease – is far lower than the other two nations. Around 1.9% of the Covid patients in India have succumbed to the disease, compared to 3.1% in the US and 3.2% in Brazil. Globally, there have been over 21 million cases of the disease and 773,152 deaths – taking the global CFR to 3.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-tuesday-covid-19-crosses-1-000-mark-for-third-time-in-10-days/story-5Q0jM5oIUwObm6ARdUpkaN.html
19-08-2020||India||Chaat, paan cravings make people of Kanpur more vulnerable to Covid-19||A major chunk of people, who tested positive for the coronavirus in the last two weeks in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, had one thing in common – they were frequent visitors to roadside paan, chaat, tea stalls and vegetable vendors. These people assembled around the vendors, did not wear masks and also didn’t bother about social distancing. Besides, spitting on the roads and vegetables kept in the open also aided the spread of Covid-19 infection. These facts emerged in the contact tracing by the health department here. On the basis of inputs given by people about their outings, authorities stationed teams to monitor vendors selling gol-gappas, pakoras, tea and vegetables. Also read: Kashi has railway stations after its three names Kashi, Varanasi, BanarasPeople gathering at such places neither wore masks nor maintained social distancing said a senior official of CMO’s core team. “After random sampling, a vendor and two others tested positive,” he said citing an example of a big paan shop in Swaroop Nagar. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr AK Mishra said many such vendors tested positive in random sampling by the teams in Kanpur. He wrote to the Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC), Food Safety and Drug Authority (FSDA) and DIG/SSP to take effective measures to check the spread of infection. The letter to the DIG/SSP stated that a huge number of people gather around roadside eateries and paan shops, where social distancing was not being maintained. The letter also pointed to the fact that people were turning up without masks. “I have requested for strict action against people who are not wearing masks in public places and not adhering to basic safety norms like keeping distance,” he added. In his letter, the CMO suggested strong monitoring of public places, street vendors, kirana stores, milk, ice cream shops and vegetable markets. The police also stepped up action against people seen without masks. In the last three months, 57,057 people were fined for moving on the road sans mask. As part of a renewed strategy, we are ensuring that people don’t move around in public places without masks. Adhering to basic norms can help people in the current situation when Covid-19 cases are on the rise,” said Preetinder Singh, DIG/SSP (Kanpur). “The police have been asked to monitor gatherings in markets, malls, shops, roads and impose penalties on people showing up without masks. At the same time, no crowding should be allowed at shops and eateries in particular,” he added. Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/craving-for-chaat-paan-makes-people-of-kanpur-more-vulnerable-to-covid-19/story-Xs4sv59fJwYqSve2UqaYWI.html
19-08-2020||India||Water stock for Mumbai now at 82%; Modak Sagar lake overflows||Modak Sagar, one of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai and its suburbs, is the third water body to overflow on Tuesday night after Tulsi and Vihar. This is the first lake, which is located outside Mumbai and supplies 450 million litres to the city, to overflow. The water stock in the seven lakes is 82% until Tuesday and the current reserve can last around 320 days.However, there is still no clarity over revoking the 20% daily water cut for each household in Mumbai that was announced by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities on August 5 owing to meagre rainfall in the catchment areas. Earlier, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT that the civic authorities would re-examine the daily water cut rule, if the stock improved. Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Bhatsa, Vihar, and Tulsi are the lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai. Latest data showed the following water stock in these lakes: Upper Vaitarna (67%), Middle Vaitarna (98.3%), Tansa (89.9%), and Bhatsa (81.03%). The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems. The Vaitarna system supplies to Mumbai and its western suburbs. While the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are located in Mumbai, Thane, and Palghar districts of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-stock-for-mumbai-now-at-82-modak-sagar-lake-overflows/story-BWNh1p9PKFjRmSxHiOHb7I.html
19-08-2020||India||New Ganga law will define cleanliness levels, make polluters pay||The Union government plans to bring a new legislation to keep the Ganga, Hinduism’s holiest river, clean and pollution-free. A draft of the proposed law is currently being vetted by multiple authorities before it will be sent for the Cabinet’s approval, people familiar with the matter said.The government started the Namami Gange campaign to clean the Ganga, one of the world’s most polluted rivers with sewage and industrial waste discharged into it for decades.Millions of Hindus worship the 1,560-mile (2510 km) river. The Ganga basin supports over 400 million of India’s 1.3 billion people.Efforts to rid the river of pollutants go back to 1980s, marked by two successive programmes known as Ganga Action Plans.The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Namami Gange Programme in June 2014, when it first took charge, as a project of national importance.The proposed law now being drafted will set down legal obligations to prevent pollution, fix biological and effluent parameters to be maintained at all times at key geographical points and cities through which the river flows, an official said.The eight states of the Ganga basin. where the proposed law will be especially applicable are Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh.Cleaning the Ganga is a gargantuan task requiring multiple authorities to coordinate between states and the Centre. It requires massive engineering solutions, including sewerage infrastructure, sewage treatment plants, rural sanitation systems, industrial pollution abatement, river-surface cleaning and re-construction of ghats, or river-front steps.A consortium of Indian Institutes of Technology and international partner nations, including Germany, Israel, European Union and Japan, have helped prepare the main technical plan to clean the Ganga.The proposed law will have a ‘polluters-pay’ approach, which means illegal factories will be shut down -- many have already been closed-- and permitted ones will be required to treat their sewage. Certain types of polluting factories will be banned from discharging any sewage into the river.However, the government is not in favour of imposing a wider “Pigouvian tax” on polluters affecting the Ganga, a second official said. Named after the English economist Arthur Pigou, a Pigouvan tax is a cost imposed on “externalities”, or simply, pollution due to economic activities.The Namami Gange project aims to ensure that no untreated municipal sewage or industrial runoff enters the river. According to a 2010 study by the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, treatment plants processed only 45% of the 11 billion litres of sewage generated by 181 cities and towns along the Ganga in that year.“Under the flagship programme of Namami Gange, a total 310 projects to prevent pollution at the cost of Rs 28790.66 crore have been sanctioned so far,” the second official said on condition of anonymity.Nearly 704 industries along the Ganga’s banks were inspected by the National Ganga River Basin Authority (NGRBA). Three-fifths of them have been shut down. Nearly 500 massive sewage trapping devices have been installed so far.Of the 29 major nullahs (storm drains) flowing into the river in Varanasi, 27 now have systems to capture waste. The government has stopped pollution fully from Kanpur’s biggest drain, Sisamau, the biggest polluter of the Ganga. Of Kanpur’s 48 drains, eight still have no devices to stop effluents. All drains in Rishikesh and Haridwar have been fitted with anti-pollution systems. In all, 80 drains still need to be plugged.Under the “subject” of water in the Constitution, the Union has extensive powers to bring laws to protect rivers from pollution, according to the second official.The second official said the proposed law would lay down scientific reference limits for the river’s “health”. For instance, it would set the legal limits of BOD or biological oxygen demand load — a key pollution indicator. It would also lay down the minimum necessary flow rate and dissolved oxygen, two key parameters of a flowing river’s health.Kanpur, a large industrial city in Uttar Pradesh, was the biggest pollution generator before the launch of Namami Gange. “The Ganga’s length is almost 1,000 km in Uttar Pradesh, the stretch most polluted. Uttar Pradesh had two stretches that still pollutes the river, apart from five critical pollution points in West Bengal,” said Gyanendra Shukla, former professor of environmental engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee. At these places, the dissolved oxygen is below the desired level in the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-to-bring-new-law-to-keep-ganga-clean/story-XT0sNAofJAyBiUcF6STg8L.html
19-08-2020||India||‘Sangeet Martand’ Pt Jasraj shared decades-old bond with city of Kashi||Legendary classical vocalist and Padma Vibhushan recipient Pt Jasraj shared an old bond with Kashi which spanned over four decades. He visited Varanasi every year since 1973, the year he performed at the Sankatmochan Sangeet Samaroh at the Sankatmochan Temple. This year, he gave an online performance from New Jersey on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti and then during the Sankatmochan Sangeet Samaroh in April.Sankatmochan temple’s chief priest Vishwambhar Nath Mishra said, “With the death of Pt Jasrajji, an era of music has ended. He was indeed the Sangeet Martand (shining as bright as the sun - referring to the Films Division documentary on the maestro titled ‘Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj, in 2000).“His demise is a personal loss for me. We shared over a 47-year-old bond with him. He was a legend and a very generous and great human being. He was blessed with a unique style of singing. His performance used to leave the audience enthralled.” Also read: Kashi has railway stations after its three names Kashi, Varanasi, Banaras“Pt Jasrajji used to stay at the guesthouse of the Sankatmochan Temple during his visit to Kashi. He never stayed in a hotel,” he added.Mishra said that relations with Pt Jasraj’s family will remain strong. He revealed that this year, Pt Jasraj called him up on the phone and insisted on giving an online performance on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti. Seven days later he performed at the Sankatmochan Sangeet Samaroh online. “In 1973, Dr Induja Awasthi, who was a professor at Delhi University, appealed to my father, Veerbhadra Mishra, to invite Pt Jasraj to the Sankatmochan Sangeet festival. Thereafter, Pt Jasraj was invited. My grandfather, Amarnath Mishra, a noted Pakhawaj artist, was very happy to meet Pt Jasraj. Soon, we were sharing family relations with him. Though his performance used to take place on the last day, he used to come on the first day of the Sankatmochan Sangeet Samaroh,” Mishra added. “We are left with innumerable memories of times spent with Pt Jasraj,” Mishra said, adding that “such a legend is born after ages”.He said that Pt Jasraj spread the magic of classical singing across the world. He visited and performed in a large number of countries and also imparted training to a number of pupils, “many of whom are doing well. But his demise has created a void which is impossible to fill. He will remain alive in our memories forever,” Mishra said. Padma Vibhushan and noted vocalist Pt Chhannu Lal Mishra said that the man with the magical voice has left us. Pt Jasraj underwent training in classical singing at the age of 14. He also trained to play the tabla from his brother, Pt Pratap Narayan Mishra. As a radio artist, it was Pratap Narayan who shaped young Jasraj’s musical abilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangeet-martand-pt-jasraj-shared-decades-old-bond-with-city-of-kashi/story-fG9xlG10ZVrU77AvI0mvjI.html
19-08-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session may start around September 10||The much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament may finally start around September 10, functionaries involved in the discussions told HT. The monsoon session, which usually starts in mid-July, had to be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic that saw a sweeping federal lockdown from March 25, which continues to affect select sectors such as international travel, schools and Metro trains. According to the functionaries, the session is expected to be short but supported by unprecedented logistics and infrastructure arrangements, including ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in air-conditioning systems to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, earmarked seats for top leaders and special communication cables linking both Houses. The length of the session has not been decided and will depend on the government’s decision to hold the proceedings of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha on alternate days or a staggered daily schedule. While Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla are believed to favour a staggered daily schedule as it will help keep the session short and MPs from outside Delhi will spend as little time in the Capital as possible, some ministries prefer alternate days as it will be easier for them to cater to the demand of two Houses. Officials said the government will focus on clearing the ordinances that have been passed in the past four months. The Narendra Modi government has, in recent months, brought in three ordinances to redefine the legal framework of India’s agricultural markets as a part of its Covid-19 response. It amended the Essential Commodities Act, brought a new legislation on contract farming, and changed the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) laws to allow farmers sell their produce freely. At the same time, the Opposition will push for debate on economy, the India-China border conflict and Covid-19 management, to corner the government. The party decided to raise these three issues in different forums during Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s recent meeting with her Rajya Sabha MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-may-start-around-september-10/story-1a8BxvDKSbKQxZTg4JFIwK.html
19-08-2020||India||MP: Minister’s office asks for details of police personnel, opposition blames him for caste politics||Madhya Pradesh minister Girraj Dandotia’s office has sought details like surnames of personnel posted at six police stations in Morena district’s Dimni assembly constituency he represented until March, prompting opposition Congress to accuse him of caste profiling to influence the crucial bypoll he faces.Dandotia was among the Congress lawmakers, whose resignations in March brought down the party’s government in Madhya Pradesh before they joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He was inducted into chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet in July and is expected to get a BJP ticket to contest the by-poll from Dimni.“The minister’s office sought details in writing like names and surnames of the police personnel, their contact numbers and since how long they have been posted...,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity.Dandotia admitted to writing to police stations but insisted it was a routine information gathering on his office’s part.The minister’s office wrote to the police stations last week after he faced a protest at Datterhra village during his tour in the constituency. A group of villagers raised slogans against him and asked him to go back. They also blamed him for pursuing caste politics. Video clips on the protest went viral on social media.Congress leader Madhuaraj Singh accused Dandotia of supporting people on the basis of their castes. “Now, he wants posting of police personnel on the basis of caste to manipulate the byelection results. That is why he has sought to know the credentials of police personnel posted in police stations. This is quite unusual that a minister’s office should write to police stations directly.”Another Congress leader KK Mishra said Dandotia knows he is sure to lose the byelection and his ministerial position given his betrayal with people of the constituency. “Hence, his seeking details of the police personnel is nothing but an act done out of frustration.”Morena police superintendent Anurag Sujaniya refused to comment on the matter.Dandotia insisted as a public representative and minister, it is his right to know about the local police personnel and other government employees. “A minister’s office must have all the details like names, numbers etc. It has nothing to do with any caste politics. The Congress leaders wish to make it a political issue and they are trying to provoke people against me but they cannot succeed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-minister-s-office-asks-for-details-of-police-personnel-opposition-blames-him-for-caste-politics/story-13qGz30bRQcqwUh2s48cFI.html
19-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries cross 2 million; daily recoveries higher than new infections||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries have crossed the two-million mark, as the number of recovering patients has outnumbered new viral infections, the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) data showed. At present, the number of active Covid-19 cases are less than 25% of the total number of the viral infections reported since January 30. “When we talk about the viral caseload of a particular country, it is always the active cases that are counted. It is never the total number of positive cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, MoH&FW. Around 60,000 Covid-19 patients are recovering daily from their viral infection. While around 55,000 new Covid-19 cases are being reported a day.A continuous uptick in average daily recoveries has led to India’s recovery rate at 73.18% and a low case fatality rate (CFR) at 1.92%. Higher number of recoveries and declining fatality has shown that the country’s graded strategy has worked, according to the ministry. “The number of hospitalisation cases has also reduced. A small percentage of Covid-19 patients need to be admitted to hospitals. Most of them recover from their viral infection under home isolation. Few Covid-19 patients are in need of a ventillator support. A majority of those who get admitted make a smooth recovery. However, the problem is by and large with high-risk cases such as senior citizens and those with comorbidities,” said Dr. Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare. The government’s target is to bring down the percentage of Covid-19-related deaths to either 1% or below. “As a result of collaborative and focussed efforts by the Centre and state/UT (Union Territory) governments built on effective implementation of the test, track and treat strategy of the Union government, 30 States/UTs are reporting lower CFR than the national average,” said the ministry in a statement. Aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of positive cases. Besides, efficient clinical treatment has ensured the country’s Covid-19 fatality rate is low, said ministry officials. India is testing around 900,000 swab samples daily and three million people have undergone Covid-19 tests since January 23, when Pune’s National Institute of Virology, under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), conducted the first test. “The more you test, the more infected cases you will be able to identify. Initially, the positivity rate may seem to be climbing, but gradually it will come down. It is important to aggressively test so that we capture most of our infected in the early stages of the disease, and isolate them. It will cut the transmission cycle and also bring down deaths and increase recovery rates,” said T Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-cross-2-million-daily-recoveries-higher-than-new-infections/story-3Bn8qDcWAht5VnuP4BuzJK.html
19-08-2020||India||Guwahati HC asks Centre to respond on drilling gas wells inside Assam biosphere||New Delhi: The Gauhati high court (HC) has sought the response of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and the Central government to a public interest litigation (PIL), challenging the nod granted to Oil India Limited (OIL) authorities on drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations inside and under the jurisdiction of Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts.OIL authorities had said on Monday that the gas and oil spill at its well in Baghjan, which had occurred on May 27 and had impacted a large area of wetland and grasslands, was successfully capped after 83 days. The Baghjan operations have been in the news for the environmental disaster, which could have a long-term impact on local people, animals, and ecology, according to a recent assessment by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) authorities.The petition has challenged the environmental clearance granted to OIL on May 11 to drill inside DSNP. On Tuesday, the HC directed the OIL authorities to file a point-by-point rebuttal to the plea and also asked assistant solicitor-general SC Keyal, who represented the Central government and MoEFCC, to file a response by September 21. “All parties have been issued notices and have been directed to file their response by September 21 on the matter,” said Keyal. The petition cited that OIL had initiated the proposal to drill inside DSNP in 2016 and again in 2019. It alleged that OIL in a bid to escape mandatory public hearings required under environment impact assessment (EIA), notification, 2006, took recourse to an amendment by the Central government on January 16. The amendment had re-categorised all onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration to B2 category project from A category project and, as a result, these projects were exempted from public hearings. “A public hearing is mandatory under law, as per the Supreme Court. OIL authorities cannot exempt themselves from this democratic process,” said Debajit Kumar Das, the advocate, who represented the petitioner. The petition has also sought a blanket ban on further drilling and extraction of oil or other minerals in eco-sensitive and biodiversity-rich areas of Assam.“We are aware of the HC order. We will respond to the order through an affidavit,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL.The WII, which had submitted its report to the MoEFCC in July, also recommended that the approved new wells and exploration in the DSNP landscape should be put on hold until OIL authorities are equipped to handle industrial disasters. The report underlined that the Maguri Motapung wetland and surrounding lowland forests are unique and extremely vulnerable to more oil spill disasters. “The Brahmaputra and Gangetic floodplain landscape is unique in its morphology and fragility, and is responsible for shaping the unique community of plants and animals … the landscape is fragile and is engineered by flooding. The dynamic nature of wetland creates mosaics of habitat, which are in perpetual flux. In India as well as the world over, there are only a handful of Protected Areas (PAs), where this system and unique biodiversity is surviving. Among them, DSNP, Kaziranga and Orang National Park tops the list,” the report said. It pointed out that oil wells in and around DSNP would be detrimental to the unique ecosystem. The landscape is also extremely vulnerable to earthquakes and occasionally large tremors, it warned.Dibru-Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve harbours tiger, elephant, wild buffalo, leopard, hoolock gibbon, capped langur, slow loris, Ganges River dolphin besides critically endangered bird species such as the Bengal florican, white-winged wood duck, greater adjutant stork, white-rumped vulture, slender-billed vulture as well as the very rare and endemic black-breasted parrotbill, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guwahati-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-drilling-gas-wells-inside-assam-biosphere/story-T94xaRhZcO2IAAHFknwprJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Depression likely to form over Bay of Bengal, will intensify monsoon: IMD||New Delhi: Widespread and heavy rains are expected over different parts of north-west India, including the Western Himalayan region and central India, until Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities said on Wednesday. The monsoon trough is active and lies south of its normal position (from Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). It is very likely to be active and near-normal/south of its normal position during the next three-four days, IMD said in its morning bulletin. Delhi received moderate to heavy category rain, measuring between 7.6 millimetres (mm) and 124.4 mm, on Wednesday early morning. “The monsoon trough is active and lies close to its normal position. It is very likely to shift southwards during the next 24 hours and remain active during the next five days. There is a convergence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea over plains of north-west India and Central India at lower levels and likely to continue during the next three-four days,” IMD said in its Wednesday bulletin. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over the northwest Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a depression during next 24 hours. Due to these favourable conditions, widespread rain, with isolated heavy to very heavy spells, is very likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Vidarbha during the next four-five days. Extremely heavy rain is also likely over south-west Odisha on Wednesday; Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on Thursday and Gujarat on Saturday. “Delhi has already recorded 6-7 centimetres (cm) of rainfall on Wednesday. While Gurugram received about 8.6 mm until 8.30 am. Punjab and Haryana are also receiving heavy rains. This is mainly because monsoon trough is located exactly over Delhi. There are strong moisture-laden winds blowing from the Arabian Sea, which are bringing heavy rains to the region. This weather will continue until the end of Thursday. But on August 23 and 24, we are also expecting heavy rains again because a low-pressure area has formed over the Bay of Bengal which will intensify into a depression,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC). Fairly widespread and heavy rain is likely over north-west India, including the Western Himalayan region, until Thursday. Very heavy rain is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh on Wednesday and Uttarakhand and Punjab on Thursday; western Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday; eastern Rajasthan from Thursday until Saturday; and very heavy rain is likely also over northeastern states, except for Arunachal Pradesh, during the next three-four days, the IMD said. “Depressions are fairly common during monsoon. At least two depressions are formed every July, which bring extensive and heavy rain. This will be the first depression of the season. Depressions bring heavy rain and strong winds. We are expecting extremely heavy rains in Odisha because of the depression until the end of Thursday. Similarly, over Chhattisgarh for the next one-two days; and over MP, Rajasthan, and Gujarat,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD. Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 4.4% excess; 25.6% excess over the southern peninsula; 6.9% excess over central India; 5.8% excess over eastern and north-eastern India and 17.9% deficiency over north-west India. There are reports of 16.3% excess rains over the country in August, with 68.1% excess over peninsula India; 35.1% excess over central India; 16.6% deficiency over northwest India and 18.3 deficiency over eastern and north-eastern India as on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-expected-over-nw-and-central-india-for-next-2-to-3-days/story-FkjZXg6MkZGZdjkPESOsFP.html
19-08-2020||India||India records 64,531 fresh Covid-19 cases taking tally close to 2.8 million||The number of coronavirus cases again spiked on Wednesday after the country recorded 64,531 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.India’s tally now stands at 2,767,273. Out of these, 6,76,514 are active cases and 20,37,870 recovered, according to health ministry.There was a decline in the number of cases in the last few days. The country recorded 63,490 infections on Sunday, 57,981 on Monday and 55,079 on Tuesday.The number of recovered patients is also increasing almost on a daily basis and the gap between active cases and those who have been discharged is over 2.93 times.Recently, the health ministry had informed that the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) is preparing a guidance note for people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease.It is a group of subject experts - ‘joint monitoring group’ (JMG) in the ministry of health - which is headed by the DGHS.“The JMG is presently working on a guidance note for people who have recovered from COVID-19 and possible complications that may afflict them,” said health ministry officials on reports on further complications in few recovered patients.The health ministry had said on Tuesday that the trends in Covid-19 cases over the last few days have been “reassuring”. It, however, warned that India being a huge country with a massive population needs to be cautious as a challenge against the coronavirus disease still persists.“This is a bit satisfactory but there is no reason to slacken our guard against coronavirus. We have to be alert and follow containment, surveillance, and testing at the same aggressive pace,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-64-531-fresh-covid-19-cases-taking-tally-close-to-2-8-million/story-FXG4AXxxkeZduphrDDP7SI.html
19-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee stable, there are signs of improvement, says son Abhijit Mukherjee||Former president Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition is stable and his vital parameters continue to remain under control, son Abhijit Mukherjee said on Wednesday. “With All Your good wishes & sincere efforts of the Doctors , my father is stable now ! His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable ! Positive signs of his improvement is noticed ! I request you all to pray for His speedy recovery !Folded hands,” Abhijit, who is the son of the ex-president tweeted. With All Your good wishes & sincere efforts of the Doctors , my father is stable now ! His vital parameters continue to remain under control & manageable ! Positive signs of his improvement is noticed ! I request you all to pray for His speedy recovery !🙏#PranabMukherjeeThe 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on Saturday, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-stable-there-are-signs-of-improvement-says-son-abhijit-mukherjee/story-D0t0qePvFWQCIdWWsZr10L.html
19-08-2020||India||Why naval commanders’ meet is significant: 5 reasons||India’s top naval commanders will discuss important operational issues during a three-day conference in New Delhi beginning today, amid the ongoing border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh. The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region (IOR) where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row. While the Indian Navy is keeping a sharp eye on the IOR, it is also playing a key role in the Ladakh sector. Its P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft, imported from the US, are being used for surveillance of the Ladakh sector and gathering intelligence on Chinese deployments across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). Here are five reasons why the conference is significant: • It comes at a time when the navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR, which, it believes, China will inevitably try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea. • The conference will provide the naval leadership a forum to discuss issues related to operations and the scenario in the IOR where the Chinese navy has been trying to expand its footprint. • India is keeping tabs on China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the Chinese navy doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity. • The stage is also set for Australia to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the United States and Japan. The next edition of Malabar, already delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is set to be held by the end of the year. Australia’s participation could be discussed at the conference. • The conference also comes at a time when self reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. Several of the 101 defence items in the negative import list, released on August 9, include naval weapons and systems, including conventional submarines and ship-borne cruise missiles. The navy will be steering one of the costliest ‘Make in India’ programmes to build six next-generation submarines in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-naval-commanders-meet-is-significant-5-reasons/story-7GmtD6MSiq3H9wrdlFRneO.html
19-08-2020||India||Covid-19 test must for UP legislators ahead of assembly session tomorrow||A coronavirus test appears mandatory for the Uttar Pradesh lawmakers attending the state legislative assembly that is expected to begin its session from tomorrow.Principal secretary, Vidhan Sabha, Pradeep Dubey has sent a letter to all the members informing them about the Covid testing facility provided at all the Vidhayak Niwas and in the Vidhan Bhawan complex. “Before taking part in the proceedings, Covid-19 test is necessary for all the members. I have been asked to convey this,” said Dubey in his letter. Members have also been given the option of getting tested in their district. But the test should be done on or after August 18, read the letter. Testing for staff members and the security personnel was held the last two days in which about two dozen odd people had tested positive.“Members have begun getting tested for Covid-19. Staffers and those functioning from other departments left out on Monday were also tested on Tuesday. We have informed members about the facility of testing available at the Vidhan Bhawan and the Vidhayak Niwas,” said Speaker of state assembly Hridaya Narain Dikshit. The state legislative council has, meanwhile, scheduled tests for all the staffers and members on Wednesday and Thursday now. Meanwhile, veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) MLC Shatrudra Prakash on Tuesday claimed the seating arrangements being made in the chamber sought to lower the dignity of the chair. “This is understood that the seat of the speaker or the chairman cannot be lower than that of any other member,” he pointed out in a letter addressed to Vidhan Parishad chairman Ramesh Yadav. “But as per the special seating arrangements being made, many members will be made to sit in the elevated visitor’s gallery while the chairman will be sitting on the ground floor,” he added. The MLC further said he had earlier written a letter seeking permission for members above 65 years of age to virtually attend the session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have not got the reply to the letter yet,” he said. The Vidhan Parishad secretariat has decided to make seating arrangements in a way that members are at a sufficient distance from each other, using up the seats in the visitor’s gallery too. In his letter, Prakash also raised questions over the credibility of the rapid antigen tests that the administration was organising for members and the staff before the commencement of the House. “The rapid test only gives an idea and not the accurate report,” he said citing the example of Delhi and the WHO recommendations. “I, therefore, request you to arrange for a system of more credible and reliable testing,” he demanded. Vidhan Sabha chairman Ramesh Yadav said he had received the letter raising questions over the seating arrangements and rapid tests. “The visitor’s gallery where some members will sit on a greater height is not part of the chamber where proceedings are conducted. And as for tests, we are conducting rapid tests so that we can get results quickly and as accurate as possible and take action accordingly. It is not possible to send samples to labs due to paucity of time,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-must-for-up-legislators-ahead-of-assembly-session-tomorrow/story-DNcF6Ryg4Wj8Bd4PJW3mbL.html
19-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Body’s immune system insights a boost against coronavirus disease and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19Does getting Covid-19 once give the patient immunity to the disease? If so, how long does it last? Is the immunity robust enough to fend off the pathogen even in a highly contagious space? And, does the level of protection vary depending on how strong or mild the infection was? Read moreCancer cases could increase by 12% in next 5 years: ICMRIndia’s cancer cases could increase by 12% in the next five years, with 1.5 million people projected to suffer from the non-communicable disease by 2025, up from 1.39 million in 2020, according to data based on current trends from the cancer report by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Read moreFailure teaches you more than success: Jemimah RodriguesJemimah Rodrigues has largely been her usual buzzing self even during the phase of prolonged pause. Not only did the Mumbai teen train with her father-cum-coach with a plastic ball inside her building premises during the lockdown, the multi-talented India cricketer also turned host, along with teammate Smriti Mandhana, for a chat show on social media. Read moreWhat actually happens in Zoom meetings? Harsh Goenka shares hilariously relatable tweetWorking and studying from home have become a big part of many people’s lives since the outbreak of the pandemic. Video conferencing service, Zoom, has become a part of people’s routines. Now business tycoon Harsh Goenka has shared an image of a pie chart mapping the things which go on during an online meeting. The chart may seem highly relatable for those who’re using Zoom regularly. Read moreWorld Photography Day 2020: History, significance, and evolution of the photographA picture is worth more than a thousand words; it is a means of personal expression and the appreciation of it, all at the same time. A photograph has the ability to capture feelings, ideas, experiences, moments in time, and immortalize them forever. And as it can convey these expressions faster, and occasionally more effectively than words, it has become one of the primary modes of communication in the digital world. Read moreDelhi’s EV policy touted to boost sales of electric two wheelersThe electric vehicle policy notified by the Delhi government is expected to provide faster adoption of electric two-wheelers and offer long-term benefits to the entire industry, ratings agency Icra said on Tuesday. Read moreApple plans to launch ‘Made in India’ iPhone in mid-2021: ReportApple is reportedly planning to locally produce the iPhone 12 series in India. The new ‘Made in India’ iPhone 12 models will be ready by the middle of next year, according to a Business Standard report. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-body-s-immune-system-insights-a-boost-against-coronavirus-disease-and-all-the-latest-news/story-h1M5v4WgtN63yEEcH5y2pO.html
19-08-2020||India||Supreme Court verdict on Rhea’s petition to transfer FIR in Sushant’s death case to Mumbai at 11am||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday deliver its verdict on actor Rhea Chakraborty’s petition to transfer the investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case from Patna to Mumbai. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy will pronounce the judgment at 11am.The apex court had reserved its judgement on the actor’s petition after a hearing on August 11.In her petition, Chakraborty said that the Bihar Police have no jurisdiction in the case and that the actor’s death was being used for political gains ahead of elections in the state. Heightened media attention and sensationalising of the case is another ground on which Chakraborty has sought the transfer of the case to Mumbai.Based on Rajput’s father KK Singh’s complaint that Rhea Chakraborty was responsible for abetment of his son’s suicide, Patna Police registered an FIR on July 25. Singh also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s bank account. However, the actor has denied all allegations and maintained that she will cooperate with an investigation launched by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Meanwhile, Singh was quizzed by the ED on his son’s finances on Tuesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also registered a case against Chakraborty and three members of her family members.Sushant Singh Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-rhea-s-petition-to-transfer-fir-in-sushant-s-death-case-to-mumbai-at-11am/story-t5LfmkdPmQRMt0428GATBJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Clash over prospects of calling Facebook intensifies in Parliament’s tech panel||The political row between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition members of a parliamentary panel on information technology over the prospects of calling Facebook officials before it intensified on Tuesday. Ruling party member if Parliament (MP) Nishikant Dubey asserted that the Lok Sabha speaker’s decision should be final, while TMC’s Mahua Moitra emphasised that the US company has a lot to be accountable for.Emphasising on the need to call the social media giant before the panel, Moitra said, “Ex-employees of Facebook have reached out to us (the standing committee) informally and have informed that in fact these issues were raised in Q and A sessions within Facebook internally but nothing much was done about it.” Also read: BJP lashes out at Congress over social media hate speech rowIn a video posted on Twitter, Moitra said Facebook has a lot to be accountable for, not just to the parliamentary standing committee but to the people of India as well. Dubey asserted that the parliamentary committee is an extension of Parliament, not of any party or not a platform to do politics.Citing Rule 270 of the Lok Sabha’s procedure of business, Dubey said only the speaker can summon private persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clash-over-prospects-of-calling-facebook-intensifies-in-parliament-s-tech-panel/story-p7DqsZwiCfBFsfreQlkw7N.html
19-08-2020||India||Upfront NPV payments exempted||The Union environment ministry has exempted firms from upfront payment of net present value (NPV) of the forests diverted for mining until March 31 next year, or up to two months after the Covid-19 pandemic ends, whichever is earlier, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday.NPV payments are made to compensate for the losses of forests and their ecosystem services because of infrastructure projects. They are in addition to those for compensatory afforestation. NPV payments are used for conservation efforts like mitigating wildlife loss and biodiversity projects, through the Compensatory Afforestation Fund. They are calculated depending on canopy density and quality of forests diverted. Sanjay Kumar, the director-general of forests, said the mines ministry had requested for annualisation of NPV payments, which basically means they would be paid in annual instalments. “We have said that we cannot do it. If they delay, they will have to pay a hefty sum as interest and if they do not, they will not have forest clearances. We understand that this is a critical time when everything was closed during the lockdown. But we cannot defer payment of NPV indefinitely. A call will be taken on the cut off time depending on circumstances.”The mines ministry has requested the environment ministry to annualize the upfront NPV payments because of the economic slowdown associated with the pandemic.Anil Kumar Jain, secretary, mines, declined to comment on why mining corporations are seeking the exemption.In a letter dated August 9 to the principal secretaries of states and Union territories, the environment ministry said it will give mining companies time till March 31, 2021, or up to two months after the Covid-19 pandemic ends, whichever is earlier to make the lump sum payments. The environment ministry has clarified the exemption will be made on condition that an interest of 12% per annum will be levied for delayed payments till then and thereafter.“The matter has been examined in the ministry and it is informed that annualization of NPV may not be feasible as it involves techno-economic analysis of various parameters used for NPV calculation,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said from the time NPV was introduced into the forest clearance process in 2005, specific projects and sectors have been seeking exemptions. “But the larger question here is whether conditions like compensatory afforestation or NPV justify large scale forest diversions for mines, hydropower, highways, railways or ports.”Community Forest Rights-Learning and Advocacy member Tushar Dash said Covid-19 is being used as an excuse to extract all kinds of exemptions from the environment ministry, which it is happily doing. “I saw another guideline by the environment ministry, which has allowed states to continue to keep and utilise unspent compensatory afforestation funds till March 31. The money should be utilised for the welfare of forest dwellers and forests now,” said Dash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upfront-npv-payments-exempted/story-f2PKVluZJH8fg5ScpkTXAP.html
19-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) said the spread of the coronavirus disease around the world is driven by younger people, those in their 20s, 30s, and 40s, many of whom are not just asymptomatic but also unaware that they are infected. “The epidemic is changing,” Takeshi Kasai, the organisation’s regional director for the Western Pacific said in an online briefing, Reuters reported.WHO’s statement comes at a time when Covid-19 cases around the world appear to be plateauing, perhaps for the first time since April. That was the last time the seven-day average of new cases reported around the world stayed at the same level. It was a long plateau too – it was only in the third week of May that cases started perceptibly rising again, and they continued to till the last week of July. For the past fortnight, though, they have stayed pretty much at the same level (in the 250,000s). All the seven-day averages are from the New York Times database. HT’s Covid-19 data specialist Jamie Mullick wrote about this in an article titled “Coronavirus: Has the third curve flattening begun?” on August 12.Also read: Record 899k Covid-19 tests done on Monday, says health ministryKasai was also quoted as saying that WHO believes the Asia-Pacific has “entered a new phase of the pandemic”. That isn’t evident in the numbers yet.The fact that a large number of the infected are now young has been in evidence for some time. As HT reported in an article on August 11, the virus “disproportionately infects younger people, while it severely affects those who are older”. Based on data till July 31 (by which time India had registered 1.7 million cases), as many as 62% of those infected were below the age of 45 years. A break-up of the 26-44 years age group wasn’t available, but 40% of the people infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 belonged to it; 22% of those infected were younger than 25 years. There’s more according to the unreleased data from the ministry of health and family welfare that was accessed by HT: 26% of those infected were in the 45-60 age group, which means that it is mathematically possible, and quite probable, that 70% of all Covid-19 positive people in India are below the age of 50 years. Only 12% were over the age of 60.Also read: New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19This could explain the higher recovery rates not just in India, but elsewhere in the world too – progressive case fatality rates have declined with every passing month of the pandemic’s run. According to the health ministry data cited above, the proportions are completely inverted when it came to deaths: 50% of those who died from the disease in India were over the age of 60, and another 37% between the ages of 45 and 60 years. Only 13% were below the age of 44 years.Also read: Flu season will be a test run for the US’s biggest-ever vaccine campaignKasai’s comments and the data reflect contrasting behaviours of the old and the young. Early in the pandemic’s run, data established the vulnerability of older people, and many of them responded by opting for self-isolation and taking adequate precautions. They continued to do so even after the first wave of lockdowns. In contrast, young people ventured out soon after the restrictions on movements and activities were eased. This column has previously referred to the second wave in both Spain and France and highlighted how this was being driven largely by young people originally infected by what can only be described as summer fever – and who then went on to be infected by something that was more dangerous, if not to them, then to older members of their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-vkGAb70Bt8bD02MHiZtDAI.html
19-08-2020||India||Govt jobs to be reserved for state residents: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan state on Tuesday that only those who belong to MP would be eligible for state government jobs from now on. “We have taken an important decision that the state government jobs will be only given to youngsters, who belong to MP. We are putting in place necessary legal provisions to this effect. MP’s resources are only for the state’s children,” the CM said, in a video clip released to the media.The Congress government led by Kamal Nath, whom Chouhan replaced in March 2020, had announced to reserve 70% of the jobs in the industrial units for locals but no guideline was issued in this regard.In a tweet, the CM said: “From today, the children of Madhya Pradesh will have the first right over the resources of Madhya Pradesh. All government jobs will be reserved only for the children of Madhya Pradesh. Our aim is to involve the local talents in the upliftment of the state”.However, legal experts differed from the views of the chief minister. Chairman of Madhya Pradesh Bar Council Shivendra Upadhyay said, “A complete ban for students of other states will be unconstitutional. The state government can give some concession to the students who are from Madhya Pradesh but debarring students of other states is not legally possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-jobs-to-be-reserved-for-state-residents-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-BHRbJRv5urRGN1fAf9TqaI.html
19-08-2020||India||Visva Bharati seeks CBI probe into clashes||A day after vandalism forced its closure, Santiniketan’s Visva Bharati university on Tuesday sought a CBI probe into the incident, in which a mob demolished two gates of the university. It also requested the Centre to deploy central paramilitary forces for security at the campus. This comes hours after the university lodged a police complaint against a Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA and eight others accusing them of participating in the violence.The university named Naresh Bauri, a resident of Bolpur and TMC MLA from the district’s Dubrajpur constituency in the complaint. Other than Bauri, three other TMC leaders were also named as accused, university teachers said. The university on Tuesday night issued a statement alleging that the police did not take any step to stop the vandalism although intimation was sent to the district magistrate, superintendent of police, the state chief secretary, home secretary and personal secretary to the chief minister. “The university will request a CBI inquiry to look into the August 17 incident,” said the statement, adding that the staff members will hold a 12-hour fast on Wednesday as a mark of protest. The university also decided not to open the campus till those accused of the violence are booked by the police, said a statement issued by the university on Monday evening.Amid all this, the vice-chancellor decided not to attend the meeting called by Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu on Wednesday to discuss the issue with the university authorities, students, local traders and residents. On Monday, Bauri claimed that he took part in the agitation as a former student of Visva Bharati and not as TMC leader. However, he could not be contacted on Tuesday. The traders also lodged a police complaint against the vice-chancellor. In the statement, Visva Bharati said the allegations were false and they must be withdrawn to make the staff members feel safe. The BJP has accused the TMC of masterminding the vandalism. “This is an example of law and order situation in Bengal. The TMC is trying to establish control over a Central university campus,” said BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh. The VC did not talk to the media on Tuesday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-seeks-cbi-probe-into-clashes/story-ZpMvhmbYN2BYg4ueBsAFDL.html
19-08-2020||India||ED quizzes Sushant Singh Rajput’s father on finances||The Enforcement Directorate has recorded the statement of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in connection with a money laundering investigation linked to the 34-year-old’s death case, officials familiar with the matter said. According to the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, KK Singh was questioned on his son’s finances. Singh filed a complaint with the Bihar Police last month, accusing Rajput’s girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty of abetting his alleged suicide. He also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs15 crore from a bank account of Rajput, who was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. Patna police registered an FIR on July 25 based on Singh’s complaint. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has also registered a case against Chakraborty and three of her family members in connection with Rajput’s death. Chakraborty has denied the charges levelled against her and her lawyers have maintained that she would cooperate in the ED probe. The officials cited above said the central agency has already quizzed Chakraborty, her brother Showik, father Indrajit Chakraborty, Rajput’s business managers, chartered accountants, house helps, his friend and flat mate Siddharth Pithani as part of its probe and recorded their statements under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). A few friends of Rajput, who were also his business partners, have also been summoned by the agency for questioning next week, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-quizzes-sushant-singh-rajput-s-father-on-finances/story-9L8vLGy0rNOvjWU5A7r4VN.html
19-08-2020||India||1 dead, 120 houses cave in due to heavy rain in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar||One person has died, around 120 houses caved in and close to 200 villages were cut off from the district headquarters due to incessant rains for last four days in south Bastar’s Bijapur and Sukma, officials said. District administrations are on high alert and more than 1, 500 people were shifted to relief camps and other safer places due to inundation of villages. As per officials, Sukma recorded 916 mm rainfall against normal 781 mm while Bijapur recorded 1, 647 mm against normal 942 mm since June. According to officials, around 70 people were evacuated from flood-affected areas in Bijapur on Monday. District collector Ritesh Agarwal said around 120 houses have been destroyed till now due to incessant rain. He added that one person died in the district and around 1000 people were shifted to relief camps. Sukma Collector Chandan Kumar said: “ We are on alert and people are being evacuated. The administration is also assessing the loss of the villagers as per the directions. The worst affected is Konta area where a relief camp has been established.” Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had on Monday asked the district officials to assess the damage caused due to rains and provide immediate assistance.On Tuesday , two cabinet ministers –excise minister, Kawasi Lakhma and minister for disaster management, Jaisingh Agarwal visited flood affected districts and took the stock of the situation. “The water level in Shabri, Indravati and its tributaries are continuously increasing due to continuous rain due to which villages are suffering from flood. Relief measures and people evacuation of villagers is continuously going on,” said Lakhma. Several villages in interior areas of Bijapur and Sukma have been cut off from the district headquarters due to the swelling rivers and rivulets and administration has started rehabilitation. “Nearly 318 security personnel, deployed for anti-Naxal operations, have been shifted from their camps to other locations after flooding,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-120-houses-cave-in-due-to-heavy-rain-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar/story-pFwANNuocZM5H3YXSxAT9K.html
19-08-2020||India||Mumbai police receive forensic audit report of Sushant Singh Rajput’s bank accounts||The Mumbai police on Tuesday received the forensic audit report of late Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput’s bank accounts, a top official said.While carrying out investigation into Rajput’s bank accounts after his death in June, the police had decided to get them forensically audited.Accordingly, Grant Thornton, an accounting and advisory firm, was appointed the forensic auditor in the case.The police on Tuesday received the report from the auditor, the top police officer confirmed.Also read| Sushant Rajput death: Supreme Court verdict on Rhea’s plea todayRajputs bank transactions of the last five years were analysed by the firm, he said.The report suggests that there was no financial transaction from Rajputs accounts to those of his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, the official said.Rajput (34) was financially well-off and took good care of his staff too, he said.The police will share necessary documents with the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is looking into suspected money laundering aspect in the death case, the official said.Also read| Rhea Chakraborty’s financial transactions clear, nothing incriminating: LawyerOn July 25, K K Singh, the father of Rajput, had submitted a complaint to the Patna police against Chakraborty, her family members and a few others, alleging they abetted his son’s suicide.Based on the complaint, the Patna police had filed an FIR against Chakraborty and others.In the complaint, Singh had also claimed that an amount of Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from his son’s bank account.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-receive-forensic-audit-report-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-bank-accounts/story-fMmop9aiiGwWopd5jH9wdM.html
19-08-2020||India||Supreme Court turns down PM Cares transfer to disaster fund||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to order the transfer of money collected by the PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund, rejecting a plea by NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation that sought this. The court’s verdict was welcomed by the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party and criticised by the Congress, which has repeatedly raised the same issues the petition did: that the fund isn’t transparent, and that there was no need for a PM Cares fund when NDRF already exists. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan held that the establishment of PM Cares Fund was necessitated by the emergent situation borne out of Covid-19 and requirement of financial resources to deal with the pandemic, and that the court cannot object to the same. “It is not open for the petitioner to question the wisdom to create PM Cares fund which was constituted with an objective to extend assistance in the wake of a public health emergency. At this hour no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust, namely, PM Cares Fund ,” the bench which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah ruled.The apex court said that the PM Cares Fund set up by the Central government in March in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic is a public charitable trust and a voluntary fund to which any individual or institution can make contributions, and since it does not receive budgetary support, it cannot be equated with a statutory fund like NDRF.“The contribution by any person or by any institution in PM Cares Fund is voluntary . The funds collected in the PM Cares Fund are funds of a public charitable trust and there is no occasion for issuing any direction to transfer the said funds to the NDRF,” the bench said. In a press briefing after the verdict, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “Transparency is writ large in PM-Cares Fund, both in terms of legal requirement and transparent management of funds received on a voluntary basis.” He added that the fund has been targeted in court unnecessarily. The Congress described the verdict as a bodyblow to transparency. The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that the court has “passed up an opportunity to demand answers” about a fund that plays by “its own opaque and murky rules.” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has repeatedly spoken about the issues with the fund and both Prasad and BJP President JP Nadda targeted him in their responses. Nadda said the verdict was a blow to Gandhi’s “nefarious design.” Prasad said the fund was transparent, unlike the ‘Rajiv Gandhi Foundation” . The court said that existence of PM Cares Fund does not prohibit contributions to be made to NDRF and it is up to the concerned person or institution to decide whether to make a contribution to NDRF or PM Cares. The top court also made it clear that since PM Cares is a voluntary fund which does not receive government support, there is no occasion for PM Cares to be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) unlike NDRF, which is a statutory fund, for which the law (DM Act) specifically provides for an audit. Further, the court also turned down a prayer seeking formulation of a national plan to specifically combat Covid-19 stating that the existing plan formulated in November 2019 under the DM Act is sufficient to deal with the pandemic.The petitioner, CPIL, claimed that PM Cares Fund was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM (Disaster Management) Act as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF. “Unfortunate that the SC allows the non-transparent and unaccountable PM Cares Fund set up as a secret trust to garner money in the name of Covid relief, rather than transferring such funds to the Statutory NDRF which is accessible under RTI and audited by CAG,” CPIL lawyer, advocate Prashant Bhushan tweeted after the verdict was pronounced. “Now that the Supreme Court has adjudicated on the matter, we hope that the attack on the PM Cares Fund ends conclusively,” BJP spokesperson and Supreme Court advocate, Nalin Kohli said. Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who represented the petitioner, expressed his “deep disappointment” over the verdict but declined to comment further. The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic. It is not clear how much money it has raised. Prasad said around ₹3100 crore has been spent, though — “Rs 2000 crore towards ventilators, ₹1000 crore towards migrants, and ₹100 crore towards vaccine development.” “Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM Cares Fund. All the contributions being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM Cares Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act,” the petitioner had submitted in its petition. In its affidavit before the top court in July 8, the Centre had rebutted this argument by stating that PM Cares is a fund established to carry out relief work and several such funds have been established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations,” the affidavit said.This argument found acceptance in the judgment of the apex court . “It is neither for petitioner to claim that any financial assistance be made from particular fund nor this Court to sit in judgment over the financial decisions of the Central Government,” the Supreme Court held. During the hearing before the apex court, the government, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had defended the PM Cares fund saying that it was not intended to circumvent the NDRF. “Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations,” Mehta argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-turns-down-pm-cares-transfer-to-disaster-fund/story-rhy0g7ETZatHHJxvfJUAPN.html
19-08-2020||India||Curbs at rallies, booths likely in first Covid-19 polls||To hold the first set of elections in India in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic — particularly the Bihar assembly polls — the Election Commission of India (ECI) is finalising guidelines with restrictions on public presence at campaign rallies, in door-to-door political outreach, in polling booths, and inside counting halls, to ensure strict social distancing, four officials familiar with the decision-making process told HT. The contours of ECI’s new plan for elections in the “new normal” are being adopted even as political parties have offered varied suggestions to the constitutional body, from deferring polls altogether to holding them in one phase, from reverting to ballot papers to allowing physical (and not just virtual) rallies, and from increasing the limits on poll expenditure by candidates to exempting those expenses incurred while enhancing Covid-19 precautions. State election officials, too, have passed on their inputs to ECI. While elections have taken place in other countries since the pandemic, including in Sri Lanka recently, elections in India have only been confined to polls to the Rajya Sabha and legislative council seats, which involve a limited set of voters. Experts believe that the election paradigm adopted for Bihar will have significant implications for political contests, and have a medium-term impact since other state elections are due in the middle of 2020. ECI, which reviewed suggestions received from political parties on Friday for conducting elections to the 243-member Bihar assembly (its term ends in November) and subsequently held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss a wide-ranging organisational framework, is likely to issue the guidelines over the next three days. Elections to the Samastipur parliamentary constituency and 56 assembly constituencies (across eight states) elsewhere are also scheduled to be held from September, officials familiar with the matter said.“The guidelines will broadly centre around three primary subjects — polling stations, counting halls and public meetings,” said an ECI official who did not wish to be named. “For example, in the counting hall we used to have 14 tables, now we have slashed the number to seven.”Physical ralliesA key area of concern for political parties is rallies, which have traditionally served as a key political tool for mobilising voters and communicating messages by leaders. With the pandemic and the push towards digital campaigning, parties have expressed concern that the direct interface with voters, especially those who lack digital access, will get affected if physical rallies are not allowed.Also read| Covid-19 patients, elderly can vote in elections via postal ballot: All you need to knowThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is part of the ruling dispensation in Bihar, has asked the poll panel to allow physical meetings and rallies in rural and semi-urban areas since voters may not have access to mobile devices and the internet, people familiar with the matter said. In its submission to ECI, the party has said that all party workers, campaigners and leaders must have the Aarogya Setu app downloaded on their phones at all times, and adequate social distancing has to be maintained during roadshows and processions. In case, physical rallies are permitted, the party has suggested having enclosures with limited seating, separate exit and entry points, and use of sanitisers and thermal scanners at all points of entry and exit. Other parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and a BJP ally, the Lok Janashakti Party (LJP), too have said that till physical rallies are allowed, elections must not take place. Arguing that digital campaigning and virtual rallies allow the ruling party an upper hand because these cost more money, the Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have also demanded public meetings. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to the first ECI official quoted above, public meetings may be allowed but strictly monitored. “If a ground has been designated for a public meeting, then the administration will have to ensure that only the number of people who can be admitted keeping social distancing in mind are permitted inside. Circles to mark the appropriate distance should be drawn. The number of riders that can accompany the leader will also be limited.” On the same issue, a second official said, “We are not saying that parties cannot have physical rallies. They will just have to follow all social distancing norms or the rally will be shut down.”Door-to-door campaignThe Congress has also sought permission for house-to-house campaigns, people aware of the details said. In its submission to ECI, the party said, “We are in favour of an election based on face-to-face campaign where the candidate and party workers can meet the voters.”A third EC official said that suggestions such as limiting door-to-door campaigning to a maximum of five people have also been made. “All those doing door-to-door campaigning must give their phone numbers so that if any one tests Covid-19 positive, effective contact tracing can be done,” he said, adding that special arrangements would also have to be made for those living in containment zones.The commission is also considering allowing online submission of nomination forms by candidates to make the process easier, said the first ECI official.Poll expensesAnother area of concern for parties is poll expenses. The BJP has suggested that the limit on expenditure should be increased for the candidates, or alternatively all expenditure which is borne on purchasing equipment to safeguard against Covid-19 be exempted from being charged to the candidates account. There have been other suggestions on how there should be new limits on social media expenditure of parties given the increased reliance on digital medium due to the pandemic. But, as of now, the poll body is not considering imposing additional financial limits on the amount spent by political parties on online campaigning, officials said. “Social media campaigning was always allowed, even before the pandemic. Expenditure limits that exist will apply,” the first official quoted above said. Political parties do not have a limit on the expenditure, but a candidate is allowed to spend a maximum of ₹28 lakh, including all election costs.The commission has already issued directions that the number of electors per polling booth will be limited to a maximum 1,000 compared with 1,600 earlier. A number of auxillary polling stations will be created to accommodate the voters. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on June 27 told HT that 36,000 polling stations will be created in Bihar. Other suggestionsThe Congress, the RJD and All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen have also demanded that the commission should revert to using the ballot paper so that voters are not susceptible to the infection while pressing the buttons on the electronic voting machines (EVMs). This demand, officials indicated, is unlikely to be met. The BJP has also sought changes to the model code of conduct to bring into its ambit new methods of campaigning in an election. “The commission should issue a direction that no person in jail custody either due to conviction for commission of any offence or being an under trial prisoners be permitted to participate in the poll campaign in virtual mode,” the party said in a submission to ECI. This is widely seen as a move to ensure that RJD leader Lalu Prasad, currently serving a sentence after being convicted, cannot campaign virtually. There is also an emerging view that bypolls in some states should be postponed even further. HT, on August 14, had reported that the chief secretaries of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, and the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Kerala, had written to the commission, citing rising Covid-19 cases and heavy rains, to consider deferring the by-polls.“In case of a state like Kerala, where assembly elections are due in April next year, it has been suggested that it does not make sense to hold bypolls,” said a fourth ECI official. The EC on June 17 had decided not to notify the law ministry’s amendment to the Representation of People Act, 1951, that would have allowed those over the age of 65 to use postal ballots. Five key opposition parties, however, had then written to CEC Arora to reconsider the move.Former CEC SY Quraishi said the framework of the ECI seems very ‘sensible’. “These are all good suggestions considering the Covid-19 pandemic,” Quraishi told Hindustan Times. “The EC has been assessing the situation on the ground and has been consistently monitoring how elections have been conducted in other countries as well.”Quraishi added that while deferring by polls is easy, postponement of the Bihar elections would lead to a constitutional crisis. “One or two by polls deferred doesn’t make much of a difference to the functioning of the assembly. However, if assembly elections are deferred, President’s rule will have to be imposed. That can only be done under two circumstances which constitute an emergency — external aggression and internal rebellion.” Quraishi also said that the EC should consider capping expenditure by political parties on campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-at-rallies-booths-likely-in-first-covid-polls/story-N4Vk2KuqqDqKgpClnS87ZN.html
19-08-2020||India||Cancer cases could increase by 12% in next 5 years: ICMR||India’s cancer cases could increase by 12% in the next five years, with 1.5 million people projected to suffer from the non-communicable disease by 2025, up from 1.39 million in 2020, according to data based on current trends from the cancer report by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The report also found that in 2020, tobacco-related cancers are estimated to contribute to 27.1% of the total cancer burden, and the highest of this will be in the North-eastern region of the country. Cancers of the gastrointestinal tract and breast are projected to be the next most prevalent.Among men, cancers of the lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus were the most common. For women, breast and cervix uteri cancers were the most common.Also read| Five common cancers could get detected up to 4 years before conventional diagnosis: StudyThe National Cancer Registry Programme Report 2020 was released on Tuesday by ICMR and National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), Bengaluru.The report provides trends and information related to cancer incidence, mortality and treatment in India in 2020, based on data collected through a network of population and hospital-based cancer registries across the country. There are 28 Population Based Cancer Registries and 58 Hospital Based Cancer Registries that ICMR is running to generate cancer data.The cancer incidence (new cases) in men is estimated to be 679,421 in 2020 and 763,575 in 2025. Among women, it is estimated to be 712,758 in 2020 and 806,218 in 2025.Also read: Here’s how MRI scanning may also pick out aggressive cancersBreast cancer in women is estimated to contribute 200,000 (14.8%) and cervix cancer cases about 75,000 (5.4%), whereas for both men and women, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract is estimated to contribute 270,000 (19.7%) of the total cancer burden.Cancers of lung were diagnosed at a stage of spread to distant sites, while cancers of head and neck, stomach, breast and cervix were in higher proportions with loco-regional spread, finds the report.A combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy continues to remain the main stay of cancer treatment in the country. All three forms are usually tried in cancers of breast and head and neck, while cancer of cervix was treated mainly with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. For cancers of the lung and the stomach, systemic therapy was the mode of treatment.Also read: Breastfeeding lowers risk of ovarian cancer. Here’s how“Cancer treatment has seen significant improvement over the years and now we have targeted therapies or what you call precision medicine available that has lead to improved treatment outcomes. Also, the numbers may be growing but what works as a silver lining is that more patients are coming at early stages because of which cure rate is also improving. Now we have sophisticated tests that give accurate results. In stage 4 lung cancer, for example, 5-year survival was unheard of earlier but now many do make it,” says Dr PK Julka, former head, radiation oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-cases-could-increase-by-12-in-next-5-years-icmr/story-zj9S8ZD4f16bK2ZsxiuahL.html
19-08-2020||India||Bengaluru violence: Amid slugfest, 2 Congress corporators summoned||Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued to exchange barbs over riots that took place in the city last week, even as the police continued their investigation. Three people had died in riots that happened in DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits on August 11 and August 12, following a social media post by the nephew of a Congress legislator.Leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramiah in a series of tweets slammed the government and the ruling party saying that while Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political arm of the Kerala-based radical Muslim outfit Popular Front of India (PFI), Congress, and others were being accused by BJP leaders, it was an effort to mislead and change the course of direction of the investigation. “Their aim seems to somehow make this look like a communal incident and take political advantage even as efforts are on to blame Congress for the same,” the former CM tweeted.Demanding that any investigation must start from failure of intelligence in the police department, he questioned why there was inordinate delay in registering a case against the key accused Naveen by the police. Siddaramiah said that if SDPI or its leaders had done any wrong they should be punished, he said that BJP was using SDPI as a pawn for political reasons and to divide Muslim votes.Responding to Siddaramiah’s barb, large and medium scale industries minister Jagadish Shettar said, “We have to make adequate preparations before taking a decision. All angles are being checked including involvement of SDPI in it.”Deputy CM Lakshman Savadi speaking to reporters in Belgavi said that Congress workers were involved in the Bengaluru violence. “There has been a demand for a ban on SDPI and PFI. We will take a suitable decision after examining all evidence,” Savadi too asserted.The team investigating the riots summoned two Congress corporators Sampat Raj and Abdul Zakir on Tuesday to enquire into their role. Raj , personal assisstant, who is also a former Mayor of the city was detained for further questioning. The probe team has till now detained about 370 people for the riots and nearly 65 FIR’s have been filed in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations.The state government on Monday had decided to approach the Karnataka High Court to appoint a claims commissioner to recover the cost of damages from the rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b-luru-violence-amid-slugfest-2-congress-corporators-summoned/story-Z02J1xMcuHUUKBqWLbBm6N.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Supreme Court verdict today on Rhea Chakraborty’s transfer plea||The Supreme Court will pronounce on Wednesday its verdict on a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty who seeks the transfer of a first information report (FIR) lodged against her by the father of her former boyfriend and late actor Sushant Singh Rajput from Patna to Mumbai. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the investigation of this case from Bihar Police on August 5 and is now pursuing the charge of abetment of the late actor’s suicide against Rhea and her family members. Sushant’s father KK Singh in his complaint mentioned about Rs 15 crore transaction from his son’s accounts and suspected Rhea of blackmailing his son and seizing control of his bank documents and credit cards. A single judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy will deliver the verdict at 11 am. The judgment was reserved on August 11 after the Court heard the lawyers appearing for Rhea, Sushant’s father, Bihar government, Maharashtra government and CBI. The keenly awaited verdict will decide whether the FIR being investigated by CBI against Rhea, her parents, brother, and two associates can continue or the same should be transferred to Mumbai Police. Rhea stated in her petition that Bihar Police could not have registered the FIR on July 25 against her and her family as the incident (of Sushant’s death) took place in Mumbai. The 34-year old actor’s body was found lying in his Bandra flat on June 14.Also read: Mumbai police receive forensic audit report of Sushant Singh Rajput’s bank accounts The Bihar Police and KK Singh’s lawyer claimed that the late actor, being unmarried, his father will stand to acquire his finances being the legal heir and hence the consequences of his death will affect his father, whose place of residence is Patna. This will give Bihar Police the jurisdiction to lodge and investigate the offence. The CBI maintained that the only FIR in relation to late actor’s death is the one being probed by it as the Mumbai Police is only inquiring into the cause of his death based on an accidental death report. For its part, the Mumbai Police has submitted its entire investigation records to the Court in a sealed cover. The state even alleged politics behind the lodging of FIR at Patna claiming that a news report suggested chief minister Nitish Kumar to have pressurized the police to register the case. Also read: Rhea Chakraborty’s financial transactions clear, nothing incriminating, says her lawyerAmid the legal tangle involved in this case, heightened media attention and sensationalizing of the case has been another ground for Rhea to demand transfer of the case to Mumbai. In her last submission to the Court, Rhea said that the Court could use its extraordinary powers under Article 142 to order a CBI probe but allowing the same based on transfer of the case from Patna to Mumbai will be “without jurisdiction and contrary to law”. Incidentally, soon after Sushant’s death, Rhea tweeted demanding CBI probe and tagged Union Home Minister Amit Shah on her tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-today-on-rhea-s-transfer-plea/story-tRBQGtnTN4MPoePKMNiD4L.html
19-08-2020||India||A rush to save remains of an Egyptian woman from rainwater in Jaipur||: As heavy rain washed away low-lying shanties and submerged cars in Jaipur last Friday, the staff at the historic Albert Hall museum was busy in a different rescue operation. As water started filling the museum, housekeeping officials and guards hopped the stairs to the museum’s basement to get to a 2,400-year-old Egyptian mummy encased in a glass chamber.Standing in waist-deep water and using the lights from mobile phones and torches, the staff broke the glass and carried the mummy to a drier area of the museum. “The ancient mummy is our most delicate antique and since a display in 2016, it has been extremely popular with local and international visitors,” said Rakesh Cholak, the museum superintendent.“With timely intervention, we saved it from the slush and water that badly affected almost 17,000 artefacts in our store and display areas,” he said.Jaipur received 132mm of rainfall on Friday. The rainwater, which inundated streets, entered the museum’s windows and corridors starting from its Moti Dungari Road side, and submerged several historical items such as Japanese pottery, ancient statues, Buddhist paintings, photographs, brassware, arms and armour, and wooden art, among others.According to officials of Albert Hall museum, the mummy , Tutu, a female member of a priest’s family, dates back to Egypt’s Ptolemaic era (322 BC to 30 BC). It was found in the Akhmin area of the ancient city of Panopolis in Egypt more than 300 years ago. This mummy, one of only six in India, was gifted by the Museum of Cairo for an exhibition in Jaipur organised by then king of Jaipur state Sawai Ishwar Singh in 1887. In 2011, three experts from Egyptian Ministry of Culture came to conserve the mummy and concluded that the mummy’s skeleton was in very good condition after conducting sterilisation all the items to wipe out microbes.“The mummy is invaluable,” said Cholak. While the mummy was saved, the rainwater left its mark on the coffin, and accompanying paraphernalia of about 200 items, such as Pharaonic idols and lockets, the superintendent said.Besides artefacts, thousands of documents and files were drenched, and have been strewn around the floors of the museum for drying, officials said. “We have put up huge fans and halogen lights and kept the documents out for drying,” said Cholak, adding that the exact assessment of the damage and restoration may take months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-rush-to-save-remains-of-an-egyptian-woman-from-rainwater-in-jaipur/story-xYCI9gldt0hRYiasw0bVTM.html
19-08-2020||India||NCAP programme: Covid-19 pandemic disrupts clean air action plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Independence Day that a clean air programme will be implemented on mission mode in 100 cities soon.But the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) has advanced little since last year, when it was launched.City level action plans of around 102 cities had been approved by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to meet the NCAP target of 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 annual concentration.This year, CPCB has been directing state governments in writing about implementing the action plans immediately. For example, CPCB issued a direction to West Bengal government on June 26 under section 31A of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1981 (power to issue directions to any authority) to implement the city action plan and submit a financial layout of each action within 30 days and a progress report on a quarterly basis to CPCB.With the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown and financial slowdown, NCAP is staring at an uphill task of ensuring that various sectors like industry, thermal power plants and transportation manage to reduce emissions by switching to cleaner processes and fuels.“We have already directed the state governments to implement the action plans. Timelines have been given to them and we have sought regular review. The 2024 deadline to achieve the NCAP target remains,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB.Clean air efforts in million-plus cities got a shot in the arm with an allocation of Rs 4,400 crore for 2020-21 (union budget), up from Rs 460 crore for air pollution abatement last year.Apart from giving a financial boost to large cities implementing the national clean air programme, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said state utilities will be advised to close down old thermal power plants that do not meet the emission standards.“The pollution levels in Delhi in the past 2 to 3 years have been coming down. Clean air is very high up on our agenda it also does not mean that clean air can be achieved by stifling development. A part of it has already been rolled out and the rest of it will be rolled out soon. There is a huge commitment in terms of funds to achieve targets,” said RP Gupta, secretary, ministry of environment.Experts said ministry should have clear indicators of whether they are on track to achieve NCAP targets otherwise we could be left with dirtier air as industries look to bounce back from the economic impacts of covid 19.Some of the important measures that are to be taken by the Centre under NCAP include setting up a web-based system for monitoring of compliance with NCAP targets; a comprehensive regional plan to be formulated by incorporating inputs from regional source apportionment studies, such as a regional plan for the Indo-Gangetic plain region; compliance by all thermal power plants with to the emission norms by December 2022 and as per the action plan prescribed in the direction of December 2017, issued under the EPA, 1986; switch over to gaseous fuels in industries, including small and medium enterprises by December 2022; enforcement of new and stringent sulphur dioxide (SO2)/ oxides of nitrogen (NOx) / PM2.5 standards for industries using solid fuels by 2020; strict enforcement of standards in all industries; mandatory waste segregation at source and state level air pollution action plan, among others.“The NCAP targets have to be met by 2024. It has to be taken very seriously. Covid-19 has in fact helped in achieving the target. The 15th Finance Commission has announced Rs 4,400 crores which is mainly meant for state pollution control boards and urban local bodies. We need performance-based indicators for multiple sectors like transport, industry etc. For example, the industry sector will need strategies to scale up clean energy transition and high-level emission control systems. We need a policy for that. I don’t think it can be addressed only through city action plans,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.“Most sectors will deal with economic reconstruction now. So there should be alignment of sectoral budget with the NCAP goals. The government will also need a compliance and deterrence policy to ensure targets are met otherwise we will face a larger pollution problem in future,” added RoyChowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncap-programme-pandemic-disrupts-clean-air-action-plans/story-B4UBMEPHELBMBXIMFaae0M.html
19-08-2020||India||Top navy officials set for 3-day conference amid border row with China||India’s top naval commanders will discuss important operational issues during a three-day conference in New Delhi from August 19 to 21, amid the ongoing border tensions with China in the Ladakh sector, a navy official said on Tuesday. The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) where scores of warships are ready in the aftermath of the border row that triggered a brutal brawl in the Galvan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese dead on June 15.The navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the IOR, which, it believes, China will inevitably try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 29. The commanders’ conference, to be chaired by navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh, assumes greater significance against the backdrop of recent events along India’s northern borders as well as the unprecedented challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, a navy spokesperson said. “It would provide the higher naval leadership a forum to discuss conduct of operations, sustenance and maintenance of assets, procurement, infrastructure development and human resource management issues within the ambit of the new normal established by the pandemic,” the spokesperson said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address the navy brass on the opening day of the conference. “A commanders’ conference is important at any time, but this one might especially look at various matters that the navy’s commanders would carefully consider in the backdrop of China’s growing belligerent attitude,” said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd). The commanders will also discuss ways to optimise joint planning, tri-service synergy, operational readiness and functional reorganisation within the navy to enhance efficiency, the spokesperson said. The deliberations will also cover larger security imperatives in the Indo-Pacific region, he said. The navy has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points in the IOR under its mission-based deployment model and the vessels can be diverted for any mission. Indian warships have been deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-navy-officials-set-for-3-day-conference/story-vzWE9hejYeqjy1g6R72a8O.html
19-08-2020||India||20 million rural houses got tap water in 2019; total at 51 million||Nearly 51 million rural households have now got tap-water connections, of which 20 million were added in the past year. It’s a leap over previous years. But the Jal Jeevan mission to provide every rural household with water supply, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in his 2019 Independence speech, needs to expand at a quicker rate to meet its 2024 deadline, an HT analysis based on government data shows.Over 120 million households lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to UN-Water.Contaminated water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy of Puduchery’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College.India has 189 million rural households, according to the official data. Till August 16, cumulatively over a four-year period, 51 million households, or 27% of the total, were provided with tap water connection under the joint Centre-state Jal Jeevan mission, data analysed by HT shows.This also means authorities must provide water connection to another 138 million households, or 73% remaining, by 2024. Piped drinking water to rural households is one of the critical components for achieving universal access to safe drinking water in the country.In 2018, just 18.2% of rural households had piped water supply. By 2019, this translated to an improvement of 9 percentage points. But the federally set deadline of 2024 – by which all households must be connected – means the current rate of expansion will need to go up to meet the completion date.The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission. According to him, his ministry and states utilised the Covid-19 lockdown period to hold video-conferences to prepare for state plans for this year and year ahead. “Lockdown was an opportunity,” Shekhawat said.A 2018 Comptroller and Auditor General performance audit said the programme was meant to provide at least 35% of rural households with piped water supply by 2017, and 80% households by 2020.Water is a state subject but the Union government provides a major share of funding. The Jal Jeevan rural households programme is worth Rs 3.5 lakh crore. Of this, the Centre’s share is about Rs 2.2 lakh crore.The Union budget had allotted Rs 10001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, Rs 11500 crore was provided.The Jal Jeevan mission in its earlier avatar was the National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP) under the Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance-II (UPA-II) government.“There has been a huge gap between the government’s stated objectives and actual delivery in the rural drinking water scheme,” said Himanshu Thakkar of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People.Till 2018-19, expenditure as a proportion of funds available under the rural drinking water programme had been steadily decreasing, according to Accountability Initiative, a think-tank tracking government policies.In FY 2014-15, 84% of available funds were spent. This fell to 72% in FY 2017-18. In FY 2018-19, only 65% of the total funds available for NRDWM were spent. In 2014-15, 0.6% of total government funding was allocated to the rural piped drinking water project, which dropped to 0.2% in 2018-19. Funding got an 80% boost in the next year when the National Democratic Alliance government took it up as a mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20mn-rural-houses-got-tap-water-in-2019-total-at-51mn/story-7lSTBoOwq4WcCCwOGTWjtL.html
19-08-2020||India||Treating diabetes: Integrated care helps improve patients’ mental health, finds study||Providing simple, low-cost tech-enabled care to people with diabetes for one year halved symptoms of depression and boosted heart health by lowering blood pressure and bad cholesterol, and improving blood glucose control, according to a first-of-its-kind study. Improvements in the cardio-metabolic parameters, however, waned once integrated care was stopped after a year, which suggests the need for continued support for blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol levels, said the study, which was published on Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA). The Integrating Depression and Diabetes Treatment (Independent) study compared integrated care with standard care in 404 diabetes patients in Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, and Visakhapatnam with moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms over a two-year period and found major improvements in the group receiving the integrated approach. The improvements were most pronounced in patients with the worst parameters at the start of the study.Also read| Covid-19 may be the cause behind rise in childhood type 1 diabetes: StudyAround one in five people (19.7%) with diabetes have depression in India, compared to 15.1% people in the general population. “There is a bidirectional relationship between depression and diabetes, as chronic diseases like diabetes can lead to depression, and vice versa. Depression can cause stress-induced diabetes and also impact a person’s ability to manage self-care, leading to complications,” said principal investigator of the project from India, Dr Viswanathan Mohan, chairman, Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialties Centre and director, Madras Diabetes Research Foundation. Since there are not enough psychiatrists in India to treat everyone with depression symptoms, which range from feeling low, tiredness and in suicidal ideation, the study used care coordinators to screen people with diabetes for signs of depression. Also read: Covid-19 fears forcing many to give vital treatments a miss“Diabetes educators, dietitians, health workers or any graduate can be trained as non-physician care coordinators to screen for depression, and provide counselling for mild cases and refer people with suicidal ideation to psychiatrists for remote management. With the help of decision-support software, care coordinators helped lower symptoms of depression and several metabolic parameters, such as blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol profiles of patients and lowered risk of complications such as heart disease, eye disease (retinopathy), kidney failure and amputations,” said Dr Mohan.The low-cost model is accessible and scalable and can be applied in underresourced settings everywhere in the world, he said. “The CARRS (Center for Cardio-metabolic Risk Reduction in South Asia) study on diabetes management showed in 2018 that low-cost software used by a non-physician care coordinators can optimise treatment and lower complications in diabetes improving blood glucose-control and lower blood pressure and ‘bad’ LDL cholesterol at no added cost. We added depression to the mix and found it improved outcomes under supervision,” said co-investigator Dr Nikhil Tandon, professor of endocrinology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. In India, close to 70 million people have diabetes and another 40 million are insulin-resistant, which is a precursor to diabetes. More than four in five diabetics on medication in India do not have their blood glucose under control, according to Dr Mohan’s DiabCare India study 2011. Neuropathy was the most common complication (41.4%); other complications were: Foot (32.7%), eye (19.7%), cardiovascular (6.8%) ,and nephropathy (6.2%), with the number of diabetic complications increasing with mean duration of disease. “Too often, mental health is overlooked due to fragmented care, stigma of psychiatric illnesses, and shortages of mental health professions,” said first author Dr Mohammed Ali, associate professor of Global Health and Epidemiology at Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treating-diabetes-integrated-care-helps-improve-patients-mental-health-finds-study/story-rzRJXkeBCopRG4JxJbhFrM.html
19-08-2020||India||BJP, Congress lock horns over Supreme Court judgment on PM Cares||Bolstered by a Supreme Court decision that money collected by the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares) fund need not be transferred to the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday launched a fresh broadside against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of trying to weaken the fight against Covid-19.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan held on Tuesday that the establishment of the PM Cares Fund in March had been necessitated by Covid-19 and the requirement of financial resources to deal with the pandemic, and that the court cannot object to it.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters, said the PM Cares Fund was a registered public fund headed by the prime minister and it has been created to tackle Covid-like emergencies. Attacking the Congress, Prasad alluded to allegations that when Manmohan Singh was prime minister, money was given to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, which is a family foundation. “The foundation has also got support from China. The RGF even recommended that Indian markets be opened for Chinese products,” he added.“We have completed six years today and are in the seventh year. We work honestly and no one has been able to cast any aspersion that is backed by facts. Some people merely keep saying things, that is another matter. The Modi government works honestly and this reflects in the PM Cares Fund,” said Prasad.He alleged that Rahul Gandhi had tried to weaken the country’s unity in the face of the Covid-19 crisis. When the nation saluted those at the front-lines of the fight against the coronavirus disease, Gandhi mocked them, Prasaid claimed. When the lockdown was imposed, he questioned it.“I regret to say in view of the conduct of Rahul Gandhi right from day one he never spared any opportunity to weaken the national resolve in the fight against corona,” Prasad said.He said the PM Cares Fund was a transparent fund, out of which Rs 2,000 crore had been sanctioned for procuring ventilators alone. As many as 50,000 ventilators were provided to take care of the emergency needs of patients, the highest since Independence. Around Rs 1,000 crore was given to states for the welfare of migrant workers and Rs 100 crore for vaccine development, the minister said.Responding to a question, Prasad said there would be an audit of the PM Cares Fund. Every detail is on the website and the country will be informed of each detail, he said.BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda also hailed the Supreme Court verdict.“The verdict by Supreme Court on PM Cares is a resounding blow to the nefarious designs of Rahul Gandhi & his band of ‘rent a cause’ activists. It shows that the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates,” Nadda said on Twitter.He wrote in another tweet: “Rahul Gandhi’s rants have been repeatedly dismissed by the common man who has overwhelmingly contributed to PM Cares. With the highest court also pronouncing its verdict, will Rahul & his ‘rent a cause’ activist army mend their ways or embarrass themselves further?” The Congress expressed disappointment over the verdict. Its chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the Supreme Court let go an opportunity to bring transparency to the fund. “The judgment is a body blow to transparency and accountability of government to people. It marks a sad letter day for responsibility and answerability of rulers to the electorate and remind them that they are not ‘Monarchs’ but ‘servants of the people’,” he tweeted. “SC scrupulously believed that ‘sunlight is the best disinfectant’. Today, the court, in a departure from that tradition, passed up an opportunity to demand answers on the PM Cares Fund that seeks public money but plays by its own opaque & murky rules,” Surjewala wrote in another tweet. At a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the ruling was a jolt to all the people who were seeking transparency. “This is not Narendra Modi’s money. This is not Narendra Modi’s individual fund; this is the Prime Minister’s fund, meant for the people, who demand transparency. The people want to know -- where did you get the money from, where have you spent it?” he said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had on Monday tweeted “PM CARES for Right To Improbity,” tagging a news report which alleged that the Prime Minister’s Office had denied an RTI application seeking information on the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-lock-horns-over-sc-judgment-on-pm-cares/story-vjW4r0ivmkVgCS5du52ohM.html
19-08-2020||India||Record 899k Covid-19 tests done on Monday: Health ministry||India tested 899,000 swab samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, a record for a single day, as it attempts to ramp up its testing capacity to 1 million daily by the end of August, according to official date released on Tuesday. India has conducted 3,09,41,264 Covid-19 tests till date since the first swab sample was tested on January 23. There has been a three-fold increase in Covid-19 tests conducted since a month ago, when 10 million samples had been tested. “A new peak of 8.99 lakh Covid-19 tests was done in the last 24 hours. Even with such a high level of testing, the positivity has remained low at 8.81% compared to the weekly national average of 8.84%,” said a statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW). Also read: New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19Aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of Covid-19 positive cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) is brought down through aggressive testing and efficient clinical treatment.A continuous increase in average daily recoveries has led to India’s recovery rate -- the patients who have a recovered as a proportion of those who tested positive -- touching 73.18%, and a case fatality rate of 1.92%, shows health ministry data. About 30 states have CFR, deaths from the disease as a proportion of the case tally, below the national average.“The current CFR, both in terms of daily or weekly average, has reduced to under 2%, but our aim is to bring down country’s CFR to 1% or below. If you look at last five days figures then the number of new cases as well deaths have seen a decline even though for a pandemic situation in a country as large as India past five days decline is not really that big a deal. However, it’s an encouraging trend,” said Union health secretary.Rajesh Bhushan. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage From 64,000 new cases reported on August 13, the number dropped to 55,000 on Monday; and as opposed to 1,007 deaths reported on August 13, the country recorded 876 deaths on Monday.The number of laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for diagnosing Covid-19 has also seen a steady increase, experts said.From a single laboratory, ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, on January 23, to 160 labs on March 23, India has consistently expanded its lab network. At present, the country has 1,476 approved laboratories, including 971 and 505 government and private facilities, respectively.“Each day laboratories are being added to the network of Covid-19 testing facilities from across India. Now, we are doing up to 800,000 Covid-19 tests in a day and it is a significant achievement in such a short span of time. Besides laboratories in ICMR’s network, Covid-19 tests are being done in other government and privately-run facilities that are showing good results,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.Also read: Flu season will be a test run for the US’s biggest-ever vaccine campaignThe key focus areas that will help further consolidate the gains in terms of curtailing a surge in Covid-19 cases are preventive measures such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing, adhering to hand hygiene and cough etiquette; strengthening the containment and surveillance strategy in terms of testing and contact tracing, and clinical management that would require timely access to ambulance services for transporting severely sick patients and increasing the number of hospital beds.“We have got reassuring trends in terms of recovery and mortality rate and testing numbers, and it seems like we have got hold over pandemic control but the need is to not get lax and make an effort towards consolidating gains,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. “There is still a large number of susceptible population in the country; therefore, the challenge to fight the disease effectively is still very much there,” he added. On post Covid-19 recovery complications, Paul said it wasn’t an alarming situation, and the medical fraternity was monitoring it closely.“It is a new virus and post Covid-19 complications such as respiratory distress, fibrosis and immunological symptoms in children, is a new dimension of the disease that is being seen. We are studying it; and it is an ongoing learning process. However, there’s no need to be dangerously alarmed at this stage,” Paul added.Many states such as West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha are making use of Covid-19 survivors as volunteers.“These volunteers are being used for generating community awareness about the disease; promote help-seeking behaviour so that treatment is sought in time and supply food and other essentials among patients in hospitals, and also help healthcare workers on ground,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-899k-tests-done-on-monday-health-ministry/story-9UNfc7H6PbSSUDbM5m1ilK.html
19-08-2020||India||Results of Covid-19 vaccines’ trial to take a few weeks, says VK Paul||India will have to wait a few weeks for the initial results of Phase I/II human trials being conducted on two indigenous vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the stage is set for more advanced trials on a third option, VK Paul, who chairs one of the national task forces on Covid-19 management,said on Tuesday.The two candidates that are in phase I/II human trials are drug maker Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Bharat Biotech received the central drugs controller’s approval to conduct human trials on June 29, and Zydus Cadila on July 2.“It will take a few weeks for the results of the 2 indigenous anti-Covid-19 vaccines that are currently in phase I/II human trials in India,” Paul, who is member (health) at Niti Aayog, the government’s policy think tank, said at a Covid-19 related health briefing on Tuesday.Also read: New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19“The antibody titer needs to be evaluated, and other reactions that are seen in this phase, which we will get to know in a couple of weeks. After that regulatory pathways will be decided and accordingly clearances sought from the regulatory body,” Paul said.Antibody titer is a test that measures the amount of antibodies within a person’s blood to assess the strength of the body’s immune response to a disease.The government is closely tracking the progress of the candidates being tested by Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila amid a global race against time to find a vaccine for the coronavirus disease, which has claimed in excess if 778,000 lives worldwide since it broke out in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.Also read: Flu season will be a test run for the US’s biggest-ever vaccine campaignPaul also said Serum Institute of India will begin the phase 3 human trials in a day or two in India on the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca. Pune-based Serum Institute has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the AZD1222 vaccine, which has until now been tested in the most number of people -- 1,077 -- among the close to 200 vaccine options being tested across the world.“Results for the one in Phase 3 trial will take longer as Phase 3 trial usually takes longer. It’s not appropriate to comment on a specific time line but it will be a few weeks longer than the phase I/II trials. Phase I/II could take 3-4 or even six weeks to show results. So just hold on, it will take time… it is about waiting and watching as it is a scientific process that takes its own time. Only after one stage is reached and crossed that we can talk about the next stage. As of today as things stand, we are on right track and let’s wait for those milestones to be met,” Paul added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Paul said that once the indigenous vaccines or for that matter any other vaccine reaches the stage of availability, the government will be ready with a procurement and distribution plan.“The plan will be based on how to make the vaccine accessible in terms of supply chain based on the vaccine’s characteristic -- whether it would require a single dose or multiple doses or would need cold chain to be maintained for storage among other things,” he said.The national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine met prominent domestic vaccine producers on Monday to help chalk out a plan. As reported by HT on Tuesday, the expert group asked the manufacturers to come up with a roadmap in the next three days on production capacity, pricing, and the kind of support they expect from the government.“We have requested them to provide more clear-cut data; information on their individual capacities and how these capacities will pan out with time. How they can ramp up these capacities from where they are today to where they could be. This is a dialogue in motion, and we will have updates from them in this process of dialogue. We can assure you India has huge capacity; in fact, we were pleasantly surprised to find out how much capacity we have within the country,” Paul said.Pricing of the vaccine will be a key factor. “We did request them to indicate what possible prices could be. Pricing perhaps being very complex because some of these vaccines are at an early stage; some insights into where the price range would be, but this information will be refined as we would move along. There is no firm information that we can share today but yes we are asking what kind of a price range we are looking at for the vaccine from individual vaccine manufacturers.”“A word of caution: please don’t assume any vaccines that is going for trial will be successful. We want it to succeed; we want these three and many others to succeed but it keep in mind that it is not always 100% success as we develop any vaccines. Keep your fingers crossed,” he said.Experts also say that a vaccine will be instrumental in preventing the spread of infection in the long run.“A vaccine will be needed to check the disease spread but we don’t know when an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU (King George’s Medical University), Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).Total Covid-19 deaths: 778,506Participants for Oxford vaccine Phase I/II trials: 1077________________________________________||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/results-of-vaccines-trial-to-take-a-few-weeks-paul/story-JSXGeKHtLhtkbIYlSRD6HK.html
19-08-2020||India||New immunity insights a boost against Covid-19||Does getting Covid-19 once give the patient immunity to the disease? If so, how long does it last? Is the immunity robust enough to fend off the pathogen even in a highly contagious space? And, does the level of protection vary depending on how strong or mild the infection was?At least four studies over the past few weeks have offered deeper insights into these crucial questions about how the body’s immune system responds to the Sars-Cov2 once it has been infected by and cleansed of it.The studies, to answer the questions above in order, indicate that -- yes, a person once infected may be immune to reinfection; this protection may last for at least 3-6 months; the immune system is likely remember the virus to offer protection in a highly infectious situation; and the level of protection may be strong even if the infection was mild.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThese answers are crucial because they will determine if vaccines will work to bring about a collective immunity that will stay long enough to return the world to the pre-pandemic period. Research suggests the pathogen behaves in a manner similar to other viruses, allowing the human body to identify it, fight it, and remember it, irrespective of the nature and intensity of the illness.The first indication of this was in a study published on July 24 by researchers from Wuhan, who followed the first of 349 people to be infected and develop symptoms in the central Chinese city where the virus was discovered. “Our data indicates sustained humoral immunity in recovered patients who suffer from symptomatic Covid-19, suggesting prolonged immunity... titers (antibody levels) stabilised at relatively high levels over the six months observation period,” said the researchers from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan. Also read: Flu season will be a test run for the US’s biggest-ever vaccine campaignThe second was submitted to the journal Cell on August 11 by researchers from Sweden, Denmark and the UK, who – in an analysis of samples from people in European hot spot areas – showed that people “exhibited robust memory T-cell responses months after infection, even in the absence of detectable circulating antibodies specific for Sars-CoV-2”. This, they added, indicated “a previously unanticipated degree of population-level immunity against Covid-19”.The third came on August 14, in a study by University of Washington and Seattle’s Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center. It found that having antibodies (they had likely recovered from a previous disease) protected three crewmembers while the virus infected 104 of 122 people on a fishing vessel over an 18-day voyage. “This suggests that neutralising antibodies are a correlate of protection for Sars-CoV-2,” Alexander Greninger, the assistant director of UW Medicine Clinical Virology Laboratory told HT on Sunday.The latest was reported on August 15, offering a second confirmation: people with mild symptoms had memory cells that could recognise the virus later. “We found that recovered individuals developed Sars-CoV-2-specific IgG antibody and neutralising plasma, as well as virus-specific memory B- and T-cells that not only persisted, but in some cases increased numerically over three months...” said researchers from University of Washington’s department of immunology. Also read: Health department to use 3500 kits for testing industrial workersIn this study, the researchers tested 15 people who had Covid-19, once between the first 20 days since they had the disease and for a second time around 86 days later, when the researchers found stable levels of B and T memory cells. T- and B-cells and antibodies are among the two main features of the complex immune system. While antibodies bind to viruses and neutralise them, T-cells and B-cells are responsible for producing antibodies, creating “helper” cells, and turning into killer proteins that gobble up any cell that is infected. Once an infection is beaten, 90% of T-cells and B-cells die off, while the remaining linger on as memory cells that can quickly multiply into antibodies, helper cells and killer cells.While they are yet to be peer-reviewed, the first, second and fourth papers establish that the immune defences behave like they should with the Sars-Cov-2, while the second offers the closest sign yet that these may be enough to prevent a subsequent infection. UW professor Greninger, however, added that more studies with bigger groups may be needed to conclusively determine that antibodies can prevent reinfection. Experts said that in addition to these studies, circumstantial evidence from China, where the outbreak first began around 9 months ago, too points to long-lasting immunity.“Immunity must be quite long because China is not reporting reinfection cases. They admitted the problem in December but there are signs that it may have started in August. So the people who got infected in this time do not appear to be getting it for a second time,” said T Jacob John, the former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore. John added that he believes that “both kinds of antibodies – binding as well as neutralising” need to be studied, and that T memory cell levels are expected to stay on for long. The ability for the immune system to succeed against the virus and remember it for future encounters is crucial since there have been past viruses that interfere with the very defences of the human body. The virus that causes measles, for instances, has the ability to wipe out memory cells and make people vulnerable to infections they have had in the past. The dengue virus is known to cause a complication in which binding antibodies are not enough to neutralise it, leading to a situation where it can lead to severe infection. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) goes straight for the immune system.Researchers involved in the above studies said this success of the immune system is crucial for vaccines to work. “The development of vaccines against Sars-CoV2 would be greatly facilitated by the identification of immunological correlates of protection in humans,” the researchers involved in the fishing vessel outbreak study noted, before elaborating their findings that showed that antibodies correlated with protection from infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-immunity-insights-a-boost-against-covid-19/story-JLR9su387u7kxq2Yqj6hJJ.html
19-08-2020||India||CBI arrests former appraiser ICD Delhi, recovers Rs 1 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday arrested Saurav Sharma, who is posted as appraiser in the office of chief commissioner of customs in Chennai, for allegedly demanding and accepting bribes from private parties for import consignments that he had cleared in his earlier posting, officials saidOfficials added that the agency has recovered Rs 1 crore cash from Sharma’s residence. He formerly served as Appraiser of ICD (Inland Container Depot) Tughlakabad. Apart from Saurav Sharma, CBI has arrested a Customs House Agent - Neeraj, a middleman Ram Krishan Mishra and a private person Kishore Kumar. CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said that the former Appraiser, ICD, Tuglakabad, Delhi was regularly pursuing private parties and few officials for payment of pending undue advantage in lieu of import consignments cleared by him during his tenure at ICD, Tuglakabad, Delhi. “It was also alleged that various parties had been approaching the middleman to pursue their pending matters with the said appraiser. It was further alleged that the appraiser asked the middleman that a person will collect payment of undue advantage (illegal gratification) on his behalf. The middleman had allegedly delivered the payment of Rs 7 lakh as the part of undue advantage (illegal gratification) to said private person”, Gaur said. CBI caught the middleman, the private person, the Customs House Agent and recovered Rs 7 Lakh.Searches were conducted at the office of appraiser at Chennai, his previous office in ICD, Tuglakabad and residential premises of accused located at Delhi, Noida, Chennai which led to recovery of incriminating documents and cash of around Rs one crore, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-chief-commissioner-of-customs-in-chennai-recovers-rs-1-crore-cash/story-D1e2hKuvIeuFnoMZRDTw6H.html
19-08-2020||India||Doctor in Maharashtra’s Nagpur hangs herself after killing husband, 2 children: Police||A 41-year-old doctor allegedly died by suicide after killing her husband and two minor children in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city on Tuesday, police said.According to police, Dr Shushma Rane, her husband Dhiraj (42), a professor at an engineering college, and their children aged 11 and five were found dead at their home in Om Nagar in Koradi area.Bodies of Dhiraj and the children were found on the bed in the master bedroom, while the doctor was found hanging from a ceiling fan, an official of Koradi police station.The deaths came to light when the deceased’s 60-year- old aunt, who lived with them, knocked on the bedroom door and did not receive any response, the official said.The police have recovered two syringes and a suicide note from the scene, in which Sushma has allegedly stated that she had taken the extreme step as she was unhappy, he said.Preliminary probe suggests that Sushma might have served some sedative-laced food to her husband and children to render them unconscious and later injected them with unidentified medicine, the official said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and a case under relevant provisions of the IPC has been registered in this regard, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-in-maharashtra-s-nagpur-hangs-herself-after-killing-husband-2-children/story-fDmSPBtPrOccVAFTkeuwyH.html
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Rajput death: Supreme Court verdict today on Rhea Chakraborty’s plea to transfer case from Patna to Mumbai||The Supreme Court will pronounce judgment on Wednesday on actor Rhea Chakraborty’s petition for transfer of FIR filed against her alleging abetment of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to Mumbai. Chakraborty, in her petition to the apex court, had sought the transfer of case from Patna to Mumbai jurisdiction. The judgement will be given by a bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy at 11 am. Accusing Rhea of abetting his son’s suicide, KK Singh, Rajput’s father, filed an FIR in Patna on June 25 against her, her parents (including mother Sandhya Chakraborty), Showik, Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda and Shruti Modi and unknown persons accusing them of cheating and abetting his son’s death. Singh has also alleged financial irregularities and siphoning off Rs 15 crore in his son’s bank account in one year to an unknown person’s account, who is not known or connected to the late actor. Also read| Rhea Chakraborty’s financial transactions clear, nothing incriminating: LawyerChallenging the jurisdiction of the Bihar police in the matter, Rhea in her petition, had sought the transfer of case from Patna to Mumbai stating that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai and the power to look into the matter was with the Mumbai police. CBI took over the probe on August 5 on a request by the Bihar police.The 34 -year-old Bollywood actor was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The Mumbai police found the cause of death to be “asphyxia due to hanging” and filed an accidental death report (ADR), but is yet to register an FIR in connection with the death.Rajput’s death sparked a tussle between Maharashtra and Bihar police, with both authorities running to secure power to investigate the case, with the former arguing that Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter.Amid the legal tangle involved in this case, heightened media attention and sensationalizing of the case has been another ground for Rhea to demand transfer of the case to Mumbai. In her last submission to the Court, Rhea said that the Court could use its extraordinary powers under Article 142 to order a CBI probe but allowing the same based on transfer of the case from Patna to Mumbai will be “without jurisdiction and contrary to law”. Also read: Rhea Chakraborty releases statement: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister groped me, family’s allegations ‘fabricated’Incidentally, soon after Sushant’s death, Rhea tweeted demanding CBI probe and tagged Union Home Minister Amit Shah on her tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-rajput-death-supreme-court-verdict-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-plea-tomorrow/story-ndbWZz1GEoDtRnMGQsKc7J.html
19-08-2020||India||Amid allegations of fake encounter, army probes death of three men killed in Shopian in July||A high-level Court of Inquiry into Operation Amshipora in Shopian in Kashmir which the army had claimed that three terrorists were killed on July 18 is under progress, the defence PRO said in Srinagar on Tuesday.“Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and progress is being monitored closely. Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the Court of Inquiry. Concurrently, DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri under the aegis of JKP and sent for matching with the terrorists killed on July 18, 2020,” he saidHe said the army is committed to ethical conduct of all counter terrorist operations.“Cases where doubts are raised are investigated under due process as per the law of the land. Since the case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting due legal process.”Bodies of the three men killed in Shopian were buried in Baramulla after being listed as unidentified.Three families from Rajouri who had reported their sons missing from the night of July 17 have alleged that they had been killed Amshipora village in Shopian in a fake encounter and passed off as terrorists.Last week, a J&K police team from Shopian led by a deputy superintendent of police had collected DNA samples from the families of the missing men in Rajouri. All three were related to each other and, according to their family members, had gone to Shopian to work in apple orchards. They hired a room in a Shopian village close to a Rashtriya Rifles camp before they went missing, the families have said.After the purported encounter in an orchard, the bodies couldn’t be identified and the men were described by the army. as militants. Weeks after, when three families from Rajouri filed a missing report, and identified the pictures of the men who were killed, the police began investigating the case. All mainstream political parties have demanded a high-level probe into the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-allegations-of-fake-encounter-army-probes-death-of-three-men-killed-in-shopian-in-july/story-VHmAdjAMXmFgsAYhginCEL.html
19-08-2020||India||Jal Jeevan: 51 million rural households now have tap water, according to govt data||Nearly 51 million rural households have now got tap-water connections, of which 20 million were added in the past year. It’s a leap over previous years. But the Jal Jeevan mission to provide every rural household with water supply, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in his 2019 Independence speech, needs to expand at a quicker rate to meet its 2024 deadline, an HT analysis based on government data shows.Over 120 million households lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to UN-Water.Contaminated water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy of Puduchery’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College. India has 189 million rural households, according to the official data. Till August 16, cumulatively over a four-year period, 51 million households, or 27% of the total, were provided with tap water connection under the joint Centre-state Jal Jeevan mission, data analysed by HT shows.This also means authorities must provide water connection to another 138 million households, or 73% remaining, by 2024. Piped drinking water to rural households is one of the critical components for achieving universal access to safe drinking water in the country.In 2018, just 18.2% of rural households had piped water supply. By 2019, this translated to an improvement of 9 percentage points. But the federally set deadline of 2024 – by which all households must be connected – means the current rate of expansion will need to go up to meet the completion date.The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission. According to him, his ministry and states utilised the Covid-19 lockdown period to hold video-conferences to prepare for state plans for this year and year ahead. “Lockdown was an opportunity,” Shekhawat said.A 2018 Comptroller and Auditor General performance audit said the programme was meant to provide at least 35% of rural households with piped water supply by 2017, and 80% households by 2020.Water is a state subject but the Union government provides a major share of funding. The Jal Jeevan rural households programme is worth Rs 3.5 lakh crore. Of this, the Centre’s share is about Rs 2.2 lakh crore.The Union budget had allotted Rs 10001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, Rs 11500 crore was provided.The Jal Jeevan mission in its earlier avatar was the National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP) under the Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance-II (UPA-II) government.“There has been a huge gap between the government’s stated objectives and actual delivery in the rural drinking water scheme,” said Himanshu Thakkar of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People.Till 2018-19, expenditure as a proportion of funds available under the rural drinking water programme had been steadily decreasing, according to Accountability Initiative, a think-tank tracking government policies.In FY 2014-15, 84% of available funds were spent. This fell to 72% in FY 2017-18. In FY 2018-19, only 65% of the total funds available for NRDWM were spent. In 2014-15, 0.6% of total government funding was allocated to the rural piped drinking water project, which dropped to 0.2% in 2018-19. Funding got an 80% boost in the next year when the National Democratic Alliance government took it up as a mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-51-million-rural-households-now-have-tap-water-according-to-govt-data/story-JepJ70SGthLh66bOkuO3bJ.html
19-08-2020||India||Restoring growth to boosting health infra: Charting India’s goals||On August 15, 2022, India will complete 75 years of Independence. Speaking from the Red Fort last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi listed a set of targets he wanted to be achieved by then. “By the 75th year of Independence, farmers’ income should double, every poor [person] should get a pucca house, every family should get electricity connection and every village should have optical fibre network and broadband connectivity besides the facility of long distance education”, Modi said. The unforeseen events in the run-up to completion of 73 years of independence today give a good reason to revisit the goals we want to achieve by August 15, 2022. The year 2020 has one of unprecedented disruption and challenges. The Indian economy, which was already in a deceleration phase, has entered contraction mode due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Given this scenario, India’s priority has to be revive growth. This is crucial to sustaining welfare schemes and expanding crucial infrastructure. Our health infrastructure, at least in most places, has been found to be wanting in dealing with the pandemic’s public health challenge. This means we need to look at questions beyond affordability when it comes to health care. India lost soldiers in a border clash with China at the Line of Actual Control after four decades. This has brought to fore the need for military preparedness to deal with all eventualities. Successfully meeting each of these challenges will require a focused policy intervention, and ambitious, yet pragmatic targets. The Indian economy will suffer a contraction in 2020-21. Most estimates suggest that the contraction will be at least 5% on an annual basis. The World Bank, in its Global Economic Prospects released in June, projected that the Indian economy would contract by 3.2% this fiscal. GDP growth is expected to reach 3.1% in the following fiscal, the Bank said. This means that India’s income levels will not even return to 2019-20 levels by 2021-22. The government must do all it can to prevent this from happening. It also needs to make sure that the stimulus to push growth does not sacrifice long term interests of the economy for short term gains. The most important metric on this count will be the share of capital expenditure in total expenditure. This number was 14% in 2015-16 and 2016-17. It started coming down with deceleration in growth rates. The Budget Estimates for 2020-21 put the share of capital expenditure at 13.5%. This number is unlikely to be realised, as a revenue shortfall will make it difficult for the government to even fulfil its basic commitments such as salaries, pensions and interest payments. Capital spending is likely to take a back seat in this situation. It will be a huge sentiment boost for the economy,however, if the government announced a gradual ramping up of capital expenditure to take it share in total spending well beyond 2015-16 levels by 2021-22. The Covid-19 pandemic has raised questions about India’s health infrastructure. This merits a recalibration of our health policy focus from affordability – the Modi government announced a health insurance scheme for 100 million poor families in 2018 – to expansion. India has the dubious distinction of being a laggard in government spending on health among its peer group. State governments spend much more on health than the Centre. A Mint article by Surbhi Bhatia and Sneha Alexander shows that the Centre’s spending on health in 2019-20 was just 0.32% of GDP, while the states spent 0.9%. Can the Centre give a massive boost to health spending and pledge to spend more than the states by 2021-22? The arrival of Rafale fighter jets from France was greeted with a lot of enthusiasm last month. In today’s age, ensuring access to cutting edge technology and new equipment is absolutely necessary to keep our armed forces prepared to deal with all eventualities. Budget figures show that a lot needs to be done here. Defence spending as a percentage of GDP has remained stagnant at slightly above 2% over the last few years. Less than a fourth of India’s defence spending is allocated towards capital outlays. We now spend more on defence pensions than capital outlay on defence services. While the importance of decent pensions to retired defence personnel cannot be overemphasized, the fact that we spend more on them than boosting future capabilities of our armed forces, underlines the need to invest more in the future. To be sure, things have changed in the recent past. Additional defence procurements have been ordered after the clash with Chinese soldiers. The government has also announced an ambitious import substitution programme. Can the government pledge to spend significantly more on capital outlay in defence than on pensions by the time India completes 75 years of independence?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restoring-growth-to-boosting-health-infra-charting-india-s-goals/story-t0V3xxyxCtGT4K2nLw4XDN.html
