20-08-2020||India||India urges world community to isolate Pak for sponsoring terror||New Delhi: Indian Parliament, led by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, on Thursday urged the international community to isolate Pakistan for sponsoring terrorism. Exercising its Right of Reply at the 5th World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, India said, “Pakistan PM admitted there are nearly 40,000 militants on its soil. Pakistan’s aggressions against J&K in 1965, 1971, 1999 (Kargil), attack on Mumbai and Parliament, Uri, Pulwama etc. show Pakistan’s State-sponsored policy of terrorism as evident in the inaction against likes of Hafiz Saeed, Masood Azhar and Ehsanullah Ehsan.” “Jammu & Kashmir has been and will remain an integral part of India. We call upon Pakistan to end cross-border Terrorism. Our overtures should not be taken as sign for weakness,” it said. At the conference, organized jointly by the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Geneva, and the Parliament of Austria, with the support of the United Nations (UN), India’s reply came during the special event on ‘Countering Terrorism and violent Extremism: The perspective of victims’ today. The reply read: “India exercises its Right of Reply to statement by Pakistan, a country whose PM glorified dreaded terrorist “Osama Bin Laden” a “martyr” from its Parliament.” Indian Parliament also highlighted that UN Analytical Support Sanctions Monitoring Team has described Pakistan as the leading exporter of terror with more than 6,000 nationals currently engaged in terrorism.The reply has come in the backdrop of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s continued attempts to call an OIC meeting on Kashmir. Khan has also been aligning with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to form a new Islamic axis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-urges-world-community-to-isolate-pak-for-sponsoring-terror/story-k35FjpVPElx7s7FalgcGzH.html
20-08-2020||India||US-based agency to assist in Kozhikode plane crash probe||The US-based National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) will assist India’s aircraft accidents and incidents investigating agency, the Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), in the latter’s probe in the Kozhikode Air India Express aircraft crash on August 7. The crash killed 18 people on board, including both the pilots. NTSB is an independent US-based government agency investigating accidents. As per the requirements of Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents & Incidents) Rules 2017 & ICAO Annex 13, AAIB, as the agency from the ‘State of Occurrence’ has notified the NTSB, which is an agency from the ‘State of Manufacturer’ about the accident.Annex 13 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (ICAO), reflects the standards and recommended practices covering aircraft accident and incident investigation. It also stipulates that the State of Occurrence shall institute an investigation into the circumstances of the accident and be responsible for the conduct of the investigation and allows ‘State of Manufacture’ to participate in the investigations.The Air India Express plane involved in the accident was a Boeing 737 aircraft, manufactured in the US.Also Read: Royal Aeronautical Society fellow asks for court of inquiry into Kozhikode crashThe flight, operating as IX 1344 from Dubai to Kozhikode International airport, overshot the table top runway in rainy conditions and fell into a 35 ft valley after crashing into the airport fence wall. Confirming the development, AAIB said, “NTSB has appointed Accredited Representative and Technical Advisors to assist in the investigation as per ICAO Annex 13 protocol. The investigating team is co-ordinating with the Accredited Representative/Technical Advisers appointed by NTSB. As and when any assistance is required by the investigating team, the same will be intimated to them.” Also Read: 26 who helped passengers of crashed plane in Kozhikode contract Covid-19Meanwhile, AAIB has appointed a five-member team headed by Captain SS Chahar to probe the accident. Other team members include operations expert Ved Prakash, senior aircraft maintenance engineer Mukul Bharadwaj, aviation medicine expert Group Captain (Dr) Y S Dahiya and AAIB deputy director Jasbir Singh Largha. According to Aurobindo Handa, director general of AAIB, the team has been instructed to complete the investigation and submit the report in five months. A senior official from the ministry from civil aviation said the investigation will be thoroughly conducted and the report is expected to be submitted before the internationally accepted time limit of one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-based-agency-to-assist-in-kozhikode-plane-crash-probe/story-ekRHe8LW4HwDKPf3D1sWFK.html
20-08-2020||India||France opens borders to Indian students||France has become the first country to open its borders to Indian students, researchers and teachers who have been invited by a French academic establishment or laboratory, and to holders of the “Talent” passport. Seven French visa processing centres in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi became operational from August 17 to receive select visa applications, while complying with Indian travel regulations and the safety of consular teams. Universities in France have readied themselves to receive international students, either wholly or partly on campus, said a statement from the French embassy. Addressing thousands of Indian students who have chosen to study in France, ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “France is returning to normalcy and I am delighted that international students will be among the first to benefit from it. The French embassy is fully mobilised to ensure that students can pursue their studies in France in the smoothest conditions possible, despite the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic.” The move “reaffirms France’s priority to academic mobility”, he said. The facility is limited to Indian students travelling to France in autumn for studies for more than three months on long-term visas, and short-term studies or internships, with accommodation in France. It is also available to professors or researchers employed or invited by a French academic institution or research laboratory who are travelling at the end of their studies or for teaching, and to those having a valid long-term visa or a “Talent” passport. These persons must possess an “International Travel Certificate to Mainland France” (Attestation de déplacement international dérogatoire), available on the website of the French interior ministry. This certificate has to be presented to the travel company before departure and to border control authorities on arrival in France.The certificate must be accompanied by an undertaking that the person does not have any symptoms of Covid-19 and has not been in contact with an infected person 14 days prior to departure. The visa applications will be processed in small batches every week to ensure adequate safety measures at the processing centres. Social distancing and other recommended protective measures are being adhered to, and mobile biometric data collection and courier services are available to limited in-person contacts at the centres. All travellers displaying any symptoms of Covid-19 on their entry in French territory will be prescribed quarantine or self-isolation. In order to prepare students, pre-departure sessions called “Bienvenue en France” are scheduled online during August 22-31. These sessions will acquaint students with administrative procedures, ways of finding accommodation, tips from alumni, and practical advice on student life in France. Around 118 Indian students are preparing to travel to France at the end of September as English language assistants for a stint in French schools. The programme offers an opportunity for French-speaking Indian students to live and work in France and gain professional exposure. The number of Indian students opting for higher studies in France has risen from 3,000 in 2014 to around 10,000 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-opens-borders-to-indian-students/story-mSez6g2S9UYU5C4V1jxD7I.html
20-08-2020||India||Conclusion of US-India trade talks to be phase 1 of bilateral trade deal: Envoy||Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Thursday made a strong case for conclusion of the ongoing trade negotiations which would become the first phase of a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement between the two nations. Bilateral trade between India and the US, which touched $150 billion last year, has dropped 25 per cent in the first half of this year, he said at webinar organised by industry body Ficci. Sandhu observed that India’s bilateral trade has been growing at the rate of 10 per cent on a year-to-year basis, reaching $150 billion in 2019. “Our bilateral trade has not been immune to COVID-19 as total trade between the two countries has reduced by nearly 25 per cent in the first half of 2020 as compared to 2019,” he said. The US is today India’s biggest trading partner, but the real potential of the trade relationship is yet to be reached, he added. The Indian Ambassador to the US said the “first step in realising this potential is to conclude the ongoing trade negotiations which would become the phase 1 of a comprehensive bilateral trade agreement.” Such an agreement would reflect the full potential of bilateral and commercial relations, increasing bilateral investments and job creation in both the countries, he emphasised. India and the US are negotiating a limited trade deal with a view to iron out differences on trade issues to boost economic ties. India is demanding exemption from high duties imposed by the US on some steel and aluminium products, resumption of export benefits to certain domestic items under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), and greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile, automobile components and engineering. On the other hand, the US wants greater market access for its farm and manufacturing products, dairy items and medical devices, apart from cut in import duties on some information and communication technology products. The US has also raised concerns over high trade deficit with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conclusion-of-us-india-trade-talks-to-be-phase-1-of-bilateral-trade-deal-envoy/story-gRNoBS2FQ9xooymMJJloaJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Punjab to impose curbs amid spike||Chandigarh: As Covid-19 cases continue to see a sharp spike in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7pm to 5am in all 167 cities and towns of the state.Calling for war-like preparedness to deal with the pandemic, the chief minister has ordered a total ban on all gatherings except weddings and funerals across the state till August 31. Government and private offices will work at 50% capacity till the end of this month.Amarinder, who held a virtual review meeting with top officials, also directed the officials to restrict public visitors in government offices and to encourage the use of online grievance redressal system.Till Thursday evening, Punjab saw its biggest single-day spike of 1,741 coronavirus cases taking the state tally to 37,824, according to a medical bulletin. Thirty-seven more fatalities were also recorded and the death toll now stands at 957, it said. In the five worst-affected districts of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar, which account for 80% of the active case load in the state, restrictions on vehicular capacity have been imposed again, with buses and other public transport operating with 50% capacity and private four-wheelers not allowing more than three passengers per vehicle. The deputy commissioners of these districts have been directed to allow only 50% of the non-essential shops to open on a daily basis to check crowding. He also asked the director general of police to crack the whip on all political protests and gatherings, and asked his own party, Punjab Congress, leadership to enforce the ban strictly. “We need to be tough without affecting the state’s economic activity,” the CM said.The CM also asked the officials to increase testing to 30,000 a day, with at least 10 persons in the immediate circle of every positive patient to be tested.Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said tenders had been floated for the procurement of nine more RT-PCR machines and the same were expected next week.Adviser, health, medical education and research, Dr KK Talwar, in his presentation, said that though deaths per million in Punjab, at 30.8, was lower than India’s 39.9, the situation was grim and the state’s recovery rate at 62.9% was lower than the nation’s 73.9%.The percentage of co-morbid patients was higher in Punjab as compared to Haryana, explaining the greater number of deaths here, he added.Principal secretary, health, Hussan Lal said while the number of tests had gone up to nearly 20,000, the positivity rate had come down slightly to 8.05% for the week from August 11 to 18, as against 9.31% from August 3 to 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-impose-curbs-amid-spike/story-Wkx4tjRUYkzk11xGs6Hw3J.html
20-08-2020||India||Covid-19: 10 biggest hotspots of the disease in India||Maharashtra on Thursday reported the highest single-day increase in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as it remained the biggest hotspot of the pathogen in the country, followed by Tamil Nadu, which, too, reported a record number of infections amid the pandemic that is taking hold in regions that were largely unaffected so far.While areas including Delhi and Rajasthan, where the infectious disease was raging in the early days of the outbreak, have managed to control the cases from spiralling, it continues to spread alarmingly in states such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Here’s a look at the 10 biggest hotspots of the disease in the country:MaharashtraMaharashtra reported a record increase of 14,492 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections so far in the state to 6,43,289, according to official data. With 326 more deaths, the toll rose to 21,359. A total of 12,243 patients were discharged on Thursday; 459,124 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far. There were 43 deaths in the state’s capital, Mumbai.Tamil NaduThe second-biggest hotspot of the disease, Tamil Nadu also reported the highest daily cases on Thursday, adding 5,986 infections over the previous 24 hours. The fresh cases took the tally in the state to 3,61,435. The number of recoveries in the state, meanwhile, surpassed the 300,000 mark. A total of 116 people have died of the disease in the state, which has said it has not yet taken a decision on re-opening schools amid restrictions necessitated by the pandemic.Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reported another big jump in the infections on Thursday, with 9,393 new cases taking the state’s tally to 325,396. State officials overseeing the fight against Covid-19 in the state predict that the peak of the infections could still be a few weeks away. The fatalities in the state on Thursday crossed the 3,000 mark, adding 95 new deaths. The official health bulletin said 8,846 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The state currently has 87,177 active cases.KarnatakaKarnataka reported 7,385 new cases of Covid-19 and 102 deaths, with the infections so far climbing to 256,975 and the death toll mounting to 4,429. Of 7,385 fresh cases, 2,912 cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban. The development came on a day the state government revised its guidelines for demarcating containment zones. “In an apartment complex, this would be the floor which has the residence of the Covid-positive person. For an independent house or villa - it would just be the individual house or villa,” a notification said. “In a slum, it would be the street that has the residence of the Covid-positive person. For rural areas, it would be the complete habitation of the Covid-positive person or a small contiguous area as appropriate,” it added.Uttar PradeshThe state on Thursday added 4,824 cases that took the total tally to 172,334. With 95 new deaths, the toll increased in the state to 2,733. Earlier in the day, a three-day session of the Uttar Pradesh assembly began amid restrictions brought on by Covid-19. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the monsoon session was convened amid the pandemic to meet the constitutional responsibility of holding sittings of the House within six months.DelhiThe national capital recorded 1,215 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 157,354, with the death toll increasing to 4,257. Twenty-two new deaths were recorded in the previous 24 hours, according to the official health bulletin. Once a major hot spot of the disease, Delhi has managed to prevent the cases from spreading at an alarming rate, with experts crediting the government for timely augmentation of health care infrastructure and ramping up of testing capacity. The second round of a serological survey in the Capital on Thursday indicated that 29.1% of the people may have developed antibodies against pathogen. In the survey, 15,000 samples were collected across 11 districts to assess the spread of the virus.West BengalWest Bengal’s Covid-19 cases rose to 129,119 on Thursday, with the highest single-day increase of 3,197. The death toll in the state mounted to 2,634, with 53 people succumbing to the disease in the previous 24 hours. A total of 3,126 patients recovered during the period.BiharThe Covid-19 death toll in Bihar rose to 574, with six fatalities in the past 24 hours, while 2,451 fresh infections took the tally to 115,209. The Bihar government has decided to extend a lockdown in the state till September 6 amid rising cases. The lockdown was earlier imposed from July 16 to July 31 and later extended till August 16.TelanganaTelangana reported 1,724 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 97,424 cases. The active cases stand at 21,509; 6,433 of these admitted in hospitals.AssamEight people died of Covid-19 in Assam, taking the death toll to 221. With 1,735 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the tally rose to 86,053. “Very sad & anguished to inform that eight more COVID19 positive patients have succumbed to the disease,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted after the official numbers were released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-10-biggest-hotspots-of-the-disease-in-india/story-UvPwpqo8fy8d1jEvKNPcHM.html
20-08-2020||India||Trade unions urge PM Modi to withdraw draft EIA 2020 rules||Ten central trade unions on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification, saying it is contrary to India’s commitment to international climate change treaty and against national interest. In a letter shot off to the Prime Minister on Thursday, the unions said, “We submit our concerns, strongly urging you to withdraw this proposal in the interest of our people and environmental protection.” They stated in the letter, “We, the joint platform of central trade union organisations, would like to express our opposition to the proposed draft rules EIA 2020, which are in contravention to India’s commitment to International Climate Change Treaty as well as to our own national interest in protecting our environmentally sensitive zones.” The EIA 2020 is a gross departure from EIA 2006 and appears to be for facilitating private commercial mining of coal and other minerals and the land-use management sought to be restructured and overhauled through various so-called reform measures being taken by the government in concerned fields, they explained in the letter. “Your goodself is aware that the environmental degradation and ecological disturbances are causing natural calamities of various kinds including the health emergencies,” it said. The greed of corporates for limitless exploitation of nature and natural resources without necessary precautions and protection of nature is leading humanity to continuously face the backlash, the letter said. “It is neither good economics nor is it sustainable development.” India should remain committed to world sustainable development goals whereas the proposed draft rules are in contravention to them, they opined. Moreover, they said the victims of this policy would be vulnerable sections of our society, especially the scheduled tribes.  The ten central trade unions are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are 12 central trade unions in the country including RSS affiliate Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-urge-pm-modi-to-withdraw-draft-eia-2020-rules/story-imJnEs0E7ATwPVnV9dC1OL.html
20-08-2020||India||India to launch new cargo ferry service to Maldives in September||India will launch a new cargo ferry service to the Maldives, which will link Kochi and Tuticorin with Male, in the third week of September to further bolster bilateral trade relations. A vessel operated by the Shipping Corporation of India, capable of carrying 200 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units) or containers and 3,000 tonnes of general cargo, will be used for the service, the Indian high commission in the Maldives said in a tweet on Thursday. The turnaround time for the cargo ferry service will be 10 days, the high commission said. “Sea-connectivity for prosperity! A direct ‘Cargo Ferry Service’ connecting #Kochi/#Tuticorin with #Malé will be flagged off [from India] in the 3rd week of Sep,” the mission tweeted, adding the service will fulfil a commitment made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the Maldives in June 2019. “It is expected to revolutionise bilateral trade linkages & support dvpt. of the northern atolls with extension of the service to #Kulhudhuffushi in future,” the mission said in another tweet. The launch of the ferry service was discussed during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Maldives counterpart Abdulla Shahid on August 13. During the same meeting, India unveiled a $500-million package to help the Maldives build a connectivity project linking its capital Male with three islands, and provided $250 million as budgetary support to help the Indian Ocean archipelago cope with the Covid-19 crisis. People familiar with developments said the direct cargo ferry service will be an opportunity for India to replace other countries and become the top trade partner of the Maldives. Exports from India had registered a relative increase amid the Covid-19 pandemic, making the country the second largest exporter to the Maldives, the people said. “With many bilateral projects slated to commence in the next few months, this is the right time to start a cargo ferry service with the Maldives,” said one of the people cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-launch-new-cargo-ferry-service-to-maldives-in-september/story-bLft9o2oEH0q5aDRgNA6rJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Gargled water samples may be viable alternative to swabs for detecting Covid: Study||Gargled water samples may be viable alternative to swabs for detection of Covid-19, enabling easy self-collection and removing the need for trained healthcare workers for sample collection, according to a study published in the ICMR’s Indian Journal of Medical Research.Adoption of gargle lavage for sample collection will have a significant impact as it also leads to substantial cost savings by reducing the need for swabs and personal protective equipment, the study highlighted.The authors of the study “Gargle lavage as a viable alternative to swab for detection of SARS-CoV-2” include Dr Naveet Wig, Dr Manish Soneja, Dr Neeraj Nischal and Dr Ankit Mittal from the department of Medicine at AIIMS, Dr Anjan Trikha and Dr Kapil Dev Soni from the department of Anaesthesia and Critical Care Medicine at AIIMS among others.Also read| Russia looking for partnership with India to produce Covid vaccine: RDIF CEO“Swab collection has several drawbacks also as it requires training, exposes the healthcare workers to the virus containing aerosols, has poor patient acceptability and is resource intensive.“An alternative sample collection method that could overcome most of these limitations without compromising the yield of the test is the need of the hour,” the study underlined.One such method is the collection of gargle lavage, it mentioned. Although the use of gargle specimens is not new, at present, there is little published information on the suitability of gargle specimens to diagnose SARSCoV-2 infection, the study stated.This study was, therefore, conducted to assess the performance of gargle lavage in comparison to nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs for the detection of novel coronavirus.This was a cross-sectional study conducted at the AIIMS, New Delhi over a period of one month (May-June) on 50 confirmed Covid-19 patients.Paired swab and gargle samples were taken within 72 hours of their diagnosis. Samples were processed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for detection of SARS-CoV-2. Post-sample collection, a 10-point scale was administered to assess the level of discomfort with either of the collection methods, the study said.Also read: India conducts record number of Covid-19 tests in 24 hours, recoveries near 21 lakh-mark“All gargle samples were positive and comparable to their corresponding swab samples irrespective of the symptoms and duration of illness. The cycle threshold (Ct ) values for gargle samples were slightly higher but comparable to those of swabs. Bland-Altman plot showed good agreement between the two methods,” the study said.Majority (72 per cent) of the patients reported moderate-to-severe discomfort with swab collection in comparison to 24 per cent reporting only mild discomfort with gargle collection. “In conclusion, the study highlights the usefulness of gargle lavage as an appropriate respiratory sample collection method. “It is a viable alternative to conventional swab collection with several distinct advantages and will have significant clinical and public health impacts in terms of better acceptability, easy self-collection, sparing of healthcare workers and cost-effectiveness,” the study said.The major limitation of this study was its cross-sectional design and it was performed only on a limited number of positive cases. In addition, it would be necessary to evaluate the performance using different viral RNA isolation platforms, the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gargled-water-samples-may-be-viable-alternative-to-swabs-for-detecting-covid-study/story-MTVzeiQ1Ny0dIohyCqTpjN.html
20-08-2020||India||CBI team should undergo Covid-19 test: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Thursday said the CBI team that arrived in Mumbai to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case should undergo a Covid-19 test.The CBI team reached the metropolis on Thursday evening. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced that it has been exempted from home quarantine.“The CBI officers will be staying in Mumbai and meeting several people. They should undergo antigen test as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of coronavirus,” the Relief and Rehabilitation Minister said.“The state government should take precaution and the CBI should also follow the Covid-19 safety rules,” the Congress leader added.A BMC official earlier said that the central investigation agency had applied for exemption from the home quarantine rule.The civic body had quarantined Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari earlier this month after his arrival to oversee probe in the actor’s death case.The Supreme Court had on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting Rajput’s suicide, to the CBI.Rajput was found hanging at his Bandra apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-should-undergo-covid-19-test-maharashtra-minister/story-SUIlYl1a5cRMNeLImDHUiM.html
20-08-2020||India||Israel’s deal with UP to resolve Bundelkhand water crisis has a 3-pronged solution||The Uttar Pradesh and Israel governments on Thursday signed a ‘plan of cooperation’ to resolve water crisis in Bundelkhand region. Alok Sinha, UP agriculture production commissioner and Israeli ambassador to India, Ron Malka, signed the agreement here on behalf of their governments. The India –Israel – Bundelkhand Water Project comprises three key components including water conservation, water efficient transportation and advanced water practices for agriculture. “We have signed the project on a day when ‘India Day’ is celebrated in Israel. For this project, 28 districts across the country, including two in Uttar Pradesh, have been selected,” said Alok Sinha, agriculture production commissioner. In the first phase, 25 villages in Babina block of Jhansi district had been selected, he added. The agreement has been signed for two years and will be extended later. The project aims to address water crisis in drought hit regions of Bundelkhand. It will help farmers of the region with latest farming technologies, including drip irrigation, meant for water deficient regions like Bundelkhand. “The water reservoir of Pahuj dam in Jhansi will be enabled with integrated drip irrigation. Assistance of experts from Israel will also be taken for implementing latest farming technologies,” said Sinha. Sinha said the project will also be a role model for ground water management, irrigation and potable water management for the rest of the country while addressing water scarcity in Bundelkhand and its adjoining regions. Watch: India-China border dispute: 5 things you need to know about current situationIsraeli ambassador Ron Malka said: “This is another example of the multifaceted partnership between Israel and India. Israel is keen to share its most advanced, innovative and cutting edge water technologies with the government of Uttar Pradesh. Water security is the top priority in our strategic water partnership with India.” During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Israel in 2017, Israel and India signed two major water agreements to increase cooperation in water conservation and state water utility reform in India. Last year, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had attended the WATEC conference in Israel to advance cooperation in the field of water between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-signs-deal-to-resolve-bundelkhand-water-crisis-has-a-3-pronged-solution/story-606PQi6jfeZFoxRFcpq4ZM.html
20-08-2020||India||Speakers’ conference: India asks international community to isolate Pakistan||India on Thursday gave a befitting reply to Pakistan at the 5th World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, and asked the international community to isolate Pakistan for sponsoring terrorism. The Indian Parliament, led by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, exercised its Right of Reply to underline that “Pakistan PM admitted there are nearly 40,000 militants on its soil. Pakistan’s aggressions against J-K in 1965, 1971, 1999 (Kargil), attack on Mumbai and Parliament, Uri, Pulwama etc. show Pakistan’s state-sponsored policy of terrorism as evident in the inaction against the likes of Hafiz Saeed, Masood Azhar and Ehsanullah Ehsan.” The Indian authorities also said that “Jammu & Kashmir has been and will remain an integral part of India. We call upon Pakistan to end cross-border terrorism. Our overtures should not be taken as a sign of weakness.” India’s strong reply comes amid Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s continued attempts to call an OIC meeting on Kashmir despite being snubbed by the Saudi kingdom. Khan is also believed to be aligning with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to form a new Islamic axis against India. At the conference, organized jointly by the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Geneva, and the Parliament of Austria with the support of the United Nations (UN), India’s reply came during the special event on ‘Countering Terrorism and violent Extremism: The perspective of victims’ today. The reply reads: “India exercises its Right of Reply to a statement by Pakistan, a country whose PM glorified dreaded terrorist “Osama Bin Laden” as a ‘martyr’ from its Parliament,” said the Indian response. Indian Parliament also highlighted that the UN Analytical Support Sanctions Monitoring Team mentions Pakistan as the leading exporter of terror with more than 6,000 nationals currently engaged in terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speakers-conference-india-asks-international-community-to-isolate-pakistan/story-p02ANW8RY4BrqJxMjKJ9hK.html
20-08-2020||India||After NITI’s questions, Railways says 29K-30K died due to ‘trespassing, untoward incidents’ in 3 years||The Railways Thursday said around 29,000-30,000 deaths occurred due to “trespassing and other untoward incidents” on its premises in the past three years, after the Niti Aayog raised questions over its zero fatality claim in the last fiscal.Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav’s clarification came days after Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant took note of the Railways’ claim and questioned the reliability of the data, pointing out that over thousands deaths occur in Mumbai suburban section every year. “I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of these deaths are caused by people falling overboard or from the platform on to the tracks. Hence, this should not be excluded from the purview of RRSK (Rashtriya Rail Sanrakshan Kosh). It should be ideally recorded officially,” the government think tank CEO said in a letter to Yadav.In a press briefing Thursday, Yadav said the Railways keeps a record of all the deaths that occur on its premises under three separate heads -- consequential accidents, trespassing and untoward incidents. “It is true that consequential accidents were indeed zero in 2019-2020 and so far this year as well,” he said.  “We keep records of deaths due to trespassing like when people come on the tracks and are run over or people standing on the footboard of trains or hanging out of trains. In the last three years, around 29,000 to 30,000 people have lost their lives due to either trespassing or untoward incidents. This data will be given to Niti Aayog,” he said. In fact, after the 2018 tragedy in Amritsar wherein 59 people were killed and over 100 injured after being run over by two passenger trains while they were watching Dussehra celebrations, the Railways said that it was a case of trespassing. Yadav also said that efforts are on to ensure that deaths due to such incidents too reduce, and “over the years they have”. After Yadav’s briefing, the Railways issued a statement saying that while more than 8 billion passengers travelled by trains last year, there were zero passenger fatalities due to accidents.“This has been achieved with a lot of efforts on the part of the Railways. While the deaths of passengers due to railway accidents has become Zero, unfortunate Casualties do occur due to trespassing and untoward incidents like falling from trains and that due to negligence or carelessness on the part of passengers/public. “These are incidents on which the Railways have little or no control. Efforts are on to sensitise the public on avoiding such situations,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-niti-s-questions-railways-says-29k-30k-died-due-to-trespassing-untoward-incidents-in-3-years/story-gjWqEPa9NJTnxhbVU3GULP.html
20-08-2020||India||More than 1.1 mn stranded Indians returned home through Vande Bharat Mission||India has brought back more than 1.1 million nationals stranded around the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic through Vande Bharat Mission, the country’s largest repatriation programme. Vande Bharat Mission is currently in its fifth phase, during which around 500 international flights and 130 domestic feeder flights have been operated. The flights have brought back stranded Indians from 22 countries to 23 airports across the country. As of August 19, a total of 1.12 million stranded Indians have been repatriated by different modes under Vande Bharat Mission, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing on Thursday. “Around 375 more international flights are scheduled to be operated by the end of August,” he said. Based on an assessment of demand from India’s missions and posts abroad, flights have been added for repatriating Indian nationals from Kuwait, the Maldives, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Australia, the UK and Canada. “In addition, the number of flights from other Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries has been further augmented,” Srivastava said. India’s bilateral air bubble arrangements with the US, the UK, Canada, France, Germany, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and the Maldives are functioning well, and negotiations are ongoing on air travel arrangements with 18 more countries, he said. Also Read: Kerala-Centre showdown looms over leasing Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani These countries are Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. “This will benefit stranded Indians and nationals of these countries,” Srivastava said. Also Read: India nudges Beijing to walk the talk on Ladakh disengagement, China doesn’t budgeIndia has operated the largest number of repatriation flights to countries in West Asia, including the GCC states, as the region is home to some 8 million expatriates. The largest number of stranded Indians returned from the United Arab Emirates. Tens of thousands of Indians also returned from Nepal and other neighbouring countries through land border check posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-1-1-mn-stranded-indians-returned-home-through-vande-bharat-mission/story-Ad3OXTSgHMsg3kj2UTVlRN.html
20-08-2020||India||Bhushan Power & Steel removed goods worth Rs 700 crore, says ED; raids resolution professional||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has raided the Resolution Professional or RP - in the matter of Bhushan Power and Steel Ltd (BPSL) – Mahender Kumar Khandelwal - for allegedly helping the former promoters of the company in “clandestinely” clearing finished goods for which he was paid in cash, according to a statement issued by the agency on Thursday. According to the ED, BPSL clandestinely cleared finished goods worth Rs 700 crore without payment of applicable taxes and duties and without issuance of any statutory invoice. The development comes at a time when the plea of JSW Steel seeking immunity from any ED action on erstwhile promoters of the BPSL is set to be decided by the Supreme Court in September. JSW’s bid worth Rs 19,350 crore for BPSL’s plant was approved by the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NLCAT) in February this year and the agency was asked to release the assets of BPSL. ED had challenged the NCLAT order. “The BPSL had engaged in clandestine clearances of finished goods from its Odisha Plant to its plants at Kolkata and Chandigarh. Goods valued at Rs 700 crore had been cleared without payment of applicable taxes and duties and without issuance of any statutory invoice,” the ED said in the statement. ED has found that “…This practice which was resorted to by the erstwhile management of the company had continued even after initiation of CIRP (company insolvency resolution process) and some irregularities on part of Resolution Professional M K Khandelwal were also revealed.” The raids were conducted at the offices and residence of Khandelwal in Delhi and Gurugram apart from the residence of BPSL’s former director. “Incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones, extracts and other valuables such as jewellery worth Rs 86 lakh were seized. Incriminating documents indicating receipt of cash by M K Khandelwal while discharging duties of Resolution Professional/Interim Resolution Professional have also been seized,” ED said. “Huge cash payments to various individuals outside the books of accounts indicate siphoning and generation of cash from various concerns undergoing process of CIRP under NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal),” the ED statement added. The former promoters of BPSL are under investigation for diverting Rs 4,025 crore bank funds taken as loans. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for Committee of Creditors (CoC) of Bhushan Power, said – “Without commenting on the facts of the individual case, I think institutionally it is time to set the clear the dirty and murky waters which lie behind an actual CIRP. Excessively high fees, huge expenses and now serious allegations of embezzlement can destroy the entire concept of beneficial public interest quick insolvency and mire it in corruption.” Singal’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal refused to comment. Khandelwal could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-power-steel-removed-goods-worth-rs-700-crore-says-ed-raids-resolution-professional/story-RitnOmr7hVYLesEEyAoUWM.html
20-08-2020||India||Space sector reforms not aimed at privatising ISRO: Chairman K Sivan||The recently announced space sector reforms are not aimed at privatisation of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), its Chairman and Secretary in the Department of Space, K Sivan asserted on Thursday.The space agency also stated that the draft on the proposed space activity bill is almost final and it will soon be placed before the Union Cabinet for approval. “When space sector reforms were announced by the government there were many misconceptions like it would lead to privatisation of ISRO. It is not. Again and again I’m repeating it is not the privatisation of ISRO,” Sivan said. Addressing a webinar on “Unlocking of India’s Potential in Space Sector,” he said the whole aim of reforms is enabling the private players to carry out the space activities which is otherwise being done by ISRO.“In fact, the activities of ISRO are going to increase and ISRO will be able to better utilise its resources in taking up developmental as well as capacity building activities of the government, rather than the routine production activity,” he added.The Union Cabinet on June 24 approved participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including planetary exploration missions.It had said, the newly-created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) will provide a level playing field for private companies to use Indian space infrastructure, by hand-holding industries in space activities through encouraging policies and a friendly regulatory environment.Also, the New Space India Limited (NSIL), a PSU under the Department of Space, will endeavour to re-orient space activities from a “supply driven” model to a “demand driven” model, thereby ensuring optimum utilisation of our space assets, it had said.Noting that the space sector reform introduced by the government is going to be a “real game changer”, Sivan said private sector participation in the space sector has been increasing worldwide and it is a healthy trend, as it increases diversity.In India too space sector startups are taking developmental activities in both launch vehicles as well as in satellites, he said.However, there was no mechanism available in the country to extend technology and infrastructure support to them.Also there was no regulatory mechanism to control the private sector activities, so an institutional mechanism has been created as part of reform. The webinar was attended by Principal Scientific Advisor to government of India K Vijay Raghavan, Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra, Bharti Enterprises Chairman Sunil B Mittal among others.Further observing that with the opening of the space sector, ISRO can focus on technology development and capacity building Sivan said in addition to that it will also facilitate private sector participation in major national missions through announcement of opportunity.However, the private sector will have to do their own research and development activities, business viability studies, funding as well as finding customers for their services, he said.Pointing out that import of communication satellites is now in the embargo list under ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, the ISRO Chief said there will be a need for large number of communication satellites to be launched in the immediate future and this could be a huge opportunity for ISRO and also for the private sector.Launching a small satellite is another area where there is a huge projected demand and some startups are interacting with ISRO at an advanced stage and may launch very soon.According to ISRO officials, more than 500 industries are currently involved in activities such as production of components and more than 80 per cent of the launch vehicle and 60 per cent of the spacecraft budget is spent on industry.Scientific Secretary to ISRO, R Uma Maheshwaran said participation of the private sector in end-end space activities is definitely a strategy to expand the space economy.Noting that the private sector is much eager now, he said a lot of people are coming forward to make launch vehicles, and satellites and providing space based services.Uma Maheshwaran also said a mechanism is required regarding the indulgence of the private sector and for this, enactment of the space activity bill is a primary requisite. “It (bill) is almost in its final shape now, we have presented it to the Ministry (PMO) for inter-ministerial consultation and we feel that very soon it will be approved by the Cabinet and presented to the Parliament for making it an act. This is mandatory as India is signatory to the outer space treaty,” he added.Vijay Raghavan, noting a lack of risk capital for industry to sufficiently invest in R&D, said risk needs to be mitigated and for this the combination of talent and material resources, partnering with industry is needed.The opening of the space sector in India will have its impact globally, and also all sectors in India, he said adding that “.. this is an opportunity to increase volume and quality in extraordinary ways.” Suggesting that space may well become the new “gold rush”, Anand Mahindra said though India has an established and credible space programme, its share of the market is miniscule and he was sure that beginning now it will change with the entry of the private sector. “... it is our opportunity to level the playing field, by leveraging our competitive advantages and we have to seize it now,” he said, while admitting that industry and public sector are often “uneasy bedfellows”, but we have to make these reforms work as it is the best way forward”. Sunil Mittal stressed on the need for the policy on participation of private sector in space programme to be “light-touch” but said it should be very strong on security, foreign policy aspects and some of the guidelines need to be very clear so that industry participants know how to operate within the policy framework. PTI KSU RS ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/space-sector-reforms-not-aimed-at-privatising-isro-chairman-k-sivan/story-0xkoQJvKXGjyWcQp0UhLZM.html
20-08-2020||India||Six terrorists killed in past four days including four most wanted ones: J&K DGP||Six terrorists have been killed in the past four days in Kashmir, out of which four were in the top ten wanted list, said Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Thursday.“In three operations over the last four days, six terrorists were killed, out of them, 4 were part of top ten in the list of terrorists in Kashmir. These operations are commendable and will certainly be a relief for people as Sajjad Haidar radicalised many youths,” Singh told reporters here.“In the operations at Kreeri, Baramulla, the top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander of north Kashmir, Sajjad Haider, along with his Pakistani counterpart Usman and a local accomplice Anayatullah were killed. Two-three groups used to work in the area, Sajjad’s another friend, Naseeruddin alias Abu Saad, was also handling a group in the north Kashmir,” Singh said at a press conference here.Adding that the success was because of the coordinated efforts of the Army, Jammy and Kashmir Police, among others he said, “Immediately after Sajjad was gunned down, Naseeruddin alias Abu Saad was given charge of north Kashmir, and his accomplice Danish used to work closely with him. But we were successful in stopping them.”Naseeruddin Lone, along with his accomplice, was killed in an encounter with the security forces in Handwara of Kupwara district on Wednesday. Arms and ammunition in huge quantity were recovered from the two LeT terrorists.Inspector General (IG) Police, Vijay Kumar, said that the leadership structure of terrorists in Kashmir has been wrecked by the number of commanders being killed in the past few days.The DGP further said, “Infiltration has dropped by almost fifty per cent, and there has also been a big drop in the number of local youth joining terrorist groups.”He also noted another big achievement by the security forces operating in Kashmir in which they were able to bring back local terrorists and were attempting to put them back in the mainstream.“In 2020 so far, we have brought back 16 kids who had become terrorists and made them meet their families to bring them back on track,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-terrorists-killed-in-past-four-days-including-four-most-wanted-ones-j-k-dgp/story-Qz2YgQQpJvERoO0a2g52lI.html
20-08-2020||India||Nearly 30,000 deaths in 3 yrs due to trespassing, ‘untoward incidents’: Railways||The ministry of railways on Thursday said there have been nearly 29,000-30,000 deaths due to trespassing and other “untoward incidents” on railway premises over the past three years, following queries raised by government think-tank Niti Aayog on railways’ claim of zero accidental deaths in the year 2019-20. Railway-related accidents refer to only train-related accidents such as train derailment while deaths due to trespassing are counted as human error. “It is true that consequential accidents were indeed zero in 2019-2020 and so far this year as well. We keep records of deaths due to trespassing, like when people come on the tracks and are run over or people standing on the footboard of trains or hanging out of trains. In the last three years, around 29,000 to 30,000 people have lost their lives due to either trespassing or untoward incidents,” railway board chairman VK Yadav said on Thursday. He added that the data will be provided to the think tank.“More than 8 billion passengers travelled last year. Railways has achieved zero passenger fatalities due to accidents in the last year. This has been achieved with lots of efforts on the part of Railways. While the deaths of passengers due to railway accidents has become Zero, unfortunate Casualties do occur due to trespassing and untoward incidents like falling from trains and due to negligence or carelessness on the part of passengers/public. These are incidents on which Railways have little or no control. Efforts are on to sensitise the public on avoiding such situations,” the ministry said.In a letter to Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav, Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant on July 24 had sought clarity from railways over the ministry’s claim of zero deaths in the current fiscal and only five deaths in 2019-20 and questioned the reliability of the data while pointing towards more than a thousand deaths in Mumbai suburban section every year.Also Read: Railways’ technical and non-technical arms lock horns over new recruitment “As per the data presented by the Indian Railways, there has been a noticeable improvement in railway safety,” Kant said in a letter. “The presentation highlights a total of five deaths recorded in 2019-20 and zero deaths in the current fiscal years. Is this a realistic record? In the Mumbai suburban network, over 2,000 people lose their lives every year. It was informed that these deaths are caused on accounts of trespassing and therefore not counted.”Watch how a woman cop helped deliver a baby at Jhansi railway station“I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of these deaths are caused by people falling overboard or from the platform on to the tracks. Hence, this should not be excluded from the purview of The Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh (RRSK). It should be ideally recorded officially,” Kant wrote in the letter.Yadav said that the ministry is planning to induct indigenously-built automatic train protection system that is designed to prevent collisions in the event of a human error. Yadav said the Railways had successfully removed all unmanned level crossings and is making efforts to reduce such deaths to zero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-30-000-deaths-in-3-yrs-due-to-trespassing-untoward-incidents-railways/story-Omq1gmyUIw7zibmJI0CF1H.html
20-08-2020||India||Facebook row: BJP MP Dubey requests LS speaker to replace Tharoor as head of par panel on IT||Stepping up his attack on parliamentary committee on information technology head Shashi Tharoor, BJP MP and a member of the panel Nishikant Dubey on Thursday wrote a letter to the Lok Sabha Speaker requesting him to remove the Congress leader from the post.Citing Lok Sabha rules, Dubey requested Speaker Om Birla to appoint any other member as the chairman of the committee in his place.Taking a dig at Tharoor, Dubey alleged, “speaking in ‘Spenserian’ English with a foreign accent does not give freedom to an individual to not only disregard our glorious parliamentary institutions/organs to meet his own political ambitions but also to abuse our constitution.”  Spenserian English typically refers to the writing style of 16th century British poet Edmund Spenser, known as one of the premier craftsman of nascent modern English verse.Also read: Facebook row intensifies as Tharoor, BJP’s Dubey move breach of privilege notice against each otherDubbing Tharoor as “architect” of creating unnecessary controversies, Dubey said he does so to grind his political ambitions and at the same time target BJP by misusing parliamentary institutions. Ever since Tharoor has become the panel head, “he is running the affairs of the committee in a thoroughly unprofessional manner and to serve his political agenda of spreading rumours and defaming my party”, Dubey claimed in the letter.“... It would be highly improper for Dr. Shashi Tharoor to continue and regulate the proceedings of the committee. I, therefore, appeal to your good self to persuade Dr. Tharoor to proceed on leave and thereafter,... choose another member of the committee to act as Chairperson,” Dubey said in the letter.Claiming that Tharoor’s acts of misdemeanours, in the capacity of the panel’s chairperson are countless, the BJP MP mentioned number of instances where the Congress leader used the parliamentary platform to further his and his party’s political agenda. Dubey also claimed that Tharoor even used the parliamentary platform to “defame” the Lok Sabha speaker to attain political mileage, the BJP MP said the Congress leader had blamed that the Speaker directed him to cancel a meeting of the committee on Information Technology when Covid-19 pandemic was it at zenith while allowing other panels to meet. “Though his allegations were, later on, proved to be entirely concocted, he was successful in using the parliamentary platform even to defame the honourable Speaker and attain some political mileage, perhaps, for getting some media attention to overcome his dwindling political fortunes,” the BJP MP alleged. Dubey and Tharoor filed breach of privilege notices against each other on Wednesday after a spat on social media over the Congress leader’s remarks on summoning Facebook India executives over reports that the social media giant went soft on some BJP leaders who had made hate speeches ahead of the general elections last year. While Dubey said Tharoor was treating the committee as an extension of Congress party, the Congress leader had alleged that the BJP MP made “disparaging remarks” on social media over his decision to summon a panel meeting to discuss the alleged “misconduct” of Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-row-bjp-mp-dubey-requests-ls-speaker-to-replace-tharoor-as-head-of-par-panel-on-it/story-yEkhnvnITcQgRrxM7EHV4M.html
20-08-2020||India||Russia looking for partnership with India to produce Covid vaccine: RDIF CEO||Russia is looking for a partnership with India for producing Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, Kirill Dmitriev, the CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), said on Thursday.Russian President Vladimir Putin had announced that his country has developed the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19, which works “quite effectively” and forms a “stable immunity” against the disease.Sputnik V has been developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, along with the RDIF. The vaccine has not been tested in Phase 3 or larger clinical trials.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic Addressing an online press briefing, Dmitriev said several nations are interested in the production of the vaccine from countries in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East.“The production of the vaccine is a very important issue. Currently, we are looking for a partnership with India. We believe that they are capable of producing the Gamaleya vaccine and it is very important to say that those partnerships to produce the vaccine will enable us to cover the demand that we have,” he said.Dmitriev said Russia is looking forward to international cooperation.“We are going to do clinical trials not just in Russia but also in the UAE, Saudi Arabia, probably in Brazil and India. We are planning to produce the vaccine in more than five countries and there is a very high demand from Asia, Latin America, Italy and other parts of the world regarding the delivery of the vaccine,” he said.Also read: Russia to begin Covid-19 vaccine trials on 40,000 people next weekAlexander Gintsburg, the director of the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and an academician at the Russian Academy of Sciences, said more than 20,000 people have taken part in the clinical trials of vaccines and drugs, based on human adenoviruses or human adenoviral vectors.“Vaccines do not contain live human adenoviruses, but human adenovirus vectors, that is, human viruses that cannot multiply in the body and are completely safe,” he said.Also read| Surface structure of Covid decoded findings may aid vaccine development: ReportThe Sputnik V vaccine consists of two shots that use different versions of adenoviruses -- virus types, some of which cause the common cold -- that the manufacturers have engineered to carry the gene for the surface protein of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.“The approach of the Gamaleya Institute with the vaccine, using two human adenoviruses serotypes: number 5 (Ad5) and number 26 (Ad26), has a clear advantage over the one-vector approach used by other developers,” Gintsburg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-looking-for-partnership-with-india-to-produce-covid-vaccine-rdif-ceo/story-UVKM9MpQy3w1sD7bqZ1SNO.html
20-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: France becomes first country to open borders, consular services for Indian students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.France becomes first country to open borders, consular services for Indian studentsFrance has become the first country to open its borders to Indian students, researchers and teachers who have been invited by a French academic establishment or laboratory, and to holders of the “Talent” passport. Read moreKKR, KXIP, RR reach UAE ahead of IPL 2020The stage is set for the Indian Premier League 2020 as three of the eight franchises - Rajasthan Royals, Kings XI Punjab and Kolkata Knight Riders - arrived in the UAE on Thursday. Read moreInstagram suspends Hindustani Bhau’s account for violating community guidelinesInstagram has suspended the account of former Bigg Boss contestant and YouTuber Hindustani Bhau (Vikas Fhatak). His account was reported by several app users for promoting hate speech and violence. Read moreIndia-China border dispute: 5 things you need to know about current situationIndia and China have been at loggerheads at the LAC in Ladakh and despite several rounds of talks, Beijing does not seem ready to restore status quo. Read moreAirtel prepaid plans now come with Disney+ Hotstar VIP subscription: Here are all the detailsAirtel has expanded some of its plans to come with Disney+ Hotstar VIP subscriptions including the ₹448, ₹499, ₹599 and the ₹2,698 prepaid recharges. Read more‘Listen to your Guardian Angel’: Pune Police’s post has lots of good adviceNot too long ago, Pune Police shared a witty post on their social media platforms regarding how to break the chain of fake news. Read moreShilpa Shetty Kundra’s ‘Tasty Thursday’ recipe will set even vegans craving for Besan Coconut Barfi this Ganesh ChaturthiBollywood diva Shilpa Shetty Kundra and ‘Tasty Thursday’ go hand-in-hand and ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi it was no different. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-france-becomes-first-country-to-open-borders-consular-services-for-indian-students-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8VYqkzbIGZ8VutREXplt5O.html
20-08-2020||India||India nudges Beijing to walk the talk on Ladakh disengagement, China doesn’t budge||India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during diplomatic talks on Thursday, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual media briefing the two sides will continue to work towards “complete disengagement” on the LAC. “In this context, they agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with existing agreements and protocols,” he added.Also Read: India must inflict costs on China, writes Brahma ChellaneyThe WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. This was the body’s fifth virtual meeting since the Ladakh standoff along the disputed border emerged in the open in May. The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, rejected the Chinese foreign ministry’s assertion that the two sides had “positively evaluated” the progress in disengagement of troops at friction points on the LAC.“That’s their assessment. It isn’t our assessment,” said one of the people. “The disengagement process is a work in progress and more needs to be done.”The people pointed to the external affairs ministry spokesperson’s comments on August 14 about “some progress” being made in the disengagement process, and that translating the principles of disengagement on the ground is a “complex process that requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. This, they said, continues to be India’s position.Spokesperson Srivastava characterised the discussions during the WMCC meeting as “candid and in-depth” and said the two sides “reaffirmed that in accordance with the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives (SRs), the two sides will continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in the western sector”. “The two sides were in agreement that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” Srivastava added. The two sides acknowledged the need to maintain close communication through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement, and agreed to continue ongoing engagements, including the meetings of WMCC, he said. The Chinese foreign ministry’s readout, issued in Mandarin, said the two sides reviewed the situation in the border areas, “positively evaluated the progress made in the disengagement of the frontline forces of the two countries”, and had a frank and in-depth exchange on “remaining issues on the ground”.The two sides “agreed to earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two countries’ foreign ministers and Special Representatives on border issues, continue to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, promote further relaxation and cooling of the Sino-Indian border situation, properly handle remaining issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the readout added.Experts believe India now has no other option but to prepare for deploying thousands of troops along the LAC during the winter as several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level haven’t led to the restoration of the status quo as it existed in April. Christopher Clary, assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, said: “It has been over 100 days since the first clashes at Pangong Tso and more than two months since the Galwan clash. While modest progress has been made, and it is a good sign both sides are talking, the reality is India shouldn’t expect talks will achieve much.”India’s strategy of having “more video teleconferences with various Quad countries is probably insufficient to change China’s cost-benefit calculus”, he said. “India can hope the nasty winter of eastern Ladakh might nudge China toward somewhat more disengagement, but it seems more likely Indian troops are facing additional long, cold months of forward deployments to prevent future Chinese land grabs,” Clary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sees-a-positive-at-border-talks-on-ladakh-friction-not-really-rebuts-india/story-L1yIaP02HG33JdYvgp00DI.html
20-08-2020||India||Law has to be fair and balanced: Congress on Prashant Bhushan contempt case||The Congress on Thursday said the “law has to be applied in an even-handed, fair and balanced manner” in the context of the contempt case involving lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan heard by the Supreme Court. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson and senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the concerns raised by those after the judgment are certainly not in any manner false or frivolous. “They cannot be dismissed off hand and deserve a lot of careful thinking because they include former judges of that very court, they include precedence and they include the basic spirit of the Supreme Court that its chest is larger than any chest in India and its shoulders being wider than any shoulder in India,” he said. The Supreme Court on Thursday granted two days to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement” refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan told a bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, that he would consult his lawyers and think over the apex court’s suggestion. Bhushan’s counsel Rajeev Dhawan pointed out that his statement has been supported by Justices (retired) RM Lodha, Kurien Joseph and AP Shah. The Supreme Court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets against the judiciary, saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. “The speed also, I would say, with greatest humility is very worrying and creates part of the problem,” Singhvi said. “However, I think these are all issues which I would not like to officially associate my party with because the party would require a resolution or something like that but the sentiment is very clear and I have articulated that from the podium,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-has-to-be-fair-and-balanced-congress-on-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case/story-vxJjjlw3BFduZBw7XwdEBN.html
20-08-2020||India||“May other cities also be inspired...”: PM Modi congratulates Swachh Survekshan 2020 winners||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday congratulated the winners of Swachh Survekshan survey 2020 and lauded the “competitive spirit that strengthens India’s cleanliness programme – Swachh Bharat Mission.“Congratulations to all those cities who have secured top positions in #SwachhSurvekshan2020. May other cities also be inspired to further ramp up their efforts towards ensuring cleanliness. Such competitive spirit strengthens the Swachh Bharat Mission and benefits millions,” PM Modi tweeted. Congratulations to all those cities who have secured top positions in #SwachhSurvekshan2020. May other cities also be inspired to further ramp up their efforts towards ensuring cleanliness. Such competitive spirit strengthens the Swachh Bharat Mission and benefits millions.In the fifth edition of the survey published of India’s cleanliness index, Indore has been announced as India’s cleanest city for fourth straight year. The second and third positions in the category were grabbed by Surat and Navi Mumbai respectively. Additionally, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has bagged the first rank in the “cleanest capital” city category.Varanasi has been the adjudged the ‘best Ganga town’ in the central government’s cleanliness survey.The 10 top-ranked cities, having a population of more than 10 lakh, are Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Vijaywada, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhopal, Chandigarh, GVMS Visakhapatnam and Vadodara.Apart from these, Lucknow is ranked 12th, Ghaziabad 19th, Prayagraj 20th, Dhanbad 33th and Faridabad 38th.Patna was ranked the lowest among 47 cities, while Chennai is at the 45th place. Meerut is ranked 41st, followed by Madurai, North Delhi and Kota.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-other-cities-also-be-inspired-pm-modi-congratulates-swachh-survekshan-2020-winners/story-iMeWP0P76FALUOKFD7lHZO.html
20-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh case: ‘Will cooperate with CBI ’, says Mumbai police commissioner||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrived in Mumbai on Thursday evening to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. On being asked about working with the CBI, Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh said that the state police will fully cooperate with the team on the investigation.“Of course, we will cooperate,” said Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.The CBI team arrived in the city a day after the Supreme Court allowed the CBI to continue with its probe into the case filed against Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Sushant Singh.Also read | ‘Truth will remain same, whichever agency investigates’: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer on SC orderWhile pronouncing the verdict, the apex court observed that due to the allegations made by the two states (Bihar and Maharashtra) of political interference against each other, it would be in the interest of justice to hand over the case to the CBI.The apex court also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena claimed that the case of the late actor’s death is being politicised to “malign” the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government.Also read | Nitish claims vindication in Sushant case, says it is about justice, not politicsIn the official mouthpiece of the ruling party, Shiv Sena said that it is surprising that even though the court found nothing wrong in the Mumbai Police’s probe, the case has been handed over to the CBI”“Several criminal cases in Bihar were investigated by the CBI. How many real culprits did the CBI arrest so far? Sushant’s case was politicised only to malign the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government,” Shiv Sena said.Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide on June 14 in his apartment in Mumbai.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-case-will-cooperate-with-cbi-says-mumbai-police-commissioner/story-YTIC4K8I9GqwY9g7W40T0K.html
20-08-2020||India||France becomes first country to open borders, consular services for Indian students||France has become the first country to open its borders to Indian students, researchers and teachers who have been invited by a French academic establishment or laboratory, and to holders of the “Talent” passport. Seven French visa processing centres in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi became operational from August 17 to receive select visa applications, while complying with Indian travel regulations and the safety of consular teams. Universities in France have readied themselves to receive international students, either wholly or partly on campus, said a statement from the French embassy. Addressing thousands of Indian students who have chosen to study in France, ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “France is returning to normalcy and I am delighted that international students will be among the first to benefit from it. The French embassy is fully mobilised to ensure that students can pursue their studies in France in the smoothest conditions possible, despite the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic.” The move “reaffirms France’s priority to academic mobility”, he said. The facility is limited to Indian students travelling to France in autumn for studies for more than three months on long-term visas, and short-term studies or internships, with accommodation in France. It is also available to professors or researchers employed or invited by a French academic institution or research laboratory who are travelling at the end of their studies or for teaching, and to those having a valid long-term visa or a “Talent” passport. These persons must possess an “International Travel Certificate to Mainland France” (Attestation de déplacement international dérogatoire), available on the website of the French interior ministry. This certificate has to be presented to the travel company before departure and to border control authorities on arrival in France.The certificate must be accompanied by an undertaking that the person does not have any symptoms of Covid-19 and has not been in contact with an infected person 14 days prior to departure. The visa applications will be processed in small batches every week to ensure adequate safety measures at the processing centres. Social distancing and other recommended protective measures are being adhered to, and mobile biometric data collection and courier services are available to limited in-person contacts at the centres. All travellers displaying any symptoms of Covid-19 on their entry in French territory will be prescribed quarantine or self-isolation. In order to prepare students, pre-departure sessions called “Bienvenue en France” are scheduled online during August 22-31. These sessions will acquaint students with administrative procedures, ways of finding accommodation, tips from alumni, and practical advice on student life in France. Around 118 Indian students are preparing to travel to France at the end of September as English language assistants for a stint in French schools. The programme offers an opportunity for French-speaking Indian students to live and work in France and gain professional exposure. The number of Indian students opting for higher studies in France has risen from 3,000 in 2014 to around 10,000 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-becomes-first-country-to-open-borders-consular-services-for-indian-students/story-R8m77TeYXubiwDnzXLG8dI.html
20-08-2020||India||Kerala-Centre showdown looms over leasing Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani||A day after the Union Cabinet approved the leasing of three airports including the one at Thiruvananthapuram to Adani Enterprises, an all-party meet called by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday decided to explore legal options to block the move, setting the stage for another round of centre-state showdown.Though the opposition Congress stood with the state government on the issue, party leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor’s support to Centre’s decision left many red-faced. Tharoor, however, said his position on the issue has been consistent from the day one. “The all-party meet decided to explore all options. We will not allow this to happen. We firmly believe that without the state’s consent, nobody can take over it,” the CM said after the meeting. He also said the state assembly will pass a resolution opposing the takeover. He had also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, deploring the move. Tharoor’s concurrence with the BJP and voices from the industry on the issue has left some Congress leaders upset. Pradesh Congress Committee chief Mullapally Ramachandran has criticised Tharoor’s move without naming him.“Congressmen can’t support the move to loot a public property by an industrialist close to PM Modi,” he said. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal also slammed the Union government’s decision calling it “a sellout”. Tharoor said private participation will usher in the much-needed development in his constituency. “My position on the airport has been consistent from the beginning itself and I stick to it. I am not a politician who says one thing to voters and something else afterwards for political convenience. The reality is that a private entity running the operations competitively is the only way the airport could flourish,” he tweeted.Also Read: 26 who helped passengers of crashed plane in Kozhikode contract Covid-19The state government has been opposing the privatization of the airport vehemently and has fought many legal battles but the courts refused to interfere calling it a policy decision. Last year, the Kerala High Court had dismissed a clutch of petitions including that of the state government and later the Supreme Court also declined to stay the decision. Last year, the government-owned Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had participated in the open bid for the airport won by Adani Enterprises. Adani group had quoted Rs 168 per passenger fee, compared to KSIDC’s quote of Rs 135 per passenger fee followed by GMR at Rs 63.After losing the bid, the CM had written to the Prime Minister asking him not to handover the airport to a private entity citing the successful PPP model of the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) and the Kannur airport. He said the state deserved preferential consideration over the private group taking into account its experience of running two airports and the public interest. He had also pointed out that the bid-winning firm had no experience in running airports, in an indirect reference to the Adani group’s inexperience in running airports, though it manages a number of sea ports in the country. Also Read: Onam 2020 to be limited inside homes due to Covid-19 pandemic: Kerala CMThe Airports Authority Employees Union (AAEU) has also decided to move another petition opposing the handover of the airport before the high court. “Employees were not consulted by anyone at any stage,” said AAEU convenor S Ajith Kumar. The BJP has responded by accusing the state government of attempting to whip up passion to divert attention from the raging gold smuggling case.“One of the oldest airports of the country is in bad shape. The CPI(M) and Congress want to sabotage its development,” said BJP state secretary S Suresh. Thirty kg gold was seized last month by customs from a bag addressed to an employee of the UAE consulate, casting a shadow on the government after the CM’s secretary was removed for his alleged ties with one of the main accused. “The state was consulted on every occasion. It also participated in the bid. Now the CM is crying hoarse as investigating agencies are coming close to his office in the gold smuggling case,” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, criticizing, what he called the “new-found bonhomie between the Congress and CPI(M)”.Built in 1932, the airport currently operated by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) is situated on 638 acres of land allotted by the erstwhile rulers of Travancore. Later, only 40 acres were added to the airport crippling its further expansion. It is one of the few airports in the country situated in the middle of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-centre-showdown-looms-over-leasing-thiruvananthapuram-airport-to-adani/story-MRg3bv7zYExCyerKN4qFCL.html
20-08-2020||India||Indira Rasoi scheme launched in Rajasthan for affordable food to needy: All you need to know||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday launched the Indira Rasoi scheme that will provide poor and needy people with nutritious and quality food at Rs 8 per plate in urban areas.How much does Indira Rasoi scheme cost?Each plate of food will be priced at Rs 20, the state government will grant subsidy of Rs 12 per plate with an estimated expenditure of Rs 100 crore every year.What all will be included in the Indira Rasoi plate for people?Under the scheme, fresh and nutritious food will be provided at Rs 8 per plate. It will have 100 gms of pulses, 100 gms of vegetables, 250 gms chapatti and pickles. The menu can be altered as per the local requirement recommended by the district-level committees.How many people are expected to benefit from Indira Rasoi scheme?It is expected, that under the scheme, food will be served to 1.34 lakh people per day in the state.Where will the scheme be implemented in Rajasthan?The scheme will be rolled in 213 urban local bodies of the state, which include 10 locations each in the state capital’s Jaipur municipal corporation greater and heritage area.When will the food be served under Indira Rasoi scheme?The food will be made available from 8.30 am till 1 pm and 5 pm to 8 pm.Who can help fund this scheme?Individuals or institutions can provide financial aid to CM Relief Fund or at district collector offices for this scheme.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indira-rasoi-scheme-launched-in-rajasthan-for-affordable-food-to-needy-all-you-need-to-know/story-eGsAyDiCHmMar8vAMqLdKM.html
20-08-2020||India||Ajay Maken returning to Rajasthan to take stock of party emerging from crisis||The newly appointed All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, will visit Rajasthan next week to take stock of the functioning of the party organisation and the government in the state, a senior leader of the party said.Maken, who is also part of a three-member committee formed by the Congress high command to look into issues raised by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters, will be on a week-long visit to the state from August 24, the party leader said.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, the Congress leader said that Maken’s visit is not directly connected with the work of the AICC constituted panel that will look into the Pilot camp’s grievances and functioning of the government.“But he (Maken) will be interacting with the MLAs one to one; hold a meeting with the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) members in Jaipur, which is pending for long; and also hold district-wise meetings at divisional headquarters,” the leader added.The AICC general secretary will spend two days in Jaipur before holding the divisional level meetings, in which he will be interacting with workers and leaders, the Congress leader told HT.Maken was a member of the Congress team, which handled the recent month-long political crisis in Rajasthan, while staying with the MLAs in Jaipur and Jaisalmer.“The aim of his visit is to further strengthen the party organization after what all happened in the last two months,” the Congress leader said, adding that, “During his interaction with the MLAs and other leaders, he will be taking feedback on functioning (of the state unit) and strive to strengthen the organisation at the district and the block level.”Also Read: Rajasthan CM Gehlot to launch ‘Indira Rasoi Yojana’ todayHe said Maken will be accompanied by AICC co-incharge and newly-appointed state president, Govind Singh Dotasara, at the divisional level meetings.An AICC office-bearer said the modalities of the panel constituted to address rebels’ grievances are still not finalised. The panel will be sitting once Maken returns. However, feedback of the visit will be taken into account.He said the cabinet expansion and political appointments have nothing to do with the committee report, as such issues are dealt directly between the high command and the chief minister. The panel formed will look into the grievances of the MLAs.Also Read: State govt has resolved to meet people’s livelihood challenges: Rajasthan CMMeanwhile, more than 50 lawmakers from the Gehlot camp have expressed their desire to interact with the panel, which was originally formed to look into the grievances of the 18 rebel MLAs led by Sachin Pilot. Sources claimed that they aren’t happy that the dissident MLAs are making statements against the government and Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-maken-is-heading-to-rajasthan-to-take-stock-post-crisis/story-tAvKTzZtsbJt7a8rqx0ArJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Mizoram govt, Assam Rifles spar over Covid spread by security personnel||Assam Rifles has accused the Mizoram government of violating the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) by “restricting” the “operational movement” of its personnel, the central paramilitary force has said in a statement.The allegation came days after media reports said 15 personnel of the Assam Rifles forced their way through a check gate at Vairengte on the Mizoram-Assam border in defiance of the entry and screening protocol put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19.“The government of Mizoram denying entry has clearly violated the directions of MHA which has serious implications for national security and is a cause of grave concern,” a statement by the paramilitary said on Wednesday.The guidelines issued by the MHA have clearly made exceptions in respect of defence and central armed police forces (CAPF), it said.The Mizoram government shot back, saying the act of “wilful disregard” of safety protocol on the part of Assam Rifles had “seriously compromised” the safety of the people and negated the sincere efforts of the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19.The statement by the paramilitary force said, “The restrictions imposed by the state government on the operational movement of Assam Rifles is seriously hampering the smooth functioning of the force impacting the primary task of guarding the border.” The Assam Rifles has not caused any community spread of Covid-19 in the state and has been managing its coronavirus patients at its own quarantine centre at Zokhawsang near Aizawl, it said.The statement noted the state government had been approached several times and requested to pass suitable instructions to its officials at Vairangte entry gate and all other entry points to allow “unobstructed movement” of personnel of the force.Claiming that the personnel of the paramilitary force were not asked to undergo any medical test at Vairengte on August 18, the statement said, “Assam Rifles has always assured the state government that all its personnel entering the state will be put through the mandatory Covid-19 quarantine protocols and has never denied to undergo any medical test by state medical authorities.” Meanwhile, the state’s home department, in a letter to Brigadier Vinod S, the DIG of sector 23 of Assam Rifles, claimed on Wednesday that its troops crossed the border into the state without complying with the norms for medical screening at the check gate.It urged the Assam Rifles authorities to ensure that such acts were not repeated.The letter alleged, on Tuesday, at least 15 Assam Rifles personnel from 46 Battalion forced their way through the border gate after refusing to comply with the entry and medical screening protocol put in place by the state government.“Despite various regulations, orders, guidelines and instructions issued by the state government and repeated appeals to curtail avoidable inter-state movement of troops, the Assam Rifles has been less cooperative,” the letter said.The entry of as many as 1,124 Assam Rifles personnel was allowed from May to August 10, and 10 per cent of them tested positive for Covid-19, the letter said.Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga had earlier appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to temporarily stop inter-state movement of all paramilitary personnel in August to contain the further spread of Covid-19 after many of them were found to be infected with the virus.According to the state’s health department, at least 339 security personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, accounting for 38.83 per cent of the total 873 cases.Of the 339 security personnel, 101 were from Assam Rifles, 230 from BSF and four each from the CRPF and the Army, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-govt-assam-rifles-spar-over-covid-spread-by-security-personnel/story-aG7NBhUHwEugkdzC0wEy2J.html
20-08-2020||India||Want Kulbhushan Jadhav to be represented by Indian lawyer in review plea: MEA||India wants Kulbhushan Jadhav to be represented by an Indian lawyer for filing a review petition against his death sentence in Pakistan, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. “We are in touch with Pakistan through diplomatic channels. We believe, for a free and fair trial in keeping with the letter and spirit of ICJ judgment in Kulbhushan Jhadav case, we have asked that Jadhav be represented by an Indian lawyer,” Srivastava said during the ministry’s weekly briefing, reported news agency ANI.“However, it is important that Pakistan needs to address the core issues; these issues involve the provision of relevant documents and providing unimpeded consular access to Jadhav,” he said.Islamabad has said only Pakistani lawyers and those entitled to practice in the country can be appointed to represent Jadhav. Earlier this month, the Islamabad high court directed the Pakistan government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav, 50, so that he could file a review petition against his conviction. The court also directed the Pakistan government to again inform Jadhav of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the ICJ’s order of 2019 staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction. The case will next come up with a larger bench of Islamabad high court again on September 3. India has accused Pakistan of coercing Jadhav not to file a review petition and of not complying with the ICJ’s verdict. Jadhav was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected these allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-kulbhushan-jadhav-to-be-represented-by-indian-lawyer-in-review-plea-mea/story-8FmDP1D7pYICKaIrPRx1wM.html
20-08-2020||India||Haryana Guv seeks President’s approval, experts say job quota in private sector legally untenable||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s decision to seek President’s approval for the state cabinet’s decision to reserve 75% of jobs, generated by the private sector in the state, for locals can have legal implications for other states that have announced regulations to reserve private sector jobs for state residents, say legal experts.Arya’s decision to seek President’s approval was based on Haryana’s law secretary’s view that the proposed law could be seen as a violation of two articles of the Constitution --- Article 14 that allows equality before law and Article (1)(g) that allows freedom to practice any profession or trade to all citizens.However, Haryana’s advocate general M B Mahajan said the proposed reservation in jobs for locals did not violate any Central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution, either,” Mahajan said.But, legal experts said Arya’s decision could have implications for other states, which have or are in the process of adopting similar reservation norms for private sector jobs to protect interests of the locals.“The ground for giving reservation has to be socio-economic backwardness. Place of birth and residence cannot be a ground. This has been clearly stated by the Supreme Court in at least 10 various judgments, if not more, since 1954. Providing reservation in any other form could be seen as contrary to the Constitutional norms,” said senior Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Vivek Tankha.Another senior Supreme Court lawyer Ashok Arora said reservation in private sector jobs to the locals can be provided, if the state can provide quantifiable reasons for the same to ensure equality. “The state governments will have to provide ‘reasonable’ ground for reserving jobs for locals which is quantifiable. And, this can be achieved only through a proper scientific study,” he said. The Supreme Court, through various judgments, has said that reservation to castes or classes can be provided only after a detailed study providing evidence of their socio-economic and educational backwardness. In the past, the SC had struck down other backward classes (OBC) reservation in government jobs for castes such as Jats in Haryana and Marathas in Maharashtra in absence of a detailed study.Experts say for reserving jobs for locals in the private sector, the state governments will have to show economic backwardness, which may not be easy. As per a January 2020 report by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation (MOSPI), Haryana’s per capita income was Rs 2,26,644 in 2018-19, the sixth highest in the country after Goa, Delhi, Sikkim, Chandigarh and Puducherry.Some other states, which have provided for reservation to locals in private sector jobs, such as Maharashtra (up to 80%), Andhra Pradesh (75%), Karnataka (75%) and Madhya Pradesh (70%), also rank high on per capital income. Maharashtra is ranked seventh, Andhra Pradesh 16 and Karnataka 17 on the country’s per capita income index released by MOSPI.The Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act, 2020, that stipulates reservation in private sector jobs is under challenge in the state high court on the ground that it violates Article 16(2) and (3) of the Constitution which prohibits discrimination in employment on the grounds of place of residence. The court’s bench of Chief Justice GK Maheswari and Justice Kanneganti Lalitha in May, 2020, asked the state government to submit a reply within four weeks on whether the law violates the Constitution. The next hearing of the case is slated for September. The court has not stayed the application of the law.Telangana has joined other states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in insisting that the private sector provide reservations to the locals for employment. Last week, the Telangana cabinet approved a policy giving incentives such as tax concessions to industries that reserve jobs for locals in the state. “The cabinet felt that the locals should have more opportunities in the industries being set up in the state,” said an official statement.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday announced that all government jobs in the state would be reserved for students of the state, who have cleared class X and XII examinations from a school in the state.He said the regulations in this regard would be issued soon. The officials said that this was being done since, like many other states, MP cannot impose a language restriction to prevent outsiders from getting government jobs. Written and spoken knowledge of Marathi in Maharashtra, Tamil in Tamil Nadu, Kannada in Karnataka and Bengali in West Bengal is a must to be eligible for a government job. However, Jammu and Kashmir in its new domicile policy had made it easier for outsiders to get a job in the state for the purpose of national integration.“As Hindi is the official and spoken language in the state, we cannot impose language restriction like many other states. So, the government is working on introducing schooling from the state, as a criteria, for applying for a government job,” a state government official said.Tankha said providing 100% reservation in government jobs is a violation of SC judgment which caps reservation at 50%.But, this renewed bid of the political parties to reserve jobs for locals is seen as an attempt to attract voters before elections even though it may not be legally tenable.The promise of reservation for locals in private sector was made by the ruling party of Andhra Pradesh, YSR Congress, ruling alliance partners in Maharashtra -- Shiv Sena and Congress, Jharkhand’s ruling party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Jannayak Janata Party of Dushyant Chautala, which is in power with Bharatiya Janata party in Haryana, just before assembly elections in these states in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-governor-seeking-clarity-on-quota-for-locals-in-private-jobs-has-implications-for-other-states/story-fb6jF9uDOFMHD9ibV7WO8I.html
20-08-2020||India||Vice Prez Naidu pitches for adequate reservation of women in parliament and state legislatures||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday batted for adequate reservation of women representatives in Parliament and state legislatures and asked all political parties to arrive at an early agreement on the subject matter. He made these remarks while addressing a virtual event by the Indian Association of Parliamentarians for Population and Development (IAPPD). A bill to provide reservation to women in the Lok Sabha and various state assemblies was passed by the Upper House (Rajya Sabha) but got terminated after the dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha in 2014. Naidu added that districts with huge imbalance in sex ratios should get greater attention from the elected representatives. An official statement said the Vice President observed that such a proposal was pending for a long time and also called for moral education in schools so that children grow up and become responsible and sensitive citizens who view gender discrimination as immoral. Along with pitching for adequate reservation for women in the supreme legislative body, Naidu pushed for stricter implementation of laws to ban female foeticide and dowry and ensure free and compulsory education for the girl child. The Vice President at the virtual event, also pitched for equipping the elderly with new-age skills in order to lead fuller professionals lives and continue their contribution to nation-building. If young are the ‘demographic dividend’, seniors are ‘demographic bonus’ for the nation, he added. Naidu highlighted that the health system needs to be re-oriented in order to cater to specific needs of the elderly population through provision of medical benefits and insurance coverage.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-prez-naidu-pitches-for-adequate-reservation-of-women-in-parliament-and-state-legislatures/story-knnCe0KbS0Lr6zkkVcHDUP.html
20-08-2020||India||Four Gujarat cities in top 10 cleanest cities; CM Rupani elated||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday expressed happiness over four major cities of the state finding place in the list of top 10 cleanest cities of India.Rupani gave credit to people, elected representatives and officials of these cities for accepting the appeal of Mahatma Gandhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi about cleanliness, which helped in getting the rankings.As per the Swachh Survekshan 2020 findings, released in New Delhi on Thursday, Surat is the second most cleanest city in India after Indore which retained the top ranking for a fourth straight year.Three other Gujarat cities in the top 10 are Ahmedabad (5th spot), Rajkot (6th spot) and Vadodara (10th spot), said Rupani in a statement.“It is a matter of great happiness and pride that four Gujarat cities have made it to the top 10 list of Swachh Survekshan 2020.“I congratulate people, elected representatives and mayors of these four cities for achieving this feat,” said Rupani.“Its a matter of pride for all Gujaratis because we are walking on the path shownby Mahatma Gandhi about maintaining cleanliness.“Our PM, too, had initiated a major social movement to make people understand the importance of cleanliness,” said Rupani.The people of the state accepted the appeal of these “two sons of Gujarat” and this helped the four cities figure in the top 10 cleanest cities of the country, he said.Terming the survey results as “encouraging”,Rupani said Gujarat is committed to create more cleaner and greener cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-gujarat-cities-in-top-10-cleanest-cities-cm-rupani-elated/story-O0RdGZfgoRUeoKG52QoClK.html
20-08-2020||India||Heavy rains in Odisha, two men washed away||Heavy rains triggered by a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal lashed Odisha on Thursday throwing life out of gear by snapping road link, damaging mud houses and claiming at least two lives in different parts of the state, officials said.Special relief commissioner(SRC) P K Jena said the state recorded average rainfall of 59 mm since Wednesday and two persons were swept away by strong current while crossing Jambhira river at Golmuhan Ghat in Mayurbhanj district.Nabarangpur district reported the heaviest rainfall of 130.6 mm, while Malkangiri district in southern Odisha saw road communication snapped and low lying areas inundated due to the incessant rains, the officials said.The heavy rains caused the water levels of several rivers to rise in Bhadrak, Balasore, Puri, Kalahandi and Kandhamal districts, the officials said adding the state government has already asked the district administrations to be ready to deal with waterlogging and localised flooding. In view of heavy rainfall forecast by IMD, state chief secretary A K Tripathy held a video conference with senior officials, including collectors to review the situation arising out of heavy downpours.Jena said after the review meeting that five districts received more than 100 mm rainfall, while ten others reported more than 50 mm.The two who were washed away on Wednesday evening have been identified after their bodies were fished out of the river on Thursday by fire service personnel, officer in-charge of Moroda police station, Madhusudan Dutta said.Jena said low-lying areas and roads in different parts of the state were submerged due to the torrential rains.Reports of damage to mud and thatched houses, standing crops were received from some areas.Assessment of the loss due to the rain is on, he said.Cuttack recorded 117.2 mm rainfall, Jajpur 111.8 mm, Koraput 100.8 mm and Kendrapada 100.2 mm in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 AM on Thursday, Jena said.Salepur block in Cuttack district recorded the highest rainfall of 300 mm followed by Nischintakoili at 297.5 mm and Nabarangpur which saw 243 mm rainfall, he said.Revenue and Disaster Management Minister Sudam Marndi who took stock of the situation, said the situation is under control and there is no fear of flood though the water level of several rivers in the state is rising.Jena said the water level of Hati river in Kalahandi district is rising and the local tehsildar and block development officer are keeping a close watch on the situation.Road communication between Dharmagarh and Junagarh in Kalahandi has snapped as water was flowing over the highway, he said.The water level of Indravati and Vaskel rivers in Nabarangpur district has risen, but there is no flood situation at present, the SRC said.The water level of Baitarani river is at 17.56 metres as against the danger mark of 17.83 metres at Akhuapada in Bhadrak district, an official said adding several low-lying areas in the district have been submerged due to heavy rainfall.In Puri district, the road link between Tinikuda and Balikera was disrupted as a temporary bridge over Bhargabi river was swept away by floodwaters.The water level of Jalaka river at Mathani in Balasore district is flowing at 6.6 metres, above the danger mark of 5.5 metres, but the situation is under control, he said.In Kandhamal district, road communication between Phulbani and Dakapala was disrupted due to overflowing of Salunki river and some houses were damaged at Nuasahi in Baliguda block, Jena said.Water-logging was also reported from several low-lying areas in Kendrapara, Dhenkanal, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Boudh districts, the SRC said. The Meteorological Centre here has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in some places of Koraput, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Bolangir, Bargarh, Sonepur, Angul, Sambalpur, Deogarh, Sundargarh and Keonjhar till Friday.The Met centre has also forecast the formation of another low pressure area over Bay of Bengal around August 23.Marndi said all district collectors, ODRAF and fire services have been put on alert in view of the forecast of a fresh low pressure area.The district collectors have been asked to conduct a thorough assessment of the damage caused by the rainfall and submit detailed reports, he said.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea along and off Odisha coast till Friday as squally weather with surface wind up to 55 kmph speed may prevail during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-in-odisha-two-men-washed-away/story-4XG8eZdWQSVYVWsUeBuDUP.html
20-08-2020||India||Seven active Chinese military air bases under close watch of Indian agencies||Even as the tensions on China border continue over territorial issues, Indian agencies are keeping a close eye on the activities of the People’s Liberation Army’s Air Force (PLAAF) spread all along the Line of Actual Control with India opposite Ladakh in the north to Arunachal Pradesh in the Northeast.“We are keeping a close watch on the Hotan, Gar Gunsa, Kashghar, Hopping, Dkonka Dzong, Linzhi and Pangat airbases of the PLAAF in the Xinjiang and Tibet region and all of them have been highly active in the recent times,” government sources told ANI.The Chinese PLAAF has upgraded a number of these bases in recent times including the construction of hardened shelters, the extension of runway lengths and deployment of additional manpower to carry out more operations, they said.Sources said the Linzhi airbase opposite the Northeastern states is mainly a helicopter base and the Chinese have also built a network of helipads there to enhance their surveillance activities in those areas.The PLAAF has been deploying their fighter aircraft including their Chinese version of the Sukhoi-30 and indigenous J-series fighters opposite the Ladakh sector and other areas along with their strategic bombers which have been under constant monitoring of the Indian agencies through satellites and other means.The Indian side has also ramped up its preparedness in the view of the heightened activity by the Chinese forces on their side of the LAC and has deployed its fleet of Sukhoi-30MKIs, MiG-29s and Mirage-2000s at the forward air bases to tackle any misadventure.In the initial phase of the tension with China in the April-May timeframe, the Indian forces had seen the deployment of Su-30s and MiG-29s in the forward air bases and they had played an important role in thwarting an airspace violation bid by the Chinese aircraft in the Eastern Ladakh sector.The Indian Air Force has an edge over the Chinese in the Ladakh region as their fighters have to fly and take off from very high altitude bases while the Indian fleet can take off from plains and reach the mountainous region in almost no time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-active-chinese-military-air-bases-under-close-watch-of-indian-agencies/story-6Cpne426wMOyqfGBtuWaPK.html
20-08-2020||India||Using cloned cheques, gang swindles Rs 40 lakh from UP govt; 1 arrested||A member of a cheque cloning gang making fraudulent withdrawals from the bank accounts of government and non-government organisations was arrested in Lucknow’s Vibhuti Khand area on Wednesday night, police officials of the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UP STF) said on Thursday.The gang was operational in different cities of the state, as well as other states, the officials added.Inspector general (IG) of police, UP STF, Amitabh Yash, said a gang member identified as Jaunpur resident Arvind Tewari was arrested but three key members Shadab Anwar Sheikh, Ashraf Alam Khan and Manish Maurya, as well their associates, were still out of police reach.He said the gang withdrew nearly Rs 40 lakh from the bank account of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) by cloning four cheques in July. The chief manager of Bank of Baroda’s Vibhuti Khand branch, where UPEIDA has its account, lodged an FIR with the Vibhuti Khand police station on August 8 after detecting the fraudulent withdrawal of the amount, Yash said.Another STF official said the gang similarly cloned cheques of the bank accounts of Dr Shakuntala Mishra National Rehabilitation University and Uttar Pradesh State Ayush Society but failed to get them cleared. He said the gang was operational for the past few years and it was suspected to have withdrawn money from the bank accounts of some government and non-government organisations by using the same method. The STF official said the gang exploited loopholes in the cheque truncation system (CTS) or the image based clearing system of cheques implemented by Reserve Bank of India from August 1, 2013.“After implementation of this system, cheques are no longer sent for clearance. Only their digital images are sent. This system was implemented to cut down the time required in cheque clearance. It also helps banks in maintaining the data of cheques cleared through the centralised image archival system,” he said.The official said the fraudsters used the sent images of cloned cheques, which could not be detected digitally as they carried correct details of the bank, account holders, account number, cheque number and the balance in the account in question.“The gang used to procure cheque books of various banks through their sources within the banking system after paying them some money. The gang used to prepare the cloned cheques with the help of printers and laptops and fill them in with details of account holders that they already had procured with help of insiders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/using-cloned-cheques-gang-swindles-rs-40-lakh-from-up-govt-1-arrested/story-8XZCoxCNW6i8rk9Bx9Oy0K.html
20-08-2020||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM-S exits Grand Alliance ahead of Bihar assembly polls||In a setback to the Grand Alliance before the Bihar assembly polls, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) (HAM-S) has announced that it will leave the alliance. The party, which is all set to join the NDA, will take a call on the issue in a couple of days. “The party’s executive committee has authorized Manjhi ji to take a call on the future course of action,” HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. Sources in the party said that the HAM-S may either merge with the JD(U) or enter into an alliance with the party for the Bihar Assembly election. “Politics is full of probabilities and possibilities,” Rizwan added. Manjhi, who was once critical of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, of late has been heaping praise on different decisions taken by the state government. The party had contested the Lok Sabha elections as part of the Grand Alliance, but had issued an ultimatum for the formation of a coordination committee in the alliance by June 25, so that seat sharing talks could begin. Manjhi, however, during the last couple of months had been exploring options of an alliance with different parties including Owaisi led-AIMIM. Earlier, Manjhi had fallen out with Nitish Kumar after he was made to quit the CM’s post in early 2015. He walked out of the NDA after a poor show in the 2015 Assembly polls. HAM-S has one member each in the Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council. Sources in the party said that HAM-S becoming a part of the NDA is all but a formality. “The party has laid no pre-conditions on seats,” said a senior party leader, who wished not to be quoted. NDA leaders feel that if at all Manjhi joins the alliance, the JD(U) will use it to silence the LJP, which of late has been embarrassing the government by raising different issues. “If somebody shows trust in the NDA’s leadership and policy, we do not have any problem with other parties joining,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jitan-ram-manjhi-led-ham-s-exits-grand-alliance-ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-bpSf73W79DRHV3yUJoCiZO.html
20-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At Chinese-Pak foreign ministers meet, India likely to be key topic of discussion and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India likely to be key topic at Chinese, Pak FM strategic meet in HainanFraught ties with India, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), and the Covid-19 pandemic will likely be key topics of discussion at a strategic dialogue between Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi and Pakistani counterpart, Shah Mahmood Qureshi in the sunny south China province of Hainan on Thursday and Friday. Read moreBihar education clerk killed for detecting irregularities in teachers recruitment, three nabbedBihar police on Thursday claimed that Gopalganj-based education clerk Ajai Rai was murdered last month by people involved in fraudulent appointments to teachers’ posts since he had unearthed the fraud. The police claimed breakthrough in the case with the arrest of three suspected criminals including two sharp shooters from Uttar Pradesh. Read moreWoman and minor daughter beaten up, six arrested after video goes viralA middle-aged woman and her daughter were allegedly beaten up for half-an-hour by six members of a family in full public view in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the police said. The police registered an FIR late night on Wednesday against Hardeen Raikwar, Baba Raikwar, Dalpu Ahirwar and three women, all residents of Guna village of the district after a video of the incident went viral on social media. Read moreNepalese labour shortage amid Covid curbs, strained ties upsets Himachal’s apple cartThe Covid-19 pandemic has left apple growers of Himachal Pradesh struggling with challenges of high labour cost due to shortage and strict curbs. With apple picking underway in the lower hill areas of the state, orchard owners are scouting for skilled Nepalese workers, who form the backbone of the Rs 4,500-crore apple economy. Read moreObserve Muharram in simple manner, processions not allowed, says Maharashtra govt amid Covid-19 crisisThe Maharashtra government has issued a circular saying Muharram should be observed in a simple manner and that processions will not be allowed in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Muharram is observed by Muslims with abstinence and prayers to mourn the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala in the seventh century. Read moreMS Dhoni thanks PM Modi for warm letter of appreciationFormer India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who announced his retirement from international cricket on August 15, took to Twitter on Thursday to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a heartfelt letter that he had written to Dhoni. Read moreCBSE 10th, 12th Compartment 2020: SC refuses to stay exam, asks students to file fresh pleaThe Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with the decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to conduct compartment exams for students of Class X and Class XII. The Court allowed the petitioner students to file a fresh petition challenging the August 6 decision of the Board rejecting their representation to cancel the examinations. Read moreUrban Cruiser, Toyota’s take on Brezza, to get Li-ion battery for efficiencyToyota Kirloskar Motor is betting big on Urban Cruiser, its version of Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, and has confirmed that the compact SUV will feature advanced Li-ion battery with Integrated Starter Generator (ISG) for enhanced fuel efficiency, in auto transmission variants. Read moreKamala Harris mentions her ‘chithis’ in her Democratic Convention speech, Twitter can’t keep calmKamala Harris took the stage at the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday, August 19. In her speech, the US Senator and Democratic vice presidential nominee emphasised the importance of her family in shaping her overall outlook as a person and as a leader. Read moreAfter Alaya F, Malaika Arora shares ‘trick or tip’ about the benefits of coffee on skin health, reducing dark circles, celluliteThe coronavirus pandemic and consequent lockdown may have us bored and cooped up at home, but the one good thing it did was make us more self reliant. Be it learning how to cook or to groom oneself, our new reality has forced us to be completely independent, as any form of contact could lead to possible contamination. Read moreWatch| ‘Oh, how I wish my mother…’: Kamala Harris accepts historic VP nomination||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-record-number-of-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-india-in-last-24-hours-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4vOCkiHUs7uLvqf4JMAzyK.html
20-08-2020||India||Man, 20, arrested in Karnataka for alleged derogatory post on Lord Ram||A 20-year-old man has been arrested for sharing an alleged derogatory WhatsApp post on Lord Ram in Devadurga taluk of Raichur district in Karnataka, just a week after violence broke out in Bengaluru over an inflammatory Facebook post against Islam. The Bengaluru incident left three dead in police firing on the mob.As the Muslim man’s post went viral, members of the Hindu groups were seen agitating in front of the Devadurga police station. The police brought the situation under control by moving quickly. Speaking to HT on phone, an officer at the Devadurga police station said: “We have arrested a 20-year-old youth. On his WhatsApp status, he seems to have posted derogatory comments about Lord Ram. We are investigating the matter.” The man was produced before the magistrate in the early hours of Thursday and has been remanded in judicial custody till September 3.The prompt intervention by the police and the arrest of the young man led to the crowd gathered in front of the police station to disperse peacefully late last night. The Devadurga police said that the situation was at present peaceful and fully under control.The man has been arrested and charged under various IPC sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (intent to incite), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 205 (false personation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-20-arrested-in-karnataka-for-alleged-derogatory-post-on-lord-ram/story-W8n1n2z9K143FfxGx9jcaM.html
20-08-2020||India||India conducts record number of Covid-19 tests in 24 hours, recoveries near 21 lakh-mark||India on Thursday conducted a record number of Covid-19 tests, pushing the total tests conducted so far to 3.26 crore. In the last 24 hours, 9,18,470 people were tested, according to the Union health ministry.“A record number of 9,18,470 Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day in the last 24 hours. Tests Per Million (TPM) continue to rise, standing at 23,668 today. India’s total recoveries reach nearly 21 lakh as the recovery rate rises to nearly 74 per cent,” the health ministry stated, adding that increased testing across the country has helped bring down the positivity rate.The government aims to run 10 lakh tests a day in line with the objective of early identification and isolation of Covid-19 positive cases. The government’s strategy is to bring down the case fatality rate (CFR) through aggressive testing and efficient clinical treatment.A continuous increase in average daily recoveries has led to India’s recovery rate -- the patients who have recovered as a proportion of those who tested positive -- touching 73.18 per cent, and the case fatality rate coming down to 1.92 per cent, shows health ministry data. About 30 states have CFR, deaths from the disease as a proportion of the case tally, below the national average.India has 977 labs in the government sector and 517 private labs, taking the total number of labs to 1,494 labs today.A record number of tests were conducted on a day when the country recorded its highest ever single-day spike with nearly 70,000 virus infections recorded on Thursday. Covid-19 caseload in the country has increased to 28,36,925 with 69,652 new infections and the death-toll has climbed to 53,866 with 977 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-records-number-of-covid-19-tests-in-24-hours-recoveries-near-21-lakh-mark/story-QjAZ2N4mYIV5k7mcdDTRSO.html
20-08-2020||India||After 80% of season’s rain in 11 days, HS Puri says Delhi’s monsoon woes to be over soon||After incessant rainfall over the past few days, several parts of national capital Delhi remained flooded on Thursday, leading to traffic snarls and chaos on the roads. Delhi received nearly 80% of the season’s rainfall in 11 days, Urban Affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said and expressed confidence that the government would soon be able to solve the monsoon woes of the people of the city.“Delhi received 80% of the season’s rainfall in 11 days. I urge all our partners—the Delhi government, urban local bodies and others to learn from experiences year after year. I’m confident we can solve problems of the common man,” Puri said on continuous water-logging in Delhi and adjoining Gurugram.The rainfall also reduced the rain deficiency in the capital -- from 13 per cent on Monday to 11 per cent on Wednesday.The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 147.4 mm rainfall against the normal of 165.2 mm in August so far. Overall, it has recorded 466 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 441.3 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season officially begins. On an average, the city logs 11.3 mm rainfall from 8:30 am on August 19 to 8:30 am on August 20 every year. The Palam weather station gauged 70.9 mm precipitation during the period, more than six times the normal rainfall for this time of the year. Earlier, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned of thunderstorms along with heavy rains in Delhi and neighbouring areas on Thursday too. The downpour may lead to “major traffic disruption” due to heavy water logging and there is also an “increased chance” of road accidents, the IMD has cautioned.Water-logging was particularly severe in Gurugram, where roads were completely inundated, harassing commuters who remained stuck for hours on water-logged roads. The rains also led to power outages in many parts of the city.Civic agencies in the national capital reported incidents of trees being uprooted in a few areas due to heavy rain. A boundary wall of a school in South Delhi’s Saket also collapsed, damaging several vehicles parked alongside it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-80-of-season-s-rain-in-11-days-hardeep-singh-puri-says-delhi-s-monsoon-woes-to-be-solved-soon/story-LHfWcLZwhMoXBk5R19oAyK.html
20-08-2020||India||Bihar education clerk killed for detecting irregularities in teachers recruitment, three nabbed||Bihar police on Thursday claimed that Gopalganj-based education clerk Ajai Rai was murdered last month by people involved in fraudulent appointments to teachers’ posts since he had unearthed the fraud. The police claimed breakthrough in the case with the arrest of three suspected criminals including two sharp shooters from Uttar Pradesh.Police said that two motorcycle borne armed criminals gunned down Ajay at Lakshwar village under Thave police station area in Gopalganj on July 3 when he was on his way to his office. Police had recovered two empty cartridges from the spot.Those arrested have been identified as Zulfikar-Ali-Bhutto (a resident of Gopalganj), Mohammad Wasir Ansari and Mohammad Shahbaz Alam (both from Deoria district in UP). Police say the killers were hired for Rs 3 lakh by an “education mafia” to eliminate Ajay, who was actively involved in an investigation into recruitment of teachers using fake qualification certificates.Police said that Zulfikar, a dismissed government teacher, ran a private school and his wife was also a school teacher.Station house officer of the Thave police station, Vishal Anand, said Zulfikar was recruited as a teacher in 2005 and was subsequently dismissed in 2017 after he was caught with a consignment of banned liquor. He was also involved in the murder of one Umesh Bhagat and in a liquor smuggling case which is registered in Sahjanwa police station of Gorakhpur district in UP.Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said all the three accused were arrested from Khairtia village under the limits of Mirganj police station. They confessed to their involvement in Ajay’s murder. Wasir and Shahbaz revealed that they were hired by Zulfikar and paid Rs 3 lakh for the contract killing.Investigations revealed that Ajay was all set to submit a report including evidence against teachers hired fraudulently to the vigilance investigation bureau (VIB) before he was murdered.Tiwari said Zulfikar was also involved selling fake TET certificates along with his nephew.“Raids are on to nab those who played a crucial role behind Ajay’s murder”, the senior police officer added.The VIB is investigating large-scale fraudulent appointments of school teachers done using forged documents. The bureau has registered 337 FIRs involving 903 teachers across the state, of which, services of 639 teachers have been terminated by the department of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-education-clerk-killed-for-detecting-irregularities-in-teacher-recruitment-three-nabbed/story-RCjGCpndArXiYWiKLh7WJM.html
20-08-2020||India||Hoping CBI won’t investigate Sushant’s case as it did Dabholkar murder: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday took a swipe at the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case being transferred to the central investigation agency by the Supreme Court.Pawar said he hoped that CBI will not carry out the investigation in the actor’s case like it had in Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s murder. At the same time, he said, he was sure the Maharashtra government will cooperate with the agency, respecting the apex court’s decision.“I hope the investigation will not be carried on, as was done with Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s murder also under investigation by the CBI, which commenced in 2014 and remains unresolved,” Pawar said in a series of tweets on Thursday.Also Read: Swara Bhasker on CBI taking over Sushant Singh Rajput’s case: ‘Not fair to suggest Mumbai Police were not doing a good job’Pawar was pointing out to the case of Dabholkar, an anti-superstition crusader, who was shot dead from a close range in broad daylight by unknown gunmen on August 20 ,2013. The Bombay high court had transferred the case to the CBI in May 2014. The case, which is yet to be solved, is said to be linked to other three murders, those of rationalist and Communist leader Govind Pansare, Kannada scholar M M Kalburgi and journalist and activist Gauri Lankesh.“I am sure the Maharashtra Govt will respect the judgement of the Supreme Court to hand over Sushant Singh Rajput’s case to the CBI and fully cooperate in the investigation process,” Pawar further said.He had publicly ticked off his grand-nephew Parth Pawar over demanding CBI investigation in the case. He, however, had also said that there was no reason to oppose the CBI investigation. “Maharashtra and Mumbai police are capable and I have 100% trust in them. If someone still wants a probe by CBI or any other agency, then there is no reason to oppose it,” he had said, immediately after ridiculing his grand-nephew on the issue.Also Read: ‘Conspiracy to malign Maharashtra govt’: Shiv Sena after SC hands Sushant Singh Rajput case to CBIThe Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to transfer Rajput’s case to the CBI. The actor was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 and Mumbai police was investigating the case and the home department is with the NCP. State’s Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government was opposing transfer of the case to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoping-cbi-won-t-investigate-sushant-s-case-as-it-did-dabholkar-murder-pawar/story-kZoSuzv7y0ddZ9RNdAeuLK.html
20-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh Congress to construct party offices in 22 districts of the state||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday joined a ceremony, or bhumi pujan, via video conferencing to mark the beginning of the construction of the party’s offices in 22 of Chhattisgarh’s 28 districts. Other Congress leaders like PL Punia, Chandan Yadav and chief minister Bhupesh Baghel were also present at the bhumi pujan that coincided with late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary.The party’s offices will be renovated or expanded in the remaining six districts with donations from party workers and leaders, Congress functionaries said. All of them will be known as Rajiv Bhawans. “We are hoping that on August 20 next year, the birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhiji, the buildings will be inaugurated. The approximate cost of one structure is around 1.5 crore which will be collected from party workers of concerned districts,” said a party leader on condition of anonymity.State Congress treasurer Ramgopal Agarwal said the state government has allotted land for some of these party offices as per the law. He added some party leaders have donated land in some districts. “The money for the constructions will be collected from the party workers across the state.”Another Congress leader said the design of the offices will be the same in all districts and the costs could vary.Congress spokesman Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said party workers were collecting the money for the constructions at the booth and district level. “In around a dozen of districts, we have land donated by the leaders or purchased with party funds.”The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has questioned the process of land allotment for the offices and demanded an inquiry. “How come the Congress managed to get government land in a dozen places in such a short time? Have they misused the government officials ? At what rate the land has been allotted? The Congress should answer these questions and an inquiry should be done,” said BJP leader Sacchinand Upasane.He said in the last 15 years, the BJP managed to build party offices in 20 places. “At some places, we are still fighting legal battles... how come these allotments are done so easily?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-congress-to-construct-party-offices-in-22-districts-of-the-state/story-M1gCruTqj9wj5WlkhG2uBL.html
20-08-2020||India||26 who helped passengers of crashed plane in Kozhikode contract Covid-19||As many as 26 volunteers who reached the Air-India Express plane crash site in Kozhikode, 48 km from here, and evacuated the injured passengers on August 7, have tested positive for Covid-19. “As far as my information from the airport sources goes, as many as 26 local people, involved in the rescue operations, have tested positive for the virus so far and are now under medical care,” the Malappuram District Medical Officer Dr K Sakeena told PTI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDistrict Collector K Gopalakrishnan, Superintendent of Police Abdul Kareem and 21 officials, including police and fire force personnel, also involved in the rescue operations, had also tested positive.Nineteen people, including the pilot andco-pilot, were killed and several injured when the flight with 190 people on board overshot the table-top runway and fell into a valley and broke into pieces.The youngsters, who all stay around the airport area, had rushed to the accident site braving the heavy rains and Covid-19 fears and taken the injured to the various hospitals, drawing praise from various quarters, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The volunteers had been asked by the Health Minister K K Shailaja to go on quarantine after one of the deceased passengers tested positive for the pathogen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-who-helped-passengers-of-crashed-plane-in-kozhikode-contract-covid-19/story-uOUkW5oChj9eXUE1EaDAKP.html
20-08-2020||India||Congress to raise China, Facebook, Covid-19 handling in upcoming Parliament session||Parliament’s monsoon session, which is expected to commence from September 10, is likely to be stormy as the Congress plans to raise issues like the border standoff with China in Ladakh and Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), party functionaries aware of the matter said. The Congress is also likely to target the government over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic crisis it has aggravated, job losses, and agrarian distress.A Congress functionary said the party would demand a statement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the border row, especially after his remarks at the June 19 all-party meeting that there have been no intrusions by Chinese forces into Indian territory in Ladakh.The Congress attacked Modi for refraining from naming China in his Independence Day speech, saying the government should tell the people how it proposes to push back the Chinese forces occupying Indian territory.Military talks on reducing tensions along the disputed border in Ladakh have hit a roadblock with India adopting a tougher line in its efforts to restore status quo ante. The tensions escalated in June when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops.Also Read: In absence of Parliament session, social activists start consultation on key policy issuesThe functionary said they will also demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Wall Street Journal report last week that claimed Facebook’s Indian staff ignored its rules in handling hate speech by BJP politicians. The Congress has alleged an “unholy nexus” between Facebook and the BJP.The Congress wrote to Facebook’s founder Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday saying the social media company may be “a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values” India’s founding leaders had sacrificed their lives for. It called for an investigation into the report.The functionary said the Congress will also take on the government over its “mishandling” of the Covid-19 pandemic. “When Rahul Gandhi flagged the issue as early as February, he was ridiculed by the BJP. See, where we stand now. We have become the third country in the world to cross over two million Covid-19 cases. We also saw an ill-conceived lockdown that resulted in a huge economic crisis and massive job losses,” he said on condition of anonymity. “The government has to tell us why and how it failed in containing the pandemic.”The functionary said the party will also raise the issues of job losses, agrarian distress, and the economic crisis. “We will also seek a discussion on the PM Cares Fund in the wake of the Prime Minister’s Office denying information [on it under the]...RTI [Right to Information Act]...We have been demanding transparency in the fund as it does not belong to any individual but the country.”The Centre set up the fund on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as the Covid-19 pandemic. It is unclear how much money it has raised.The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected a plea seeking the transfer of money collected for the fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF). A three-judge bench held the situation because of the Covid-19 and the requirement of financial resources to deal with the pandemic have necessitated the establishment of the fund and the court cannot object to it. The Congress criticised the order. It has said the fund is not transparent and questioned the need for a PM Cares fund when NDRF exists.The Congress will also raise the issue of the sale of 32 Public Sector Undertakings and handing over railways and airports to private parties. The functionary said the party will talk to other like-minded opposition parties to present a united front in Parliament on all critical issues confronting the country. “We will meet soon to firm up our Parliament strategy.”The monsoon session, which usually starts in mid-July, has been deferred due to the pandemic, which led to a sweeping federal lockdown from March 25. It is expected to be short. Unprecedented logistics and infrastructure arrangements will be in place during the session. The arrangements will include ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in air-conditioning systems to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, earmarked seats for top leaders, and special communication cables linking both Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-raise-china-facebook-covid-19-handling-in-upcoming-parliament-session/story-yIgQkRhJJZsUuoTlUL3qrL.html
20-08-2020||India||Woman and minor daughter beaten up, six arrested after video goes viral||A middle-aged woman and her daughter were allegedly beaten up for half-an-hour by six members of a family in full public view in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the police said.The police registered an FIR late night on Wednesday against Hardeen Raikwar, Baba Raikwar, Dalpu Ahirwar and three women, all residents of Guna village of the district after a video of the incident went viral on social media.Also read: Swachh Survekshan 2020 - Indore ranked cleanest city for the fourth consecutive yearKharga police station in-charge RS Kol said, “As per the complaint lodged with the police by victim Rekha Raikwar, she, along with the accused people, are involved in a dispute over a property. The accused were forcing Rekha to withdraw her claim on the property and was beaten up when she refused to concede to their demand. Rekha’s 16-year-old daughter tried to save her mother and was also beaten up. Later, the woman was dragged by the hair and locked in a room.”The woman was freed by the accused after threatening her of dire consequences if, as they threatened, she didn’t withdraw her claim on the property, said Kol.After the video went viral, all the six accused were arrested by the police. Tikamgarh superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Khare said the matter was being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-and-minor-daughter-beaten-up-six-arrested-after-video-goes-viral/story-DnRAzSo7AplL5qPb72kQqJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Delhi restaurants, hotels allowed to serve liquor; bars stay closed||The Delhi government on Thursday asked its excise department to permit hotels and restaurants to serve liquor, a move the hospitality industry said could give a boost to the sector ailing due to the impact of the coronavirus disease.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia directed excise officials to furnish “necessary permission” so that liquor could be served at restaurants as part of dine-in services and in hotel rooms. He said the decision was taken keeping “revenue implications” in mind.However, government officials said the directive alone did not mean that hotels and restaurants will be allowed to serve liquor from Friday. They said the move may still require the approval of lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and has overturned the government’s decisions in the past.“Considering the revenue implications, the excise department issued necessary permission for service of liquor in the restaurants and clubs by licensees at the table and in the hotel rooms,” read the Delhi government order dated August 20 and signed by Sisodia.“Bars will remain closed under the provisions of unlock guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. However, several state governments, including Assam, Punjab, Rajasthan, etc. have permitted service of liquor by licence holders under the Excise Rule in restaurants and clubs and in hotel rooms,” it said.The Union home ministry allowed the reopening of hotels and restaurants from June 8 as part of its plan to resume businesses and activities that were restricted across the country since the end of March.Bars and pubs, however, are still not allowed to operate anywhere in the country, including in the national capital, as per the latest “Unlock 3” guidelines applicable till August.While Delhi allowed restaurants to open from June 8 in line with the central directive, it allowed hotels to resume operations on Wednesday. The sale of liquor from retail shops in the city began in May.An excise official, who did not want to be named, confirmed receiving the directions from Sisodia, who is also the excise minister. “We are working on it and will place a proposal after examining all the rules and how other states have implemented it. The file will be sent to the deputy CM for approval,” he said.However, another excise official said the proposal might go to SDMA for a final approval. “If approved, the order may be issued,” he said.When asked whether the proposal will be sent to the Baijal or SDMA, the chief minister’s office said: “The matter falls within the ambit of the unlock guidelines and the Delhi government can take a direct decision on it.” The LG’s office declined to comment on the matter.There have been instances of Baijal and the government differing on a subject. On July 30, the Delhi government announced the opening of hotels and weekly markets, but Baijal overturned the decision after it was sent to him for approval. The government sent him a second proposal to that effect on August 6. After that, Baijal convened an SDMA meeting on Wednesday and the move was finally green-lighted.Prakul Kumar, secretary general of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said: “We are yet to get the orders from the excise department... Just food is not enough; liquor is an important ingredient in the overall dining-out experience.”“The bar space in the restaurant will remain closed, but liquor will be served at the tables. This way we can ensure social distancing norms. But we have to wait for the excise department order.”In a letter dated August 16, NRAI sought permission from the Delhi excise department to serve liquor at restaurants.Restaurant owners said the sale of liquor at restaurants will help them cut losses even as they cited social-distancing guidelines that ask them to operate with 50% occupancy.Manpreet Singh, owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place and the treasurer of NRAI, welcomed the state government’s decision. “This is a great news for the restaurant industry. This order is timely, will help restaurant owners recover losses and allow people to have a good time. We are waiting for the excise commissioner’s order in this regard,” he said.Kanwal Wali, secretary of the India International Centre (IIC), said: “We will continue not to serve liquor to our members and guests until something is communicated to us from the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serving-liquor-allowed-in-delhi-restaurants-hotels/story-PJLuR93KEXhTJMIgZTVcuN.html
20-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi again attacks govt, claims India won’t be able to give jobs to youth||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi continued with his attack on the government, this time on the jobs front, claiming on Thursday that India will not be able to provide employment to youth. “Media made fun of me when I warned the country that there will be heavy loss due to Covid-19. Today I am saying our country won’t be able to give jobs. If you don’t agree then wait for 6-7 months,” Gandhi said in a video message. ...India will not be able to provide employment to youth. Media made fun of me when I warned the country that there will be heavy loss due to #COVID19. Today I am saying our country won't be able to give jobs. If you don't agree then wait for 6-7 months: Rahul Gandhi, Congress pic.twitter.com/QlkMhrS5H2He had tweeted earlier on Wednesday alleging that around two crore people lost their jobs in the last four months.“In the last four months, around two crore people have lost their jobs. The future of two crore families is in the dark. The truth about unemployment and destruction of the economy cannot be hidden from the country by peddling fake news and hatred on Facebook,” Gandhi had tweeted attaching a media report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe former Congress president had also attacked the government over the expansion of the list of beneficiaries of National Food Security Act.“The Modi government had to expand the list of beneficiaries of NFSA, but the government did not do so. The public did not get ration which was their right and the problem took the form of tragedy,” Gandhi had said in a tweet in Hindi.A huge row broke out between the government and the Congress party after a report by the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last week alleged that senior Facebook executives had opposed applying hate speech rules to posts by certain BJP leaders.The BJP and the Congress engaged in a bitter war of words over the issue.“We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news and hate speech. As exposed by WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians,” Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday.Hitting back at the Congress, Union Information Technology Minister and senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said people whose political base has “shrunk like anything” seek to dominate discourse on these platforms, and asserted that everybody, regardless of his ideology, has the right to air views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-again-attacks-govt-claims-india-won-t-be-able-to-give-jobs-to-youth/story-2sBexK1k3L2vJmopN58b3L.html
20-08-2020||India||Transgenders get right to inherit agricultural land in Uttar Pradesh||Transgenders in Uttar Pradesh will soon get to inherit ancestral agricultural land as the Yogi Adityanath-led state government has cleared an amendment to the UP Revenue Code of 2006.A revenue department officer said the state cabinet earlier this week cleared an amendment to the UP Revenue Code of 2006 for inclusion of third gender in the nomenclature. Previous mentions were limited to “sons, daughters, married, unmarried and widow”. It will become law once the legislature passes it. The bill is likely to be tabled in the state legislature on Friday, he said.In March last year, the officer said, the state law commission, in a proposal submitted to the state government, had raised the demand for a law acknowledging the inheritance rights of the ‘third gender’. Justice AN Mittal, chairman of the state law commission, had drawn the attention of the state government toward the inheritance laws that left out the transgender.After the amendment, the third gender will have succession and physical rights to the property. The amendments have been made in the section 4 (10), 108 (2), 109 and 110 of the UP Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2020, to give the transgender succession and physical rights to the property, the Revenue Department officer said.The rights to inherit the ancestral property will not only protect the third genders from social ostracism but will also give them equal rights in the society, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transgenders-get-right-to-inherit-agricultural-land-in-uttar-pradesh/story-ZerkW7LxEA1qOGoctYJZ0J.html
20-08-2020||India||13-year-old boy dies in Uttarkashi after being swept away by raging river||A 13-year-old boy died in Uttarakhand after being swept away by a river in Uttarkashi district on Wednesday evening. The water level in the river has risen due to heavy rainfall in the state. The teenager was swept away in river Jalkur which was in spate in Bhadkot village of Dhauntari sub-tehsil of the district. Officials from District Disaster Control Room said that the boy’s body was found about 4 kilometres from the spot during the search rescue operation carried out by the local police and State Disaster Response Force. According to the information received from the District Disaster Control Room, the water level of the Jalkur river increased suddenly due to heavy rain on Wednesday. Waterlogging was reported from many areas across the district after heavy rainfall. The local police had also rescued animals stranded in the waterlogged areas of the district. Also read: Parking worth ₹42 lakh to come up on ‘enemy property’ in Nainital after Centre’s permissionIn its weather bulletin issued on Thursday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert, asking the administration to be prepared for any disasters. The MeT department also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall, with intense spells, at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts of the state. It further predicted heavy rainfall with intense spells to occur at isolated places in Nainital and Pauri districts. Lightning may also occur at isolated places in the state on Thursday, the weather department stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-year-old-boy-dies-in-uttarkashi-after-being-swept-away-by-raging-river/story-9CGzLUZr1D2CeRF0nqYR9J.html
20-08-2020||India||Covid-19 highlighted importance of diversification and resilience of supply chains, says Jaishankar||The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of diversification and resilience of supply chains as well as the relevance of the concept of strategic autonomy, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. The pandemic also underscored the need for broader rebalancing and a more equitable world view, which for India means the urgent need to strengthen national capacities through the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) initiative, he told a roundtable of the ASEAN-India Network of Think Tanks (AINTT). The Covid-19 crisis has shown up the lack of multilateralism at a time when it “was most in demand”, Jaishankar said in his address to the virtual event. “If we saw little leadership, it was not just due to the admittedly anachronistic nature of key international organisations. Equally, it reflected the intensely competitive nature of current international politics,” he said. Going beyond organisations and structures, this was “even more evident in the individual behaviour of many states”. He added, “Therefore, the big issue that confronts the thinking world is not simply the state of the economy, the damage to societies or the challenges to governance. It is actually a debate on the future directions of global affairs and what kind of world order – or disorder – we are going to live in.” As a consequence of all this, “the commodity that is perhaps most valued in international relations today is that of trust”, and national security is being redefined to include economic security while concerns have also arisen about technology security, he said. In an apparent reference to China, he said “the actions of nations during times of crisis determine how the world really perceives them, and they did bring up many of the risks inherent in the current global economy”. He added, “Consequently, concerns about supply chains are sought to be mitigated at the very least through greater emphasis on their diversification and resilience.” The concept of strategic autonomy, which was once fashionable in a unipolar world, has assumed relevance again in terms of global supply chains, Jaishankar noted. The Covid-19 crisis has led to an unprecedented challenge and a great deal of uncertainty and the true extent of its destruction remains unclear. “We cannot pretend that this is just another happening, only bigger. On the contrary, the impact of the Coronavirus has been beyond our collective imagination,” he said. “Current estimates put the cumulative loss in the range of $5.8-8.8 trillion or approximately 6.5-9.7% of the global GDP. The contraction of the world economy being predicted will surely be the largest since the Great Depression,” he added. The relationship between India and Asean was founded on the shared interest in globalisation and the pandemic has brought out the indivisible aspect of human existence that underpins globalisation, Jaishankar said. “Whether it is climate change, terrorism or indeed pandemics, these are not challenges where those affected have a choice. The limitations of purely national responses or sometimes living in denial have become evident,” he said. Jaishankar said Asean and India can together help shape Asia and the world, and need to debate issues such as the Indo-Pacific. “As global relationships alter, we too need to take stock...As we come out of this pandemic, let us be clear on one fact. The world will never be the same again. That means new thinking, fresh ideas, more imagination and greater openness,” he added. AINTT was established to provide policy inputs to governments on future cooperation between India and Asean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-highlighted-importance-of-diversification-and-resilience-of-supply-chains-says-jaishankar/story-V2apQhseaCgaBPJ2p09EuN.html
20-08-2020||India||‘Conspiracy to malign Maharashtra govt’: Shiv Sena after SC hands Sushant Singh Rajput case to CBI||A day after the Supreme Court handed over the probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Shiv Sena in its mouthpiece said that this was a conspiracy to malign the Mumbai Police and the state government.An editorial in Saamana took a dim view of the interference of the Bihar police and said that the manner in which the CBI was brought into the case was an attack on the federal structure of India.The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of the FIR, lodged in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting Rajput’s suicide, to the CBI. Rajput, 34, was dead at his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Subsequently, Mumbai Police, however, did not register an FIR in the case and was investigating the matter as an ‘accidental death’.It expressed surprise over the apex court’s order even when it found no wrongdoing in the Mumbai Police’s investigation. “While handing over the probe to the CBI, the apex court said, “records of the case produced before this court do not prima facie suggest any wrongdoing by the Mumbai Police”. Then it is surprising that the reins of the case were given to the CBI,” the Saamana editorial remarked.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty doesn’t have stature to comment on Bihar CM, she should fight the legal battle - Bihar DGPThe Mumbai Police’s probe in the case was in the final stages when it was stopped and handed over to the CBI on the recommendation of the Bihar government, the editorial said. “Getting the CBI to probe the Sushant Singh Rajput case in this manner is an attack on the federal structure given by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar... Today, the Indian Constitution will be shedding tears if it is observed that quarantining a Bihar Police official in Mumbai gives rise to suspicion due to which the case is handed over,” it added.It furthered that it is an “illusion” that only the Bihar Police or the CBI can unearth the truth in the case. “Several criminal cases in Bihar were investigated by the CBI. How many real culprits did the CBI arrest so far? Sushant’s case was politicised only to malign the Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conspiracy-to-malign-maharashtra-govt-shiv-sena-after-sc-hands-sushant-singh-rajput-case-to-cbi/story-ZurQGZMLnPwZK77LsgTxEK.html
20-08-2020||India||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to hospital||Union Cabinet Minister in Ministry of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was tested positive for Covid-19, and admitted to a hospital on Thursday afternoon.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe politician from Rajasthan announced the news on his Twitter handle.  अस्वस्थता के कुछ लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने कोरोना टेस्ट करवाया और मेरी रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर अस्पताल में भर्ती हो रहा हूँ। मेरा अनुरोध है कि गत दिनों में मेरे संपर्क में जो लोग आये हैं वह स्वयं को आइसोलेट कर अपनी जाँच करवाएं। आप सभी स्वस्थ रहें और अपना ध्यान रखें।At least four union ministers have tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month, including union home minister Amit Shah, Dharmendra Pradhan, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Shripad Naik. Amit Shah has been admitted again in AIIMS after he complained of fatigue and body ache after being tested negative for the virus.Also read| AIIMS post-Covid care: Home minister Amit Shah’s condition is stableMeanwhile, coronavirus cases in India went up to over 2.8 million on Thursday morning, according to the health ministry dashboard. As many as 69,652 fresh cases were recorded in the country in the last 24 hours. With 977 deaths in a day, the toll went up to 53,866 in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minster-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tslaZUwT5xZxga94Z7B1TI.html
20-08-2020||India||Banks sanctioned ₹1.5 lakh crore easy loans to small enterprises||Commercial banks have sanctioned ₹1.5 lakh crore and disbursed two-third of the amount among small enterprises and individual professionals under the ₹3 lakh crore emergency working loan facility to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said on Thursday.“Under the 100% Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) backed by a Government of India guarantee, banks from public and private sectors have sanctioned loans worth over ₹1.5 lakh crore as of 18th August, 2020, of which more than ₹1 lakh crore has already been disbursed,” the finance ministry statement said.The Union Cabinet on May 20 approved ECLGS, which can be levered up to ₹3 lakh crore, for about five months ending October 31. The scheme provides for an easy additional working capital loan at a concessional rate of interest to an existing borrower who is not a defaulter.ECLGS is one of the key components of the ₹20 lakh crore economic stimulus package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) launched in mid-May, which offered additional working capital finance of 20% of the outstanding credit as of February 29 in the form of a term loan to units with up to ₹25 crore outstanding and revenue of up to ₹100 crore.The government may also consider extending the October 31 deadline to avail the emergency working loan facility, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity. The finance ministry had already extended the scope of the provision by enhancing eligibility criteria to include larger units and individual professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants.The government expects a ₹1 lakh crore loan offtake by newly eligible individual professionals. Some headroom may still remain, which could prompt the government to extend the deadline, the official cited above said.According to the finance ministry statement, under the ECLGS, public sector banks (PSBs) have sanctioned loans worth ₹76,044.44 crore, out of which ₹56,483.41 crore has already been disbursed. Private sector banks have so far sanctioned ₹74,715.02 crore loan out of which ₹45,762.36 crore has already been disbursed, it said.“The top lenders under the scheme are State Bank of India (SBI), Canara Bank, Punjab National Bank (PNB), Bank of India, Union Bank of India and HDFC Bank Ltd,” it said.The National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd, which issued the operational guidelines of ECLGS on June 2, said the interest rate under the scheme is capped at 9.25% per annum for banks and financial institutions. For non-banking finance companies, the interest rate should not exceed 14% per annum. NCGTC is a wholly-owned company of the Union government formed in March 2014 to act as a trustee for multiple credit guarantee funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-sanctioned-1-5-lakh-crore-easy-loans-to-small-enterprises/story-bRK7OyKTJ5BYJD6LhkN3kN.html
20-08-2020||India||‘There is a Lakshman Rekha’: Supreme Court to Prashant Bhushan in contempt case hearing||The Supreme Court today rejected a plea by advocate Prashant Bhushan to defer hearing on sentence to be awarded to him for criminal contempt of court. Bhushan had prayed that hearing on sentencing against him should be deferred till a review petition which Bhushan was proposing to file against the August 14 judgment of top court which held him guilty of contempt of court, is decided.“Heavens are not going to fall if your lordships defer sentencing till review is decided. There is no mandate under Supreme Court rules that the same bench should hear on sentencing,” said Dushyant Dave who represented Bhushan in the case.Justice Arun Mishra, who is heading the three-judge bench and is set to retire from Supreme Court on September 2, responded saying it will be judicial impropriety for another bench to hear on sentence.“We assure you that we will not do anything that will take away your right to review,” said justice Mishra.Justice BR Gavai said that Rajeev Dhavan, also appearing for Bhushan, had informed the court on August 17 that review was ready and will be filed. “Why is it not being filed,” asked the judge.Dave said there is no mandate that it should be filed within 24 hours and the time limit to file review is 30 days.“If your lordships want me to file review in 24 hours, then the Supreme Court rules should be amended accordingly,” he argued.Dave also said that the court should not hold counsel responsible for statements made in other matters.“I beseech your lordships not to do that,” said Dave.Before the hearing, Bhushan quoted Mahatma Gandhi in his statement. “I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal for magnanimity. I am here to cheerfully submit to any punishment that court may impose,” he said.Justice Mishra conceded that contempt should be sparingly used.“We appreciate all your efforts in filing good public interest cases. We welcome all that. But there is a Lakshman Rekha for everything. You are part of the system. You forget it. Why do you cross it?”The bench also said that it will give 2-3 days to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement”, refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets. The lawyer said he will consult his lawyers and think over the apex court’s suggestion.After rejecting Bhushan’s application for deferment, the court proceeded to commence its hearing on sentencing. Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan is making arguments on behalf of Bhushan on the sentencing aspect.The Supreme Court had, in its judgment on August 14, held Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt of court over his tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-a-lakshman-rekha-supreme-court-to-prashant-bhushan-in-contempt-case-hearing/story-esrmowJL5gVaOtXNLkcyrL.html
20-08-2020||India||Yes Bank fraud case: HC grants bail to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan||The Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail to Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) in connection with the Yes Bank fraud, saying the enforcement directorate (ED) filed a charge sheet against them a day after the stipulated period of 60 days for doing so.The Wadhawan brothers will not be able to come out of the prison immediately as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is investigating them in the same case. ED is separately probing other pending cases against them.ED initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans on the basis of a case registered by CBI on March 7 against Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor, and his family members. They have been booked for conspiracy, cheating and also under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Yes Bank is alleged to have invested ₹3,700 crore in short term non-convertible debenture of DHFL between April and June 2018. Kapoor allegedly received ₹600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL in terms of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s three daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.Also Read: Decoding the YES Bank crisis | HT EditorialJustice Bharati Dangre granted bail to the Wadhawan brothers in lieu of ₹1 lakh bond each, and on the condition that they will surrender their passports to the investigators. The court observed that an accused cannot be kept in custody even for a day after they have the right to default bail.Justice Dangre said there is a period prescribed for filing of the charge sheet. The right to default bail is for the accused if an investigating agency fails to file the charge sheet within the period prescribed by Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh urged the court to stay the bail order at least for two weeks. He said what the high court has ruled was a pure question of law and since different courts have taken different views of the point of default bail, ED would like to test the view held by the high court before the Supreme Court.Justice Dangre refused to accept the request. The judge said the settled legal position is that once the right of default bail is due, the accused cannot be kept in custody thereafter even for a day.The apex court has recently held that no court can extend this period and therefore after the custody period of 60 days was over, the Wadhawan brothers were required to be set free immediately, the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-hc-grants-bail-to-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan/story-Jaf1geVvbm4DKxrTSbZNkI.html
20-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020: List of winning cities||The Centre awarded Indore as the cleanest city in the nation on Thursday at the Swachh Survekshan Awards. Union Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri in a virtual event congratulated Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj S Chouhan and also congratulated civic authorities of Indore. Indore has won the cleanest city award for the fourth consecutive time. Here is the list of the all the winners across several categories - Cleanest city awards for cities with population above 1 lakh -  • Indore (Madhya Pradesh) • Surat (Gujarat) • Navi Mumbai (Maharashtra)Cleanest city awards for cities with population below 1 lakh - • Karad (Maharashtra) • Saswad (Maharashtra) • Lonavla (Maharashtra)Cleanest state with more than 100 cities - ChhattisgarhCleanest state with less than 100 cities - JharkhandCleanest Ganga town - Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh)Maximum citizen participation in keeping city areas clean - ShahjahanpurCleanest megacity with more than 40 lac population - Ahmedabad (Gujarat)Best self-sustainable cities with population above 40 lakh-  • Bengaluru (Karnataka) • Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh)Fastest-moving city in terms of cleanliness - Jodhpur (Rajasthan)Self-sustainable city in terms of cleanliness (more than 10 lakh population) - Rajkot (Gujarat)Self-sustainable city in terms of cleanliness (less than 10 lakh population) - Mysuru (Karnataka)Cleanest small cities -  • Ambikapur (Chattisgarh) • Burhanpur (Madhya Pradesh)Cleanest city with population between 1 lakh to 3 lakh - Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh)Cleanest capital city - New Delhi (Union Territory of New Delhi) and the NDMC. Also Read: Swachh Survekshan 2020: All you need to know about India’s cleanliness surveyFastest moving cleanest capital city -  Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh)Fastest moving self-sustainable cleanest capital city - Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh)Cleanest Ganga towns -  • Kanauj (Uttar Pradesh) • Chunar (Uttar Pradesh) Cleanest city in the north Zone -  • Gangaghat (Uttar Pradesh)Cleanest city in the north Zone (pop. 25k - 50k) - • Nawashahar (Punjab)Cleanest city in the north Zone (pop. below 25k) - • Awagarh (Uttar Pradesh)Cleanest city northeast Zone -  • Jorhat (Assam)Cleanest city in the northeast Zone (pop. 25k - 50k) -  • Mokukchung (Nagaland)Cleanest city in the northeast Zone (pop. below 25k) -  • Jiribam (Manipur)Cleanest cities in the east zone - • Dhamtari (Odisha)• Jashpur Nagar (Chhattisgarh)• Patan (Gujarat)Cleanest cities in the south zone -  • Palamaneru (Andhra Pradesh) • Medchal (Telangana) • Periyapatna (Karnataka)Cleanest cities in the western zone -• Ratnagiri (Maharashtra)• Shirdi (Maharashtra)• Panhala (Maharashtra)Cleanest cantonments in the country - • Jalandhar Cantt. • Delhi Cantt. • Meerut Cantt. Cities awarded for citizen-led awareness towards cleanliness - • Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh)• Karimnagar (Telangana)• Sihora (Madhya Pradesh)Best performing state with more than 100 cities - • MaharashtraBest performing state with less than 100 cities - • Madhya Pradesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-awards-2020-list-of-winning-cities/story-t2qogIqaN1t0wOkGPEPTmI.html
20-08-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai’s Ganesh pandals gear up for festival||To help the city fight the Covid-19 pandemic, Ganesh mandals in Mumbai have formed a task force of 400 volunteers who will undertake various awareness drives during the 10-day festival which starts from August 22.The Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, an umbrella body of 12,500 Ganesh mandals across Mumbai, said that the mandals will ensure online darshan, social distancing within pandals and will also conduct drives to promote yoga and pranayam among youngsters.Naresh Dahibhavkar, president of the samanvay samiti said, “The volunteers will ease the workload of the police and civic officials by ensuring that social distancing measures are followed in pandals. These volunteers, in the age group of 28-35, will also create awareness in their areas on the various precautions to be taken.”Also read: Sero survey shows 29% population in Delhi has Covid-19 antibodies nowThe state government is wary of a spike in coronavirus cases if people crowd places during Ganeshotsav. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also asked authorities to be “extra cautious” during the festival. Thackeray held a meeting with district officials on Tuesday and directed them to ensure that overcrowding is avoided during the festival.On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day spike with 13,165 cases of Covid-19 taking the tally to 628,642.The state also recorded 346 deaths after which the toll stands at 21,003 till date. Mumbai recorded 1,132 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 46 fatalities.State officials expect the daily caseload to increase with an increase in the number of tests. As per state department data, 73,464 samples were tested on Wednesday for Covid-19. Earlier this week, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that a downward trend could be seen after mid-September.“Maharashtra is in the middle of a peak of Covid-19 cases. However, it’s difficult to predict how long it will last. The pandemic situation is under control in Malegaon, Mumbai’s Dharavi slums, and Aurangabad. In most places, the spread appears to have plateaued. Now, a downward trend is expected after the middle of September,” Tope told media on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-mumbai-s-ganesh-pandals-gear-up-for-festival/story-d0XZWgoltpOjRE9nSN7KtN.html
20-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Indore India’s cleanest city, Surat and Navi Mumbai bag 2nd, 3rd spot||Indore is India’s cleanest city in Swachh Survekshan 2020, the fifth edition of the annual cleanliness survey of the country.The city has bagged the spot fourth time in a row. Gujarat’s Surat is on second spot and Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai is on third.Also read: Swachh Survekshan 2020 results announced, Indore once again retains top spot“Heartiest congratulations! Indore is India’s cleanest city 4th year in a row. The city & its people have shown exemplary dedication towards cleanliness. Congratulations to MP CM @ChouhanShivraj people, political leadership & Municipal Corporation for this superlative performance,” Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet.The Union Minister also congratulated Jalandhar Cantt for being India’s cleanest cantonment in Swachh Bharat Survekshan 2020.The ancient holy town of Varanasi is rightfully the cleanest town on the banks of river Ganga, the Minister said in another tweet.“Heartiest congratulations to PM Shri @narendramodi Ji, who represents the city in Lok Sabha, for his visionary leadership which has inspired the people of the town for this achievement,” the Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-indore-india-s-cleanest-city-surat-and-navi-mumbai-bag-2nd-3rd-spot/story-9IHmDbDDc8gwbrEzc2XFqO.html
20-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Pranab Mukherjee’s health shows slight improvement, continues to be on ventilator, says Army Hospital and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pranab Mukherjee’s health shows slight improvement, continues to be on ventilator: Army HospitalFormer President of India Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition slightly improved on Thursday, though he continued to remain on ventilator support, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi. Read moreI-T crackdown against people holding multiple PANs after March 31Over 180 million permanent account numbers (PANs) could become defunct unless linked with Aadhaar numbers by the March 31 deadline, as the income-tax (I-T) department, which is equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), is all set to nab tax evaders conducting high-value transactions by using multiple PANs, two officials said, requesting anonymity. Read moreCoronavirus to migrant crisis: Colombian craftivist Edgar Alvarez models clay to educate the massesEdgar Alvarez, an artist and activist, is a Venezuelan living in Bogota, Colombia. The ‘craftivist’ works with plasticine figures, through which he explains and highlights the issues in the Andean region in recent years. Read moreKid’s unbelievable drumming skills will get you hooked. WatchThere are some videos which are so amazing that you want to play them on loop. If you’ve come across such clips, then you know what we’re talking about. In case you are yet to experience, then let this video of a kid showcasing his drumming skills be your first. Read moreAudi India set to launch RS Q8, its most powerful SUV, on August 27Audi on Thursday announced that it will launch the new RS Q8 SUV in the Indian market on August 27. The bookings for its upcoming flagship SUV has already commenced at an initial amount of ₹15 lakh. Customers can get their car reserved at the nearest Audi India dealership or online at the Audi’s official website. Read moreCovid-19: Daily deaths cross 1,000 mark thrice in 10 daysHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, recovery rate, number of antigen tests and RT-PCR tests conducted daily, challenges with online classes and more. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-pranab-mukherjee-s-health-shows-slight-improvement-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-says-army-hospital-and-all-the-latest-news/story-U3rcbV7BCB0Zzi2BgOL7jL.html
20-08-2020||India||British man running Odisha shelter home arrested for sexually abusing minor||The Odisha police have arrested a 68-year-old British citizen running an orphanage in the state’s western district of Jharsuguda on charges of sexually abusing a minor boy in his shelter home.Police officials in Jharsuguda said John Patrick Bridge - who ran a child shelter home called Faith Outreach in the Cox Colony area of the town, where he provided education to the tribal students - was arrested following a complaint by a minor tribal boy about Bridge sexually abusing him.In his complaint, the victim alleged that when he had gone with Bridge to his native place in Rayagada district for Christmas last year, the latter had fondled his thigh and private parts while returning in an SUV. “After a complaint was filed at Jharsuguda police station under section 341 of the IPC (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 10 POCSO Act (aggravated sexual assault ) and section 3(i) (r), 2 (va) of SC/ST (POA) Act, the accused was arrested. Further investigations are on,” said Rahul PR, Jharsuguda SP.Sources said the FIR against Bridge was lodged following an inquiry undertaken by Indian Embassy in New Zealand about misuse of funds given to Faith Outreach by a New Zealand-based funding agency. The issues of sexual abuse cropped up during the funds misuse probe following which police officials asked the victims to lodge complaints.Bridge, along with his wife Delphine, started Faith Outreach 25 years ago in Jharsuguda to provide education to the tribal students. There is a Baby Care Center, which provides a home and care for abandoned babies as well as a children’s home that provides clothing, education, medical care and daily food to over 400 poor children. The organisation also has a training centre that prepares volunteers to work as social workers in the local communities.The shelter home has been shut down since March this year following the onset of Covid pandemic. Officials of Faith Outreach did not comment over the arrest of Bridge. This is the second such incident of abuse of minor children in Odisha in the last two years. In December 2018, Faiz Rehman, a pastor who ran Good News India Dream Centre, a child shelter home in Dhenkanal district, was arrested by police after allegations by the inmates that he physically and sexually tortured them. The minor girls in the shelter home had alleged that Rehman hugged, kissed and made them hold his sexual organs and whenever they raised any objection or protested, he threatened them to throw them out from the centre.Rehman, who is in his 50s, studied theology in the United States and is now in a Dhenkanal jail since December. His bail applications were rejected by the Orissa High Court twice - in February and August - last year. Police submitted chargesheet in the case in January 28 last year before a designated POCSO court and trial in the case has already started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-man-running-odisha-shelter-home-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-minor/story-ZAOVAa3y6IV96P3Z2u1fNO.html
20-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Indore ranked cleanest city for the fourth consecutive year||Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has been ranked the cleanest city for the fourth consecutive year under the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the centre’s annual survey on cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Mission, announced on Thursday.Surat in Gujarat and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra were ranked second and third, respectively. In the category of population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Karad bagged the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala.Chhattisgarh was ranked the cleanest state of India in the ‘under 100 Urban Local Bodies’ category while Jharkhand was adjudged the leanest state of India in the ‘above 100 Urban Local Bodies’ category. The announcement of this year’s results was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of housing and urban affairs said. The survey, which covered 4,242 cities and saw the participation of 1.87 crore citizens, was completed in 28 days. “When the Swachh Bharat Mission- Urban (SBM-U) was launched in 2014, it was with the objective of making urban India 100% open defecation free (ODF) along with 100% scientific solid waste management. With no concept of ODF in urban areas and solid waste processing standing at a mere 18%, it was clear that an accelerated approach was necessary if the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s dream of a Swachh India was to be achieved within the timeframe of five years,” Union housing minister Hardeep Puri said during a virtual press conference on Thursday. Also Read: Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020: List of winning cities“A framework was therefore needed to bring about rigour in the progress in monitoring and a spirit of healthy competition among states and cities to improve their performance in key cleanliness parameters. This underlying thought led to the conceptualisation and subsequent implementation of the Swachh Survekshan (SS), a competitive framework to encourage cities to improve the status of urban sanitation while encouraging large-scale citizen participation,” he added. In 2019, Indore was awarded the cleanest city in the country in the Swachh Survekshan 2019 (SS 2019) awards, while Bhopal was declared the cleanest capital. Ujjain bagged the award for being the cleanest city in the population category of 3 lakh to 10 lakh. Indore had retained the top spot in the survey for three consecutive years.Every year, cities and towns across India are awarded with the title of ‘Swachh Cities’ based on their cleanliness and sanitation drives as a part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan that was launched in 2014.The ministry of housing and urban affairs, which is the nodal agency for the Swachh Bharat Mission, conducted its first survey ‘Swachh Survekshan-2016’ survey to rank 73 cities (Urban Local Bodies), in January 2016, under the ambit of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban). In order to expand the coverage of cities, the ministry conducted its second survey ‘Swachh Survekshan-2017’ in January-February 2017, to rank 434 cities. In ‘Swachh Survekshan 2018’, the scale of survey and intensity of participation increased with 4,203 cities. For the 2019 Swachh Survekshan, the ministry covered 4,237 cities.“The mainstreaming of informal waste workers, provision of social security schemes and safety gear to all sanitation workers, dignity, recognition and welfare of sanitation workers and their families was accorded due importance,” Puri said. He added that the survey team visited over 58,000 residential and over 20,000 commercial areas covering over 64,000 wards—all in 28 days.Last month, the ministry launched the sixth edition of the survey, Swachh Survekshan 2021. The indicators for the survey will focus on parameters pertaining to wastewater treatment and reuse along with faecal sludge. The issues of legacy waste management and remediation of landfills have been brought to the fore in the sixth edition of the Survekshan. The ministry has also added a new category called the ‘Prerak DAUUR Samman’ which has five additional sub-categories—Divya (Platinum), Anupam (Gold), Ujjwal (Silver), Udit (Bronze), Aarohi (Aspiring). Besides the present criteria of evaluating cities on ‘population category’, this new category will categorise cities based on six select indicator-wise performance criteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-indore-ranked-cleanest-city-for-the-fourth-consecutive-year/story-ZM6E4T3z7h4o5SMrqNRSIK.html
20-08-2020||India||29% of Delhi has antibodies for Covid-19: Second sero-survey||The second serological survey conducted in Delhi between August 1 and 7 has found that 29.1% of the city’s population has developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. The survey results also showed the prevalence of antibodies among women was more (32.2%) compared to men (28.3%).The findings of the second survey show that the prevalence of antibodies among the people has increased by over 6 percentage points when compared to the first survey held between June 27 and July 10. As many as 22.86% of people were earlier found to have developed antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. In the first survey, samples were collected from 21,387 people, whereas, in the second round, 15,000 samples were collected. Jain said the third round of the survey will begin from September 1 and would go on for a similar duration as earlier.According to the second survey, prevalence of antibodies among those aged less than 18 was 34.7%, and 28.5% for those between 18-50. For those above 50, it was 31.2%.Government officials said the latest findings that those aged under 18 were found to have the maximum antibodies compared to other age groups would play a crucial role in the Delhi government’s decisions on opening schools and colleges. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in his Independence Day speech on August 15, said that the government will not open schools until it is fully convinced about the city’s Covid-19 situation.Giving the district-wise break-up, the health minister said the southeast district has seen the biggest increase in people developing antibodies. The lowest increase was seen in northeast Delhi, which once had the highest number of Covid-19 cases.Developing antibodies means a person contracted Covid-19, recovered, and subsequently developed them against the disease. “Antibodies are found in high numbers anywhere between 3 and 8 months since the recovery of a Covid-19 patient. In the process, the person also develops T-cells because of which the chances of contracting Covid-19 again become extremely low,” Jain said.The report showed the southeast district has seen a maximum increase in the prevalence of antibodies among people when compared with the findings of the first and the second surveys. It was earlier 22.12% and this time it was found to be 33.2%. This is followed by the south district--from 18.61% to 27.2%. But, after the southeast district, the areas with the highest prevalence of antibodies among people are north district (31.6%), followed by central district (31.4%).In the southwest district, 16.3% of the people have been found to have developed antibodies, which is the lowest of all the 11 districts in Delhi. The second-lowest was the New Delhi district (24.6%).A day after the high court directed the Delhi government to do a comparative analysis of the two serological surveys conducted in Delhi so far, the health minister on Thursday said that the government would do the same.When asked about a possible second wave, Jain said, “We had expected that in the second sero survey the seroprevalence would increase considerably. But it has increased by around 6-7% since July. So, Delhi is heading towards herd immunity, but experts say that should be at least 40%. We cannot rule out a second wave because only yesterday India saw the highest ever spike in daily fresh Covid-19 cases.”Jain said Delhi has a population of around 20 million and the findings of the latest survey suggest that around 5.9 million have contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered from the disease. “It is relieving to know that around 29% of the city’s population has recovered after being infected by the coronavirus. On the other hand, 71% of people in Delhi have not developed antibodies, which means that they are still vulnerable,” he said. “The people of Delhi are being very careful in taking precautions against Covid-19. So, this is a very positive development. It shows that the Covid-19 infection numbers are no longer rising exponentially in Delhi.”Jain said there was a time when the cases in Delhi were increasing by 4,000 daily and the positivity ratio was 30%. “It is also reassuring to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has reduced to nearly 7%, which is much lower than the national average. The situation in Delhi is improving.” Charoo Hans, a former head of the microbiology department at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said if 71% of people are still vulnerable, it is quite a high number. “It suggests that the government should continue with its efforts on aggressive testing, contact tracing, surveillance, isolation, and providing good treatment. It also suggests that people should continue ensuring strict compliance with social distancing, wearing masks, washing their hands frequently, and following respiratory etiquettes. There is no room for any complacency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-of-delhi-has-antibodies-for-covid-19-second-sero-survey/story-JE4rKi7lMDYaOgAacWoCVK.html
20-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s health shows slight improvement, but still on ventilator: Hospital||Former President of India Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition slightly improved on Thursday, though he continued to remain on ventilator support, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.The statement from the hospital also said that Mukherjee’s vital and clinical parameters remained stable and being closely monitored by a team of specialists.Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on August 15, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.The 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-health-shows-slight-improvement-but-still-on-ventilator-hospital/story-Y9vDM4VCQyrHnJ9vBMS4lL.html
20-08-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses Prashant Bhushan’s plea to defer hearing on his sentence in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to hear lawyer Prashant Bhushan petition to defer the hearing on his sentence The apex court said that it will not hear the petition till Bhushan’s review petition against conviction for criminal contempt is filed and decided.The three-judge bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said that the judgement is complete only after the sentence. It gave assurance to Bhushan that no punishment will be acted upon till his review against the order convicting him in the case is decided.Bhushan had appealed to the Supreme Court to defer hearing on his punishment in a contempt of court case till the time his review petition against the August 14 conviction order is taken up.The court had taken suo moto notice of two tweets posted by Bhushan on June 27 and 29 where he had accused the present Chief Justice of India (CJI) of closing down courts and past CJIs of destroying democracy.The top court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets, saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest.In its judgment, the bench had said, “The Indian judiciary is not only one of the pillars on which the Indian democracy stands but is the central pillar. An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand.”Under the Contempt of Court Act, an act of criminal contempt of court can attract a punishment of six months imprisonment or Rs 2,000 fine or both. Bhushan pointed out in his application that in criminal contempt proceedings, the Supreme Court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. There is no appeal to a higher forum once the top court sentences a person for contempt.Bhushan requested the court to accept his request for deferment in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-prashant-bhushan-s-plea-to-defer-hearing-on-his-sentence-in-contempt-case/story-QNp3mcEfLh8aWbAijYRQaP.html
20-08-2020||India||Indore’s fourth consecutive win, tops Swachh Survekshan 2020||The government on Thursday announced the results of annual survey of cleanliness, Swachh Survekshan 2020 and Indore once again retained the top spot as the cleanest city of India.The city has bagged the spot fourth time in a row. Gujarat’s Surat on second spot and Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai on third.Union Housing Minister Hardeep Singh Puri“ said, I visited Indore a few years ago, along with a member of a Japanese delegation. When we reached the city, I saw he Japanese going to various places in Indore. I asked him ‘what are you doing?’ He said ‘I was trying to find filth, but couldn’t’. I don’t think there could be any bigger testimony to the achievement of the city.” He told this to Shivraj Singh Chouhan after Indore won the award.Congratulating the people of Indore, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the city has hit a four this time and surely will hit a six in the coming future.This is the fifth edition of the survey that was introduced by PM Modi in January 2016.The Minister interacted with select beneficiaries, swachhagrahis (Clean India Warriors), and Safai Karmis (Sanitation Workers) under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) from different parts of the country through video conference.Swachh Survekshan 2020 covered 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns. This survey was carried out in 28 days.Mysuru had won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, while Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years (2017,2018, 2019). In a first, the Swachh Survekshan programme in 2019 was a completely digital survey completed in a record time. Swachh Survekshan is meant to monitor the performance of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, which was launched on October 2, 2014, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. It aims to make India open-defecation free by 2019.The survey was introduced by the government with the objective of generating large-scale participation in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. It also aims at inculcating a spirit of healthy competition among cities towards becoming India’s cleanest cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-pm-modi-announces-results-of-swachh-survekshan-2020-indore-once-again-retains-top-spot/story-KiP6FWjP9dcaPZ9HbS1wHN.html
20-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan 2020 results announced, Indore once again retains top spot||Indore is India’s cleanest city in Swachh Survekshan 2020, the fifth edition of the annual cleanliness survey of the country.The city has bagged the spot fourth time in a row. Gujarat’s Surat on second spot and Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai on third.In the category of population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Karad bagged the first position, followed by state’s Saswad and Lonavala.Best performing states in terms of overall performance were divided in two categories- states with over 100 Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and states with less than 100 ULBs. In the first category, Chhattisgarh bagged the award for the second time and Jharkhand won the award in the second category.Also read: Swachh Survekshan 2020: All you need to know about India’s cleanliness surveyIndia’s Cleanest Cantonment Board award was bagged by Jalandhar cantonment from Punjab and Best Ganga Town award was given to Varanasi.Best city in terms of maximum citizen’s participation award in the category of population of over 1 lakh has been given to Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur. In the same category for cities with population less that 1 lakh, the award was bagged by Uttarakhand’s Nandaprayag.Cleanest city with over 40 lakh population award was won by Ahmedabad and Vijayawada won in the category of city with population between 10 lakh to 40 lakh. Fastest mover big city award was won by Rajasthan’s Jodhpur. Gujarat's Rajkot won the best self sustainable city award. In the category of 3 to 10 lakh population, cleanest city award went to Karnataka’s Mysuru. Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad won fastest mover city in 3 lakh to 10 lakh population category. In the same population category, Pilai of Chattisgarh won the best self sustainable city award.Cleanest small city award in 1 lakh to 3 lakh population category went to Chattisgarh’s Ambikapur. Burhanpur of Madhya Pradesh won the award for fastest mover small city.Cleanest capital city award was won by New Delhi’s New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). Fastest mover capital city award went to Lucknow. Bhopal bagged the award for best self sustainable capital city. A total of 129 top performing cities and states were awarded by Minister of Civil Aviation of India Hardeep Singh Puri in the virtual programme called ‘Swachh Mahotsav’. This programme was organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. PM Modi, who was originally supposed to announce the results, could not attend the event.Mysuru had won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, while Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years (2017,2018, 2019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-govt-announces-results-of-swachh-survekshan-2020-indore-once-again-retains-top-spot/story-16g1l6YgBzYr7QtSdgCq5M.html
20-08-2020||India||Centre trying to break up PDP: Omar Abdullah||Omar Abdullah, former Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) chief minister, has claimed that the Narendra Modi government is currently focussed on breaking up the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and because of which its chief Mehbooba Mufti continues to be in detention, according to a recently released book. Mehbooba has been detained under the National Security Act (NSA), 1980, following the scrapping of Article 370, which granted special powers to J&K, on August 5, 2019. In an interview with US-based authors, Pradeep Chibber and Harsh Shah, for their book, India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next generation of Political Leaders, Abdullah also did not rule out “some amount of cooperation” with once arch-rival Mehboob’s party PDP in the larger interests of Kashmir. Also read: Agree with Rahul that non-Gandhi should be Congress president, Priyanka in new book“At the moment, it appears as if the entire effort of New Delhi is focused on breaking up the PDP. Because of this, a new political formation call the Apni Party is largely made up of people from the PDP. This may explain why Mehbooba Mufti has been kept in detention longer than I have because they (the Modi government) haven’t met with the same success in breaking away people from the National Conference (NC) as they have with the PDP,” he told the authors. Abdullah (50) was released from detention on March 24 after seven months. Also read: Centre withdraws 10,000 soldiers from Kashmir to send a message“We’ll wait and see how that plays out. But obviously some amount of cooperation, some amount of working together with the PDP in the larger interest of general Kashmir cannot be ruled out,” the former Union minister added. After the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) withdrew support to the PDP in June 2018, the then Governor Satya Pal Malik had placed J&K under Governor’s rule and kept the assembly in suspended animation. However, in November, the NC and the Congress had offered their support to keep Mehbooba in power, but Malik ordered to dissolve the state assembly after the People’s Conference (PC) led by Sajjad Lone staked a counterclaim, saying it had the support of 25 BJP legislators and “more than 18” others. In her letter to the Governor, Mehbooba had claimed the support of 56 legislators in the 87-member assembly. The PDP had 28 members in the assembly, the NC (15), and the Congress (12). The bloc also had the support of an independent lawmaker. However, Malik later claimed that he had not received the communication via facsimile from Mehbooba, as it was a holiday. Asked if he was disappointed with the responses of his party’s old allies such as the Congress to the abrogation of Article 370, Abdullah said that there should have been at least a token resistance because the state’s special status was the legacy of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. “I understand that you don’t want to oppose the revocation, but at least own it. But more than the revocation of 370, I think the thing that disappointed me more was the silence at J&K being humiliated the way it was converted into a union territory (UT). In all the years since independence, this was the first time a state has been downgraded. Otherwise, UTs have always been upgraded to states,” he said. Abdullah expressed disappointment with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) for not opposing the move to convert J&K into a UT. “My father left his own election to campaign for N. Chandrababu Naidu, and he was one of the first people to jump straight off with the BJP and say, we support you on everything. These are betrayals that I will not forget easily,” he said. The former CM said the general population in Kashmir is angry about what happened on August 5 but didn’t react the way they did in 2008, 2010, and 2016 because there was a far larger presence of security forces this time. “Militancy is something you can control. What you can’t do is force the people to feel more Indian than they feel. You can’t force a sense of isolation, bitterness, anger, or a sense of separatism, out of people. And I dare say that in spite of the BJP and their voices in the media patting themselves on the back that the events of August 5 will end separatist sentiment in J&K, I think it will have no such impact. If anything, those who are sitting on the fence are probably feeling more isolated and more separatist than they were before August 5, 2019,” he said. Abdullah also claimed that after 2014 there has been no engagement with the people of J&K. The NC leader reiterated that he is unlikely to participate in any electoral politics in J&K till it is a UT. “My party won’t boycott elections. I’m talking purely about myself. I don’t see myself as a member of the assembly of the UT of J&K. I’ve been CM of one of the most empowered assemblies of this country. I’m not going to be CM of a UT, where, perhaps, I can’t even decide which peon I want to work in my office. That’s not for me,” he said. Asked about personal regrets in his political career, Abdullah said there were two major incidents, which he wished had been handled differently when he was the J&K CM. He recounted the allegation of rape and murder of two women in Shopian in 2009 and the 2010 summer of discontentment in which over a hundred people had died. “That continues to haunt me and always will. Besides, my failure was in not being able to convince the Indian government that hanging Afzal Guru is not going to win them any votes in the general election and, in fact, would push J&K back to the fringes. I wasn’t able to convince them, and that is something I will always regret,” he said. The book features 20 prominent young politicians from different political parties such as Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Smriti Irani, Akhilesh Yadav, Asaduddin Owaisi, Aaditya Thackeray, Devendra Fadnavis, Milind Deora, Varun Gandhi, Supriya Sule, and Rajyavardhan Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-trying-to-break-up-pdp-omar-abdullah/story-jJ6MzNBheOFQjJsISwjL9M.html
20-08-2020||India||‘Preserve Ustad Bismillah Khan’s house as heritage’: Akhilesh Yadav||Days before the fourteenth death anniversary of shehnai maestro and Bharat Ratna Ustad Bismillah Khan, the demolition of the room of his daily ‘riyaz’ (practice) has drawn strong reactions from fans, musicians and political leaders. As per reports, some of Ustad’s family members wish to build a commercial complex at the site. Samajwadi Party chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav called for the conservation of the room. He tweeted on Wednesday saying that the government should protect and preserve the place where Ustad Bismillah Khan used to perform ‘riyaz’ every day. Also read: PM to announce results of Swachh Survekshan 2020 at 11am“Saving it from going into the hands of bhupatis (builders), the government should conserve the place as a memorial where Bharat Ratna Ustad Bismillah Khan used to do ‘riyaz’ as worship. The people who do not preserve cultural heritage are forgotten not only by history but also the present,” Yadav tweeted.    His tweet came after the roof of a room in Ustad’s house, situated in Hadha Sarai area of Varanasi, was demolished. Ustad Bismillah Khan’s awards, citations and shehnai were kept in the room. Ustad’s grandson Afaq Haider said Khan’s other grandson Chittain Hussain was planning to reconstruct the house for commercial purpose. He wanted to build shops on the ground floor. Ustad’s sons Kazim Hussain and Nazim Hussain were against the construction of shops by demolishing the house. Haider said that the house should be preserved as heritage. Chittain Hussain is the son of Ustad’s eldest son Mehtab Hussain. Chittain, who is reconstructing the house, said that the house was in the name of Mehtab Hussain. As it was dilapidated, the citations and awards received by the Ustad from all over the world were getting damaged. Therefore, he planned new construction. Shops would be constructed on the ground floor and in the upper portion a room would be built as a memorial in which all citations, awards and other things belonging to the maestro would be preserved, he said. Noted vocalist Padma Shri Rajeshwar Acharya also said that Ustad’s heritage should be preserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preserve-ustad-bismillah-khan-s-house-as-heritage-akhilesh-yadav/story-n5FuJOxhEUKIEnmFUe4WUL.html
20-08-2020||India||A month after clearing it, Maharashtra seeks answers on seawall project||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority has sought clarification from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) on the need to construct seawalls along coastal areas at Panje village in Uran and Elephanta Island (Gharapuri), home to tourist destination Elephanta caves, in the Mumbai harbour after environmentalists alleged it was an impractical venture. The proposed seawalls are meant to protect the coast and prevent erosion.The move comes almost a month after the authority had cleared the proposal on July 7 and recommended it to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), while listing six conditions to be complied with before commencing construction. The JNPT had proposed a 3.2-km wall from Shetbunder to Rajbunder jetty at Elephanta island and a 270-metre wall, less than 300 m from Panje village, along the shoreline. Additionally, a 45-m boat landing jetty and 20-m approach trestle has been planned at Nhava (Uran). The construction of the walls was proposed to protect the coast from rising seas and prevent erosion, said JNPT. But four complaints by environmental groups - Vanashakti, Shree Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP), NatConnect Foundation, and a consortium of Uran fishermen - over the past week alleged it was being done to make land available for reclamation and future construction.“The JNPT’s plan is to obstruct free flow of natural tidal water to mangrove areas, leading to flooding and impacting traditional fishing activities,” said Dilip Koli, Uran fisherman. The MCZMA issued a letter to JNPT’s chairman (port, planning and development) on Wednesday to provide a detailed report on points raised by complainants. HT has reviewed the letter sent to the JNPT.“Complainants have asked us to revoke permissions issued by us. We have asked the JNPT to file a compliance report on conditions laid out, and verify whether these allegations are true,” said a senior MCZMA official.On March 3, 2017, the Union environment ministry had granted the JNPT environmental clearance (EC) for deepening and widening of Mumbai’s existing harbour channel and JNPT’s port channel (Phase II) project. One of the conditions under the EC was to hold a public hearing. “The request for seawalls was made during the public hearing conducted by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board in presence of the Raigad district collector for the EC based on requests from concerned gram panchayats. There is no mangroves destruction and diversion due to proposed construction. The seawalls are essential to protect the coast and prevent erosion. These projects were proposed under Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER),” said the JNPT in a statement to HT.The JNPT also has no-objection certificates from Panje, Gharapuri and Nhava gram panchayats.The CER does not mean funding an environment violation, said Stalin D, Director, Vanashakti. “There are vested interests who want to engage in landfilling of all wetlands and coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas. This reclamation mafia is pushing destructive agendas and the JNPT is providing cover for them directly or indirectly. The MCZMA has completely washed off its hands from CRZ conservation,” he said.Panje village has close to 450 homes with 1,684 residents. It is situated atop a hill overlooking the sea to the north, mangroves to the west and south, and open flat land where cricket is played towards the east. Karishma Haresh Bhoir, sarpanch of the Panje gram panchayat, said they had requested the seawall construction. “Excess tide water during heavy rain is making its way to our village. Homes are being flooded, especially at the bottom of the hill. We need this wall to protect us,” she said.However, Panje resident Manish Bhoir denied the sarpanch’s claim. “They are lying. Our village cannot flood because it is elevated on a hill,” he said, adding, “this is a ploy to conveniently block water channels and dry out surrounding areas where industrial and housing projects have been planned.”Other complainants had similar views. “Panje has already been divided into sectors 16 to 28 as a part of the Dronagiri development plan. The seawall will facilitate this plan and gobble up the wetland. It is a sponge to absorb rainwater but their burial is the reason why the Mumbai region witnesses annual floods,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation.SEAP’s complaint alleged that the Mumbai harbour had already lost 875 hectares of mangroves, wetlands and small water bodies through land reclamation on JNPT areas. “We request the state to study the extent of ecological damage and loss of livelihood across this region, and then consider project approvals,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP.WHAT’S AT STAKE: MANGROVE FORESTSIn November 2019, the MCZMA had instructed the state mangrove cell to inspect whether mangroves were being destroyed for these projects. After site inspection, the cell had said no mangrove destruction was involved but all three projects fell within the 50-m buffer zone of mangrove forests. The seawall at Panje is being constructed across 270m in CRZ 1A (requires highest protection) and at Elephanta island across 185 m at CRZ1A. The HC in September 2018 had ordered, “Regardless of the ownership of the land having mangroves and the area of the land, all constructions within 50 m of all sides of the mangroves shall be forthwith stopped. The area of 50m shall be kept free from construction except compound wall/fencing for its protection.” While environmentalists alleged that the wall, which did not have any culverts proposed, would block all high tide water even as tide water regulation (holding pond and barrages) was already being undertaken by the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd, JNPT said no there was no mangrove destruction proposed at the site.COASTAL AUTHORITY’S 6 CONDITIONS THAT JNPT MUST COMPLY WITH- JNPT to ensure no construction allowed in mangroves- JNPT to obtain permission from Bombay high court since part of the walls within 50-m mangrove buffer area- Natural course of creek areas should not be hampered- No reclamation of coastal water bodies is allowed- All other permissions from different statutory authorities be obtained- Proposed construction to be done strictly as per Coastal Regulation Zone 2011 norms, guidelines and clarifications issued by the Union environment ministry from time to time(Source: MCZMA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-month-after-clearing-it-maharashtra-seeks-answers-on-seawall-project/story-a4uAMJsFFROo7aX8ygFftM.html
20-08-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: India not to fix benchmark in selecting potential candidate||Pharmaceutical companies in India and around the world are putting in great efforts to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which has infected more than 22 million people so far. According to Union health ministry update, India on Thursday recorded 69,652 fresh Covid-19 cases which pushed the tally to above 2.8 million.Many scientific studies are also being done as part of the efforts to find treatments and vaccines for Covid-19, while a total of 26 vaccine candidates are being developed, according to the World Health Organisation.A top ICMR official told a parliamentary panel on Wednesday that phase-two clinical trial of two indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates have almost been completed and emergency authorisation of a vaccine could be considered if the Centre decides so.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayHere are all the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine in India and recent developments:•India is not planning to follow a preset benchmark for selecting a Covid-19 vaccine and will explore all available options for mass immunization against the contagion. “When we will have a vaccine ready, we will look at all parameters in a balanced manner, how effective it is, what is the cost, ease of administration, besides other factors,” said Dr V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), and the chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration.•Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate could be the first to be available in India if it gets the required clearances by the end of this year. The Serum Institute of India (SII) has already received a nod from India’s top drug regulatory body for conducting phase-II and III clinical trials on the vaccine.•Bangladesh will be a priority recipient for the Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, according to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. “For us, Bangladesh is always a priority country,” Shringla who is on a two-day visit here quoted by local media as telling reporters here on Wednesday on being asked about the vaccines.•According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), three Indian vaccines are in different phases of clinical testing at present. Two of these vaccines - Bharat Biotech vaccine and DNA vaccine of Zydus Cadila have completed phase 1 and will begin phase 2 clinical trials, said the ICMR.•Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi has become heavily reliant on antigen tests, which experts say are not as reliable as RT-PCR tests and end up skewing crucial data that could hamper the city’s fight to contain the virus. At least seven of every 10 tests conducted is an antigen test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-india-not-to-fix-benchmark-in-selecting-potential-candidate/story-CWt9mUAJegqrEDyGLUrrtL.html
20-08-2020||India||Serum Institute registers Covid vaccine trial; AIIMS Delhi one of the trial sites||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has registered its phase II/III clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate, Covishield, with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI). The trails will be conducted on 1,600 healthy participants across India.New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences is one of the 17 sites selected to conduct Phase II/III, observer-blind, randomized, controlled study, to check the safety and immune response of the vaccine in healthy Indian adults. The study is planned for seven months. The date of the first enrolment will be August 24, according to CTRI.SII is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by the number of doses produced and sold globally. It has a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Also read: Oxford Covid-19 vaccine could be the first to be available to Indians: 5 key developmentsOn August 3, India’s drugs controller gave approval to SII for conducting phase II and III clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country.Dr Prasad Kulkarni will be the principal investigator for SII, who will spearhead the trials at 17 hospitals across the country. The hospitals include Andhra Medical College (Visakhapatnam), JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (Mysore), Seth G. S. Medical College and KEM Hospital (Mumbai), KEM Hospital Research Centre (Vadu), B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital (Pune).KEM Hospital Research Centre’s Ethics Committee has received the mandatory approval for the trials. The approval is under process for the rest of the 16 hospitals.Institute Ethics Committee clearance is mandatory to begin any clinical studies in India.Covishield will be administered as a two-dose schedule on days 1 and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly. Placebo will be administered as a two-dose schedule on days 1 and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly.Healthy participants, both men and women, selected for the trials are above 18.Those, who are ineligible, include people with acute illnesses with or without fever at the time of study vaccine administration, history of laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 disease in household contact or close workplace contact, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-registers-covid-vaccine-trial-aiims-delhi-one-of-the-trial-sites/story-hsKd6qlJoFY4oOqRm5i1LO.html
20-08-2020||India||‘Incredibly proud to have him as my father’: Rahul’s tribute to Rajiv Gandhi on birth anniversary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Delhi’s Veer Bhumi Rajiv Gandhi Memorial and paid tributes to his father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 76th birth anniversary on Thursday. The Congress leader tweeted he was “incredibly lucky and proud” to have him as his father, adding that “he was a compassionate and loving human being”. “We miss him today and everyday,” the tweet further read. Rajiv Gandhi was a man with a tremendous vision, far ahead of his times. But above all else, he was a compassionate and loving human being.I am incredibly lucky and proud to have him as my father.We miss him today and everyday. pic.twitter.com/jWUUZQklTiPrime Minister Narendra Modi also paid tributes to the former PM.“On his birth anniversary, tributes to former Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji,” PM Modi tweeted.Rajiv Gandhi took over the charge of the Congress in 1984 following the assassination of his mother and then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. He became India’s youngest Prime Minister at the age of 40. He served as the sixth PM of India. He was assassinated during an election rally in Tamil Nadu by a Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) suicide bomber in 1991.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incredibly-proud-to-have-him-as-my-father-rahul-s-tribute-to-rajiv-gandhi-on-birth-anniversary/story-rPvAopfBugpIQjce4sTJkJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Cadre merger: Railways’ technical and non-technical arms lock horns over new recruitment||A war of words has erupted between Indian Railways’ technical and non-technical arms over the proposed recruitment mechanism being drafted following the nod to merge eight major national carrier’s cadres into a single unified service — the Indian Railways Management Service (IRMS). In a letter, which HT has reviewed, written to railway minister Piyush Goyal last week, officers from Indian Railways Service of Engineers (IRSE) suggested that only those from the technical arm should be allowed to supervise railways operations. “Low-ranking civil services candidates, who will enter after several attempts and at an old age to IRMS” can come through a separate examination, the letter suggested. “Indian Railways is a technology-driven organisation and the role of technology has only increased and it will continue because of the government’s impetus on modernisation. The nature of railway operations necessitates that it continues to be managed by the highly competent technical supervision for the maintenance of increasingly complex systems ... Alternatively, UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) may conduct a separate examination for IRMS, on the lines of the Indian Forest Services (IFS) examination, where candidates can be tested for their core competence ... a separate examination would ensure that only those candidates enter service, who have consciously opted for the IRMS. This will bring in willing officers rather than low-ranking civil service candidates, who will enter after several attempts and at an old age to IRMS,” the letter said while taking a dig at the railways’ non-technical arms. Responding to the content of the letter, the Indian Railways’ civil service cadre, Indian Railways Traffic Services (IRTS), tweeted: “We deplore uncivil remark of Railway Engineering Services Associations in the letter reported in media. Best and brightest are recruited through the prestigious CSE (civil services examination). Officers have routinely quit railway engineering services to join IRTS even at a loss of two-three of seniority. We are all for reforms.” Earlier, HT had reported on August 6 that the Union Ministry of Railways is considering a uniform promotion for all services until Higher Administrative Grade (HAG) based on best performing service in the grade for Senior Administrative Grade (SAG)/ HAG and future recruitment of IRMS through a CSE, while technical specialists via RDSO (Research Designs & Standards Organisation – the national transporter’s R&D wing). Minister Goyal and railway board chairman VK Yadav in early August had held a meeting with railway unions and representatives from some of the railway services. In the meeting, representatives of several services had raised concerns over the employees’ career progression and promotions. According to officials present in the meeting, Yadav had communicated that seniority would not be that significant for deciding key positions and some elements of merit would also be introduced. “Career growth will be linked with the organisation’s growth,“ he had told the officials. He had also stated that there would no change in organisational structure, work culture, and work profile for the senior railway management. At present, three of the existing railway services are recruited through the CSE, while the rest five are technical services, where the hiring is held through an engineering services examination (ESE). The railways has also hired McKinsey, a multi-national consultancy firm, to finalise the modalities of the cadre merger. The modalities and unification of the services will be worked out by the ministry in consultation with the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) that was slated to be completed within a year. The proposed organisational reforms approved by the Union Cabinet last year were aimed at a restructuring of the mammoth organisation that employs around 1.3 million people.The rail operations carried 2.3 million passengers daily before the nationwide coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. The government had said the restructuring move was aimed at ending a legacy marked by inefficiency in work, infighting over control of assets and resources, and inordinate delays in decision-making.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadre-merger-railways-technical-and-non-technical-arms-lock-horns-over-new-recruitment/story-Bk21uHb9Lzp2qGEbnLmK2N.html
20-08-2020||India||AIIMS post-Covid care: Home minister Amit Shah’s condition is stable||Union home minister Amit Shah’s condition is stable, according to people aware of the matter at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where he was admitted to this week for post-Covid-19 care after complaining of fatigue and body ache.A team of multidisciplinary specialists led by AIIMS director, Dr Randeep Guleria, is monitoring Shah’s health.Shah, 55, was admitted to AIIMS on Monday night, three days after being discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing negative for the coronavirus disease. He had been admitted to Medanta on August 2 after becoming the first Union minister to test positive for the viral disease.“Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister, has been complaining of fatigue and body ache for last three or four days. He has tested negative for Covid-19. He has been admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from the hospital,” AIIMS said in a statement on Tuesday.Shah has been admitted to the VIP ward at the Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre (CNC) of the hospital.“Today my Covid-19 test report has come negative. I thank god. And, I also express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who supported me and my family by wishing me good health. I will be in home isolation for few days on advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted upon his discharge from Medanta.He had also announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had posted on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-post-covid-care-home-minister-amit-shah-s-condition-is-stable/story-JqLbywwlCwqYvrgUht7FWP.html
20-08-2020||India||Jammu man booked, arrested for objectionable remarks on religion||Close on the heels of arresting around 15 people, including a 56-year-old Naib Tehsildar, who were booked under four separate FIRs for hurting religious sentiments, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday arrested another man from Ramban district for posting highly objectionable remarks on religion on his Facebook.The accused has been identified as Mohammad Zahid, son of Abdul Rashid of Champa Batote in Ramban district. “Man arrested for #hurting religious sentiments. Mohd Zahid S/O Abdul Rashid Rather R/O Champa Batote has been arrested for posting objectionable comments on #Facebook thereby hurting the #religious sentiments of a particular community. A case under FIR no 48/2020 U/S 295-A/153-A/IPC registered at Police Station Batote and investigation taken up”, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Jammu, Mukesh Singh posted on his Twitter handle.Also read: Gurugram Rain - Omar Abdullah joins Twitter with sarcastic post over waterlogged roadsThe accused had posted highly objectionable and derogatory remarks on his Facebook page and had ridiculed religious sentiments of a particular community. His post had invited outrage across Jammu and Kashmir and in other parts with netizens asking the police to take stern action against the accused.Meanwhile, in the past four days, five FIRs have been registered against people from two specific communities for hurting religious sentiments. Among those arrested included a 56-year-old Naib Tehsildar, four self-styled leaders of a Hindu outfit and cow vigilantes. Three FIRs were registered in Arnas Police Station of Reasi district while the fourth FIR was registered in Pucca Danga police station of Jammu district. The fifth FIR was lodged in Batote police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-man-booked-arrested-for-objectionable-remarks-on-religion/story-3JNqygVb3o6xsc2CcFjabJ.html
20-08-2020||India||‘Wipe off tears sister’: Sonu Sood helps flood-hit girl in Maoist-affected Bastar||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood came out in support of a tribal girl in Chhatisgarh’s Maoist-affected Bijapur district of Bastar region. The girl had lost her house and books due to incessant rains in the region for the last five days.  Taking note of the video of the tribal girl Anjali Kudiyam on Wednesday, Sood tweeted, “Ansu poch le bahan, kitaben bhi nai hongi ghar bhi naya hoga (wipe off tears sister, books as well as the house will be new)”. Kudiyam is a resident of Komala village panchayat of the Maoist-affected district. The video was first posted on Facebook by a local journalist, Mukesh Chandrakar, in which she was seen crying as her house and books were damaged due to incessant rains.  Also read: Fan asks Sonu Sood for a car, check out actor’s hilarious reply आंसू पोंछ ले बहन...किताबें भी नयीं होंगी..घर भी नया होगा। https://t.co/crLh48yCLrKudiyam’s father is a farmer and owns 5 acres of land but due to rains the crops are damaged, the local administration said. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also took cognisance of the issue and instructed officials to help the girl. On Wednesday, collector Ritesh Agarwal and local MLA Vikram Mandavi handed over a cheque of Rs 1.1 lakh to Anjali for getting her house constructed. The district government will also provide books to the girl for preparation of her nursing college entrance. South Bastar districts, including Bijapur and Sukma, are badly affected due to incessant rains for the last five days. One person has died, around 120 houses have caved in and close to 200 villages were cut off from the district headquarters in these districts. District administrations are on high alert and more than 1, 500 people were moved to relief camps and other safer places due to inundation of villages in these areas. As per the officials, Sukma recorded 916 mm rainfall against normal 781 mm while Bijapur recorded 1, 647 mm against normal 942 mm since June. Officials said that around 120 houses collapsed in Bijapur due to rain. Around 1,000 people have been moved to relief camps till now and nearly 200 livestock untraceable due to floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonu-sood-offers-help-to-flood-hit-girl-in-maoist-affected-district-of-bastar/story-35N03PKLOIRCtmN03ETjYN.html
20-08-2020||India||SC to hear arguments today on sentencing Prashant Bhushan in contempt of court case||The Supreme Court will later on Thursday hear Prashant Bhushan before sentencing him days after the activist lawyer was held guilty of criminal contempt of court on August 14. According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both.A three-judge bench of justice Arun Mishra is expected to commence the hearing after 11 am.Bhushan, on Wednesday, moved the Supreme Court seeking deferment of the proceedings till a review petition is filed and considered.The court on August 14 said Bhushan’s tweets dated June 27 and June 29, criticising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and raising questions about the conduct of former CJIs and the court, were based on distorted facts. It added the tweets have the effect of destabilising the foundation of the Indian judiciary.“The Indian judiciary is not only one of pillars on which the Indian democracy stands but is the central pillar. An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand,” the three-judge bench said.In his defence to the court in an affidavit filed on August 2, Bhushan said: “I am entitled to form, hold, & express (opinion) under Article 19(1)(a)”.Also read: ‘Supreme Court remained a mute spectator when Delhi burnt’: Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologiseSome supported the court’s actions, pointing to Bhushan’s support for such actions in 2017 when the court took Calcutta high court judge justice CS Karnan to task for making allegations against Supreme Court judges. Others said the court was being a tad touchy in seeing comments against judges as those against the court.In its judgment of August 14, the court said the allegations levelled in the tweets against the court and CJI are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalize the court and such conduct was not expected from Bhushan, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing at the Bar.The court observed that the Indian judiciary is considered by the citizens as the last resort when they fail to get justice elsewhere. It added an attack on the Supreme Court will hamper not just the confidence that the public has in it but will also shake the confidence that judges of other courts in the country have in the Supreme Court.The court took cognizance of the tweets after a petition was filed by advocate Mehek Maheshwari.Bhushan’s first tweet, reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second referred to the Bobde and was also cited in the order. It said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan refused to apologise for his tweets, contending they are protected by the freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. He cited the speeches on dissent made by Supreme Court judges DY Chandrachud on February 15 and Deepak Gupta on February 24 to buttress his case.In defence of his perception that the Supreme Court aided in the destruction of democracy, Bhushan referred to the press conference held by four judges – justices Jasti Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph -- of the Supreme Court in January 2018 against the manner in which cases in Supreme Court were being assigned to selected benches.Regarding the tweet of June 27, the apex court held that tweet is directed against the Supreme Court and gave an impression that the apex court and its four CJIs had a major role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years.“There is no doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of judiciary. The tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI,” the court said.Regarding the June 29 tweet, the court said that it was intended to give the impression that the CJI kept the Supreme Court shut denying fundamental rights to citizens even though the court was functioning through video conferencing.Another suo motu contempt petition is pending before the same bench against Bhushan for calling past chief justices corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-arguments-today-on-sentencing-prashant-bhushan-in-contempt-of-court-case/story-pWxZHQ3DOgGD8VqTxWdnmI.html
20-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan 2020: All you need to know about India’s cleanliness survey||Results of Swachh Survekshan 2020 are set to be announced by Minister of Civil Aviation of India Hardeep Singh Puri. PM Modi, who was originally supposed to announce the results, could not attend the event.A total of 129 awards will be given by the minister to top performing cities and states in a virtual programme called ‘Swachh Mahotsav’. Here is all you need to know about Swachh Survekshan:• Swachh Survekshan was launched by PM Modi in 2016. Mysuru was chosen as the cleanest city in India in that edition of the survey.• Swachh Survekshan is meant to monitor the performance of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, which was launched on October 2, 2014, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. It aims to make India open-defecation free by 2019.• The extensive sanitation survey is commissioned by the Ministry of Urban Development and carried out annually by Quality Council of India. The survey was introduced by the government with the objective of generating large-scale participation in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. It was also aimed at inculcating a spirit of healthy competition among cities towards becoming India’s cleanest cities.• Swachh Survekshan 2020 covered 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 92 Ganga towns. This survey was carried out in 28 days.• Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will launch Swachh Survekshan 2020 results dashboard and interact with select beneficiaries, swachhagrahis and sanitary workers under the Swachh Bharat Mission- Urban programme on Thursday.• Last year’s position holder for cleanest city in India, Indore, has emerged victorious for two years before that - in 2017 and 2018.• Fourth edition of the survey in 2019 covered 4,237 cities. It was the first-of-its-kind completely digital survey completed in a record time of 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2020-all-you-need-to-know-about-india-s-cleanliness-survey/story-1mwqHdsPZ22jbSGw2pPONJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Is cloud seeding worth the effort? Scientists to release data||The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) would soon release a white paper on whether cloud seeding is a viable technology to trigger rainfall, M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES, said during a lecture organised by the Indian Meteorological Society on Wednesday.The drought-prone states such as Karnataka and Maharashtra had tried cloud seeding with large investments in the past. Delhi, too, had toyed with the concept in 2018 to deal with deadly November smog, but never got around to get it implemented. Delhi-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has concluded its two-year experiment on cloud seeding and has drafted a report. A team of IITM scientists conducted airborne experiments with two aircraft missions over Solapur in Maharashtra. “There is not much evidence on whether cloud seeding works. The literature is not conclusive. So, based on our experiments, we will release a white paper on how useful or successful is cloud seeding, how it should be done, and the commercial viability of the intervention,” said Rajeevan.MoES is also setting up an atmospheric research test-bed programme, “a highly focussed observational and analytical research effort”, to study atmospheric processes, particularly clouds and convection; land-atmosphere interactions; aerosol and radiation for developing and testing weather and climate models. This will also help understand monsoon dynamics in the core monsoon zone, including parts of eastern and central India.Apart from an overall improvement in forecast reliability which has made significant progress in the past three years, according to Rajeevan, IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecast model has ensured that the authorities are able to make a short-range prediction of rain and associated weather for five days now instead of three days, when the initiative was launched in 2012.The first phase of the monsoon mission was completed in 2017. IMD and other teams from the MoES are now working on the second phase of the monsoon mission, where the focus will be on extreme weather events and development of applications for various sectors such as renewable energy (solar and wind energy projects require accurate forecast); agriculture and hydrology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-cloud-seeding-worth-the-effort-scientists-to-release-data/story-BcCX5MiPmvd8n342Hya3fI.html
20-08-2020||India||IMD’s monsoon heavy rain forecast accuracy has improved to 70% in three years||All four measures of weather forecast accuracy used to predict monsoon by India Meteorological Department (IMD) have shown a marked improvement over the past three years, while the probability of detection (POD) to forecast heavy rainfall has made significant progress, said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) at an Indian Meteorological Society lecture on Wednesday. POD accuracy went up from 45% from 2002-16 to 70% in 2017-19, the MoES secretary cited to buttress the IMD’s feat. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration describes POD to be the number of hits in forecast divided by the total number of events observed. Similarly, the false alarm rate (FAR) has reduced from 42% to 32% over the corresponding period for heavy rain episodes during monsoon season. Apart from an overall improvement in forecast reliability, IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecast model has ensured that the authorities are able to make a short-range prediction of rain and associated weather for five days at present instead of three days, when the initiative was launched in 2012. “We can forecast with the same accuracy, but for five days now, as far as the short-range forecast for monsoon season is concerned,” Rajeevan said during the virtual lecture, which was attended by scientists from across the country amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Also read: Is cloud seeding worth the effort? Scientists to release dataThe first phase of the monsoon mission was completed in 2017. IMD and other teams from the MoES are working on the second phase of the monsoon mission that is focusing on extreme weather events and development of applications for various sectors such as renewable energy (solar and wind energy projects require accurate forecast); agriculture and hydrology.MoES is working on topical issues and emerging problems of the future. For example, Rajeevan said IMD has already developed a percentile-based forecast of extreme weather. The 90th and 95th percentile forecast of rain (10% chance that rain will be higher than that) and wind provide a five-day lead time for a forecast. Similarly, IMD is coming out with 550 new automatic weather stations for agromet services and state-of-the-art sensors for soil moisture and soil temperature detection. “These can help us understand landslides and help immensely with forecasts,” he added.IMD has recently started impact-based forecasts. “I remember the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. We did forecast very heavy rain. But what does it mean for the common man? What action should he take when he has heavy or extremely heavy rain warning? The impact-based warning takes into account all these factors,” added Rajeevan.The MoES secretary, however, conceded that though the 25 June lightning events in Bihar were predicted by the IMD and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) authorities, several people still died because of the natural disaster. Independent experts, who spoke off the record, maintained that more long-term data is needed to measure improvements in making accurate predictions. “These three years are not sufficient enough to judge improvement in forecast skill. There is a method called hindcast verification. Where you run the current model for earlier years and generate the skill score ...,” said a climate scientist on condition of anonymity.But climate change is increasingly making a prediction of extreme rain and seasonal forecasts a difficult proposition. In an article, co-authored by Rajeevan, published in Nature journal in 2015, titled: “Rethinking Indian monsoon rainfall prediction in the context of recent global warming,” the authors had said: “Despite enormous progress having been made in predicting ISMR (Indian summer monsoon rainfall) since 1886, the operational forecasts during recent decades (1989–2012) have little skill. Here we show, with both dynamical and physical–empirical models, that this recent failure is largely due to the models’ inability to capture new predictability sources emerging during recent global warming.”Rajeevan responded to HT’s query on the challenges in seasonal predictions due to climate change. “Some extreme rain events pull up or down the average leading to deviation from the seasonal forecast. We have seen it happening,” the MoES secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-s-monsoon-heavy-rain-forecast-accuracy-has-improved-to-70-in-three-years/story-lmezP8Al8byS2HdvGZi6LK.html
20-08-2020||India||Royal Aeronautical Society fellow asks for court of inquiry into Kozhikode crash||Captain Amit Singh, an international aviation safety expert and a fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society (FRAeS) in London, wrote to civil aviation minister Hardip Singh Puri on Tuesday, demanding a court of inquiry into the August 8 Air India Express plane accident at the Karipur international airport, Kozhikode. He alleged that evidence from the crash spot appeared to be tampered with and therefore needed an open investigation. Singh, a former chief of safety at AirAsia, said that his plea follows videos captured by the local media after the accident, showing three unidentified persons near the cockpit of the aircraft after the crash. Singh attached screen grabs of the video in his mail to the minister. When asked about the letter, an Air India Express spokesperson said, “We cannot comment as the accident is under investigation.” The plane overshot the runway while attempting to land at the table top airport; there were four cabin crew members and two pilots aboard, besides the passengers. While the two pilots lost their lives, all four cabin crew were rescued. A total of 18 people died in the crash. Also read: Air India plane overshoots Karipur’s table top runway, drops into gorge; 20 deadSingh pointed out that no personnel except those extricating bodies were authorised to do anything else, and also alleged that this (the alleged act of the three unidentified men) is tampering with evidence. An email sent to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) did not yield any response.Singh’s letter read, ‘As seen in the photograph, a person (A) dressed in military fatigues positioned outside the aircraft cockpit is seen pointing out to something inside the cockpit. There is apparently another person (B) inside the cockpit who hands over a what appears to be a document, to person A. Person A is then seen handing over the presumed document, which is apparently stained to a third person(C).’Referring to the screen grabs, Singh alleged that the destruction of evidence was evident from the video of the person inside the cockpit ostensibly rummaging through the documents and cavities, apparently searching for something in particular. “The current team of experts from AAIB and its experts are fully competent to investigate the accident,” said a spokesperson from the ministry of civil aviation. Singh stated that the AAIB procedures manual 2012, under point 4, details the procedure for securing evidence on site. “It states that the Officer incharge of the aerodromes closest to the site of the accident should assist in coordination with local police authorities and will take immediately all reasonable measures to protect the evidence until the arrival of the officer of AAIB or any other authorized person. It also states that the assistance of civil authorities, particularly that of local police is also necessary to ensure that vital evidence is not lost [sic],” wrote Singh. He also said the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) states few tasks that should be accomplished without delay; these include securing the occurrence site, aircraft, wreckage, and other equipment involved to ensure their preservation, including protection against further damage and the deterioration or disappearance of essential evidence due to theft, displacement or improper handling of the wreckage.“In the absence of a judicial and an open inquiry, I do not see any reason as to how an investigation would be fair and reasonable. Therefore I request you to immediately constitute a Court of Inquiry under the Rule 12 of Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules 2017,” concluded the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/royal-aeronautical-society-fellow-asks-for-court-of-inquiry-into-kozhikode-crash/story-dcz9E1dhwZBm5havvHVdVO.html
20-08-2020||India||Man behind Agra bus ‘hijacking’ arrested after police encounter||The main accused behind the ‘hijacking’ of a private bus, carrying 34 passengers from Gurugram to Madhya Pradesh, was arrested by the Agra police in the early hours of Thursday. The police intercepted accused Pradeep Gupta in Fatehabad area of Agra district. In the encounter that followed, Gupta suffered a bullet injury in his leg.“The main accused of the bus ‘hijacking’ case Pradeep Gupta has been arrested after an encounter with the police. He was on his motorcycle and was traced in Fatehabad area of Agra district in the early hours of Thursday,” said Babloo Kumar, SSP Agra. Gupta was taken for medical assistance for injury in his leg. The CCTV footage helped identify him at the toll plaza on Wednesday as he led the ‘hijacking’ of the bus.“We are yet to recover the SUV he was travelling in,” added SSP Kumar.Pradeep Gupta, his five associates were earlier booked for dacoity and kidnapping at Malpura police station of Agra after the hijacking incident on Wednesday when they all stopped the bus carrying 34 passengers from Gurugram to Panna in Madhya Pradesh. The bus was hijacked on New Southern Bye Pass of Agra late last night. The driver, conductor and helper were asked to get down from the bus and passengers were asked to get into another bus. The hijacked bus was later traced near a dhaba in Etawah district. Money dispute was the reason for hijacking of the bus which was owned by Pawan Arora from Gwalior. It is said that Pradeep Gupta was involved in a monetary dispute with Ashok Arora, the father of Pawan Arora. Ashok Arora had died due to Covid-19 and hijacking was planned by accused Pradeep Gupta to realise the outstanding money he owed Arora. The family members of Ashok Arora identified Pradeep Gupta from CCTV footage at a toll plaza. He was in the SUV car used by the alleged hijackers.Sources revealed that Pradeep Gupta was a tout at the Etawah RTO office and he used to give loans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-behind-agra-bus-hijacking-arrested-after-police-encounter/story-sbfYd2EKpIqWcM03wqosYI.html
20-08-2020||India||Single-day spike of nearly 70,000 Covid-19 cases push India’s tally to over 2.8 million||India saw another huge spike in the number of new coronavirus disease cases in the last 24 hours. According to Union health ministry update, the country recorded 69,652 fresh cases which pushed the tally to above 2.8 million (28,36,925 to be exact).The number of active cases in the country are 6,86,395, while the number of those discharged from the hospitals is 20,96,664.With 977 deaths in the last 24 hours, the number of fatalities reached 53,866.Also Read: What You Need to Know TodayThe daily death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 1,000-mark for the third time in the last 10 days as the country reported 1,103 fatalities on Tuesday.Before Tuesday, daily deaths in the country have crossed the 1,000-mark four times - 2,004 fatalities were recorded on June 16, 1,130 on July 22, 1,018 on August 9 and 1,010 on August 13.The country also achieved another milestone when more than eight lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 for the second consecutive day in a row, according to the health ministry. This took the cumulative tests to 3,17,42,782, it added.“The cumulative testing as on date has reached 3,17,42,782. The Tests Per Million too have seen a sharp rise to 23,002,” the ministry said on Wednesday.“The sustained level of high testing has played a key role in India’s increasing rate of recovery, widening gap between the recovered and active cases, and also progressively declining fatality rate,” it further added.Also Read: Recovery Rate Past 73% as 2 Million Beat Covid-19 InfectionMeanwhile, the Delhi government on Wednesday allowed hotels to resume operations and weekly markets to open after nearly five months on a trial basis. However, the ban on gymnasiums and yoga centres is continuing.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the decision will boost Delhi’s economy, which saw a steep slump during the three-month lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/single-day-spike-of-nearly-70-000-covid-19-cases-push-india-s-tally-to-over-2-8-million/story-OmW1nNrILQgzhzC7zzsvgJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Parking worth ₹42 lakh to come up on ‘enemy property’ in Nainital after Centre’s permission||The parking woes of Uttarakhand’s scenic Nainital hill station are likely to end soon as a parking facility is set to come up worth Rs 42 lakhs on “enemy property” land after the Central government gave in-principle permission for the project. Savin Bansal, district magistrate for Nainital district said, “We all know how big a problem traffic congestion is for Nainital town, especially during the peak tourist season when thousands of cars enter the city in a single day. To solve this problem, we had written to the Centre seeking permission to use the land of Metropole Hotel, which is an enemy property. The Central government approved our proposal in November last year and an amount of Rs 42 lakhs has been released recently for the project from the district plan.” Bansal said Central government has given in-principle approval up to March 2021, however, formal approval for using the land as a parking facility needs to be taken every year from the Office of the Custodian of Enemy Property for India. Also read: Uttarakhand logs highest single-day jump of Covid fatalities; state tally over 13,000According to the letter of the Central government sent to Nainital DM in November last year, the ownership of the property will remain with the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under union home ministry. Ninety percent of the income from the parking lot will be deposited in the account of the Custodian of Enemy Property (the account will be opened by the district administration), and rest 10 percent will be spent on the maintenance of the parking lot, the letter states. The district magistrate further informed that the Metropole parking lot will be developed as a hi-tech parking area, equipped with the facility of zoom-in-zoom-out barrier, CCTV cameras, beautification of the parking lot, systematic evacuation and entrance as well as separate toilets for women and men. The district magistrate added that the beautification work, like the construction of a boundary wall, restrooms, small eateries, will start for the convenience of the public. The property is situated in the Nainital town itself and after proper development, it will have a capacity of parking around 250-300 cars, informed the district magistrate. The amount has been sanctioned from the district plan to the public works department for levelling the land, construction of proper drainage, setting up a wire fencing and construction of security wall in the Metropole campus. Being a major tourist spot in Uttarakhand, the hill town of Nainital welcomes around 15,000-20,000 tourists during the peak summer season, leading to the repeated choking of the road approaching the small Himalayan hill station, where open land is hardly available. In May 2019, three to four-kilometre-long traffic jams were witnessed on the roads towards Nainital, especially on weekends and holidays. The authorities were finding it difficult to manage the traffic even as they regularly stopped the vehicles on the outskirts of Nainital on three approach roads - Kaladungi, Bhowali and Haldwani- when parking of around 2,000 vehicles inside Nainital got full. In 2018, the district police had put ‘Nainital Houseful’ flexi-banners on the approach roads to Nainital given the unprecedented tourist influx.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parking-worth-42-lakh-to-come-up-on-enemy-property-in-nainital-after-centre-s-permission/story-jRUdSZonj5upoBskDLdaZP.html
20-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely over NW India for next 24 hours: IMD||Delhi’s Ayanagar, Paradip in Odisha and Chhattisgarh’s Jagdalpur recorded 7 centimetres (cm) of rain on Wednesday following an intense spell of monsoon showers. While Najibabad in Uttar Pradesh (UP) recorded 14 cm of rainfall.Many parts of north-west India, including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi, are likely to record heavy to very heavy rain during the next 24 hours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities said in their Thursday morning bulletin.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 cm, is likely to be recorded on Thursday over parts of central India such as Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and eastern Madhya Pradesh (MP). It has been raining in many parts of the national capital since early morning on Wednesday. Safdarjung and Palam weather stations in the national capital have recorded 14 millimetres (mm) and 21.5 mm, respectively, between 2.30 and 5.30 am on Thursday.A well-marked low-pressure area lies over northern coastal Odisha. It is likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD bulletin said.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, MP, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Vidarbha during the next three-four days. Extremely heavy rain is likely over southwest Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and eastern MP on Thursday; western MP on Saturday and Sunday; eastern Rajasthan on Saturday and Gujarat over the weekend.“The monsoon trough is active and lies south of its normal position (from Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal) and continues to be active during the next four-five days. There is a convergence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea over plains of northwest India and Central India at lower levels and likely to continue during the next two days. Heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 24 hours. “The monsoon trough is near Delhi and there are strong moisture-laden southwesterly winds blowing over the region which is making it favourable for good rainfall activity here,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC), IMD. Also read: Traffic affected in various parts of Delhi amid rainfallModerate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by lightning is likely over Uttarakhand, UP, and eastern Rajasthan over the next 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-nw-india-for-next-24-hours-imd/story-rNymsE8W9n8PzQcnmoojGN.html
20-08-2020||India||Sikh holy site Hemkund Sahib’s portals to open on September 4||The portals of one of the holiest shrines of Sikhism, Gurudwara Shri Hemkund Sahib in Uttarakhand, will open for the pilgrims on September 4 at 10 am in Chamoli district, said officials on Wednesday. The management of the Sikh holy site usually opens its portals for the pilgrims in May but this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the opening was delayed, the officials stated. Swati S Bhadauria, district magistrate of Chamoli district under whose jurisdiction the holy site falls, said, “The decision to open the portals was taken after a discussion with the members of Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee.” “Due to the pandemic, all pilgrims coming from outside the state need to get a Covid-19 test done with a negative test report within 72 hours of their journey before entering the state. Similarly, they also need to get the e-pass from the government website for the same,” said Bhadauria. Also read: Uttarakhand logs highest single-day jump of Covid fatalities; state tally over 13,000She informed that during the pilgrimage, all Covid-19 preventive norms will be implemented including maintaining social distancing inside the Gurdwara, wearing masks and others. Vice-president of Hemkund Sahib Management Trust, Narendrajit Singh Bindra, said, “This time there was a delay in the opening of portals because of the pandemic. But after the decision, we have made all the arrangements in accordance with the Covid-19 norms.” He said, “Due to the pandemic and related restrictions, only 100 pilgrims will be allowed to visit the gurudwara on a given day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-holy-site-hemkund-sahib-s-portals-to-open-on-september-4/story-5KfzmwNgnRoi8PRU10O8RJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Rape accused stripped, thrashed by villagers in Madhya Pradesh||A 30-year-old man was allegedly thrashed, stripped and made to wear shoe garland for allegedly raping an 11-year-old girl in a village in Mahidpur tehsil of Ujjain district on Tuesday evening, said police. He was also made to shave his head. The victim was admitted in a hospital in Mahidpur and her condition was stated to be stable, the police said. The accused, Vijay Bherulal, is a habitual offender and is facing two more sexual harassment cases. He came out on bail from jail a few weeks ago. He was arrested again by Mahidpur police after this rape charge against him under section 376 (rape) of IPC and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) and produced before the court on Wednesday, said Mangilal Chauhan, town inspector, Mahidpur. Also read: MP man pedals bicycle for 105 km to take son to exam centre, he has a dreamChauhan said, “The girl was going to a local grocery shop with his younger brother who is 9-year-old in her village on Tuesday evening. Bherulal lured the girl with a chocolate and asked her brother to go back home. The man took the girl to an agriculture field and raped her. Some villagers working in the field had seen him going with the girl. As he was already facing two sexual harassment cases some villagers doubted his intention. They looked for him and later caught him red-handed in the agriculture field.” The villagers thrashed him and later, some youth of the village stripped him and shaved his head. He was made to wear a garland of shoes and paraded in the whole village before handing over to the police, said Chauhan. Ujjain additional superintendent of police Rupesh Dwivedi said, “People can’t be allowed to take law in their hands. We are investigating the matter and further action will be taken against villagers after investigation.” (With inputs from Anand Nigam)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-accused-stripped-thrashed-by-villagers-in-madhya-pradesh/story-N2MdUa7gser1J4xNeWSTcK.html
20-08-2020||India||Unique banks in Prayagraj lend helping hand to needy during pandemic||Volunteers of Bharat Scouts and Guides, Prayagraj, have set up unique banks like ‘Soap Bank’, ‘Anaaj Bank’, ‘Sanitary Pad Bank’ and even a ‘Time Bank’ to help the needy during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The volunteers of this organisation are distributing soaps, sanitary pads and essential cereals collected by them among the needy. Some, attached to the Time Bank, are devoting their time to visiting old and infirm people at their homes in different villages in close coordination with respective gram pradhans to inquire about their health and needs at a time when many are finding themselves alone and helpless during the pandemic,” said Firoz Alam Khan, an academic resource person with the state’s basic education department, who is the district scout master of Prayagraj. “There are scouts and guides in almost 665 government-run primary and upper primary schools, besides 185 secondary schools and 30 degree colleges of the district. In these institutions, around 35,000 students are a part of this movement, which is managed by 240 warranted scout masters and 1,400 more scout masters and guide captains. It is these volunteers who are managing and operating these unique banks,” he said. A part of this mission is Reeta Sharma, a teacher at a government-run primary school at Bighiya in Soraon, who is also a guide captain and in charge of the Time Bank in her area. “These are unprecedented tough times. Through these banks, we are just trying to help those who are most vulnerable,” she explained. Several needy people are benefiting through these banks that started functioning from May 25. Around 250 bars of soaps have been distributed in the slums of Baihrana and Fakirganj besides 150 sanitary pads and 900 facemasks, as well as essential cereals for a month to around two dozen people. “To run these banks, a collection centre has been set up at the government primary school in Allenganj where all the items are collected and deposited for distribution through these banks,” Reeta said. District secretary of Bharat Scout and Guide Association Yogesh Chandra Tripathi said, “Different scout and guide masters are leading this mission in their respective areas. So, we have primary school teachers like Akhilesh Kumar in Bahariya, Ram Gopal in Manda, and Satyendra Kumar in Meja heading the Time Bank in their areas, while a teacher at the Upper Primary Government School in Jugnideeh, Holagarh’s Brijesh Yadav and Dhunupur’s Manoj Maurya are managing the same in their areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-banks-in-prayagraj-lend-helping-hand-to-needy-during-pandemic/story-D3vbTOYXZ7h4W8ZNlceGcP.html
20-08-2020||India||Record 9 lakh Covid tests conducted in a day: Health ministry||India on Wednesday tested a record 9 lakh swab samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the total number of people who have been tested to date is over 30.25 million, or 3,26,42,782. Pune’s National Institute of Virology, under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), had conducted the first Covid-19 test in the country on January 23, while the first case of the viral outbreak in India was detected on January 30. “India scales a new peak in daily testing. More than 9 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate has come down to below 8%. The daily testing capacity is likely to reach 10 lakhs soon. The tests per million has also seen a sharp rise,” said a statement from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) Fewer Covid-19 patients have required ventilator support because of each detection of the viral outbreak cases through aggressive testing, contact tracing, and clinical treatment management strategies. The latest ministry data showed 0.28% of Covid-19 patients are on ventilator support, 1.92% are undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICUs) and 2.62% are on oxygen therapy. “It is only by aggressive testing that Covid-19 cases can be identified, their contacts tracked and isolated as well as prompt treatment can be ensured through timely medical care. The sustained level of high testing has played a key role in India’s increasing rate of recovery, widening gap between the recovered and active cases, and also progressively declining case fatality rate (CFR),” the statement added. Covid-19 recoveries reported on a single day have touched 60,000, and have also surpassed the number of new cases reported during the 24-hour reporting cycle. While the country’s testing capacity is recording a constant rise, it is the positivity of about 8% that experts feel is a cause for concern. Because of increased testing, the positivity rate of Covid-19 recorded a jump from about 4% in April to about 9% in August. However, since August 1 the positivity rate has hovered between 8.81 and 8.93%, which should have declined after prolonged aggressive testing. “The positivity rate, which has by and large been constant since August 1, signifies that Covid-19 cases are still being reported, and the transmission cycle has not yet been broken. The virus is still very much in circulation. The positivity rate of 5% or below for a prolonged period of time is what should be aimed at in a bid to rein in the spread of the contagion,” said Dr. Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-9-lakh-covid-tests-conducted-in-a-day-health-ministry/story-vllsFcuxnd9mKY9WchDT3J.html
20-08-2020||India||3-day session of Uttar Pradesh assembly gets underway today||The three-day monsoon session of the Uttar Pradesh assembly gets underway today under the shadow of Covid-19 at a time when the opposition has sought a debate on the pandemic and the law and order situation in the state. The session will be held amid unprecedented security and special seating arrangements - a first for the UP assembly. The deadly virus has already claimed the lives of two ministers Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan in the state. The state’s tally of Covid-19 infection cases stood at 1,67,510 as of Wednesday and the death toll was 2,638. A Covid-19 test has been made mandatory for members of both the Houses. With Covid protocol in place, the mask on the face of the MLAs will serve as an entry ticket to the House even after they have cleared Covid-19 test, arrangements for which had been made near their residences and at the Vidhan Bhawan premises. Principal secretary, legislative assembly, Pradeep Dubey said, the security staff can check the identity card of the MLA before allowing entry in case of a doubt. After paying homage to Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, former Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon and two sitting members Virendra Singh Sirohi and Paras Nath Yadav, the state assembly will be adjourned for the day on Thursday. When the assembly sits again on Friday, the opposition is set to raise the demand for a debate on Covid-19. An indication in this regard came soon after leaders of major political parties attended an all-party meeting convened by speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Wednesday to seek their cooperation for smooth conduct of the business of the House. “Yes, we will raise the demand for a debate on the Covid-19 and the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh,” said leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary on the phone. Chaudhary is under home quarantine and will stay away from the House on medical advice. Samajwadi Party leader Narendra Verma attended the all-party meeting on his behalf. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Lalji Verma, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’, Apna Dal (Sone Lal) leader Neel Ratan Patel and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leader Om Praksh Rajbhar attended the meeting. Asked about their stance, BSP’s Lalji Verma and Congress’s Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ said their parties too would demand a debate on Covid-19 and law and order situation. Other issues likely to be raised include the problems of farmers and the flood fury, they said. CM Adityanath said the monsoon session has been convened during the pandemic to meet the constitutional responsibility of holding sittings of the House within six months. He also said the session would provide an occasion for a debate on Covid-19. A debate on Covid-19 in the House would send a new message to the world, he added. The state government also proposes to get bills passed to replace 17 ordinances promulgated after the last session. The government is likely to present the first supplementary demand for grants for 2020-2021 during the session. Earlier, Dikshit said the UP legislature was the first in the country to hold its session during the pandemic. He said legislatures in other states, like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, had held their meetings for a motion of confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-day-session-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-gets-underway-today/story-0Zm1nFaQpYlWpb8VdzpTXL.html
20-08-2020||India||Woman lived with father’s dead body for 2 days; rerun of what family had done earlier||A 56-year-old woman was staying with the dead body of her octogenarian father for at least two days till police recovered the body on Wednesday morning. The neighbours had complained of a foul smell coming from the house at Behala in south-west Kolkata, the police said.Police and neighbours said that the incident was an eerie rerun of what the family members did twice, a year ago.In February, when Debasis Chatterjee, 47, died, the old couple and their daughter didn’t inform the police about their son’s death. The police recovered the partially decomposed body of their son.Later, in July 2019, Chaya Chatterjee, 82, Rabindranath Chatterjee’s wife, died. The old man and his daughter didn’t inform the police and were staying with it until the police recovered the body.Also read: Bengal government panel to probe ‘corruption’ in Covid-19 procurement“On Wednesday morning we recovered the body of 86-year-old Rabindranath Chatterjee. He must have died two to three days ago. The neighbours informed us as they were getting a foul smell from the house,” said a senior officer of the local police station.The police said that while the woman, Nilanjana Chatterjee, was mentally challenged, her father was bed-ridden for more than a year. The police have sent the woman to a hospital.“This was not the first time that the family had lived with the corpses of their kin until the bodies started decomposing. So when the neighbours got a rotting smell from the house they were sure that something has happened and immediately informed the police,” said Sandip Malakar, a local resident.While the son, Debasis Chatterjee, used to work as a security guard and a courier boy for some time, he was unemployed during the time of his death. The family used to run on Rabindranath Chatterjee’s retirement benefits.“It is a very unfortunate incident. We have seen the family members dying one by one. The woman, Nilanjana Chatterjee, was mentally challenged and didn’t understand that her mother had died,” said Uttam Saha, another resident.Last year, the local police had contributed some money to the family to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-lived-with-father-s-dead-body-for-2-days-rerun-of-what-family-had-done-earlier/story-9U3LNamxwbOYiFkeDhr1qM.html
20-08-2020||India||I-T crackdown against people holding multiple PANs after March 31||Over 180 million permanent account numbers (PANs) could become defunct unless linked with Aadhaar numbers by the March 31 deadline, as the income-tax (I-T) department, which is equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), is all set to nab tax evaders conducting high-value transactions by using multiple PANs, two officials said, requesting anonymity. The government may also expand the list of high-value transactions to track expenditure patterns of those unscrupulous people, who spend large sums on luxuries but underreport their income and evade tax, they said. The I-T law provides for a statement of financial transaction (SFT), earlier known as an Annual Information Return (AIR), to track prescribed high-value transactions undertaken by taxpayers. The department gets such expenditure details through banks, financial institutions, mutual funds, credit card companies, and other entities. “It is surprising that in a population of 130 crores only 1.5 crores contribute to the I-T kitty. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also pointed this out recently. Available data suggest that there is an urgent need to expand the tax base,” one of the officials said. PM Modi had unveiled India’s first charter of taxpayers’ rights and duties on August 13 and had appealed to the public to introspect that only 15 million people in a population of 1.3 billion pay I-T. The official quoted above said there are 509.5 million (50.95 crore) PAN cardholders in the country as on June, but only 64.8 million (6.48 crore) of them file income-tax returns (ITR), and only 15 million actually pay I-T. “Around 4.98 crore (49.8 million) people file ITR. But they either show zero tax liability or claim the full amount of tax paid through ITR,” he added. A second official said some unscrupulous people use multiple PAN cards to hide their high-value transactions and manage to keep themselves out of the tax net. “As a result, only 32.71 crore (327.1 million) PANs are linked with Aadhaar. More than one-third PANs could be under the scanner unless linked with Aadhaar before the March 31 deadline,” he said. Naveen Wadhwa, deputy general manager at Taxmann, a tax consultancy, said: “ If PAN is not yet linked with Aadhaar, there is a possibility to obtain multiple PANs. However, once a PAN is linked with an Aadhaar, it will not be possible to obtain multiple PANs.” PAN and Aadhaar linkage will help tax officials to keep a tab on such tax evaders, who do not show any taxable income, but splurge money on luxurious items such as buying a vehicle, investing in real estate, travelling overseas and buying jewellery, the officials said. The government may expand the list of such high-value transactions that I-T department tracks. According to the second official, the list may include payment of education fee above Rs 1 lakh annually, consumption of electricity above Rs 1 lakh per annum, domestic air travel in the business class, purchase of jewellery or white goods above Rs 1 lakh, payment of property tax above Rs 20,000 per annum, life insurance premium above Rs 50,000 and health insurance premium above Rs 20,000. However, these details will be collected from the third party only and honest taxpayers would not be required to provide expenditure details in their ITRs, the official said. “The proposed move is to bring tax evaders into the tax net and not to harass honest taxpayers, as they are not required to file details of high-value transactions in their ITRs,” he said. Citing an example of a person paying Rs 5 lakh per annum school fee, including donations, without paying any tax, he said, “By claiming that his income is not taxable he is trying to dodge the I-T system. Similarly, a person, who has made purchases of luxury items or spent sizeable amount for hotel bills, is a potential taxpayer and should file h/her ITR.” “No doubt, the third-party reporting of high-value transactions made by such non-filers would allow the department to nudge such persons to file their returns and pay their due tax,” he added. Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform, said, “There is a possibility and proven cases, where multiple PAN numbers have been acquired fraudulently and used to evade tax.” “PAN-Aadhaar linkage will eliminate the possibility of holding multiple PAN by an assessee. It will eliminate wilful tax evaders. Aadhaar is designed in such a way that duplicate cards cannot be issued. Besides, PAN-Aadhaar linkage will eliminate fake or multiple PANs held by the same person in various fraudulent ways.” Wadhwa said the proposed move of the government to expand the list of expenditure would not cause any incontinence to honest taxpayers. “Through SFT the I-T department gets the information of high-value transactions and expenditures, which can be used to verify whether the income of the person is in sync with the quantum of such transactions and expenditure,” he said. However, the government zeroes in on only those cases that manifest a larger gap between the returned income and expenditures, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-crackdown-against-people-holding-multiple-pans-after-march-31/story-BwKGpwWzowfth9cPu6ZKlJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Tribal woman delivers under a tree in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra||A 27-year-old tribal woman in labour was forced to deliver her baby amid rains under a tree in the forest of Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli with the help of an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker last week. The woman was on her way to the hospital. According to reports, Bharti Dorpeti (27), a Madia tribal from village Zarewada of Etapalli taluka, was nine-month pregnant. An ASHA worker from the village intimated Gatta Primary Health Centre, located some 10 kilometres from her village. The Primary Health Centres (PHC) officials including a contractual health worker Soni Durge, ASHA helper Savita Alam and a driver took an ambulance and left for Zarewada to bring the pregnant woman.However, their vehicle could not reach the village due to incessant rains and a flooded Gilanguda nullah. A truck was already stuck there due to floods. Meanwhile, relatives of Bharti had already left for the hospital carrying the woman on a cot as there was no mode of transport available at that time. They somehow reached up to the nullah. Soni and Savita were waiting on the other side of the nullah. As it was impossible for them to drive the ambulance to the other side, the women health employees somehow crossed the nullah and reached the place.Also read: Ulhasnagar NGO promotes red-mud Ganesh idols made by tribal artistsDurge saved Bharti by providing timely medical help there. Soni and her team protected her from the rains with someone holding an umbrella. Bharti soon gave birth to a baby girl. Both the baby and the mother were then taken to the hospital wading through the flooded nullah. The mother and her baby are reported safe. The delivery could be done safely and lives of both the baby and the mother were saved due to the timely decision of the ASHA worker, reports said.Durge, who had been working in the remote and highly sensitive Maoist-affected area for the last six years, said, tribal women avoid visiting the PHC until they experience labour pains. Bharati had experienced labour pains on August 12 and informed Savita, the village ASHA worker, who in turn, sent her husband on his bike to alert Soni.“As it was raining heavily and the entire locality was flooded, I set off immediately with my delivery kit and emergency medicine and left the village in an ambulance,” Soni said.This is not the only story of sufferings and difficulties faced by the tribals in these remote villages. Many such incidents have taken place in the area in the past too. Few days ago, a pregnant woman from Turemarka village in Bhamragarh taluka had to walk for more than 23 kilometres to Laheri hospital for her delivery as no vehicle could reach her house. Another woman from Gundenur village in Bhamragarh taluka in south Gadchiroli died for the want of timely medical treatment before she could be taken to the hospital on a cot by her relatives.The community health worker scheme of ASHA was instituted by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh-led government as part of the National Rural Health Mission. One of the key components of the National Rural Health Mission is to provide every village in the country with a trained woman community health worker.Selected from the village itself and accountable to it, the ASHA workers are trained to work as an interface between the community and the public health system. The district of Gadchiroli lacks proper healthcare and the ASHA scheme has brought a ray of hope for the tribals, particularly women and children. The unusual story of Bharati’s delivery is one such example of the success story of ASHA.Meanwhile, flood situation in Gadchiroli district continued to remain grim as heavy rains lashed many parts of the district, particularly south Gadchiroli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-woman-delivers-under-a-tree-in-gadchiroli-district-of-maharashtra/story-xEcIVAGy9AdyJJo5rainjI.html
20-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan asks Supreme Court to defer hearing on his sentence in contempt case||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan has appealed to the Supreme Court to defer hearing on his punishment in a contempt of court case till the time his review petition against the August 14 conviction order is taken up.The apex court had taken suo moto notice of two tweets posted by Bhushan on June 27 and 29 where he had accused the present Chief Justice of India (CJI) of closing down courts and past CJIs of destroying democracy.The application comes on the eve of the hearing fixed for his sentencing by a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari.The application by Bhushan said, “The applicant intends to file a review against the order of August 14 after studying the order, in detail, and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech.” He has 30 days to file a review under Order 47 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013.“In view of the same, the hearing on sentence as fixed on August 20, be deferred till the consideration of the review by this Court,” Bhushan prayed.In the event the court still proceeds to conduct the hearing, Bhushan made an alternate prayer. He said, “If this court proceeds with the hearing on sentence and imposes any sentence, the same may be directed to be stayed till the remedy of review is exhausted by the applicant.” In its judgment passed on August 14, the bench had held, “The Indian judiciary is not only one of the pillars on which the Indian democracy stands but is the central pillar. An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand.” The Court found Bhushan’s tweets criticising the judiciary to be distorted on facts and “malicious attacks” having potential to shake public confidence in the judicial system.Under the Contempt of Court Act, an act of criminal contempt of court can attract a punishment of six months imprisonment or Rs 2,000 fine or both. Bhushan pointed out in his application that in criminal contempt proceedings, the Supreme Court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. There is no appeal to a higher forum once the top court sentences a person for contempt.Bhushan requested the court to accept his request for deferment in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-asks-supreme-court-to-defer-hearing-on-his-sentence-in-contempt-case/story-WM3XywlcwPDUUEg4h8JjBK.html
20-08-2020||India||Results of Swachh Survekshan 2020 to be announced soon||The government is going to announce the results of annual survey of cleanliness, Swachh Survekshan 2020, soon. This is the fifth edition of the survey that was introduced by PM in January 2016. Minister of Civil Aviation of India Hardeep Singh Puri will announce the results this year.A Swachh Survekshan 2020 results dashboard will also be launched on the occasion. According to a press release issued by the Centre on Tuesday, the announcement of this year’s results was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The survey was completed in 28 days.Also read: Swachh Survekshan 2020: All you need to know about India’s cleanliness surveyA total of 129 top performing cities and states will be awarded by the minister in the virtual programme called ‘Swachh Mahotsav’. This programme has been organised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Swachh Bharat Urban (@SwachhBharatGov), the official twitter account of Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) on Wednesday tweeted the web link on which the programme will be streamed live. The wait is over! Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi will announce the results of Swachh Survekshan 2020 at the virtual event ‘Swachh Mahotsav’ tomorrow, 20 August 2020 at 11 am.Join us for the live event.Webcast: https://t.co/ujHF7lDzaaYouTube : https://t.co/ypUBSAwdCb pic.twitter.com/QKkI9EzVQHMysuru had won the award for the cleanest city of India in the first edition of the survey, while Indore has retained the top position for three consecutive years (2017,2018, 2019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-announce-results-of-swachh-survekshan-2020-at-11am/story-lM7SQGmskRLhxl4biGfUkL.html
20-08-2020||India||Heavy rain in Delhi leads to waterlogging at several places||The national capital woke up to rainfall yet again on Thursday early morning with waterlogging reported at least nine stretches of roads by 7am. The Delhi Traffic Police said that traffic will remain affected on these stretches and urged motorists to avoid those routes if possible. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 5am on Thursday issued an ‘Orange’ alert for heavy rain at isolated places with moderate rain and thundershowers in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) between 5.30am and 8.30 am. An orange alert is issued to allow citizens and government agencies to prepare for the impact of heavy rain such as traffic disruption on roads, increased chance of vehicle accidents and water accumulation in the low-lying areas and on roads. Also Read: Traffic affected in various parts of Delhi amid rainfallAn advisory issued by the IMD for the same said that people must check for traffic congestion on their routes before leaving for their destinations, follow traffic advisories and avoid going to areas prone to waterlogging. The traffic police said that waterlogging was reported from several stretches including Burfkhana Chowk in north Delhi, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road at Pul Prehaldpur, and at least four stretches of the GT Road.Also Read: Gurugram Rain: Omar Abdullah joins Twitter with sarcastic post over waterlogged roadsScientists at the IMD had forecast ‘light to moderate’ rainfall on Thursday. “ After Thursday the intensity of rainfall will decrease. Delhi is in for a spell of light rain till August 25. The monsoon trough is passing through the Capital,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecast department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-morning-showers-lead-to-waterlogging-at-several-places/story-lOqD5g2u7MRNOTJopuv11H.html
20-08-2020||India||India-China WMCC meet today: 5 things to know||The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs will hold a meeting on Thursday, when the military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Beijing’s reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The military commanders set the timeframe and method of disengagement, while the WMCC monitors the process. The outcome of the WMCC meeting is likely to determine, when the senior commanders could meet next. Here are five things you need to know about the India-China border dispute in the Ladakh sector: * Five rounds of top-level military talks have failed to break the deadlock following serious differences between India and China that flared up after transgressions by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) this summer. The Indian Army has taken the hard line with the PLA, as it seeks to restore the status quo ante of early April in eastern Ladakh. * The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong lake and Depsang plains, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. Beijing is yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation between the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders. * The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. * There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. The Indian military has made preparations for a long haul in the Ladakh sector. * De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in both their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-wmcc-meet-today-5-things-to-know/story-Va0f5vlkg8yXGExhIJwVIL.html
20-08-2020||India||272 CISF personnel to guard Statue of Unity from August 25||The Ministry of Home Affairs has given approval for the deployment of CISF personnel at the Statue of Unity at Kevadia in Gujarat.The deployment will be done from August 25 with the strength of 272 personnel in the first phase.“Approval of the competent authority is conveyed for induction of CISF at Statue of Unity, Kevadia, Gujarat w.e.f 25.08.2020 with strength of 272 personnel in first phase,” the letter which has been sent to DG CISF Rajesh Ranjan, regarding the same by Home Ministry says.The CISF is guarding almost all airports of India and the Delhi Metro apart from sensitive government buildings in the national capital.It is expected that visitors will be allowed from September 2. The state government had stopped the entry of visitors in view of the COVID-19 pandemic a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/272-cisf-personnel-to-guard-statue-of-unity-from-august-25/story-HDIbEtUHH4yVCJBatk6b4N.html
20-08-2020||India||Ram Temple will be built using only stones, will stand for 1,000 yrs: Trust official||Only stones will be used for building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and it will stand for over 1,000 years, said Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust, on Wednesday.Rai, who is also a senior functionary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), said the country’s best minds from IIT-Chennai and the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) are involved in the construction process of the temple.While Larsen & Toubro is broadly looking after the construction of temple, IIT-Chennai has been consulted for testing soil strength and CBRI services are being used to make sure the building is earthquake-resistant, he told reporters here.Around 10,000 copper rods are required for building the temple. Since people want to be a part of the construction process, they can do so by donating copper, Rai said. Using only stones, it will be built in such a manner that decay due to air, sun and water will not happen and temple will last for at least 1,000 years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-stones-to-be-used-for-building-ram-temple-will-stand-for-1-000-years-trust-official/story-vfMZPTsHC18VfKsXUhkmLJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Top court allows CBI probe in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||The Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday that the ongoing probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the case filed against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput is lawful, allowing the federal agency to continue its investigation and rejecting a plea by Chakraborty to transfer the case to the Maharashtra Police.A single-judge bench of justice Hrishikesh Roy invoked powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to hold that a fair, competent and impartial investigation is required considering the fact that there are competing claims and acrimonious allegations of political interference by the Maharashtra and Bihar governments.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: 5 factors behind SC order for CBI probe“In such situation, there is reasonable apprehension of truth being a casualty and justice becoming a victim. To ensure public confidence in the investigation and to do complete justice in the matter, this court considers it appropriate to invoke the powers conferred by Article 142 of the Constitution. The ongoing investigation by the CBI is held to be lawful,” the court said. Article 142 empowers the Supreme Court to pass orders for doing complete justice in cases before it.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar Police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart. Also read| Just a conspiracy to defame Aaditya Thackeray: Sena on Sushant Singh Rajput probeThe jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically. The case opened up a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers). Chakraborty and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections.Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said in a statement to the media after Wednesday’s ruling that the court referred to the fact that his client called for a CBI probe. Chakraborty, in her written arguments submitted before the Supreme Court, had said she was not opposed to a CBI probe provided it was ordered by the Supreme Court and not the Bihar government.“The Supreme Court, after examining the facts and circumstances of the case and the report of the Mumbai Police, has observed that it will be the desired justice as Rhea herself called for a CBI investigation. It also observed that due to the allegations made by the two states [Bihar and Maharashtra] of political interference against each other, it would be in the interest of justice to hand over the case to the CBI,” Maneshinde said.He said Chakraborty will cooperate with the CBI investigation as she has with the Mumbai Police and the Enforcement Directorate. “Rhea maintains that the truth will remain the same whichever agency investigates the case,” Maneshinde said.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar termed Wednesday’s verdict as a “victory of justice”. State police chief Gupteshwar Pandey expressed satisfaction on the order and triggered a controversy when he made a derogatory reference to Chakraborty while talking to the media. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad weighed in on the matter as he tweeted, “Justice triumphs! The soul of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput will surely now rest in peace with the assurance of a fair investigation by CBI on the FIR filed in Patna by Bihar Police whose request for transfer of case to CBI has been validated by the Supreme Court.”Rajput’s father, who is living with his daughter in Faridabad, was not available for comments but his family issued a statement thanking everybody for their support. “We are particularly thankful to chief minister Nitish Kumar for setting the wheel of justice in motion,” the statement said. “Today’s development has reaffirmed our faith in India as a robust democracy,” it added.The family’s lawyer, Vikash Singh, said it was a “historic” verdict. State opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Rajput’s cousin and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Bablu, Bihar minister Sanjay Jha, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP Manoj Jha, BJP spokesperson Shahnawaj Hussain, senior Congress leader Tariq Anwar, and Parth Pawar, grandson of NCP leader Sharad Pawar, were among political leaders who welcomed the verdict.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the order was “not a loss”. “Until we read a copy of the order, we cannot react to it. Once the order is received, either the advocate general or the state DGP [director general of police] will talk about it. Raising questions on the ability of the Mumbai Police was a conspiracy. According to me, the Mumbai Police carried out the probe effectively. Now that the SC has given its judgment in the matter, someone who is not in the government should not speak on it,” said Raut.Actor-producer Kangana Ranaut, who has been leading a campaign against industry “insiders” for allegedly driving Rajput to suicide, congratulated all “SSR warriors” (after the late actor’s initials) after the Supreme Court verdict.The highest court upheld the validity of the Bihar Police FIR registered on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father and directed Mumbai Police to pass on all evidence collected during its investigation to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-allows-cbi-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-Mfvx6T8IOaRKNARmNo1MIP.html
20-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, India saw 65,141 new cases of the coronavirus disease. There were 60,433 recoveries. There has been a lot of focus on daily recoveries exceeding daily new cases — after it happened once over the past week (on August 17) — along with commentary of how this could mean things are getting better. This isn’t the first time the number of daily recoveries exceeded the number of new cases (it has happened a few times over the past two months), but it is definitely not a sign of a turnaround — at least, not yet. The seven-day average of daily new cases in the 15 Indian states and the Capital that accounted for the most new cases on Tuesday (92%) was 57,698, marginally higher than the 14-day average of 56,873, clearly indicating that the number of new cases has stayed at the same level.This is a good time to revisit the status of the pandemic across these 16 places. There is no significant trend, up or down, between the seven-day and 14-day averages in 13 states and Delhi; in some, the number has increased marginally, and in others, it has decreased marginally. The other two, Odisha and Karnataka, have seen the most significant increases. But in isolation, this data doesn’t tell us anything.Also read: Rapid test reliance may slow Covid-19 fightWhich is why it is important to look at the positivity rate: the proportion of those testing positive to those tested. The average positivity rate for the past seven days was the highest in Maharashtra (18.9%), Andhra Pradesh (16.7%) and Karnataka (14.7%). These are worrying numbers in any context — a 7-12% range is considered acceptable (and safe) in a state that has begun testing adequately, and a 3-8% range in a state that has been testing adequately for some time. All three states have been testing more than the national average (which still doesn’t mean they are testing adequately).Maharashtra has thus far tested 26,750 people per million of its population; Andhra Pradesh 56,713, and Karnataka 32,435. The national average is 23,815. Clearly, these are India’s primary Covid-19 hot spots at this point. Overall, till Tuesday night, Maharashtra has seen 615,477 cases, Andhra 306,261 cases, and Karnataka 240,948. They rank 1, 3, and 4 in the country in terms of number of cases (Tamil Nadu is 2), and account for 42% of all Covid cases recorded thus far in the country.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine may need ‘emergency authorisation’Between the week ended Tuesday, and the previous week, Maharashtra’s positivity rate actually saw an increase by 2.7 percentage points. This can be directly attributed to its lower testing over the past week — on average, around 8,500 fewer tests were conducted in the week ended Tuesday compared to the previous week. The same reason helped Odisha — by conducting roughly 28,000 tests a day more than it did in the previous week, the state was able to lower its positivity rate from 9.4% to 5%. Bihar, too, reduced its positivity rate by 1.9 percentage points on the strength of higher testing, as did West Bengal (by 1.7 percentage points).How much testing is adequate? This is a moving target, and this writer’s own assessment has evolved with a deeper understanding of how the pandemic plays out across regions. There are two stages to this. One, states with a population in excess of 50 million should be testing at least 4-5% of its population; between 20 million and 50 million, 5-7%; and below 20 million, 7-10%. Two, states that meet the adequacy criteria listed above and continue to see rising positivity rates should keep increasing testing till these start plateauing (or dropping).Click here for complete coronavirus coverageBased on this, only four of the 15 states and Delhi — Delhi itself, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu — are testing adequately. Of the four, only Delhi and Assam are both testing adequately and have a safe positivity rate. Tamil Nadu has been testing adequately, but it is clearly on a long plateau of cases. And Andhra Pradesh actually needs to test even more till its positivity rate declines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-i6DfUWlMEKqluXEWvZmfHO.html
20-08-2020||India||Sheikh Hasina pushes for infra projects at FS Shringla meet, then makes a promise||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina told visiting Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla that Dhaka will not be party to anything inimical to New Delhi’s interests and will not allow its territory to be used by terrorists or insurgents targetting India, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be named. According to diplomats based in Dhaka and New Delhi, the Bangladesh PM emphasized the importance of completing bilateral infrastructure and connectivity projects in time. In this context, it has been decided that a high level project monitoring committee headed by the Indian High Commissioner in Dhaka and the Bangladesh Foreign Secretary will be set up immediately.The people cited in the first instance added that the two countries have also decided that the meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission at the level of Foreign Ministers will be scheduled soon so that all bilateral projects are brought to speed.In the year when Bangladesh is celebrating 100 years of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman aka Bangabandhu and 50 years of India-Bangladesh bilateral relations, Shringla, during his 90 minute meeting with PM Hasina told her that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken about strengthening relations with the neighbours in his Independence Day speech. That India remains top on Bangladesh PM’s agenda was evident from the fact that FS Shringla was the first foreign visitor that she met since the outbreak of coronavirus four months ago, the people cited above said, adding that the meeting was characterised by warmth. FS Shringla briefed the leader of Bangladesh about the work happening on a Covid-19 vaccine in India and promised her (in response to a question) that because India manufactures 60% of the world’s vaccines, it will ensure that Dhaka’s requirements are addressed, the people said. The visiting FS also discussed the prospect of starting an air bubble between New Delhi and Dhaka so that medical, technical and business professionals are allowed to travel by air in the coming days. FS Shringla also spoke to the Bangladesh Army Chief and General Secretary of Awami League party as well as senior ministers through video conference, the people added. PM Hasina also raised the Rohingya issue with FS Shringla and requested that India facilitate the return of the displaced refugees to Myanmar. The people said, she was very clear that Bangladesh will not allow its territory to be used either by terrorists or insurgents. The two sides also discussed the security scenario in the region as well as forces opposing the growth of India-Bangladesh bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheikh-hasina-pushes-for-infra-projects-at-fs-shringla-meet-then-makes-a-promise/story-mUDpO58D6yDbOGvtZdkiSK.html
20-08-2020||India||Pakistan on lookout for new voice to lead Hurriyat||Pakistan is looking hard to find a new separatist voice to lead the Hurriyat Conference, multiple government and security officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The separatist body, first formed in 1993, has played an important part in Kashmir but has been largely defunct since the state’s special status was changed last year on August 5. “The deep state in Pakistan is looking for younger leaders and has been trying to persuade those who have been a part of militant organizations, including the more battle-hardened groups like the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba,’’ a home ministry official said. There has been no direction from the Hurriyat leaders to the general masses -- diktats were common before that -- in the past year. In a surprise move, 91-year-old SAS Geelani who was the separatist group’s “chairman for life” resigned from the faction of the Hurriyat he headed. The parallel body, headed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq has been silent for nearly a year. “Pakistan is looking for fresh faces to take charge and channelize the anger and resentment over the government’s decision to strip the state of its special status, once guaranteed under Article 370,” said another official, adding that “the changes in the domicile law has also led to a lot of disquiet.” On August 5 last year, the Rajya Sabha passed laws and resolutions effectively abrogating Article 370 and splitting Jammu & Kashmir into two Union territories. The Lok Sabha passed these the following day. In March this year, the government enacted an executive order where it expanded the definition of domicile to include non-locals who have been living in Jammu & Kashmir for 15 years and the children of Central government employees who have worked in the region for 10 years. The Hurriyat was at the forefront of several agitations in the past and both Geelani and the faction led by the Mirwaiz were instrumental in issuing protest calendars. Most separatist leaders were placed under house arrest ahead of the Centre’s move to bifurcate the state into two Union Territories and have not been able to organise protests. The Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq broke its silence after almost a year, when in July, it held a meeting and called for the Kashmir problem to be resolved through dialogue between India, Pakistan and the people of J&K. The meeting was held a few days after Geelani resigned and accused his colleagues of inaction and corruption. Soon after the meeting, a statement was issued in which the Mirwaiz faction vowed to work towards “the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir conflict.” In his resignation letter, Geelani accused his colleagues of having failed to evolve a strategy to counter the reading down of Article 370. Many in the Hurriyat are also being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). “Pakistan is now trying its best to create a new team,” said the first official quoted above. Pakistan has provided a base to several terror groups operating in Kashmir and India has maintained that its neighbour exports terror and foments trouble in the Valley. To mark the first anniversary of the reading down of Article 370, Pakistani Prime Minister released a new, “political map” in which it identified Kashmir as a “disputed territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-on-lookout-for-new-voice-to-lead-hurriyat/story-cRaOXNgEhV5oJ73fdtkNVM.html
20-08-2020||India||16 critically injured as bus carrying 45 overturns on Lucknow-Agra Expressway||A bus carrying 45 passengers from Delhi to Bihar’s Madhubani overturned on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah district early Thursday. At least 16 people were seriously injured in the accident and were referred to the Saifai Medical Institute while 29 of them were given primary medical aid at a local hospital, SSP Etawah, Akash Tomar said. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-critically-injured-as-bus-carrying-45-overturns-on-lucknow-agra-expressway/story-9MZP4V4pB1DpzwE0o08UoJ.html
20-08-2020||India||Cabinet nod to increase in sugarcane price||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the fair and remunerative price (FRP) of sugarcane, the price at which millers buy from farmers, for 2020-21), increasing the minimum by Rs10 to Rs 285 per quintal. The sugarcane sale season will start in October 2020. The FRP, which is provided for by the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966, is the minimum price that sugar mills have to pay to sugarcane farmers. Sugarcane producing states such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana fix their own sugarcane price called ‘state advisory prices’ (SAPs), which are usually higher than the Centre’s FRP. According to government estimates, the country’s total sugar production is pegged to be 28-29 million tonne in the current year ending next month, compared to 33.1 million tonnes during 2018-19 due to a sharp fall in cane acreage in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The FRP of Rs 285 per quintal applied for a basic recovery rate of 10%, which is the amount of sugar recovered from a given quantity of cane. A premium of Rs 2.85 per quintal for every 0.1% increase above 10% in the recovery has been allowed. However, there will a reduction in FRP by Rs 2.85 per quintal for every 0.1 percentage point decrease in recovery in respect of those mills whose recovery is below 10% but above 9.5%. However, for mills having recovery 9.5 % or below, the FRP is fixed at Rs 270.75 per quintal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-increase-in-sugarcane-price/story-bHbn91PZlSRGxCuwdTj4cL.html
20-08-2020||India||Congress urges NBSA to regulate TV debates||A Congress delegation on Wednesday urged the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) to strictly enforce a code of conduct to curb the “sensationalist, slanderous and toxic nature” of televised debates and ensure that they do not become a platform to spread acrimony. The delegation, comprising spokespersons Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Jaiveer Shergill, and party secretary Pranav Jha, held a virtual meeting with NBSA chairperson Justice (retd) AK Sikri and other members, and urged them to issue an advisory to all the mOn behalf of the Congress delegation, Singhvi argued that media houses, journalists, anchors and spokespersons must be held accountable for their actions and conduct. edia houses in this regard. The meeting followed a representation filed by Shergill on August 14 in the wake of the death of his party colleague Rajiv Tyagi, who suffered a heart attack hours after participating in a TV debate on August 12.On behalf of the Congress delegation, Singhvi argued that media houses, journalists, anchors and spokespersons must be held accountable for their actions and conduct. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) holds the authority to ensure compliance with its guidelines and instructions, he said. “The TRP paradigm drives the sensational, slanderous and sardonic debate panels. There is an eminent need for adherence to the code of conduct and need for institutional reform in India with respect to holding of TV debates,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-urges-nbsa-to-regulate-tv-debates/story-fR7XCTT5WBnW5gaojupJ1M.html
20-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in north-west, central India||Widespread and heavy rains are expected over different parts of north-west India including the Western Himalayan region and central India until Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities said on Wednesday.The monsoon trough is active and lies south of its normal position (from Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). It is very likely to be active and near-normal/south of its normal position during the next three-four days, IMD said in its morning bulletin. Delhi received moderate to heavy category rain, measuring between 7.6 millimetres (mm) to 124.4 mm on Wednesday early morning.“The monsoon trough is active and lies close to its normal position. It is very likely to shift southwards during next 24 hours and remain active during next 5 days. There is convergence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea over plains of Northwest India and Central India at lower levels and likely to continue during next 3-4 days,” the national weather agency said in its Wednesday bulletin.A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over the northwest Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a Depression during next 24 hours.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy spells is very likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, MP, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Vidarbha during the next four-five days. Extremely heavy rain is also likely over southwest Odisha on Wednesday; Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on Thursday and Gujarat on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-north-west-central-india/story-1s7FVaXsryDWb7bOtHps0N.html
20-08-2020||India||Recovery rate past 73% as 2 million beat Covid-19 infection: Centre||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries have crossed the two-million mark, as the number of recovering patients has outnumbered new viral infections, the Union ministry of health & family welfare (MoH&FW) data showed. At present, the number of active Covid-19 cases are less than 25% of the total number of the viral infections reported since January 30. “When we talk about the viral caseload of a particular country, it is always the active cases that are counted. It is never the total number of positive cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, MoH&FW. Around 60,000 Covid-19 patients are recovering daily from their viral infection, while around 55,000 new Covid-19 cases are being reported a day.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine may need ‘emergency authorisation’A continuous uptick in average daily recoveries has led to India’s recovery rate at 73.18% and a low case fatality rate (CFR) at 1.92%. Higher number of recoveries and declining fatality has shown that the country’s graded strategy has worked, according to the ministry. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  “The number of hospitalisation cases has reduced. A small percentage of Covid-19 patients need to be admitted to hospitals. Most of them recover from their viral infection under home isolation. Few Covid-19 patients are in need of a ventillator support. A majority of those who get admitted make a smooth recovery. However, the problem is by and large with high-risk cases,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovery-rate-past-73-as-2-million-beat-covid-19-infection-centre/story-F4NDC9nzkTT2z4TtqcZeIP.html
20-08-2020||India||India clocks record of 69k daily Covid-19 cases, tally at 2.8 million||India on Wednesday recorded 69,669 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a record single-day increase, taking the total case tally to 2,833,381, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Wednesday’s record came a day after the country reported the highest single-day recoveries of 60,433 on Tuesday. So far, 2,093,658 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the country and 53,983 people have died, according to HT’s dashboard.As of Wednesday, there are 685,740 active cases in the country. Only two countries in the world – the United States and Brazil – have reported more cases of the disease than India. However, India’s trajectory of daily cases has been the worst in the world for at least eight days now.Also read: US, Brazil, India push Covid-19 cases past 22 million-markThe doubling rate of cases – the time it takes for the total case count to double – stands at 28.5 days as of Wednesday night.In terms of the areas in the country that have become hot spots, we see that Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh – the five worst-hit states – account for more than 60% of all cases in the country. Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state with 628,642 infections and 21,033 deaths. The state reported 13,165 new cases and 346 new fatalities on Wednesday, both the highest of any state in the country.Andhra Pradesh, which has become one of the worst hot spots in the past few weeks, reported the second-highest number of new cases (9,742) on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 316,003 infections.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Karnataka reported the third-highest number of new cases, with 8,642 new infections taking the state’s tally to 249,590. There were 126 new deaths in the state, which means that a total of 4,327 people have died from the disease.A total of 116 deaths and 5,795 new cases were reported from Tamil Nadu, which has is the third worst-hit state in the country, on Wednesday, the state’s health department informed. The total number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu now stands at 355,449, including 53,155 active cases and 6,123 deaths.As the pandemic accelerates in some of the world’s most populous regions, 22,446,960 cases were recorded across the world till late Wednesday night with 787,261 fatalities — reflecting a global case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.5%. India, however, fared significantly better than the world average with a CFR of 1.9%. India’s CFR is also better than US (3.1%) and Brazil (3.2%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-record-of-69k-daily-covid-19-cases-tally-at-2-8-million/story-5Y62TytOws9zWADNhk3nyK.html
20-08-2020||India||Facebook employees raise questions in open letter||Facebook and its top lobbying executive in India, Ankhi Das, are facing questions internally from employees over how political content is regulated in its biggest market, according to sources with direct knowledge and internal posts seen by Reuters.The world’s largest social network is battling a public-relations and political crisis in India after the Wall Street Journal reported that Das opposed applying the company’s hate-speech rules to a politician from PM Narendra Modi’s party who had in posts called Muslims traitors.In the United States and around the world, Facebook employees are raising questions about whether adequate procedures and content regulation practices were being followed by the India team, sources familiar with discussions told Reuters.An open letter written to Facebook’s leadership by 11 employees on one internal platform, and seen by Reuters, demands company leaders acknowledge and denounce “anti-Muslim bigotry” and ensure more policy consistency. The letter also demanded that Facebook’s “policy team in India (and elsewhere) includes diverse representation.”“It is hard not to feel frustrated and saddened by the incidents reported ... We know we’re not alone in this. Employees across the company are expressing similar sentiment,” said the letter. “The Muslim community at Facebook would like to hear from Facebook leadership on our asks.”Facebook and Das did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Facebook has been under fire in recent years for its lax approach to fake news content, state-backed disinformation campaigns and violent content spread via its platforms.The WSJ article said Das had told staff that applying hate-speech rules to politicians close to Modi’s ruling BJP “would damage the company’s business prospects in the country.”Following the report, in response to Reuters queries on the matter, Facebook said it prohibits hate speech that incites violence and enforces policies without regard to political position or party affiliation.“While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits,” said the company, which has more than 300 million users in India.One of the sources said Facebook’s India leadership will have to answer tough questions on what really happened, “There will be scrutiny on what really went down.”After the article, Facebook India head Ajit Mohan defended Das, whose title is Director, Public Policy, India, South & Central Asia, and the company’s policies in an internal community post, also seen by Reuters. The WSJ “article does not reflect the person I know or the extraordinarily complex issues we face everyday that benefits from Ankhi and the Public Policy team’s expertise,” Mohan wrote. Mohan also wrote the company is “confident that the article’s claim that political affiliations influence decision making in India is inaccurate and without merit.”A spokesman for the WSJ did not respond to a request for comment.Congress has called for a parliamentary probe into Facebook, while BJP lawmakers in turn have accused Facebook of censoring nationalist voices.Das hasn’t commented on the controversy, but her sister Rashmi, who has publicly acknowledged her own ties to a student wing close to the BJP, told the India Today TV on Tuesday, “we sisters are made of very stern stuff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-employees-raise-questions-in-open-letter/story-XXSm11sQQg8US7HDSt2Z9L.html
20-08-2020||India||US, Brazil, India push Covid-19 cases past 22 million-mark||The total number of coronavirus infections globally has crossed 22 million, with the US, Brazil and India accounting for more than half the total. The number of fatalities from Covid-19 has gone past 782,000.The UK, which has recorded the highest death toll in Europe, is looking at testing people for the disease at airports. But Britain is unlikely to follow France in ordering people to wear face coverings at work because its test and trace scheme shows most people are catching the virus in house-to-house transmission, health secretary Matt Hancock said on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a study by experts at the University of Oxford and Manchester found that a “pressure cooker” environment in British homes during lockdown has seen a “significant” rise in children and adolescents attacking parents in already volatile households. Elsewhere, Iran surpassed 20,000 confirmed deaths from the disease on Wednesday, the health ministry said. It’s the highest death toll for any West Asian country so far in the pandemic.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A New Zealand court on Wednesday found the first nine days of a hard lockdown put in place by the government in March-April requiring people to isolate at home was justified, but unlawful.Australia has announced a deal to manufacture a potential coronavirus vaccine being developed by British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZenec. “Every single Australian will be able to receive the Oxford University vaccine for free, should trials prove successful, safe and effective,” PM Scott Morrison said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-brazil-india-push-covid-19-cases-past-22-million-mark/story-froNLQUKUI3aySKWYMkfhK.html
20-08-2020||India||When UK planted anti-Soviet propaganda in Indian media||‘Animal Farm’, George Orwell’s acclaimed political satire, has been widely read across the globe, but less known is how a UK department set up to counter Soviet propaganda turned it into cartoon strips and planted them in newspapers in India and elsewhere in the early 1950s.Published on August 17, 1945, the book reflects events linked to the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the Stalinist era of the Soviet Union. It describes a gang of animals who take over their farm, overthrowing the cruel Farmer Jones, only to end up in an even more brutal state of slavery under the new regime.Declassified files at the National Archives show that the Information Research Department (IRD) in the Foreign Office bought strip cartoon rights of the book in 1950, intending to use it as part of the cut-and-thrust of the then Cold War.“(This) work has been translated into many languages, and has proved to be not only a best seller, but also a most effective propaganda weapon, because of its skilful combination of simplicity, subtlety and humour”, says a December 1950 circular of IRD. The files include detailed correspondence between Lt. Col. Leslie Sheridan of the IRD, Don Freeman, an artist who provided the ‘roughs’ of the drawings, and the cartoonist Norman Pett, who produced the final versions of the cartoons. Mark Dunton, records specialist at National Archives, writes that by April 1951, with the cartoon strips completed, the IRD contacted its network of information officers across the world, from Asmara (Eritrea) to Tokyo, encouraging them to do all they could to secure publication in a newspaper in their territory.“This endeavour met with a good measure of success, judging from reports in FO 1110/392 (file)”, he writes.A report in the file quotes one Joan Sanders as stating that a prominent newspaper (not Hindustan Times) published from New Delhi “are publishing three strips weekly. Excellent reproduction”, based on a telegram from New Delhi of April 28, 1951.The IRD’s plan, according to the files, was to tell the ‘Animal Farm’ story “in approximately 78 cartoons, each cartoon containing three or four panels. Thus, if the feature were run by a daily paper, it would take about 13 weeks to tell the whole story”.Arrangements were also made for local adaptations and translations in various countries. The Foreign Office informed the British embassy in Cairo in August 1951: “We could have the cartoons drawn in London and sent to you in the hope that you could get a local artist to convert oak trees into palm trees, bowler hats into fezzes, skirts into sarongs, etc”.The files report that the cartoon strips were well received in Asmara ‘giving food for thought and discussion to the local population’, and it had led to increased sales of the ‘El Heraldo’ newspaper in Caracas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-uk-planted-anti-soviet-propaganda-in-indian-media/story-7541FjhOv4vGyLs27quPUI.html
20-08-2020||India||‘Creativity needs to be acknowledged’||For actor, writer, director Shashie Vermaa it’s the support of parents that can work wonders for youngsters who have strong creative inclination. “Creativity needs to be acknowledged. Sadly, in our country very few parents support and understand creativity. For many acting, theatre, TV and films can never be a long-term career option. Though I hail from a small town like Sitamarhi, Bihar but thankfully I had supportive parents who encouraged me to pursue acting. This is one of the strong reason why I was able to take up a path less opted in those times,” he said.Seen in films like ‘Shorgul’, ‘Bala’ and OTT series ‘Panchayat’, Shashie started acting while he was in school. “I remember participating in plays as a kid and that helped me to develop a flair for acting. When I reached Delhi University it gave me a prefect platform for polishing whatever little talent I had at that time. I did two-year diploma from Sri Ram Centre of Performing Arts along with my college degree. I was very active in all theatre activities happening in universities and learnt a lot about acting, process of film making and started assisting documentary makers before reaching Mumbai,” he said over the phone.Talking about getting his first TV show he said, “I used to assist in ad and corporate films before taking up the job of AD and then second unit director in shows like ‘Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki’ and ‘Re Mama Re.’ In between acting happened by chance. My batchmates were going for auditions so I tagged along thinking maybe I get some behind-the-camera job. They auditioned for roles in the hit daily ‘CID’ and when things didn’t work out for them we left. It was then one of my friends said ‘Tumhe kya karna yahan, chalo ya direction ke liye baat kar lo.’ Just to prove that I too can act I went back and auditioned. Such is destiny that I got that role.” Shashie was the creative director and co-writer for Jimmy Sheirgill starrer ‘Shorgul’ that was extensively shot in Lucknow. “During the shoot an actor didn’t turn up for a role which eventually I did and that’s how acting in films took off. The role of ‘Mama’ went well with the audience and so more acting projects followed. Then I shot for a lot of commercials before I got ‘Bala’ where I played a hair transplant doctor,” he said.He will be seen playing a significant role in an upcoming web series. “I’m essaying a role of an ACP (cop) in the series ‘Flesh’ that is a thriller based on human and child trafficking. Also, I am all set to direct actor Pankaj Tripathi for a feature film tentatively titled ‘Vidhya Kasam.’ It was scheduled to be shot in mid-April (2020) in Jharkhand but due to the ongoing corona crisis we will now resume shoot after a couple of months,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/creativity-needs-to-be-acknowledged/story-9UXoC3O3muTNBggXVH1PFJ.html
20-08-2020||India||India building new road to Ladakh for troop movement without observation from enemy: Report||In an effort to rush troops and tanks to the Pakistan and China front in Ladakh without being observed by the enemy, India is working on making a new road from Manali to Leh, which will provide the third link between the high altitude mountainous Union Territory (UT) and the rest of the country.India is also working on providing alternative connectivity to the strategically important Sub-Sector North including the Daulat Beg Oldi and other areas there for the last three years and work has already started from the world’s highest motorable road Khardung La pass.“Agencies are working to provide alternative connectivity from Manali to Leh through Nimu-Padam-Darcha axis which will help in saving a lot of time in comparison with the existing routes passing through Zojila pass from Srinagar and the other route from Manali to Leh through Sarchu,” government sources told ANI.The road will save almost three to four hours journey time while travelling from Manali to Leh and will also not leave any scope for the Pakistanis or other adversaries to monitor the movement of the Indian Army while deploying troops and heavy weaponry like tanks and artillery guns to the Ladakh area from other locations, they said.The route mainly used for transportation of goods and men is the one from Zojila, which passes through Drass-Kargil axis to Leh. The same route was targeted heavily by the Pakistanis during the Kargil war in 1999 and was subjected to frequent bombarding and shelling by their troops from positions in high altitude mountains alongside the road.Sources said the work has already started on this project and the new road will connect Manali with Leh near Nimu where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently visited during the ongoing conflict with China.Likewise, to provide alternatives to the strategic Durbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, India is working on further developing the old summer route on which caravans used to reach eastern Ladakh areas from the western side.The new road will travel from Leh towards Khardungla and then move through glaciers including the Sasoma-Saser La-Shyok and Daulat Beg Oldi axis.Senior sources said that the 14 Corps was given the responsibility of finding an alternative to the DSDBO road and check the road coming from near the Siachen camp towards the DBO area, and one unit was sent through there on a trial basis.The Army unit travelled from Sasoma to Saser La in vehicles and the rest of the area on foot, on the route which is full of bones of double-humped camels which were used to ferry cargo, through the very rough Shyok river during the summers. The new route was earlier used by the Army also to maintain the Sub Sector North.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-building-new-road-to-ladakh-for-facilitating-troop-movement-without-observation-from-enemy/story-rNUYZMmw2DqL7yWsOmdvSL.html
20-08-2020||India||Visva Bharati officials skip state meet, Padma Shri awardee doctor’s bust vandalized in Birbhum||Two days after vandalism forced its closure, Bengal’s Visva Bharati University on Wednesday stayed away from a meeting called by the Birbhum district administration while students, local residents and traders opposed to the vice-chancellor’s decision to cordon off the fair ground took part in it Though there was no tension on and off campus on Wednesday, vandalism returned to Tagore’s Santiniketan when some miscreants sprayed black paint on a bust of the Central university’s former executive council member Dr Sushovan Bandopadhyay who publicly supported vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty. Famous for treating patients for a fee of just one rupee, an act that earned him the name ‘Ek takar daktar’ (one rupee doctor), Bandopadhyay was honoured with the Padma Shri by the Centre earlier this year. The bust was placed near his home in Santiniketan by local people. Bandopadhyay was not available for comment but the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) central leadership, which strongly condemned Monday’s vandalism and involvement of local Trinamool Congress leaders, reacted sharply. “This is the fate of ‘Ek Takar Daktar’ or ‘One Rupee Doctor’ at the hands of TMC hoodlums in Santiniketan. The bust of Padma Shri awardee Dr Sushovan Bandopadhyay has been smeared with ink by the same goons who vandalized Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva Bharati campus…” tweeted Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national informational and technology cell. The tweet was shared by the state BJP. In Kolkata, BJP’s youth wing workers led by state president and Lok Sabha member Saumitra Khan staged a demonstration and courted arrest. In its police complaint lodged on Monday night, the university, which later demanded a CBI probe, named Naresh Bauri, a resident of Bolpur and TMC MLA from the district’s Dubrajpur constituency. Other than Bauri, three other TMC leaders were also named as accused. On Wednesday, Visva Bharati authorities called off the proposed 12-hour fast it wanted to hold in protest against Monday’s vandalism. The university issued a statement saying its officials can attend a meeting convened by the administration if it is held on campus. The statement also said that the university wants to guard the fair ground with a four-feet-high fence and a three-feet-high grill above it “in consonance with the aesthetics of the campus and with ecological concerns”. “The purpose of the Poush Mela ground fence is to halt the entry of miscreants who come to the mela ground to engage in defiant and dangerous activities,” said the statement which added that after dark the ground becomes a haven for drug addicts, alcoholics and sex workers. Mamata Banerjee on Monday disapproved of the wall and said, “I do not want any construction that destroys the beauty of Visva Bharati. When Rabindranath Tagore built Visva Bharati he wanted students to be in the heart of nature and study in the open. He did not want wood and cement structures.” In a tweet, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday night that the vice-chancellor informed that his personal security guard provided by the state had been withdrawn from duty. “VC Visva Bharati has intimated “my personal body guard, given by state government has suddenly been withdrawn. On 17/08, four body guards, stationed in VC office, were withdrawn. I find it inappropriate. Urged @MamataOfficial to take appropriate steps and provide security,” tweeted Dhankhar. In a statement issued on Tuesday night, the university alleged that the police did not take any steps to stop the vandalism although information was sent to the district magistrate, superintendent of police, the state chief secretary, home secretary and personal secretary to the chief minister. The statement said that the teachers and staff were feeling unsafe and anticipated threats to their lives. The district police started a suo motu case on Monday afternoon after the chief minister intervened. Eight people were arrested for the vandalism. They were produced before the Suri court on Tuesday afternoon and sent to police custody. District police officers in their complaint said that the Visva Bharati authorities stated that the crowd went on a rampage when construction workers were in the process of setting up a fence. The complaint said that guarding the open ground was necessary to protect the environment as ordered by the National Green Tribunal in 2017. The traders have also lodged a police complaint against the vice-chancellor. Visva Bharati has said the allegations are false and they must be withdrawn to make the staff members feel safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-officials-skip-state-meet-padma-shri-awardee-doctor-s-bust-vandalized-in-birbhum/story-pNuB3LfKJk1W3A24g8GZqO.html
20-08-2020||India||One of 3 students finds online classes difficult: NCERT survey||More than one in every three students find online classes difficult or burdensome, with most students facing problems in understanding mathematical concepts, a survey by the National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) has found.Poor internet connectivity, disruption in electric supply and non-availability of devices, such as laptops and mobile phones, are among the major hindrances hampering online learning, as per the survey, which is the most comprehensive such study by the Centre. It also showed that mobile phones are the primary means through which students are accessing online classes.The NCERT surveyed students and teachers of the education ministry-run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs), Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (NVS) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools to understand the effectiveness of online learning measures.According to the NCERT’s survey of KVs, comprising 9,000 responses, 6% of the students found online classes burdensome, while 24% found them difficult. The rest termed the classes satisfactory or joyful.Among teachers and principals, 1% found the classes burdensome, over 10% difficult, while a majority found them satisfactory. Nearly 30% of over 6,000 parents surveyed felt the online mode burdensome or difficult, while the rest gave a positive response.Among the JNVs too, 28% of the over 4,000 students surveyed found the classes either burdensome or difficult, while the rest said responded with satisfactory or joyful.Among the 4,800-odd CBSE school students surveyed, 12% found online classes burdensome while 26% found them difficult. Nearly 35% of the 3,939 parents too felt the online mode was either a burden or difficult, while the others gave a positive result. The major problems that came to fore were poor internet, difficulty in accessing content on phones, lack of knowledge in using devices for learning, untrained teachers and erratic power supply. Approximately 27% of the students mentioned the non-availability of smartphones and laptops, as per the survey.After maths, science was the most difficult to grasp online, while around 17% of the students had difficulty in learning languages.The survey, part of Education ministry’s Student Learning Enhancement Guidelines, recommended that students not having gadgets can be paired with others in their neighbourhood. Printed study materials may be provided at their homes through postal services or by the teachers. The government should provide electronic or technological gadgets to the students who do not possess the amenities for online classes. It has also recommended community mobile banks where people can donate old but functional mobile phones. Help may be taken from governments, charity organisations, companies under CSR and alumni for obtaining smartphones. Mobile classes may be conducted for such students.Most states are planning to create a system to ensure that textbooks are delivered to students so that their learning is not obstructed due to the pandemic, the report said.It also suggested that states undertake a school-wise and student-wise survey to map the digital devices accessibility for each child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-3-students-finds-online-classes-trying-ncert-survey/story-d0ZhS6OWChY2EcL1gUVNCM.html
20-08-2020||India||11 days account for 80% of Delhi’s monsoon rainfall this year||Between 8:30am and 5:30pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s five weather stations -- Safdarjung (32mm), Palam (49mm), Lodhi Road (25mm), Ridge (43mm) and Ayanagar (66mm); received an average of 43 mm of rain. The rainfall was the highest in this monsoon season at the Ayanagar station. Safdarjung (68mm), Palam (81mm)and Lodhi road (72mm) recorded the maximum rainfall on July 23, while Ridge (86mm) experienced its highest rainfall so far on July 21. Wednesday’s rain, apart from causing traffic jams around the city, and water logging in many parts, is likely to skew an interesting trend a bit more: An HT analysis of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded dataset up to August 18 shows that Delhi received 80% of its total monsoon rain till Tuesday in just 11 days. The gridded database works with a one day time lag. So, rainfall after 8:30am on August 19 will reflect in the data only on August 20. This is in keeping with a trend that has become evident even at the national level -- an uneven distribution of the monsoon rainfall, with lots of rain falling on a few days. Also read: Drained of all hope, NCR cities left to sink or swimKeeping August 19 aside, just four days -- August 13, July 19, July 5 and July 23 -- account for almost half of the monsoon rain this year in the capital. And 19.4% of Delhi’s total monsoon rainfall (till Tuesday) happened on August 13. Once rainfall numbers for August 19 become available, the rainfall distribution might become even more skewed. This data will be available only on Thursday.The station-wise data cannot be compared with the data in this analysis because the gridded data set calculates average rainfall for Delhi in its entirety, spread over two grids of 0.25 degrees longitude and latitude each, and is not a simple average of the rainfall at individual stations.Also read: Why Noida handles rain better than GurugramSee Chart 1: Share on total monsoon rainfall this year in descending order IMD counts the period from June 1 to September 30 as the monsoon season. This year, 50 days since June 1 have seen rains in Delhi. Due to these recent spells of rain, Delhi’s cumulative rainfall deficit is now within the normal range, according to IMD’s rainfall statistics for August 18. The cumulative monsoon rainfall deficit in Delhi on August 18 was 14%. A departure from the longer period average of -19% to 19% is considered normal. See Chart 2: Delhi’s rainfall deficit An analysis of IMD’s gridded rainfall data set shows cumulative rainfall deficit in Delhi has been moving towards the normal range as the monsoon season has progressed. Delhi is approximated by two grids in the gridded data set. A grid is a box bound by two latitudes and longitudes 0.25 degrees apart. The cumulative rainfall deficit was largely in the 30% to 50% range from mid-June to the end of July. In August, the deficit has stayed more in the 20% to 30% range. This will come down after Wednesday’s rainfall statistics are published. To be sure, before June 15, Delhi was less rain deficient than it is now. However, there was a long gap after the early monsoon rains and rainfall picking up again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-days-account-for-80-of-delhi-s-monsoon-rainfall-this-year/story-7J8PREKz57eGgR9JdRmvMK.html
20-08-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine may need ‘emergency authorisation’||Indian authorities told lawmakers on Wednesday that they are keeping open the option of an “emergency authorization” of vaccines that are undergoing clinical trials for use. At a marathon meeting of the parliament’s home affairs panel, top officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also informed MPs that phase 3 trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine—widely considered as the global front runner—will start from this weekend with about 1,700 volunteers across 17 locations in India. Director General of ICMR, Dr Balaram Bhargava, told the panel that phase 3 trials normally require at least 6 to 9 months. “But looking at the immediacy, the government can always go for emergency authorisation,” an official aware of the discussions quoted Bhargava as saying. Earlier, the Serum Institute of India -- which has partnered with AstraZeneca for production and trials, hinted about a shorter timeline and seeking emergency use authorisation. The panel also discussed the psychological stress arising out of the long-drawn battle against Covid, especially among children. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria told the panel that the institute will soon come up with a protocol for hospitals and other institutions on the issue. Also read| Oxford Covid-19 vaccine could be the first to be available to Indians: 5 key developmentsThe Union government has formed a high-level expert panel to oversee acquisition and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine with Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul as its head and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan as its co-chair. While informal discussions on the vaccine administration started last month, the panel first met on Monday to discuss a procurement deal for a Covid-19 vaccine, asking officials of five pharma firms, including three that have candidates in clinical trials, to present a road map within three days of how soon they can produce large quantities and what pricing they expect if their shot is approved. Explainer: World Health Organization’s struggle for a global Covid-19 vaccine planIndian authorities are waiting for disclosure of health and efficacy data of the Russian vaccine, which became the first to be approved anywhere in the world, although scientists have flagged concerns over the lack of scientific data. For now, officials are looking at the AstraZeneca candidate as well as the one by United States’s Moderna, which at present have the largest number of people in clinical trials. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Officials involved in the planning also stated that state governments, which have been told to focus on the Test-Trace-Treat strategy, have been told not to contact or go into direct agreements with vaccine producers since all vaccines would be centrally procured to maintain a smooth distribution chain and better management. India is also closely following nine vaccine development programmes including the ones in Germany and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-may-need-emergency-authorisation/story-JCxpZRS194ZaMQX1TJU5CP.html
20-08-2020||India||Rapid test reliance may slow Covid-19 fight||Testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi has become heavily reliant on antigen tests, which experts say are not as reliable as RT-PCR tests and end up skewing crucial data that could hamper the city’s fight to contain the virus. At least seven of every 10 tests conducted is an antigen test.A high dependence on antigen tests, which throw up more false negatives (they identify infected people as uninfected), leads to two major problems – under-detection of cases, and tilting data metrics such as positivity rate and case distribution.  There has been a slow rise in daily cases in Delhi over the past three weeks -- from a weekly average of 997 daily in late July to a current weekly average of 1091 daily cases. And while the positivity rate is well off its June peaks of 30%-plus, it has risen from around 5.7% in late July to around 6.6% now. On Wednesday, Delhi registered 1,398 cases. To be sure, the situation in the Capital is far better than it was -- and also among the best in the country (especially in a large urban area). Also read: Covid-19 vaccine may need ‘emergency authorisation’Across the country, Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered by experts and authorities as the “gold-standard” for tests, remain the preferred method of testing accounting for nearly 60% of samples tested in the 15-day period between August 2 and August 15, according to an HT analysis.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The biggest advantage of antigen tests is that they provide results within the hour and are relatively cheap. These kits are designed to detect antigens (substances in human bodies that stimulate an immune response) and can be performed in mobile stations and don’t necessarily need labs. But the downside is that they have a far higher chance of returning false negatives , and thus can let cases slide under the radar. When time is a constraint , and test results are needed almost in real-time, there is nothing as good as an antigen test although rapid molecular tests such as RT-PCR ones are being developed. The real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is the most definitive test available. It is used for the detection of nucleic acid from Sars-CoV2 and is based on PCR, a process that duplicates and amplifies genetic fragments of the virus, so that these become easily detectable. The downside is that the process, from sample collection to results, for these can generally take 24-48 hours and needs dedicated machines. Add the logistical delays and tests could take three to four days. In the US, in some states, they were taking 8-12 days. Also read: Oxford Covid-19 vaccine could be the first to be available to Indians: 5 key developmentsDelhi’s big turnaround, in early July, was achieved on the back of a sharp increase in testing, and rapid antigen tests played a role in that. The tests were justified then because causes were rising exponentially, especially in containment zones, and there was a need to test people quickly, and isolate them. Delhi also did the smart thing of asking people with mild infections to stay at home instead of admitting themselves to hospitals -- and using up valuable hospital bed inventory.The Delhi government insists that it has relied on antigen tests only to increase testing in the Capital due to limitations on scaling-up of RT-PCR tests. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, in an interview to HT on July 1 said: “This is the benefit of rapid testing — you can do it at a large scale. You cannot scale up RT-PCR to that level.” Delhi started scaling up the tests mid-June. In the first week of June, Delhi was testing 5,500 samples a day, nearly all RT-PCR. By early August, this number had jumped to nearly 20,000, but with a far larger scale of antigen testing.Explainer: World Health Organization’s struggle for a global Covid-19 vaccine planWhile this strategy was important for the Capital at the time when cases were rising and containment zones increasing, moving away from it is equally important in order to get a true understanding of the spread of the virus in the city and identifying the best way to eradicate it.On July 28, Delhi high court questioned the state government over its decision to heavily employ antigen tests to ramp up its testing. The HC said that the Delhi government was only conducting only 6,000 RT-PCR tests daily when it has the capacity to carry out 11,000.For the 15-day period between August 2 and August 17, HT analysed testing data from the 13 states, which (officially or unofficially) released antigen breakup of testing numbers, in order to analyse the growing role of rapid tests in the country. In Delhi, 70.2% of all tests conducted were antigen-based tests. Odisha was the only state that had a higher proportion of antigen tests: 75%. More worrying than this percentage was that the average number of RT-PCR tests conducted in this period has remained at around 5,000 in Delhi despite the 11,000 capacity. At its peak, Delhi conducted 9,619 RT-PCR tests on June 29, but instead of scaling that up, it has scaled down. “The tests in Delhi are being conducted strictly as per ICMR guidelines. The RT-PCR tests are demand-based and readily available at all flu clinics, labs and in all hospitals. Anyone who has corona-like symptoms can visit any of these centres and easily get an RT-PCR test done. Not a single instance has been reported where a person who wants to get an RT-PCR test done has been unable to do so. Earlier, when the cases were high more people were visiting these centers to get themselves tested. Now since the number of cases has significantly dipped in Delhi the number of RT-PCR tests has also fallen down accordingly,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement on Wednesday.“In the case of antigen tests, the government is going to the people with antigen kits for testing them. The government has created testing facilities within localities, schools, dispensaries etc. where it is encouraging people to get the rapid test done. The ICMR protocol mandates rapid tests to be done within smaller localities. This is a uniform protocol followed not only by Delhi but also by all the states. And like in the case of RT-PCR tests, the absolute number of antigen tests have also declined since the number of Covid cases has significantly dipped in Delhi. The ICMR guidelines also mandates that if anyone tests negative for antigen testing but is showing symptoms, the person should go through an RT-PCR test. This is strictly being followed in 100% cases,” the statement added.Concerns about relying heavily on antigen tests have been flagged by experts. “Due to the fact that antigen tests have a relatively higher chance of false negatives, it is crucial that repeat RT-PCR tests are done. This is something I don’t suspect is being done regularly, especially if we look at the proportion of antigen tests in some states,” cautioned Dr T Jacob John, former professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.His reference is to what experts globally as well as ICMR recommend -- following up antigen tests with RT-PCR ones. This newspaper suggested another alternative in a column -- two antigen tests, using the same or different kits, conducted on two samples from subjects simultaneously, with those whose test results showed a discrepancy being asked to go for a RT-PCR test. Interestingly, some other heavy testing states on this list such as Tamil Nadu that have a near-zero reliance on antigen tests. As of Tuesday, Delhi (1,337,374 total tests) remains one of the regions with the highest testing rates with over 67,000 samples tested per million population, against the national average of 23,800. Tamil Nadu not only has a higher total number of tests (3,845,803) but is also close on tests per million — over 50,000. Not one of these tests is antigen. Another state, Rajasthan, has also used only RT-PCR tests. It has conducted over 25,000 tests per million of its population. According to ICMR’s June 14 “Advisory on Use of Rapid Antigen Detection Test for Covid-19”, the sensitivity (or the ability to detect true positives) of antigen tests ranged from 50.6% to 84%. This means that as many as half of the “negatives” given by antigen tests may be incorrect. This is why US’s drug regulator FDA says that antigen tests “cannot definitively rule out active coronavirus infection. Antigen tests are more likely to miss an active coronavirus infection”. Experts caution that heavy reliance on antigen tests can end up heavily skewing crucial Covid-19 data points such as positivity rate. “If we see a drop in case numbers today, we will not know for sure if that is because the epidemic is plateauing, or just because we are now using antigen testing. I’m not saying that this is the case; I’m worried that we may not know if it that was really happening. We won’t know what the real situation is,” said Dr Satyajit Rath, retired scientist, National Institute of Immunology.This means that in the case of heavy antigen-testing regions like Delhi, despite the absolute number of tests increasing, due to the relatively high chance of false negatives with antigen tests there may be cases that are being missed. As a result, there is a chance that the impression that the region appears to be testing widely and has cases under control may end up being incorrect.“To muddy these waters even further, the RT-PCR versus antigen testing numbers and proportions are not uniform within a state as well. In a state, it’s not as if all districts are using a same proportion of antigen tests. And because not only are all districts unequally hit, they are being tested differently, we can’t even compare the numbers from two districts because we don’t know how skewed the numbers are because of the varying proportions of antigen and RT-PCR tests,” Rath added.“In an ideal situation, all antigen-negative results would be rechecked with RT-PCR tests. But if that is the ideal situation, most samples would go back for RT-PCR tests. Then why are we using antigen tests to begin with?” Rath asked.ICMR’s guidelines says symptomatic people whose antigen tests turn up negative should be tested using RT-PCR, but it isn’t clear if that is happening. But there’s a bigger problem: many of those infected are asymptomatic.(With inputs from Sweta Goswami)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-test-reliance-may-slow-covid-fight/story-zlYJnYBVbI9zXa7R97WjgK.html
20-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to transfer Rs 1,737.50 crore to bank accounts of farmers, tendu leaf and dung collectors||The Chhattisgarh government will transfer Rs 1,737.50 crore into the bank accounts of farmers, dung sellers and tendu leaf collectors on Thursday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi.The event will be held via video conferencing at chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s residence. Under the state government’s Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana, Rs 1,500 crore will be transferred into the accounts of 19 lakh farmers as the second instalment . The total grant amount under the scheme is Rs 5,750 crore and the first instalment under the scheme, Rs 1,500 crore was transferred on the death anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi on May 21 this year.The state government will also transfer payment to cow dung sellers under the Gaudhan Nyay Yojana. The scheme to procure dung at the rate of Rs 2 per kg was approved by the state cabinet last month and on Thursday, payment will be made for the period from August 2 to August 15.The government will also transfer Rs 232.81 crore into the bank accounts of tendupatta collectors as bonus for the collection in year 2018, a senior government official said“Bonus worth Rs 232 crore 81 lakh will be transferred into the bank accounts of 11. 46 lakh tendupatta collectors of 728 societies, for the tendupatta collection done in year 2018 in 114 development blocks of the state,” said a senior official of the public relation department. In 2018 , total 14.85 lakh standard sacks of tendupatta were collected by 880 primary forest societies of the state and Rs 371.15 crore was distributed as wages to 11 98 673 tendupatta collectors. Total 854 out of these 880 societies had released tendupatta through tender and 728 of these societies were in profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-transfer-rs-1-500-cr-to-19-lakh-farmers-under-rajiv-gandhi-nyay-yojana/story-VuYoy1knB1KG6HFkYqGa2K.html
20-08-2020||India||Loan recovery agents hijack bus with 34 on board||The curious case of the bus that disappeared (or was hijacked) played out across Uttar Pradesh for around seven hours on Wednesday before ending safely around noon — the bus was found; no passengers were injured in the drama, and even the driver and the conductor were fine — but with many unanswered questions. The bus was owned by Kalpana Travel agency, which, in turn, was owned by Ashok Arora, a resident of Gwalior, who, as it turns out, died on Monday due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Which leads to the first question: Did his death have anything to do with what happened to the bus?The bus, with 34 passengers left Gurugram for Panna in Madhya Pradesh at 3.20 pm on Tuesday. It entered Uttar Pradesh late in the evening.  And then it gets confusing.At around 10.30 pm, between Mathura and Agra, the bus was stopped, according to one account. Superintendent of police (West), Agra Rural, Ravi Kumar said that two vehicles blocked the bus; the driver, conductor and cleaner were deboarded, and a person from one of the cars that stopped the bus started driving the bus, with the passengers still on board towards Agra. A passenger, Dharmendra Chaturvedi, gave a slightly different version. According to him, he were asked by the conductor to alight and board a different bus at Agra. He mentioned that there seemed to be an altercation but added that this seemed to involve only the conductor and the driver and some other people (who had not been on the bus) and that the passengers were not involved. The driver of the bus , Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Dabra town in Gwalior district, gave a very different version: “About nine people were following the bus in two SUVs. When the bus reached Etawah toll plaza at about 2.30 am those in the SUVs intercepted the bus and told us that they were from a finance company. They gave ~300 each to me and the conductor of the bus and asked us to get down. They drove away in the bus .” He added that he “later came to know” that the passengers were asked to deboard at Mauranipur in Jhansi district (Uttar Pradesh).All of which leads to the second and third questions: what time did the incident happen? And were the passengers on the bus or off it when it was hijacked? As for the driver, conductor and clear, according to SP Ravi Kumar, they were bundled in a car, driven through the night across various parts of Agra and finally dropped off at “Kuberpur in Agra rural”. He added that the “ accused returned the mobile phones and cash with conductor and driver” but not the ticket takings. The driver and helper of bus finally reached Malpura police station at about 5.30 am on Wednesday and narrated the story to the police. It wasn’t immediately clear why they did not use their mobile phones to make a call. The police swung into action when the news broke; the chief minister of the state, Yogi Adityanath, himself is believed to have taken an interest because the crime was initially seen as a hijacking — and it wasn’t clear that the pasengers were safe. The police of many districts went into high alert. They found the bus abandoned around noon near a dhaba in Etawah, just around 120 km from Agra. The initial theory of the police was that this could be a case of repossession gone wrong involving a finance company . That’s the message that was relayed to Madhya Pradesh Police too. “Chhatarpur Police got information from Agra Police that a bus had been hijacked near a toll plaza between Agra and Mathura by a finance company. Passengers were made to board another bus and then the first bus which belongs to one Kalpana Travels was forcibly taken somewhere else,” said superintendent of police, Chhatarpur, Sachin Sharma.But when they checked with the finance company, it denied all knowledge of the incident, according to the superintendent of police in Gwalior, Amit Sanghi. Meanwhile, the UP Police caught a lucky break when the family of Ashok Arora identified one of the hijackers from CCTV footage at the toll plaza. His name was Pradeep Gupta. A moneylender, Gupta is believed to have had some dispute with Arora (it wasn’t clear whether he had loaned Arora money). “Required legal action will be taken after initial investigations; the name of Pradeep Gupta has surfaced for being involved in the hijacking. Police is searching for him,” added Kumar. But what of the passengers? According to Dharmendra Chaturvedi, they shifted buses at Agra (when the incident happened), then Gwalior, then Jhansi, and finally reached their destination. He mentioned that at each location, they were directed to get onto a different bus. It wasn’t immediately clear who organised the remaining part of their journey, or whether their ticket money was refunded to them and they were asked to find their way home. Chhatarpur SP Sharma added that all the passengers were safe (and were screened for Covid-19 on arrival).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loan-recovery-agents-hijack-bus-with-34-on-board/story-Ngh25Y5Gp01GRkXba1VG5O.html
20-08-2020||India||Drained of all hope, NCR cities left to sink or swim||Roads turned into lakes, homes were flooded, walls fell, and a sea of traffic was marooned in several parts of the national capital region (NCR) on Wednesday after heavy rains exposed, yet again, the fragile state of the civic infrastructure and the lack of preparedness for a season that exposes such flaws every year.The flooding was particularly severe in Gurugram, where underpasses in some of the city’s most upscale neighbourhoods resembled a river, forcing at least two motorists to escape from their drowning cars and swim to safety, and rafts to be deployed. In Delhi, traffic backed up for several kilometres on arterial stretches on the Ring Road – especially at Ashram, Dhaula Kuan and near AIIMS – while access roads to the airport accumulated waist-deep waters. In several parts of the town, the water logging disabled cars and buses that exacerbated the jams.“Portions of roads were completely submerged in water, which slowed down vehicular movement on arterial stretches. Our officials were stationed to direct traffic, but in many areas, the situation was quite bad,” said a senior Delhi traffic police official, asking not to be named. The flooding also affected people who were at home. In residential colonies such as Krishna Nagar, Amar Colony, Model Town, Prem Nagar in Kirari, Sant Nagar and Laxmi Vihar in Burari, water entered the ground floor of several homes.“It doesn’t look like we are living in the Capital. Every year we have to experience this pain of water logging. It’s been raining since morning and the streets of colonies are completely submerged in water. It’s because of choked drains and sewer lines. Agencies keep blaming each other but it’s the public that suffers,” said BS Vohra, a resident of Krishna Nagar and the president, East Delhi RWAs Joint Front.Civic bodies reported uprooted trees in a several areas and seven cars were damaged after the boundary wall of a school in the Saket’s J block collapsed. The Minto Road under-bridge, which has become a symbol of the Delhi’s vulnerability to rain, however, had unexpectedly little water.The trigger for the chaos was 43mm of rain (average across five stations) that poured on Delhi between 8.30am and 5.30pm. Gurugram recorded 118mm of rain, close to 20% of the precipitation seen on an average in an entire year. Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, 15-64.5mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy.Weather officials said the rains are being caused by two low pressure bands over northwest and central India: the first is the monsoon trough, and the second due to cyclonic circulations over Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. “A low pressure area has formed and the monsoon trough is also near its normal position. A lot of rain is expected over central and NW India because of these two conditions,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.Moderate to heavy rain is likely in NCR on Thursday. Central India may get similar conditions for 3-4 days. For Delhi, Wednesday’s rain is likely to make up for the 14% cumulative rainfall deficit this season.The national capital, however, fared better than its neighbour. In addition to the Golf Course Road underpasses (they are a network of three), four others – two each in Cyber City and along the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway – were flooded and had to be closed for traffic.In an interview to HT during the monsoon in 2019, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Gurugram’s monsoon flooding problem had “been taken care of”. “All underpasses have been completed. The drainage system has been upgraded in areas that were waterlogged last time and led to Gurugram being branded as ‘Gurujam’. To further mitigate the problem, we will be building check dams in the surrounding Aravalli hills and create artificial lakes. That will not only stop the rush of rainwater to Gurugram but also recharge the groundwater. The plan is to develop some of the lakes as tourist gardens,” he saidMunicipal Corporation of Gurugram chief engineer Raman Sharma said the level of rainwater at Najafgarh drain was “extremely high”, and, as a result, a large portion of Gurugram’s main drain -- the Badshahpur drain -- flowed back on to the roads, leaving the city without any storm water outlet.“The volume of rain was much higher than usual as a result of which there was severe waterlogging across the city. We initiated combating measures as soon as rains started and in most parts of the city, and by 6pm, barring low-lying areas, rainwater was cleared. More than 150 GMDA (Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority) and MCG officials are still on-ground and efforts are ongoing for clearing rainwater from remaining areas by midnight,” said Sharma.One person, who misjudged the amount of water as he drove into the underpass along the Golf Course Road in his Hyundai hatchback, said he got out as the vehicle began drowning. “When I reached the middle of the underpass, I found myself submerged in water. The engine stopped, the brakes stopped working and I feared the automatic system might get stuck, so I immediately rushed out of the car and had to swim to cross the stretch,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of MG Road. “We started drainage operations around 11am. The underpasses at IFFCO Chowk, Cyberhub, Genpact Chowk were cleared by 4pm while the underpass at Rajiv Chowk was cleared by 5pm. The underpass at Bristol Chowk we are aiming to clear by 7pm. At the underpass in DLF Phase 1, the level of rainwater is extremely high. More than 5 crore kilolitres of rainwater has accumulated and it may take us till tomorrow to clear it,” said Satyawan Samriwal, the assistant divisional fire official in Gurugram.With Covid-19 having forced most office-goers, particularly in the IT hub of Gurugram, to work from home, people said the chaos wrought by the rains may have led to scenes similar to what is now known as the Guru-jam of 2016. Heavy rain drowned several main intersections and arterial roads at the time, stranding commuters for as long as 20 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drained-of-all-hope-ncr-cities-left-to-sink-or-swim/story-1WCm9UvwDgfAEYSPUVEodM.html
20-08-2020||India||Minister, 3 legislators test Covid-19 positive ahead of monsoon session||With the state legislature’s monsoon session set to begin today under the shadow of Covid-19, a minister and three legislators tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday.The minister of state for medium and small-scale Industries Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh tested positive for Covid-19 during the mandatory ahead of the Vidhan Sabha session.Chief medical officer of Lucknow, Dr RP Singh, said, “The minister has been admitted to Rajdhani Covid Hospital at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, where a team of doctors is taking care of him.”Members of legislative assembly (MLA) Tejpal Nagar and Sanju Devi, and an MLC, Parvez Ali, also tested positive according to Vidhan Sabha officials.The latest development comes in the backdrop of major opposition parties demanding a debate on the pandemic, besides the law and order situation, during the monsoon session.“Yes, a discussion on Covid-19 and the law and order situation is the need of the hour. The state government did not concede our demand for a debate on the issue when the first few cases of Covid-19 were reported. It has convened the House to serve its own interest and get some bills passed. We will raise these issues as the situation has worsened,” said the leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, following an all-party meeting convened by speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Wednesday to seek their cooperation for smooth proceedings.Chaudhary did not attend the all-party meeting and will keep away from the session. Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Narendra Verma represented him at the meeting.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and minister for parliamentary affairs, Suresh Khanna, represented the government at the meeting. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Lalji Verma, Congress leader Aradhana Mishra, Apna Dal (Sone Lal) leader Neel Ratan Patel and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leader Om Prakash Rajbhar attended the meeting.Verma and Mishra echoed similar sentiments, saying that their parties would demand a debate on Covid-19 and the law and order situation, besides raising the problems of farmers and the flood fury.The chief minister said the monsoon session, which was convened during the pandemic to meet the constitutional responsibility of holding House sittings within six months of the last, would provide an occasion for debate.During the three-day session, the state government also proposes to get bills passed to replace 17 ordinances promulgated after the last session, besides a few others. The state government is likely to present the first supplementary demand of grants for 2020-2021 during the session. On the first day, the House will be adjourned after paying homage to former Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon, two ministers Kamla Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, along with its two sitting members Virendra Singh Sirohi and Paras Nath Yadav.Earlier, Dikshit said members in the 60 plus age group or women, who may not be able to attend the session, would not be considered absent and requested leaders to convey this message to their members. He said the UP legislature was the first legislature in the country to hold its session during the pandemic, as those in other states, such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, had held meetings for a motion of confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-3-legislators-test-covid-positive-ahead-of-monsoon-session/story-9mCsOFkUQj09WvUfun8EWN.html
20-08-2020||India||Facebook row intensifies as Tharoor, BJP’s Dubey move breach of privilege notice against each other||The row in the parliamentary panel on Information and Technology over seeking an explanation from Facebook intensified on Wednesday with Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and BJP MP Nishikant Dubey moving breach of privilege notices against each other. The chairperson of the panel, the Congress’ Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that the”disparaging remarks” made by Dubey were a ”breach of his privilege as an MP”. “To claim that the Chairman has acted in excess of his authority to convene a meeting on a pre-approved agenda, and has proceeded without seeking the necessary approvals, is tantamount to contempt of the due procedure followed by the House,” Tharoor wrote in his letter. Dubey, meanwhile, shot off his own letter, arguing that Tharoor is in a “serious breach of privilege“ and was using the parliamentary committee platform to tarnish the BJP’s image. He accused Tharoor of sensationalizing a small incident, referring to a Wall Street Journal report that said that Facebook’s top lobbyist in India prevented the company from taking action for hate speech against a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The report has created a controversy, with the Congress and the BJP trading allegations -- each claiming that Facebook is a tool of the other. Interestingly, Dubey has also sought a privilege motion against Rahul Gandhi. “By levelling… unsubstantiated allegations against all the Members of Parliament, Lok Sabha, who belong to BJP, he (Gandhi) has also lowered the dignity of all such Members of Parliament and infringed upon their Parliamentary Privileges… ,: he wrote. The letters to the speaker, seen by Hindustan Times, come on the heels of a split in the IT Parliamentary panel over asking Facebook to explain reports of alleged bias . A member of the IT Panel, Dubey took to Twitter on August 17 to claim Tharoor, as chairperson of the Standing Committee “ does not have the authority to do anything without discussion of the agenda with its members”. “He (Tharoor) can not think that the Parliament is an extension of the Congress party,” Dubey told Hindustan Times. “We cannot discuss a subject just because Rahul Gandhi has tweeted about it.” According to Parliamentary rules, “if any individual or authority violates or disregards any of the privileges, powers and immunities of the House or members or committees thereof, he may be punished for “breach of privilege” or “contempt of the House”. The House has the power to determine as to what constitutes breach of privilege and contempt. The penal jurisdiction of the House in this regard covers its members as well as strangers and every act of violation of privileges, whether committed in the immediate presence of the House or outside of it.” Moreover, a person found guilty of breach of privilege or contempt of the House “may be punished either by imprisonment, or by admonition (warning), or reprimand. Two other punishments may also be awarded to the members for contempt, namely, ‘suspension’ and ‘expulsion’ from the House”. But according to former Lok Sabha secretary-general PDT Achary, neither Tharoor, nor Dubey have grounds for breach of privilege. “Neither of the two MPs have a case,” Achary told Hindustan Times. Achary added that the procedure is that after a case of breach of privilege comes to light, the Speaker decides whether or not to forward it to the Privileges Committee. “If the Speaker forwards it, then there is a prima facie case but in this instance, I doubt the Speaker will send these forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-row-intensifies-as-tharoor-bjp-s-dubey-move-breach-of-privilege-notice-against-each-othe/story-rhmmwt2KpxXAISBre50PDN.html
20-08-2020||India||Top Lashkar commander among 3 terrorists killed in 2 encounters with security forces in J-K||Three terrorists including a top Lashkar commander from north Kashmir were killed in two encounters with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said.In the first encounter in South Kashmir’s Shopian district, based on specific inputs about the presence of terrorists in Chitragam village, security forces launched an operation in the area.“The operation later turned into an encounter after the militants fired on a search party of the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing exchange of fire, one militant was killed,” a senior police officer said, adding that the operation was still underway. He added that more militants could be hiding in the village. #ShopianEncounterUpdate: 01 #unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/2bNF0IpbZQIn the second encounter in Kupwara district, two terrorists, including a top Lashkar commander, were killed at Ganipora Kralgund area of Handwara. The terrorists were hiding in orchards when encounter took place.An army spokesman said that joint operation was launched late evening in the orchards of Ganipora. “The cordon was laid and contact established. In the firefight , two terrorists were eliminated. The operation in progress.”Inspector General of Police Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the killed Lashkar commander was Naseer ud din Lone who was involved in the killing of three CRPF jawans in Sopore in April and three CRPF jawans in Handwara in May this year.  #HandwaraEncounterUpdate: LeT Cmdr Naseer-u-din Lone, who was #involved in #killing of 3 CRPF jawans at #Sopore on 18/4/20 and 3 CRPF jawans at #Handwara on 4/5/20, got killed: IGP Kashmir Shri Vijay Kumar @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/eSTNJxMrMeThe identity of the second terrorist was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-commander-among-3-militants-killed-in-2-encounters-with-security-forces-in-jammu-kashmir/story-XxzvVGWytSlSbhcps6FunK.html
20-08-2020||India||NGT orders 46.11 sq km to be notified as private forest in Goa||The Goa Foundation had filed a petition in the National Green Tribunal alleging that the state was dragging its feet on demarcating private forests in the state according to the directives of the Supreme Court.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Goa government to finally notify an area of 46.11 square kilometres as ‘private forest’, bringing to close a more than two-decade old issue in which various committees were set up seeking to include or exclude plots as private forests in Goa. In an order issued on a petition filed by the Goa Foundation, the NGT bench of Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and Satyawan Singh Garbyal, expert member, directed that the “41.20 sq km area demarcated by Forest Department and 4.91 sq km identified by the Sharma Committee totalling 46.11 sq km be confirmed and accepted as private forest.”“The Chief Secretary of State Government of Goa is directed to notify the same and make suitable entries in the Revenue records in accordance with rules immediately as soon as possible,” the NGT said. Privately held lands that have a tree canopy/crown density of 0.4 and above, are spread across 5 ha or more and are contiguous with or near to existing protected forests and have more than 75% of the trees of forest species are to be earmarked as private forests, read the order.The issue dates back to January 1997 when the Goa government set up the Sawant Committee comprising forest officials and other experts, pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court which had directed that private lands that met the criteria of forests be declared as such and be protected. The apex court had directed each state government constitute an expert committee to Identify areas which are “forests”, irrespective of whether they are so notified, recognised or classified under any law, and irrespective of the ownership of the land of such forest; identify areas which were earlier forest but stand degraded, denuded or cleared; and Identify areas covered by plantation trees belonging to the government and those belonging to private persons.”Goa’s Sawant committee submitted its report in 1999. However, next year, the state government, allegedly under pressure from “certain lobbies and vested interests”, set up the Karapurkar committee, a decision which was challenged in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court restrained the Karapurkar Committee or any other person or agency from interfering with the Sawant Committee’s report, but could add to the area if it thought fit. A total of 67 sq km was identified by both these committees. However noting that the total 67 square km of land so identified was an “approximation” carried out without “actual ground verification to determine the extent of private forests”, the Goa bench of Bombay High Court directed the state government to demarcate the non-forest areas from forest areas on the basis of Sawant and Karapurkar Committee reports.The Goa Forest Department then carried out the exercise of demarcation after ground verification and after five years, the final report of demarcation was submitted to the High Court in 2008. As per this demarcation report, the actual surveyed and demarcated private forest area came out to be 41.20 sq km. This report, too, was challenged in the High Court which prompted the state government to set up another committee known as the Sharma Review committee which filed its report recently.The Sharma committee found that an additional area of 4.91 sq km has been found to be qualifying all three private forest criteria. “Therefore out of total 67.12 sq km referred area by Sawant and Karapurkar Committee, the Review Committee has identified an area of 46.11 sq km as private forest of Goa,” the report stated. The NGT directed that this 46.11 sq km be finally recognized and notified as private forests in Goa. A report of yet another committee set up by the Goa government called the D’Souza committee was rejected by the NGT. “On perusal of a report of the various Committees i.e, Sawant Committee, Karapurkar Committee, Private Forest Review Committee and Joint Secretary (Revenue) Committee and after the submissions made by the parties at both sides we are of the considered opinion that total of 46.11 sq kms i.e., (41.20 sq km of the forest area demarcated by the Forest Department out of 67.12 sq km identified by Sawant Committee and Karapurkar Committee + 4.91 sq km private forest area identified by the Review Committee) is the private forest area in the State of Goa,” the NGT ruled. The Goa Foundation had filed a petition in the National Green Tribunal alleging that the state was dragging its feet on demarcating private forests in the state according to the directives of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-orders-46-11-sq-km-to-be-notified-as-private-forest-in-goa/story-JajZyriCQunMJ0lj2seRGI.html
20-08-2020||India||Bengal police raids MP Arjun Singh’s home; BJP calls it vendetta||The West Bengal police on Wednesday afternoon searched the residence of Arjun Singh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member from Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district, in connection with an old case of financial irregularity. A police officer who is part of the investigation and did not want to be named said, “The search was held in connection with alleged financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 11 crore involving the Bhatpara municipality and a local cooperative bank.” Singh was chairman of the Bhatpara municipality from 2010 to 2019. He left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and joined the BJP in March 2019. He also headed a local cooperative bank’s board. Singh, who was present at home, said, “This is not the first time the police came to raid my house. In the past they did not have any order from court and were not allowed to enter. Today they came with a court order. I am not surprised because it is well known that I am a target of the TMC.” “The Barrackpore police have so far named me in 93 cases. For Mamata Banerjee, I was clean and pure as long as I was in the TMC. Now, that I am in the BJP, I am involved in all sorts of crimes,” said Singh. Recognised as a heavyweight leader, Singh was a four-time legislator of the TMC from Bhatpara before he joined the BJP and defeated TMC’s sitting Barrackpore MP Dinesh Trivedi in 2019. The election was marked by violence which continues intermittently in the region. Singh’s son and brother-in-law are also sitting legislators of the BJP. Also Read: Covid centre built by Congress, CPI (M) in Bengal; BJP has a question for TMCSingh alleged that the police team broke into the house of one of his relatives before coming to his home. “That house is located around 500 metres away from mine. It is under a lock and a key for six months as the family is now in another state. I told the officers that we will move court for this as they did not have any written order to search the premises.” Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma could not be contacted. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh condemned the incident and said Singh was being singled out. “The TMC is being vindictive. The sole job of the Barrackpore police is to target and implicate Arjun Singh,” said Ghosh. On July 17, a police team went to Singh’s home at Bhatpara in search of one of his nephews but was denied entry by Central paramilitary force personnel in charge of Singh’s security as the police officers did not have a search warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-police-searches-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-s-house-bjp-calls-it-vendetta/story-xGZyOuP4hLfAoQZ3xfhnYK.html
20-08-2020||India||Bus carrying 34 passengers allegedly ‘hijacked’ in Agra by staff of finance company||A private bus carrying 34 passengers from Gurugram in Haryana was allegedly ‘hijacked’ from Agra and taken towards Jhansi by the staff of a finance company. The bus was later traced near Jhansi. All passengers are safe and have been provided with an alternate bus for their destination, Panna in Madhya Pradesh.“The private bus began its journey on Tuesday evening for Panna in Madhya Pradesh. There were 34 passengers in the bus of whom 13 had to get down at Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh while the remaining were to travel to Panna in Madhya Pradesh,” stated SP (West) Agra, rural, Ravi Kumar.Also read: 15-year-old girl found dead in Uttar Pradesh town“The bus had just crossed Mathura when it was stopped by car-borne miscreants on the Southern Bye Pass of Agra. They took the bus in control after forcing the driver, along with the conductor and the helper, to get down,” informed SP Ravi Kumar.“The driver, the conductor and the helper were told to get into the waiting car which moved around Agra. They were later dropped at Kuberpur. The staff of the finance company returned the personal mobile and cash that the conductor and driver were carrying. However, they took the ticket money collected by them from the passengers to return them. All three were also provided food and were not harassed by the staff of the finance company,” he said. Nonetheless, the incident created panic.Driver of the Panna-bound private bus, Ramesh Kumar, said, “About nine people were following the bus in two SUVs. When the bus reached near Etawah toll plaza at about 2.30 am, those in the SUVs intercepted the bus and told us that they were from a finance company. They gave Rs 300 each to me and the conductor of the bus and asked us to get down from the bus. They later drove the bus away.” Kumar, a resident of Dabra town in Gwalior district, added, “I later came to know that those who took the bus with them asked the passengers to get down from the bus at Mauranipur in Jhansi district (Uttar Pradesh).” Superintendent of Police, Gwalior Amit Sanghi said, “We have inquired with the private finance company whose name was mentioned by the alleged hijackers but the company said none of its employees was involved in the entire episode and that they were not aware of the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-carrying-34-passengers-allegedly-hijacked-by-finance-company-in-agra/story-zvBZSgEzPootIsLM7xI2eI.html
