21-08-2020||India||Two held over ₹2 crore ‘donation’ to AAP ahead of 2014 assembly poll||New Delhi: Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Friday arrested two men for allegedly using “fabricated documents and photographs” to form four “shell companies” that were used to make a donation of Rs 2 crore to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the run-up to the 2014 Delhi assembly elections.The AAP said it is continuing to cooperate with the agencies in their probe and that nothing “amiss” has been found against the party. OP Mishra, joint commissioner of police (EOW), said that the money trail followed by Delhi Police revealed that the funds for the donation were generated from the account of a company named M/S Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited. “It is a subsidiary company of Max Group,” Mishra said. The Max Group, a business conglomerate that works in real estate and senior living, said that was dragged into the investigation needlessly, and that it had no long-term association with the two people arrested, who merely did some work for it and were duly paid. The officer identified the arrested men as Mukesh Kumar and his “employee” Sudhanshu Bansal. “Bansal is a chartered accountant by profession. Kumar is an accommodation entry operator and the mind behind all the four shell companies,” Mishra said. The two have been arrested under Indian Penal Code sections of cheating, forgery, and criminal conspiracy. Police did not specify whether AAP knew about these shell companies, or if the party had any knowledge of any problems with the donation. “The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is committed to honest and transparent politics and has changed the political discourse in India in the last eight years of its existence. AAP will never compromise on its integrity. This is a six-year-old case, which has been investigated by almost all agencies. So far, nothing amiss has been found against AAP by any of the agencies. AAP has cooperated with all agencies and will continue to cooperate with them,” a party spokesperson said.The controversy over the Rs 2 crore donation first erupted in 2015, when the AAP Volunteer Action Manch (AVAM), a breakaway faction of AAP led by Karn Singh, alleged that the donations were hawala transactions that were accepted by the party. The AAP dismissed the allegations and said it was open for a probe. “In February, the Registrar of Companies (ROC) in Delhi started a suo motu enquiry about the donations. They approached us with a complaint on which we had registered an FIR and took up the investigation,” said OP Mishra. The ROC, in its complaint, alleged that the four companies from which donations were made -- in the form of Rs 50 lakh cheques -- were “bogus” and not located at the addresses according to the ROC’s records, the officer said. Max said the people involved in the case were not associated directly with the group, and were once hired for a temporary construction job by one of its subsidiaries. “We have been needlessly dragged into this investigation. Antara (M/s Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited) hired a contractor through local contacts in Purukul (a place in Dehradun) for mud excavation for its senior living community. Given the basic nature of the job, it is normal not to do detailed diligence on contractor’s background, or his intended use of payments received from us. We have provided to the police clear proof of the work executed and fairness of payment. We are clear that we have done nothing wrong. We have no other association with the individuals concerned beyond a one-time work contract in the past,” a statement by Max India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-over-2-crore-donation-to-aap-ahead-of-2014-assembly-poll/story-mEJMy23Z4hYoTdqnptwGCO.html
21-08-2020||India||EC issues guidelines on polls during pandemic||From putting a cap on the number of people involved in door-to-door campaigning to allowing the submission of nomination forms online to providing voters with gloves before they use electronic voting machines (EVMs) — the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday released a set of broad guidelines for holding elections in the time of the coronavirus disease pandemic. While standard safety measures such as social distancing and wearing of masks, among others, will be followed, ECI also said those with high temperature will have to vote in the last one hour of the polling process and that there will be fewer voters at a booth.HT reported on Wednesday that the poll watchdog was finalising the guidelines to hold the first set of elections, especially that in Bihar, in the wake of Covid-19. In the guidelines, ECI also decided to “decentralise” the training of officials in charge of the polling process. This effectively means that their training will either happen online or will be conducted face-to-face in a staggered manner. “Hand gloves shall be provided to all the electors for signing on the voter register and pressing button of EVM for voting,” the poll watchdog said, adding that face masks, sanitizers, thermal scanners, gloves, face shields and personal protective equipment kits “shall be used during the electoral process ensuring social distancing norms”.Also, the number of tables in a counting hall has been slashed by half — from 14 to seven. The commission also said a maximum of 1,000 people will be allowed to cast their votes at a polling station, a significant reduction from the earlier figure of 1,500. At polling booths, electors will stand six feet-apart, in line with health ministry guidelines. Soap, water and hand sanitizers will be made available at the entry point. Thermal scanners will also be there. Covid-19 patients, those in quarantine for symptoms and those with temperature higher than normal will be made to wait and vote in the last one hour, in keeping with safety norms prescribed by the health ministry. Extra face masks will be kept for those not carrying one. During the identification process, voters will require to lower the face mask, the document said. “Earmarking circle for 15-20 persons of 2 yards (6 feet) distance for voters standing in the queue depending on the availability of space. There shall be three queues each, for male, female, and PwD (people with disabilities)/ senior citizen voters,” the guidelines said. A group of just five people, including candidates but excluding security personnel, is allowed to take part in door-to-door campaigning. For road shows, a convoy of vehicles should have an interval after every five vehicles instead of 10 vehicles (excluding security vehicles, if any). The interval between two sets of convoys of vehicles should be half-an-hour instead of a gap of 100 metres. The commission’s guidelines added: “In all, such identified grounds (where public rallies are to be conducted), the District Election Officer should, in advance, put markers to ensure social distancing norms by the attendees.” Nomination forms will be available online on the website of the chief electoral officer and district election officer. The number of persons to accompany a candidate for submission of nomination has been restricted to two. The number of vehicles for the purposes of nomination is also restricted to two. While elections have taken place in other countries since the pandemic, including in Sri Lanka recently, elections in India have only been confined to polls to the Rajya Sabha and legislative council seats, which involve a limited set of voters. Experts believe that the election guidelines adopted for Bihar, where elections are due in October-November, will have significant implications for political contests. ECI, which reviewed suggestions received from state officials and political parties before releasing the final guidelines, is also likely to hold polls to the Samastipur parliamentary constituency and 56 assembly constituencies (across eight states) from September. The Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) were critical of the guidelines. The Congress issued a statement saying that the guidelines were not enough for the conduct of “free, fair and independent elections” in the time of Covid-19, and in ensuring the smooth elections in “free, non-partisan & fair fashion”. “Despite having sought comments from political parties such as the Indian National Congress and in response to which detailed recommendations were given, the ECI has overlooked almost all the suggestions given and prepared guidelines that are inadequate in dealing with the challenge of Covid-19,” said party general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal. RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha said the guidelines appeared to have been formulated keeping a country “other than India in mind”. “These guidelines will not ensure maximum voter participation,” said Jha. “As an incentive, perhaps, a health insurance for voters can be offered, in case it is being offered to poll officials. An election with a 25% turnout is hardly an election.” “It seems the ECI is more invested in the idea of an election, than in its democratic potential,” he added. There was no immediate response by the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But former chief election commissioner SY Quraishi said the guidelines were “very sensible” and have “drawn from the experience of other elections”. “They are in conformity with the health ministry guidelines...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-issues-guidelines-on-polls-during-pandemic/story-3LqW3xWfYlgl32pt0ZhFUM.html
21-08-2020||India||Kapil Mishra ‘guest of honour’ at launch of book on Delhi riots||: The Saturday virtual launch of a book on the February Delhi riots has turned controversial with Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kapil Mishra being named in invitations as one of the guests of honour at the event, and the publisher claiming it was not organising or sponsoring the event.  The clashes between Hindus and Muslims in different parts of north-east Delhi left at least 53 dead and around 400 injured. A copy of the invite, doing the rounds of social media, says that two other guests of honour are filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri and OpIndia editor Nupur Sharma. It adds that BJP’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav will launch the book. Responding to the comments on social media about his role in the book launch, Mishra said: “Freedom of Expression ke thekedar ek kitab se darr gaye (the custodians of freedom of expression are getting scared of a book). Because they know this book will expose their lies and will bring the truth of Delhi riots.” He also tweeted about the event on Friday. While Mishra has not been charged by the police, he delivered a speech ahead of the riots -- between pro- and anti Citizenship (Amendment) Act protestors that snowballed into a Hindu-Muslim communal riot -- that people would take matters into their own hands if the police did not remove anti-CAA protestors from near the Jafrabad Metro station. Sonali Chitalkar, one of the authors of the book took, to Twitter to urge people to read the book before criticising it . “The book is available for pre-order. I would love to debate side after you have read the book,” she tweeted. She also said that Mishra’s speech was unobjectionable. “I have heard his speech. He has only told the police officials that if they did not clear the stretch occupied by anti-CAA protesters within two days, then they would take matters in their own hands. There is nothing inciting or objectionable in it. The police in its affidavit has found that Kapil Mishra’s speech did not incite the violence. Then what’s wrong in him being in the guest list?” Monica Arora, another author of the book said the “messiahs of freedom of speech” are criticising a book even before it has released. “No one has read the book, then how can anyone decide its tone or tenor? At least, read the book first and then we can have a debate.” .While the book is being published by Bloomsbury India, the publishing house denied organising the launch event. “Bloomsbury India is publishing the book Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story by advocate Monica Arora, Sonali Chitalkar, Prerna Malhotra in September 2020. We are not organising any launch event for the book tomorrow and there are no events being planned yet. If you have come across any event information for the above book, please note it is not being organized or sponsored by Bloomsbury India,” read a statement from Bloomsbury India on Friday. Senior advocate Rebecca John, who has represented several of those accused in various cases related to the Delhi riots said: “At least 53 people lost their lives in the riots and they deserve better than this. Those who made inciting speeches or were held responsible for the violence as per the account of several victims, should be investigated for their roles and not allowed to use platforms to further their agenda. Bloomsbury said that their logo was inappropriately used but the fact is that they published the book and this, to me, amounts to further lowering of standards in public life. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-mishra-guest-of-honour-at-launch-of-book-on-delhi-riots/story-bpUC05xBwWv7XXX4YmyXLN.html
21-08-2020||India||Shops, offices to remain shut on weekends in Hry||Gurugram: All shopping malls, market complexes, public and private offices except those dealing with essential goods and services will remain shut on every Saturday and Sunday in Haryana till any further orders to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to an order issued by the state government on Friday. Senior state officials, however, clarified that it is not a weekend lockdown as there is no restriction on the movement of people and traffic. The decision was declared by the state home minister, Anil Vij, on Twitter on Friday evening. “All offices and shops except essential will remain closed in Haryana on every Saturday and Sunday due to Covid-19.”Keshani Anand Arora, chief secretary, who is also the chairperson of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority issued an order in the evening in this regard.A senior state official privy to the matter said that the decision has been taken as citizens are taking a callous approach in dealing with the pandemic. “No curfew has been imposed. Since gatherings are taking place and huge rush of people is seen in market complexes, we are noticing citizens are taking the pandemic lightly,” the official said.The state tally has reached 52,129, with the death toll at 585.  In a press statement issued from Chandigarh, an official spokesperson said that these orders shall remain in force till any further notice is issued. It will have no effect on public and private transport.Shopping malls and market associations in the city, however, expressed disappointment on the move. Aman Bajaj, member, Metropolitan Mall Association, said that they never anticipated the move by the state government. “Shop owners are disappointed with the step taken by the state government to close shops on weekends. The business is already affected as malls opened in the later stages of the unlock phase. In a week, there are nearly three to four days with no sale at all. We were gradually regaining our customers on Saturdays and Sundays as people are occupied during the weekday due to work from home. The decision will affect us badly.”Harinder Rana, president, Palam Vyapar Kendra Market Association, said that the business will be affected. “But nothing can be done as it is a government order and we cannot go against them. We have been informed that challans will be issued if shops except those dealing in essential goods are opened on weekends,” said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-offices-to-remain-shut-on-weekends-in-hry/story-N2Enpb6xmG2FT5oWx4bWoM.html
21-08-2020||India||Kerala yet to give CCTV videos in gold smuggling case: NIA||ThiruvananthapuramThe Kerala government is yet to hand over the CCTV recordings of the state secretariat to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for a probe into the gold smuggling case, officials said on Friday. “We haven’t received the visuals. We will send a reminder to the chief secretary and inform the concerned court about this,” a senior officer familiar with the matter said. The recordings were sought after reports emerged that Suresh was a frequent visitor to the secretariat and many officials helped her widening her contact base.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have accused the government of deliberately delaying the hand over of the videos. “Suresh was a frequent visitor to the secretariat and CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. So, the government is really scared that truth will come out,” said BJP state president K Surendran.The NIA had written to the chief secretary seeking the footage from July 5, 2000, to July 2019. In response, initially the officials said that cameras had been damaged. Later, officials had said that the videos can be retrieved. In a related development, a special court in Kochi on Friday rejected the bail plea of the main accused, Swapna Suresh, in a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the money trail in the smuggling case. Opposing her bail plea, the ED counsel said that she wielded enough influence and her release at this juncture would affect the ongoing probe. The court accepted the ED’s contention and rejected her bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-yet-to-give-cctv-videos-in-gold-smuggling-case-nia/story-07rd2BOcOErR64iYv23ZOK.html
21-08-2020||India||China stepping up military activity near Lipulekh pass, new satellite imagery suggests||New open source satellite imagery suggests China has stepped up work on military infrastructure, including a surface-to-air missile site, in the area opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand amid the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The mobilisation of a battalion by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, show what appears to be two sites at which the PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both sites are not very far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. According to a tweet from @detresfa, a surface-to-air missile facility is being constructed at one of the two sites on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. A graphic included in the tweet said: “While India & China border tensions in Ladakh have been ongoing for over 3 months, new inputs suggest the India-China-Nepal tri-junction border area near Lipulekh Pass is feverish with Chinese military activity.” The two sites are located within a radius of 100 km of the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that has been depicted as Nepalese territory in a new political map issued by the government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. The India-Nepal border row erupted after New Delhi opened a new road to Lipulekh region to facilitate pilgrims travelling to Kailash-Mansarovar. Nepal responded by lodging a protest and then issuing the new political map that included Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India. India has disputed Nepal’s claims and the border row affected bilateral ties. However, Oli spoke on phone with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 and said Nepal looks forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation with India. India and Nepal also held a meeting of a high level mechanism that oversees bilateral projects on August 17, though there is no sign as yet of the two sides holding talks on the border issue. In a separate tweet, @detresfa posted open source satellite imagery that appeared to show Chinese troop deployments in Gar county of Tibet, south of Pangong Lake, one of the key friction points in the current standoff. The tweet said these Chinese deployments were “suspected to either resupply or respond to potential issues arising from the dispute”. A graphic attached to the tweet said the PLA’s deployments “across its western military theatre continue to remain on alert” and on the field. At Gar county, located 180 km south of Pangong Lake, there has been “auxiliary construction & development in progress meant to aid pre-existing military infrastructure, along with a large volume of tents sprawled across the city”. “Assisted by logistical and mechanical support the area is a suspected military basing prepared to respond to potential issues arising from the border dispute,” it added. Among the infrastructure reportedly being created in Gar county is a helipad, other military sites and barracks. HT had earlier reported that PLA had moved a battalion – about 1,000 soldiers – at some distance from the border in the area opposite Lipulekh. India had matched the strength of PLA troops and was also keeping a close watch on Nepal in the context of its border claims. India had on Thursday emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after it was unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-stepping-up-military-activity-near-lipulekh-pass-new-satellite-imagery-suggests/story-VQ9A0eNFaJWqdzSk5F6oFO.html
21-08-2020||India||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar appointed Election Commissioner, takes over from Ashok Lavasa||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar was on Friday appointed as election commissioner in place of Ashok Lavasa who resigned. President Ram Nath Kovind cleared his appointment with effect from the date he assumes office. His appointment is in place of Lavasa who resigned with effect from August 31. “In pursuance of clause (2) of article 324 of the Constitution, the president is pleased to appoint Shri Rajiv Kumar, (IAS retired) as the election commissioner with effect from the date he assumes the office vice Shri Ashok Lavasa, election commissioner who has resigned with effect August 31,” an official notification of the Ministry of Law and Justice said. Rajiv Kumar is a retired IAS officer of 1984 batch of Jharkhand cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-bureaucrat-rajiv-kumar-appointed-election-commissioner-takes-over-from-ashok-lavasa/story-GisquUSSmi4Me7oKlVWUZJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Railways scrap tender for Vande Bharat trains month after getting bids from Chinese JV||The Indian Railways has cancelled its global tender issued for manufacturing 44 sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains, the ministry of railways announced late on Friday.“Tender for manufacturing of 44 sets of semi high speed train set (Vande Bharat) has been cancelled. A fresh tender will be floated within a week as per Revised Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) order,” the ministry said.The move comes after Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited emerged as the only foreign bidder for the global tender floated for manufacturing 44 rakes of Vande Bharat trains in July.ALSO READ | Chinese JV among six bidders for Vande Bharat trainsThe JV was established jointly by China-based CRRC Yongji Electric Co. Ltd. and Gurugram-based Pioneer Fil-med Private Limited in 2015.According to officials aware of the development, the tender has been scrapped after the Chinese JV was shortlisted and was likely to bag the contract. The new tender will be aimed to give impetus to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat mission and promote Indian firms.Indian Railways’ Integral Coach Factory, Chennai had floated a tender for manufacturing 44 rakes or train sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains on July 10.The other five bidders included state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Bharat Industries, Sangrur, Electrowaves Electronics (P) Ltd, MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited, Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the railway ministry.ALSO READ | China-India joint venture only foreign bidder for Vande Bharat train setsThis comes at a time when India and China are involved in a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to the death of 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers. India has also banned 59 apps, mostly with Chinese links.The Railways has also scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company, Hindustan Times reported on July 1.In June, Railtel, the railways’ telecom arm, had issued a tender for thermal temperature screening AI-based surveillance cameras for assistance in Covid-19 surveillance. The government company has decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy.Apex traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) had also objected to the bid placed by a Chinese joint venture company for a global tender by the railways for manufacturing Vande Bharat trains. The traders body had written to union railway minister Piyush Goyal earlier urging him to not allow the bid placed by the Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited which is one of the six bidders for the project.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves the manufacturing of 44 train sets comprising 16 coaches each for Vande Bharat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-scrap-tender-for-vande-bharat-trains-month-after-getting-bids-from-chinese-jv/story-d8jlyYoShi2gOfHqI8JtHI.html
21-08-2020||India||AIIMS forensic team to analyze Sushant Singh Rajput case reports, give medico-legal opinion||A forensic team of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here will analyze the injury pattern in relation to medical findings in the death of Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput with the CBI, which is probing the case, approaching the premier research institute for its medico-legal opinion.The move comes days after the Supreme Court approved CBI investigation recommended by the Bihar government to probe the death of the actor. Dr Sudhir Gupta, head of the forensic department at AIIMS, said that CBI will provide them reports related to Sushant Singh Rajput case. Also read | ED asks Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister about missing funds: Officials“CBI is collecting all the reports related to SSR case and they will submit to us very soon. We will analyze the injury pattern on the body, correlate with circumstantial evidence. We will also examine other trace evidence preserved at the time of autopsy to differentiate between hanging and murder allegations,” Dr Gupta told ANI.CBI has made a request to AIIMS Forensic Department headed by Dr Gupta to review this case and give its medico-legal opinion in the SSR case. A medical board of forensic experts has been constituted under the chairmanship of Dr Gupta.“Based on the reports, forensic experts here will investigate the cause of death due to hanging or ligature strangulation as it has a very thin line of difference. All these things we have to look into before reaching any conclusion,” said Dr Gupta said.Another forensic expert at AIIMS said they will also evaluate whether the post-mortem findings are correct or not “or there is a possibility of judgmental error”.Dr Gupta and his team have presented their medico-legal opinion in many high profile cases like Sheena Bora case and Sunanda Pushkar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-forensic-team-to-analyze-sushant-singh-rajput-case-reports-give-medico-legal-opinion/story-w3MmAm3owQCEJkDzx1NiaP.html
21-08-2020||India||With you in fight for justice: Priyanka Gandhi to Sudiksha’s family||A Congress delegation met the family of Sudiksha Bhati, who died earlier this month in a road crash, at their Greater Noida home on Friday and extended Rs 5 lakh aid along with a condolence letter from party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in which she has assured full support in their “fight for justice”. Gandhi in her letter to the bereaved family recalled Sudiksha as a girl who brought glory to the country. “The incident that happened with Sudiksha and her death shook me. She was a sincere and brave girl. I have heard some of her speeches. Sudiksha could feel the difficulties felt by other girls. She was passionate for the cause of girls’ education and for her family. And this is why she brought glory to India at world stage,” Gandhi wrote.“I can feel it is a moment of grief for you and your family. I want to assure you, that we all are with you. Do not feel alone in your fight for justice,” she wrote in the letter addressed to Sudiksha’s parents Jeetendra Bhati and Geeta Devi.Congress secretary Rohit Chaudhary led the delegation which reached Deri Scanar village around 2.30 pm and met the family, party’s district unit office-bearer Deepak Bhati said.“The delegation handed over Rs 5 lakh as a token of support to the family and also the condolence letter by our general secretary and state in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra,” Bhati told PTI.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on August 11 attacked the Yogi Adityanth government in Uttar Pradesh over the alleged lack of security for women in the state and asserted that there should be zero tolerance to crimes against women in the wake of Sudiksha’s death.Sudiksha, who hailed from Deri Scanar village in Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Dadri, had died on August 10 in a road accident in Bulandshahr district. Her family had alleged she was being harassed by two motorcycle-borne men that led to the crash and death.Two men were eventually arrested over the matter, even as the Bulandshahr police had ruled out harassment, citing CCTV footages and eye-witness account, and stressed it was a case of “accident”.An academically bright student, she was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at the Babson College, Massachusetts in the US on a Rs 3.80 crore scholarship and was scheduled to go back on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-you-in-fight-for-justice-priyanka-gandhi-to-sudiksha-s-family/story-CwCNqNvo2RyZFnxd4cxX0J.html
21-08-2020||India||Centre moves to expedite pending work on Zojila Tunnel in J-K, selects firm||The Centre has shortlisted three firms for the construction of the long-pending strategic project of the construction of Zojila Tunnel in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, out of which Hyderabad-based infrastructure from Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) has emerged as the lowest bidder for the tender and is likely to be awarded the contract, according to officials aware of the development.The government’s nodal agency for the strategic project National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd had issued a fresh tender in June and opened the bids on July 24. Three firms L&T Construction, MEIL and railways’ PSU Ircon International Limited (IRCON) had been shortlisted by NHIDCL on Tuesday. Hindustan Times has reviewed a copy of the notification. “MEIL has emerged as the lowest bidder and is likely to be awarded but no official award letter has been issued yet,” a senior official said requesting anonymity. According to the tender, generally, the lowest bidder shall be the selected bidder. HT has reviewed a copy of the tender. The project which will be implemented in two sections involves the construction of a connecting road from Z-Morh Tunnel to Zojila Tunnel and a 14.150 km long bi-directional tunnel across Zojila Pass on the Sonamarg-Kargil section of NH-01 on Engineering, Procurement, Construction mode in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The completion period for the first section is 2.5 years and 6.5 years for the second section. The project has been estimated to cost Rs 4429.83 crore. The long-pending project has gone through many design changes. In its previous tender a ‘parallel escape (egress) tunnel’ was also included earlier but has been done away with to reduce the cost of the project, another official said. The project got further delayed after it was stranded by IL&FS Transportation Network amid its financial crisis which was awarded in 2017.The Zojila Tunnel for connecting Srinagar with Leh will be Asia’s longest 14.2 km long two-lane tunnel road and the strategically important tunnel is aimed to drastically reduce travel time from three and a half hours to just 15 minutes. The 14.2 km long road tunnel under Zoji La pass lies between Sonmarg and Drass town in Kargil district of the Indian Union Territory of Ladakh. The tunnel was a strategic requirement for the armed forces given its proximity to the Line of Control. “MEIL has become an L-1 in the most prestigious Zoji-la pass tunnel in Jammu Kashmir-Ladakh in Himalayan region. National Highways and Industrial Development Corporation (NHIDCL) has opened the bids on Friday, and MEIL topped the list by quoting less than other companies. MEIL topped as L-1 by quoting a lesser amount than the other two companies. On July 30, three companies submitted the bids to NHIDCL, and the finance bids opened on August 21. The project to be constructed in 2 divisions in two sections of about 33 kilometres,” MEIL said in a statement on Friday.“The road from Srinagar to Leh in Ladakh is not suitable for vehicular traffic throughout the year. The Srinagar-Ladakh highway is completely closed for six months, especially during the winter season. Even the military vehicles are unable to move under these conditions. Travelling long distances on alternate routes has become a costly affair and a waste of time. Under these circumstances, the road tunnel was proposed between Sonmarg to Leh and Ladakh via Kargil long back,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-moves-to-expedite-pending-work-on-zojila-tunnel-in-j-k-selects-firm/story-N8Z2QfD8664thXcwL4yZbM.html
21-08-2020||India||MP budgets Rs 1.6 daily for 1.8 lakh cows in state shelters, department sends SOS||There is not enough money in Madhya Pradesh to feed cows. The state government has allocated just Rs 11 crore or Rs 1.6 per day for feeding over 1.80 lakh cows in government run shelters in the state and the Rs 22,000 received as donation from people is not helping much either, resulting in the department seeking immediate release of additional funds to feed the cows, said government officials.In the budget for 2020-21 financial year, the state government slashed the allocation of the animal husbandry department to Rs 11 crore from Rs 132 crore in the previous financial year, a cut of 90%, show budget records.A Madhya Pradesh government official, who asked not to be named, said, “This budget of Rs 11 crore means Rs 1.6 per day only to feed a cow. A steep cut from the Rs 20 per day, per cow, given earlier. Not only this, the first of its kind scheme of inviting people for donation for cow-protection has led to collection of only Rs 22,000 so far and has proved to be a flop show.” After the failure of the scheme and the reduction in budget, the animal husbandry department, which has been given target to construct 7,000 new cow shelters, has been left in a lurch, said the officer. “The department’s one month budget requirement for cow protection, which includes running of shelters, procuring cow feed, maintenance of bio-gas plants and vermi compost and other expenses, amount to Rs 11.5 core, but this year the government allocated the total budget of Rs 11.80 crores. With this budget, even if we stopped all other work except providing cow feed, we have just Rs 600 per year to feed a cow in the shelters, which house 1.80 lakh cows,” said another officer who was also not willing to be named. “In the absence of the budget, we are taking help of NGOs and gram panchayats to run more than 1,300 cow shelters in Madhya Pradesh. The department is facing a budget shortage and we have requested an additional budget of Rs 129 crore from the state government and are hopeful that will get it,” said RK Rokde, director, Animal Husbandry department. Experts feel that the cow protection programme, always a priority for the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government, has now taken a back seat as Congress hijacked the issue during the assembly elections in 2018. Also Read: Ganesh Chaturthi 2020: Artists make eco-friendly cow dung ‘Vedic’ Ganpati idols in Gujarat“The previous Congress-led state government might have failed in fulfilling so many poll promises but they efficiently hijacked the cow issue as far as cow-protection is concerned. The government doubled the number of cow shelters in MP with construction of 677 cow shelters. Now, BJP-led state government is not showing much concern about cows as reflected in announcements of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the budgetary allocation,” said LS Hardeniya, a Bhopal based political analyst. Also Read: Madhya Pradesh police rescue kidnapped 6-year-old boy within 24 hours Former animal husbandry department minister and Congress MLA, Lakhan Singh Yadav, said, “Just because former chief minister Kamal Nath came up with brilliant plan of cow protection by constructing cow shelters, BJP-led state government lost interest and withdrew the allocation. It clearly shows that the BJP leaders and ministers work only to earn name and fame in the name of cows. They are not really concerned about cows.” Animal husbandry minister, Prem Patel, said, “We have requested the finance department to release the additional budget and we are very much concerned about cows and their protection. The previous Congress-led state government set a target of 3000 cow shelters and failed to construct even 1000 shelters but we will construct 7000 shelters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-budgets-rs-1-6-daily-for-1-8-lakh-cows-in-state-shelters-department-sends-sos/story-qyVVHz6Mf4BjhdwwdxbT5O.html
21-08-2020||India||Pray that Lord Ganesha bless us all to overcome Covid-19 pandemic: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind greeted citizens on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi on Friday and prayed that Lord Ganesha bless all to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, celebrated as the birthday of Lord Ganesha, is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of society along on this occasion, he said.Also read: BMC issues advisory ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, urges caution on 13 dilapidated bridges“At present, we are facing the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic. I hope and pray that Lord Ganesha bless us all to overcome this pandemic at the earliest possible and we all live a happy and healthy life,” the President said.On this festival, “let us pledge to strengthen the mutual harmony, fraternity and unity among all citizens of the country”, he said.Kovind extended his best wishes and heartiest congratulations to all fellow citizens living in India and abroad on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pray-that-lord-ganesha-bless-us-all-to-overcome-covid-19-pandemic-president-kovind/story-IZ1hOiSPATMX6zK8c8RfLM.html
21-08-2020||India||ED asks Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister about missing funds: Officials||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday recorded the statement of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka, officials said.According to sources, Singh was asked about the missing funds from Sushant’s bank accounts.Priyanka is a nominee in Rajput’s bank account, said officials.The ED had on Monday recorded the statement of Rajput’s father KK Singh in connection with a case related to the death of the actor, sources said.The agency had on July 31 registered a case after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by Singh against actor Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.On August 19, while holding that the FIR registered in Patna over the death of the actor was legitimate, the Supreme Court had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the case.The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said the Bihar government was competent to recommend transferring the case to the CBI.The apex court also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. The Maharashtra government refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar government’s recommendation.An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-asks-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-about-missing-funds-officials/story-wbIVV6XerSDwI4JxjfedNI.html
21-08-2020||India||In Karnataka, CM Yediyurappa orders probe into suicide of Covid warrior||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday ordered an inquiry into the suicide of Dr SR Nagendra, a taluk health officer of Nanjangud in Mysore district. The probe was ordered after the Karnataka Employees Union claimed that the health officer was facing work pressure and mental harassment from the Zilla Panchayat CEO P K Mishra.The doctor was allegedly under intense work pressure in spite of not taking a day off for the last six months due to Covid-19 related work, according to colleagues and family members. Dr Nagendra had died by suicide at his residence in Alanhalli of Najangud taluk on Thursday night.Physicians, nurses, other ancillary health workers, and Covid warriors had gone on a flash strike demanding justice for Dr Nagendra and action against his superiors. KPCC president DK Shivakumar had also hit out at the state government and alleged that a cover-up was being done in the death of a Covid warrior.The CM in his order said that the probe would be headed by the Mysore regional commissioner and a report would be submitted within seven days. He also announced a sum of Rs 50 lakh to Dr Nagendra’s family as well as a government job to his wife Anitha. The strike by the health workers was withdrawn after the announcement of the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-orders-probe-into-suicide-of-covid-warrior/story-14jha62ekt0rUK0AxIEkyK.html
21-08-2020||India||Bombay HC asks for stricter norms to curb inflammatory posts on social media||Observing that “a trend is clearly discernible that in the name of exercise of a right, the liberty of free speech is being abused with bad faith” the Bombay High Court has said that people need to exercise some degree of restraint on their liberty of free speech and expression, particularly during these testing times. The court also said “it is time that the State introduces a regime of conduct with stricter norms but satisfying the test of reasonableness,” to deal with the rapid rise of absolutely avoidable, uncalled for and unwarranted inflammatory posts/messages on social media. The observations were made by the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar while passing its judgement in the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mumbai resident Moin Khan through advocate Vivek Shukla.The PIL had sought a restraint and action against Abu Faizal, the supporter of a political party, who was uploading communally sensitive material on social media sites, which the petitioner argued could lead to communal disharmony. The PIL had sought the removal of the content as well as a permanent ban on Faizal from accessing social media platforms. During arguments, Shukla had submitted that Faizal was a supporter of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) party and was spreading hatred through posting of malicious material on social media to create hatred among two communities.In May, the court had asked Facebook and Youtube-- on which Faizal had uploaded the communally sensitive material-- to delete the same and directed Mumbai police to investigate the matter. The bench had also observed that under the Information Technology Act, the petitioner could approach the nodal officer and lodge a complaint against the objectionable content and hence would not interfere further in the matter. On its part, Facebok and Youtube through senior advocate Darius Khambatta and advocate Naresh Thakker had informed the court that they could block Abu Faizal if the court or the Central government ordered them to do so under the IT Act. Thereafter, the court had reserved judgement which was pronounced on Friday, August 21. Also Read: ‘We are open, transparent and non-partisan,’ says Facebook. Complete statement hereWhile directing the petitioner to pursue his complaint with the nodal officer, the 22 page judgement further said, “The right cannot be exercised to sow seeds of hatred and to create disharmony among religious communities. Since inflammatory posts/messages have the potential of disturbing public peace and tranquility, strong action ought to be taken against those responsible to uphold the high values aimed at by the Constitution. In a secular country like India, the citizens of different religions should feel assured that they can live in peace with persons practicing other religions.” Also Read: Supreme Court allows prayers in 3 Jain temples in Mumbai for 2 daysWhile pointing to the exercise of right to speech, the court said, “However, those exercising such a right must not remain oblivious that the exercise cannot rise above national interest and interest of the society. In the guise of exercising the right, no form of insult to any group or community, disrupting public order ought to ensue.” The judgement concludes with directions to the state to introduce stricter norms to curb such conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-for-stricter-norms-to-curb-inflammatory-posts-on-social-media/story-W2ykvWIHGQhTpczXgGlUjI.html
21-08-2020||India||Puri questions Kerala govt’s stance on airport privatisation, asks why they bid for it earlier||A day after the Kerala government announced it would explore legal options against the Union Cabinet’s decision to lease the Thiruvananthapuram airport, along with two others, to Adani Enterprises Limited, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday retorted by asking why the state government chose to participate in the bidding process.“If the Kerala govt is against privatization, then why did it participate in the bidding process? State govt was given a fair chance and the Right of First Refusal (RoFR) if their bid was within 10% below the range of the highest bid. However, they bid 19.64% below,” Puri tweeted on Friday.“Then they approached Hon’ble Kerala High Court which dismissed the petition in Dec 2019. Petitioners then filed a SLP in Hon’ble SC. Apex Court remitted the matter back to Hon’ble Kerala High Court. There is no stay in the case either by Hon’ble SC or Hon’ble Kerala High Court,” he added.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved proposal for leasing out three airports - Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram - of the Airports Authority of India through the Public Private Partnership model.On Thursday, the Kerala government, controlled by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), said it would explore legal options against the Union Cabinet’s decision. After an all-party meeting, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state assembly will also pass a resolution opposing the move. The chief minister had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi deploring the move on Wednesday, announced soon after a Union cabinet meeting in New Delhi.Kerala is the pioneer as far as airports under Public Private Partnership are concerned, Puri said.“First PPP airport in India came up in Kochi in Kerala. It is a successfully run airport with a capacity of 13 Million Passengers Per Annum and was handling 9.62 MPPA in 2019-20 before Covid-19. Another very successful example of PPP mode is Kannur, also situated in Kerala. In fact, it was during the UDF regime in Kerala that the foundation for Kochi airport was laid in 1994 & the airport was inaugurated in 1999 during the LDF regime. Now, the Kerala Government, running two very successful airports in PPP mode, is opposing the handing over of Thiruvananthapuram airport under PPP mode. It has come to my knowledge that an all-party meeting in Kerala has opposed the PPP model at Thiruvananthapuram airport,” he said.Puri said that the Union Cabinet gave its nod for awarding the airport to the private party subject to the outcome of the writ petition and in accordance with provisions of undertaking given by the Concessionaire.“If the petitioners succeed and the outcome of litigation leads to annulment/cancellation of the bidding process then the Concessionaire will hand over the possession of airport to AAI. They will be entitled to refund of the amount paid to AAI and additional investments made in the assets,” Puri said.“The Concessionaire will also not demand any damages from AAI. Here it should be borne in mind that these airports will come back to AAI after the lease period of 50 years. Further, sovereign functions like Customs, Security, Immigration, Plant & Animal Quarantine, Health Services, Communication & Navigation Surveillance / Air Traffic Management services will continue to be provided by Government agencies,” he added.The Centre’s move also got support from Congress MP Shashi Tharoor who represents the Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha constituency.“My position on the airport has been consistent since before the elections. I am not a politician who says one thing to the voters and something else afterward for political convenience. Had my colleagues consulted me before taking a negative stand, I would have explained my views to them,” he had tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-questions-kerala-govt-s-stance-on-airport-privatisation-asks-why-they-bid-for-it-earlier/story-dWGOXFJSpAQbSS9oAs0w5H.html
21-08-2020||India||With 1,204 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, Gujarat records highest single-day spike||With 1,204 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, Gujarat on Friday recorded highest single-day spike, taking state’s tally to 84,466, the state health department said.The state reported fourteen deaths due to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 2,869.Since Thursday evening, over 1,320 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state. In last 24 hours, Gujarat conducted 72,000 coronavirus tests, according to a report in PTI.Gujarat’s Ahmedabad reported 179 new virus cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Of these fresh cases, Ahmedabad city reported 156. Other parts of the district reported 23 new coronavirus cases.The Covid-19 infection count in Ahmedabad currently stands at 29,841, the health department said. At least 1,677 people have died in Ahmedabad due to virus related complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-204-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-gujarat-records-highest-single-day-spike/story-G2c1qwW0YFrgTU7LPXB4OJ.html
21-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New satellite imagery suggests China is building military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New satellite imagery suggests China is building military infrastructure opposite LipulekhNew open source satellite imagery suggests China has stepped up work on military infrastructure, including a surface-to-air missile site, in the area opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand amid the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read moreAs India records highest recoveries, research talks about when it will hit Covid-19 peakIndia touched another peak of the highest recoveries of Covid-19 cases in a single day on Friday as 62,282 patients recovered and were discharged in the past 24 hours, according to Union health ministry. Read moreAmid political row in India, Facebook says it is open, transparent and non-partisanSocial media giant Facebook, which is in the midst of a political row in India, has said that it is an open, transparent and non-partisan organisation. Read moreIPL 2020: Lasith Malinga likely to miss first few games for Mumbai IndiansLasith Malinga is reportedly set to miss the first few games of the IPL 2020 for Mumbai Indians and will not be travelling with the team that takes off for the UAE. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer on Kangana Ranaut: ‘She is on her own trip, trying to settle her own scores’Vikas Singh, the lawyer representing Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh in his ongoing case against Rhea Chakraborty and members of her family, has addressed Kangana Ranaut’s opinions on the matter. Read moreLenovo India CEO on how Legion gaming laptops appeal to non-gaming usersGaming laptops are just for gaming enthusiasts. Yes and no, both. Most of these devices come with cutting-edge technologies and top-of-the-line specifications. Read moreCatwalk: Pet clothing designer inspired by ancient Chinese fashion makes Hanfu for catsLiu Liu is every fashion designer’s dream model and muse, and she’s happy to spend hours getting herself measured and dressed in various outfits, and then posing for photoshoots thereafter. Read moreKia Sonet off to a flying start, gets 6,523 bookings on opening dayKia Sonet has managed to get as many as 6,523 bookings on the first day that pre-launch bookings were opened on Thursday. Read moreCovid: Kejriwal hands over Rs 1 cr to family of MCD worker who died from virusDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore to the family of sanitation worker who died due after contracted coronavirus. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-satellite-imagery-suggests-china-is-building-military-infrastructure-opposite-lipulekh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iiJytoVd3KHT8VXEHlhEyL.html
21-08-2020||India||Video of TMC leaders eating tricolour cake goes viral, invites criticism||A row has broken out in West Bengal’s Malda district over a video showing some local leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress cutting and eating a cake that resembles the tricolour to celebrate India’s 74th Independence Day. The widely circulated video has been criticised by the Congress and the BJP said it amounted to insulting the national flag.The two-and-a-half minute video was shot at a public programme in the district’s Ratua area on Independence Day. It found its way to social media on Friday, and triggered a sharp reaction.In the video, senior TMC leader Shehnaz Qadri, a cousin of Rajya Sabha MP and the party’s Malda unit president Mausam Noor, senior leader of Ratua, Sheikh Yasin, and head of the party’s Jai Hind Bahini unit in Malda, Krishna Das, could be seen enjoying the cake with local leaders. Malda Congress chief Mostak Alam said the video reflected that the Trinamool Congress leaders didn’t respect the national flag. “The Indian flag is our pride. Our soldiers are dying at the border to keep the flag flying high while in Malda some senior leaders of the ruling party have forgotten their sacrifice,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lok Sabha MP from Malda (North), Khagen Murmu, also condemned the incident. “No Indian is supposed to disrespect the national flag in this manner,” he said, stressing that people did not expect any better from Trinamool.TMC’s district vice-president Dulal Sarkar distanced the party from the controversy. “I haven’t seen the video but our party does not support this kind of an act. Nowadays many doctored videos are also doing the rounds. I don’t know whether this video is a genuine one,” he said. .Also Read: Bengal governor alleges ‘multi-crore scam’ TMC’s Shehnaz Qadri, who is facing a barrage over the video, called it a conspiracy to malign him.“I had gone to Ratua to attend an Independence Day programme involving children. I was about to board my car and leave the venue when some people told me that they had brought a cake and urged me to cut it. I merely kept their request… We are all proud Indians and owe our allegiance to the nation,” Qadri told HT on Friday evening. Yasin, another Trinamool leader spotted in the video, said the cake was brought by Krishna Das and other members of the Jai Hind Bahini, an outfit launched by Mamata Banerjee last year to boost the party’s outreach.“Everybody was in a celebratory mood as the names of the Bahini’s unit leaders were also announced on that day. Nobody paid attention to the colour of the cake,” Yasin said. Das and Mausam Noor could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-tmc-leaders-eating-tri-colour-cake-goes-viral-invites-criticism/story-mMzD8avxWma2PCmhNZSJQJ.html
21-08-2020||India||‘We are open, transparent and non-partisan,’ says Facebook. Complete statement here||Social networking site Facebook on Friday said that it is “open, transparent and non-partisan”. The social media giant is currently in the midst of political row in India after a Wall Street Journal report claimed that Facebook ignored its hate speech rules when it came to posts by politicians of BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party).The WSJ report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects in India.Below is the complete statement released by Ajit Mohan, Vice President and Managing Director, Facebook India.Facebook is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely.Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form. We take this opportunity to offer clarity on policy development and enforcement at Facebook.Our Community Standards define what stays on our platform and are enforced globallyFirst and foremost, we want to make it clear that we denounce hate in any form. Our Community Standards, which outline what is and isn’t allowed on Facebook, have clear and very detailed policies against hate speech, which prohibit attacks on people on the basis of protected characteristics, including religion, ethnicity, caste and national origin.We do not develop these policies alone. We follow an open and transparent process around policy development and rely on the expertise of both internal teams and external voices -- our community, experts and organizations outside of Facebook such as academics, safety and human rights NGOs, and activists -- to make sure we understand different perspectives on safety and expression, as well as the impact of our policies on different communities.These policies are ever evolving to take into account the local sensitivities especially in a multicultural society such as India. An example is the inclusion of caste as a protected characteristic in our global hate speech policy in 2018.We uphold the principles of democracy. This also reflects in our organizational set up - like a truly diverse organization, our employees represent a varied political spectrum who have either served in many administrations or have political experience and take immense pride in being active contributors to public service. Despite hailing from diverse political affiliations and backgrounds, they perform their respective duties and interpret our policies in a fair and non-partisan way. The decisions around content escalations are not made unilaterally by just one person ; rather, they are inclusive of views from different teams and disciplines within the company. The process comes with robust checks and balances built in to ensure that the policies are implemented as they are intended to be and take into consideration applicable local laws.Removing hateful content from public figuresMany questions have been raised specifically about enforcement of our policies around hate speech. There is no place for hate speech on our platform. We have an impartial approach to dealing with content and are strongly governed by our Community Standards. We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief.We have removed and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India when it violates our Community Standards.Decisions about designating people or groups as “dangerous individuals or organizations” are different - these are based on a combination of signals and are made by our dangerous organizations team who have deep expertise in terrorism and organized hate and pay attention to global and regional trends.Individuals who are designated as “dangerous” under our policies are removed from our services altogether, and all praise, support and representation of them is taken down, as well. Because the penalty associated with designation is so severe, it’s important that our analysis is comprehensive and detailed, and that our process applies consistently and fairly around the world.In addition to the external input that informs our designation process, we also solicit input from cross-functional teams internal to the company when we’re making decisions about individual designations. These decisions cannot and are not made unilaterally by just one person; rather, they are inclusive of different views from around the company, a process that is critical to making sure we consider, understand and account for both local and global contexts. And the process is dynamic and ongoing based on newly available information or activity.We’ve made progress on tackling hate speech on our platform, but we need to do moreWe have made significant progress in removing hate speech and other harmful content over the past few years. Last week, we shared our latest enforcement numbers, reporting that we removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020 (up from just 1.6 million pieces of hate speech removed in the last quarter of 2017).Still, we know this work is never over, which is why we will continue to invest in our efforts to combat hate speech on our services. We welcome the opportunity to engage with all parties - political or otherwise - who want to understand our content policies and enforcement more.Facebook’s commitment to India and its people is unwavering. With some of our largest thriving communities in this country, we recognize our responsibility to keep our platforms to be places where people feel empowered to communicate safely. Our aim is to be an ally for India where our platforms preserve the pluralistic character of a democracy by offering the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things while also protecting society from broader harm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-open-transparent-and-non-partisan-says-facebook-read-complete-statement/story-G8laLgsyx3M2LFrTkqlNmK.html
21-08-2020||India||New satellite imagery suggests China is building military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh||New open source satellite imagery suggests China has stepped up work on military infrastructure, including a surface-to-air missile site, in the area opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand amid the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The mobilisation of a battalion by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, show what appears to be two sites at which the PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both sites are not very far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. According to a tweet from @detresfa, a surface-to-air missile facility is being constructed at one of the two sites on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. A graphic included in the tweet said: “While India & China border tensions in Ladakh have been ongoing for over 3 months, new inputs suggest the India-China-Nepal tri-junction border area near Lipulekh Pass is feverish with Chinese military activity.” The two sites are located within a radius of 100 km of the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that has been depicted as Nepalese territory in a new political map issued by the government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. The India-Nepal border row erupted after New Delhi opened a new road to Lipulekh region to facilitate pilgrims travelling to Kailash-Mansarovar. Nepal responded by lodging a protest and then issuing the new political map that included Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, which are all controlled by India. India has disputed Nepal’s claims and the border row affected bilateral ties. However, Oli spoke on phone with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 and said Nepal looks forward to meaningful bilateral cooperation with India. India and Nepal also held a meeting of a high level mechanism that oversees bilateral projects on August 17, though there is no sign as yet of the two sides holding talks on the border issue. In a separate tweet, @detresfa posted open source satellite imagery that appeared to show Chinese troop deployments in Gar county of Tibet, south of Pangong Lake, one of the key friction points in the current standoff. The tweet said these Chinese deployments were “suspected to either resupply or respond to potential issues arising from the dispute”. A graphic attached to the tweet said the PLA’s deployments “across its western military theatre continue to remain on alert” and on the field. At Gar county, located 180 km south of Pangong Lake, there has been “auxiliary construction & development in progress meant to aid pre-existing military infrastructure, along with a large volume of tents sprawled across the city”. “Assisted by logistical and mechanical support the area is a suspected military basing prepared to respond to potential issues arising from the border dispute,” it added. Among the infrastructure reportedly being created in Gar county is a helipad, other military sites and barracks. HT had earlier reported that PLA had moved a battalion – about 1,000 soldiers – at some distance from the border in the area opposite Lipulekh. India had matched the strength of PLA troops and was also keeping a close watch on Nepal in the context of its border claims. India had on Thursday emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after it was unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-satellite-imagery-suggests-china-is-building-military-infrastructure-opposite-lipulekh/story-ViqW8lbKJLOyCwokKEei1N.html
21-08-2020||India||‘Facebook denounces hate and bigotry’, says its India chief amid content row||Social media giant Facebook, which is in the midst of a political row in India, has said that it is an open, transparent and non-partisan organisation.“Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form. We take this opportunity to offer clarity on policy development and enforcement at Facebook,” Ajit Mohan, Vice President and Managing Director, Facebook India, said in a statement on Friday.Facebook also publicly defended its employees, amidst protest from its global staff about bias in India.“This also reflects in our organizational set up - like a truly diverse organization, our employees represent a varied political spectrum who have either served in many administrations or have political experience and take immense pride in being active contributors to public service. Despite hailing from diverse political affiliations and backgrounds, they perform their respective duties and interpret our policies in a fair and non-partisan way,” the statement further said.“The decisions around content escalations are not made unilaterally by just one person; rather, they are inclusive of views from different teams and disciplines within the company,” Mohan said in the statement.Read the full statement hereThe controversy around Facebook India erupted after a Wall Street Journal report showed that the company’s top lobbyist in India recommended against taking down hate speech posts of a BJP leader on the ground that this could spoil the media company’s relationship with the government.A parliamentary standing committee on information and technology has summoned representatives of the social media company to appear before it on September 2 to present their views on the issue of safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social and online news media.The committee is headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor.The Congress party has said that it will raise the issue of Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Parliament’s monsoon session which is expected to begin from September 10.The Congress wrote to Facebook’s founder Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday saying the social media company may be “a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values India’s founding leaders had sacrificed their lives for”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-political-row-in-india-facebook-says-it-is-open-transparent-and-non-partisan/story-ULDp48K6UlF3ndsPQyLnaP.html
21-08-2020||India||Manav all set to debut as a novelist||Actor-writer-director Manav Kaul started the year 2020 with a break from shooting to launch his new play ‘Giving up on Godot.’ The play was scheduled to be staged in mid-March when the lockdown happened and he got stuck in enforced extended break. Making best use of the lockdown Manav released his short story collection and also completed his debut novel that he was longing to write. “The plan was prefect — to launch my play, to shoot multiple projects and release my book but here I am sitting home stuck in ongoing crisis. I was home before the lockdown but that was by choice whatever followed was due to the pandemic. All our prefect plans went haywire! Now I am looking forward to start shooting from next month,” said the ‘Tumhari Sullu’ and ‘Wazir’ actor. Manav is pleased that he has finally completed his novel ‘Antima’. “I had a wish to write a novel someday, so I utilised these four months and wrote my first novel. I have completed and sent it to the publishers and hope that soon it will be out on shelves. ‘Keh saktey hain kismet se yeh…waqt mila shayad isi ke liye,’ I am happy,” he said over the phone. He also released his fifth book ‘Chalta Phirta Pret’, a collection of short stories, during lockdown. “The book was ready but then the lockdown happened. Initially, we thought of waiting but then thought that it may sell less but as a writer it’s my responsibility to give readers some fresh content as there are many who went back to reading during this period. Despite problem in distribution it did reach places.” The shoot for Shubhash Kapoor’s film ‘Madam Chief Minister’ that he shot with Richa Chadha in Lucknow is also complete. “Its post-production is on and it will release soon either on OTT or in theatre, let’s see. I have also shot for Saina’s (Nehwal) biopic where I play her coach (P Gopichand) on screen. The film is in it’s post production as it has a lot of computer graphics in it.” Manav also has two OTT series lined up for release ‘The Others’ and ‘Government’. “We can say production has stopped but supply is still on,” he said. When asked does he want to go back to directing films, Manav said, “I am missing acting. My new found love, which I discovered in 2013, is all I want to do now. That is why I am reading new scripts, watching new shows and working more on my performances so that I can add something new to my craft. I have said yes to two new projects and hope by next month we will start shooting.” He feels fortunate to have sustained on financial front. “I had worked lot in last few years so I was able to survive with my team. But the fact is that be it actors or technicians, everyone is financially stressed at the moment. I know so many of them from the industry who have left for their native place. Had it been ten years back I too would have left.” The actor is all praise for Mumbai and industry folks. “All these debates on nepotism and groupism are for different pursuits. The truth is industry people are always there helping each other in tough times. I know people who are themselves struggling but still running community kitchen. We all are doing best in our capacity. I made an appeal on my FB for someone and within a day he got Rs 50,000. People are really doing amazing work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/manav-all-set-to-debut-as-a-novelist/story-DRsvbJHFom9SD3CCHKd3wJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Amid CAA debate, RTI reveals Pakistanis got bulk of Indian citizenship since 2017||In the past over three years from January 1, 2017 to August 3, a total of 2,664 foreigners including 2,063 Pakistanis have been granted Indian citizenship. The remaining 601 people to get Indian citizenship were from 42 other countries, revealed a Central government response to an RTI application. The response was filed by the Citizenship wing (Foreigners Division) of ministry of home affairs, government of India to a RTI query by Jammu-based activist Raman Sharma. The data is relevant in the context of the fierce debate around the Citizenship Amendment Act that provisions for the grant of Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The opponents of the act have argued that the law is discriminatory as it makes religion the basis of citizenship. The act has been challenged in the Supreme Court of India. The Central government has defended the legislation citing instances of persecution of minorities of Indian origin in these countries.“Among 2,664 foreigners, who applied for Indian citizenship, over 77 percent were Pakistanis followed by (citizens of) Afghanistan. A total of 188 Afghan nationals were granted Indian citizenship during the same period. Bangladeshis ranked third in the list. A total of 97 Bangla(desh) nationals were given Indian citizenship,” said Sharma.During the current year, 328 Pakistanis, one Afghan national and three Bangladeshis got Indian citizenship. “MHA data further revealed that people from across the world including some citizens of the well resourced and developed countries like the US (59) England (19), Malaysia (19), Canada (14), Singapore (13), Germany (6), Australia (4), France (3), Italy (3), China (2), and one each from Israel and Russia had also applied and were granted Indian nationality between January 1, 2017 to August 3,” said Sharma. Also Read: Stranded in Pakistan, Hindus on long-term visas desperate to return to India The list of foreign nationals who were given Indian nationality from 2017 onwards also included 57 Sri Lankans, 32 Nepalese, eight Iranians, two Zambians, three Portuguese, two South Africans and once each from Moldova, Jamaica, Eritrea, Chile, Poland, Kazakhstan and Czech Republic. Also Read: MP cops’ new initiative to find parents of hearing impaired woman repatriated from PakistanIt is pertinent to mention here that between 2011 to 2016, a total of 5,477 foreigners acquired Indian Citizenship that included 2,157 Pakistanis, 918 Afghanis, 218 Bangladeshis, 108 Sri Lankans, 66 Iranians, 145 British, 61 Americans and 15 Chinese. From 2011 to 2020, 8,141 foreigners so far have been granted Indian Citizenship by the government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-debates-caa-rti-reveals-pakistanis-got-bulk-of-indian-citizenship-since-2017/story-GaSt5u2kUiN4d3kEHIL37K.html
21-08-2020||India||As India records highest recoveries, research talks about when it will hit Covid-19 peak||India touched another peak of the highest recoveries of Covid-19 cases in a single day on Friday as 62,282 patients recovered and were discharged in the past 24 hours, according to Union health ministry.With more patients recovering and being discharged from the hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have crossed the 21.5 lakh-mark till Friday (21,58,946).Also Read: With 68,898 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 2.9 millionThe ministry said that the country’s recovery rate has now soared past 74 per cent (74.28 per cent as on August 21). This is bolstered by 33 states and Union Territories reporting recovery rate more than 50 per cent, it said.The ministry further added that India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is maintained below the global average. It is on a continuous positive slide and currently stands at 1.89 per cent.So what about India hitting the peak of the Covid-19 infection? Has it already happened? Or are we close to it? The State Bank of India (SBI) analysed these aspects in its Ecowrap where it presented the latest Covid-19 situation in the country.The SBI report, released on August 17, said that India has reported 10 lakh cases (or 58,000 daily cases on an average) from July 30 to August 15. “Still it’s a major question as to when will India reach its peak? Based on the select countries peak data and recovery rate we believe that India can technically reach its peak when its recovery rate will cross 75% mark, the average benchmark across countries,” the SBI Ecowrap said.Also Read: What you need to know today on Covid-19The report further said that there is no link between recovery rate and peak rate “as Brazil reached its peak rate at a recovery rate of 69 per cent”.It also described the situation in different states. “In India the situation of every state is quite unique. In some states it is expected that the peak has already been passed (like Delhi, Tamil Nadu, etc.) while in other states (like Maharashtra, WB, etc.) it is yet to arrive.”The SBI report further said that at least 22 of the 27 states are yet to witness a peak. “The states that seems to have crossed the peak are: Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, J&K and Tripura.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-records-highest-recoveries-research-talks-about-when-it-will-hit-covid-19-peak/story-XRNO1HXeGAPCKBB3214UQM.html
21-08-2020||India||I enjoy doing roles that challenge me as a performer: Kanchan Awasthi||Lucknow girl Kanchan Awasthi is back in action. The actor was recently in state capital for a work trip. During her stay she shot for an untitled web-series in UP. She had earlier shot for a film in Lucknow with co-stars Pawan Malhotra, Priya Prakash Warrier and Brijendra Kala.“For now we shot for the web series in Prayagraj where as the schedule next month will be set in Lucknow. The story of the web show revolves around a middle-class family based in a small town. We will also shoot a portion in Mumbai, afterwards. Sanjay (Mishra) sir will join the shoot later on,” said the actor who has been part of films like ‘Meeruthia Gangster’, ‘Gunwali Dhulhania’ along with a TV show ‘Amma’. Earlier too Kanchan had shared screen with veteran actor Sanjay Mishra for the web series ‘Runaway Lugai’ directed by Avinash Das, the maker of OTT series ‘She.’ “We shot for the series in Patna before the lockdown. I play a bold, glamorous yet an emotional character. The role has shaped up really well,” she shared. The young actor states that she is comfortable being part of bold subjects. “As an actor it’s my job to do justice to characters I’m offered and give my best as a performer. I enjoy doing roles that challenge me both mentally as well as emotionally. I have a theatre background and so it’s important for me to give my best shot to all my roles.” In the film ‘Love Hackers’ that was extensively shot in Lucknow, Kanchan plays the second lead, “The best part of the film is that it gave me a chance to shoot in my hometown. Then working with the best lot of actors was an add-on for me. The film’s shoot and post-production is all complete. Seeing the current scenario I feel it may get an OTT release,” she said. Kanchan is glad that this time she was home for a long stretch of 25 days. Talking more about her stay, she said, “It was great to be home on a work trip. I got time to spend with my family and celebrate Rakshabandhan after a long time. Besides, I picked up my old hobby of painting during my home stay. I created four works of art and got a good appreciation on social media. It was after many years I tried my hand at painting.” During the lockdown she was stuck in Mumbai. “I went back to singing after ages. I have completed first part of ‘Visharad’ from Bhathkande Music Institute Deemed University but due to work and shooting schedules I lost touch with music. So, I utilised the time in ‘riyaaz’ (practice). Music gave me a lot of strength to survive the ongoing phase. I’m happy that the phase is more or less over now and despite so much uncertainty around we are getting back to work — slowly and steadily,” Kanchan concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-enjoy-doing-roles-that-challenge-me-as-a-performer-kanchan-awasthi/story-CgMsLGGS6SD1mJeZo64g1K.html
21-08-2020||India||Modelling days discipline helps me till today: Parinitaa Seth||Actor/model Parinitaa Seth is glad to have started her career as a model. “What you learn as a model – the discipline in daily life – is something that sticks with you throughout life. Today, whatever I am, is all because of my modelling days. Be it our fixed fitness regime, healthy diet and disciplined lifestyle, all of this is an inseparable part of my lifestyle since I started modelling and simultaneously took up TV shows way back in 2001.” Talking about her early days, she said, “I’ve been in Mumbai for 30 years now. I came to study fashion in the city and then got married. I joined my family production house that was being run by my maternal family. I used to design clothes for their shows. It was then one of my friends suggested that me to try my hand at ad films. And till date, I have done over 300-odd commercials along with TV, travel shows and now web series.“Once in front of the camera, I decided to train myself as an actor and did acting workshops with coaches like Divya Palat and Saurabh Sachdeva to polish my craft. But consciously I stayed away from mainstream projects as they demanded too much time and my priority was home, family and of course my commercial assignments.” Pariniita has appeared in shows like‘Dil Kya Chahta Hai,’ ‘Kasauti Zindagii Kay,’ ‘CID’, ‘Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah’, ‘Mayavi Malang’, along with web shows like ‘Mind The Malhotras’, ‘Pooja & Pawan’. She will be seen as a negative character for the first time in the upcoming web-series ‘Aashram’. “I am a model and I was apprehensive whether I would be able to do the role just as it was expected. So, I asked Prakash (Jha) sir if he was sure that he wanted me to play this character and he was so sure. I called Saurabh (Sachdeva) to guide me about how to add the right nuances to this grey role I was going to play. This is the first time I have used very raw language (on camera),” she said.The show was extensively shot in Ayodhya, UP. “Yes, we shot from October 2020 to January this year and I loved the winter there. The city looks beautiful in winter and has its own charm. The food, especially phirni and jalebi is something I still have a craving for. The series has shaped up very well and is based on gurus and the ashrams they run. It’s definitely not based on any real guru. The story is quite interesting and I am sure the audience will love this thriller.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/modelling-days-discipline-helps-me-till-today-parinitaa-seth/story-lqM2OwLGjQhIwp61OZipPJ.html
21-08-2020||India||120kg cannabis worth Rs 10 lakh recovered in Odisha, 2 arrested||Odisha police on Friday arrested two men after 120 kgs of ganja (cannabis) was recovered from their possession in Kalahandi district’s Dharmagarh area. The cannabis recovered is worth Rs 10 lakh. “Two persons have been arrested while two others managed to flee the spot. The arrested accused have been identified as Thirtharaj Sagar of Dharamgarh and Chandrasen Meher of Baldhiamal village of Junagarh,” Chandra Sekhar Sabar, inspector in charge, Dharamgarh Police station told ANI. Two people have been apprehended and 1,046 kgs of ganja seized from their possession under Jeypore Police Station limits in Koraput district of Odisha. A case has been registered: Special Task Force pic.twitter.com/poJUkpZmWjThe accused were arrested while smuggling the cannabis from Kalahandi to West Bengal through a vehicle. A team of Special task Force (STF) intercepted the vehicle at Dharmagarh and conducted a raid after which both the accused were arrested. The STF team also recovered seven mobile phones from their possession. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120-kg-cannabis-worth-rs-10-lakh-recovered-in-odisha-2-arrested/story-8tKlaCc31IERQLv0u3zBmK.html
21-08-2020||India||J&K: Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Poonch district||Pakistan violated ceasefire along the line of control (LOC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Friday evening. The ceasefire violation by Pakistan took place at about 06:30pm by firing small arms and shelling with mortars. “At about 1830 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector,” news agency PTI quoted defence spokesperson as saying.Indian Army is also retaliating to the firing in equal measure, the spoksperson also said.On August 7, Pakistan had violated the ceasefire in Poonch district. A 65 year old man was killed in the incident.While on August 1, an army soldier was killed in firing by Pakistan in Rajouri sector.On July 11, two women were killed as Pakistan shelled forward posts and villages along the LoC in different sectors in Poonch district and on July 10, an Army man was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Rajouri district. As relations between India and Pakistan continued to be tense, India had conveyed its concerns over “unprovoked ceasefire violations” along the LoC to support the infiltration of terrorists to Pakistan in June.There have been more than 2,050 unprovoked ceasefire violations this year in which 21 Indians have been killed, external affairs ministry spokesperson Raveesh Kumar had said in June.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch-district/story-S4cCcauxa68I2odKwCpOqL.html
21-08-2020||India||Mobile phones are being tapped, alleges Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President DK Shivakumar in a complaint to the Bengaluru city Police Commissioner has claimed that two of his phones are being tapped. In a letter addressed to the city top cop Kamal Pant, Shivakumar said that there was serious variation while calls were coming in or going out.He has furnished two cell phone numbers in which he says his calls are being tapped given the various background sounds he is hearing. Shivakumar has asked the police to conduct a thorough investigation into the matter and take action against those responsible.A senior BJP leader who did not want to be named ‘as the police will respond to Shivakumar’s complaint and it is not a party related matter’ turned down the claim of the state Congress leader. “If the calls aren’t going or coming properly, maybe it is better for him to complain to his telecom company about network quality issues,” he said sarcastically.Reacting to Shivakumar’s claims of phone tapping revenue minister R Ashoka hit out at the KPCC chief. “Those who have expertise in phone tapping are now claiming that there phones are being tapped. It is like the devil quoting the scriptures. It is not our government’s culture to indulge in such antics. Our government is stable and safe. It is their (Congress) party which has internal problems,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-phones-are-being-tapped-alleges-karnataka-congress-chief-dk-shivakumar/story-xClFzhmXa5r9W0QQgavSUM.html
21-08-2020||India||Supreme Court allows prayers in 3 Jain temples in Mumbai for 2 days||New Delhi: The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday allowed the entry of limited number of devotees to three Jain temples at Dadar, Byculla and Chembur in Mumbai over the weekend (August 22 and 23) to offer prayers on the pious occasion of the Jain festival of Paryushana. A three-member bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde said that the entry would be subject to the undertaking given by the petitioner trust, which said that it would allow only five devotees at a time inside the shrines and a maximum of 250 would be permitted on a day during the festival because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. “We are of the view that if the undertaking given by the petitioner is faithfully complied with, it would not be hazardous to permit prayers at the three temples in Dadar, Byculla and Chembur,” said the bench, which also comprised Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The court was also critical of Maharashtra government in allowing other economic activities to continue but imposing restrictions on activities connected with religion. “We find it strange that you are allowing every activity involving economic interests and money. But if it involves religion, you say you cannot do it because of Covid-19,” CJI Bobde remarked. The court made it clear that its order allowing entry into the three temples would be limited to this particular case and would not apply to any other temples or festivals involving large congregation, including the annual 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, which start on Saturday (August 22). “Our order will not act as a precedent and will not apply to any other plea for worshipping in congregation by any other community or religion, particularly the congregation that happens during Ganesh Chaturthi in Mumbai and other places in Maharashtra,” the apex court said. Requests with respect to other such temples or festivals would have to be dealt with by the Maharashtra government, the court added. The order was passed on a plea by Shri Parshwatilak Shwetamber Murtipujak Tapagacch Jain Trust, which is dedicated to the Jain community and had approached the apex court against a Bombay high court (HC) order of August 13 that had declined to grant interim relief. The plea before the HC had sought permission to visit Jain temples to perform puja during Paryushana, which is being held between August 15 and 23. The HC while refusing to pass any interim order had listed the case for further hearing in September. Paryushana, which literally translates to “abiding and coming together” is a major festival for the Jain community, where the members of the faith take vows, observe fast and come together to pray. Maharashtra government had opposed the plea in the SC, stating that the state is the worst affected as far as Covid-19 outbreak is concerned. The government reasoned with the apex court that it would be difficult for the authorities concerned to ensure compliance with Covid-19 precautions, if places of worship are opened to the public. “Maharashtra is the state most affected by Covid-19 in India. I am opposing the plea vigorously due to the unimaginable situation in the state and keeping in mind the interests of the state,” said senior counsel AM Singhvi, who appeared on behalf of Maharashtra government. CJI Bobde, however, pointed out that if the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Central government and the undertaking given by the petitioner could be enforced, then the plea could be granted. The Central government through solicitor-general (S-G) Tushar Mehta supported the plea on condition that all precautions and SOPs are adhered to. “This is the same choice we had faced with the Jagannath Ratha Yatra in Puri. We had held that if the congregation can be avoided, then mere pulling of the rath (chariot) will not worsen the situation. And nothing worse happened after that. Lord Jagannath forgave us. We will be forgiven in this case, too,” CJI Bobde said. Earlier on June 22, the SC had allowed the annual Hindu festival of Rath Yatra at Jagannath temple in Odisha’s Puri district to be held without public participation and subject to stringent restrictions owing to the pandemic. Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who was representing the Jain trust, submitted on Friday that he was seeking permission to allow only five devotees inside a temple at a time subject and a maximum of 250 per day. He also pointed out that the state government was allowing other economic activities such opening of shopping malls, liquor outlets, etc, while pleading for the Jain devotees to visit their shrines. Singhvi argued that a leeway given to one religious group could lead to similar petitions from other faiths as well. “We are satisfied that if only five people are allowed, it will not cause any problem,” CJI Bobde said. The SC had also heard another similar case from Jharkhand to open Baba Baidhyanath Jyotirlinga Temple at Deoghar and Baba Basukinath Temple at Basukinath to the public and to allow the Shravani Mela devotees to offer prayers during Hindu holy months of Shravan and Bhado. The Jharkhand government had opposed the plea, the citing the Covid-19 threat and the fact that it would be streaming the temple rituals online. The apex court, eventually, did not pass any direction. Instead it had requested the Jharkhand government to explore the possibility of allowing at least a few devotees to visit the temple every day on the auspicious occasion. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-prayers-in-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai-for-2-days/story-QTMdDxAtfBZzlJ8yyBLdhP.html
21-08-2020||India||UP court grants bail to two Tablighi Jamaat members who hid in a mosque after Delhi meet||Two Tablighi Jamaat members, accused of hiding in a mosque in Uttar Pradesh’s Pryagraj from authorities and also of spreading the Covid-19 infection, have been granted bail by a local court on Friday.Additional district judge Veerbhadra Singh allowed the bail applications of Ashraf from Kerala and Shahzan Ali from West Bengal after hearing their counsel. A crackdown on Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended a mass religious gathering in Delhi earlier this year despite restrictions in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus, was carried out across the state and elsewhere in the country in March and April. Many of the attendees, who fanned out to different states, were found to be infected with the virus.Earlier, on June 2, the local court here granted bail to Prof Mohammed Shahid, a suspended faculty member of the Allahabad University, and eight other Tablighi Jamaat members who are accused in the case.Also Read: In Uttar Pradesh, doctors grapple with triple challenge in war against Covid-19Prof Shahid was arrested on April 21 on the charge of arranging a shelter for foreign and Indian Tablighi Jamaat members in the city and for not informing the police about their presence.Shahid was a professor in the department of political science of Allahabad University. He had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi along with many of the foreign members of the religious sect and had allegedly not disclosed this information to the police. A first information report (FIR) was registered against Shahid and several others on April 1 under the Epidemic Diseases Act at Shivkuti police station of Prayagraj and he was arrested on April 21. Later, the university administration suspended him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-court-grants-bail-to-two-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-hid-in-a-mosque-after-delhi-meet/story-W2AR4hC6NGAoEC4tzn2J5N.html
21-08-2020||India||Smoke choked escape tunnel, says Telangana power plant on fire that killed 9||Nine people including seven employees of Telangana state power generation corporation (TSGenco) were killed and eight others injured-- three of them seriously-- in a major fire mishap at the Srisailam Left Bank Hydel Power Station (SLBHP) late on Thursday night, officials said. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the family of deputy engineer Venkatesh Goud and Rs 25 lakh each to the families of the eight other deceased. He also assured that one member of every bereaved family will be given a job, apart from other departmental benefits.The SLBHP is on the Telangana side of the Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river-- a joint irrigation project between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The power house was constructed inside a two-km long tunnel under the Nallamala hill range adjacent to the reservoir. Though the authorities initially said there were 30 employees inside the power plant when the accident occurred at 10.30 pm, an official statement from TSGenco said there were only 17 employees inside. “Eight of them managed to come out of the station with injuries, nine others remained trapped inside as they were trying their best to put out the fire and save the power plant from being burnt completely,” the statement said. The deceased employees of TSGenco were identified as deputy engineer Srinivas Goud, assistant engineers Venkat Rao, Mohan Kumar and Uzma Fathima, plant attendant Rambabu, junior attendant Kiran and Sundar Kumar. Two other employees of Amaron Batteries, Hyderabad – Vinesh Kumar and Mahesh Kumar-- were also trapped inside the power plant and were among those found dead. “All of them tried to come out of the escape tunnel, but they did not succeed due to the thick plumes of smoke that engulfed the entire tunnel,” the statement said. Also Read: President Kovind, PM Modi condole loss of lives in fire at Telangana hydroelectric plantTelangana power minister G Jagadeeshwar Reddy, agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy, TSGenco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao rushed to the spot along with other senior officials. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered a comprehensive probe by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the fire accident at SLBP. He appointed CID additional director general Govind Singh as inquiry officer to probe into the cause of the accident and submit a report to the government. The chief minister expressed deep shock over the loss of nine lives in the mishap and said despite best efforts, those trapped inside could not be rescued. Describing the accident as the most tragic, he conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved families. He wished speedy recovery to those critically injured in the accident. Jagadeeshwar Reddy, who supervised the rescue operations, said the fire possibly erupted due to a short circuit in one of the electric panels of the power house and it spread to other parts. “Thick smoke engulfed the tunnel, making it difficult for the rescue teams to reach the place,” the minister said. Fire extinguishers could not control the fire and ambulances could not reach the area. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) were pressed into service. Rescue teams from Singareni Collieries also joined the rescue operations. According to TSGenco authorities, the power plant is located inside the tunnel at about 1.2 km from the entrance and the only way to reach the plant was through the tunnel. “But because of flames and heavy smoke, it was not possible to enter the tunnel. The rescue teams could enter the power house only by Friday afternoon. But by that time, all the nine employees were unfortunately found dead,” the official statement said. Out of the eight persons who managed to escape in the initial hours, three persons were seriously injured and they are being treated, the statement said. The rescued employees include deputy executive engineer Pawan Kumar, plant junior assistant Ramakrishna, junior engineers Mathru, Krishna Reddy and Venkataiah and driver Palankaiah. They were shifted to TSGenco hospital at Eegala Penta closer to the powerhouse for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-killed-in-fire-at-srisailam-hydel-power-station-in-telangana-exit-route-was-choked/story-cX5qA8rvVBSo8SX5Eu5OdL.html
21-08-2020||India||Wild bear attacks man at residential area in Odisha’s Kalahandi||A wild bear entered a residential area of the Bhawanipatna city in Odisha’s Kalahandi district, triggering panic among citizens after it attacked a person on Friday, district forest officer Nitish Kumar said.In the video, the bear can be seen straying in the locality while local people can be seen trying to rescue the man by hitting the animal with sticks.Later the forest department was informed and operation to capture the beast was underway.According to the forest officer, the incident has happened for the second time in the area.“This is happening for the second time during my tenure, first was on August 15 and then it has happened today. One tranquillising team is ready and after tranquillising it, we will leave it in the forest,” Kumar said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wild-bear-attacks-man-at-residential-area-in-odisha-s-kalahandi/story-emEs6j5yJtQaOMtKEziCsI.html
21-08-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi condole loss of lives in fire at Telangana hydroelectric plant||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have condoled the death of nine people in fire at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana.While President Kovind said he is “pained by the loss of lives”, PM Modi called the incident “deeply unfortunate”.“Pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” President Kovid said on Twitter. Pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured.“Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest,” PM Modi tweeted. Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest.The fire broke out late on Thursday night when 30 people were inside the plant. While six employees were rescued and brought out of the tunnel, 15 others managed to come out through the emergency exit route of the project.The remaining nine were trapped as thick smoke engulfed the inside tunnel, making it difficult for the rescue teams to reach the place. They were killed on Friday.Of nine bodies recovered, three were identified as assistant engineers - Sundar Naik, Mohan Kumar and Fathima.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered a comprehensive enquiry by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the cause of the accident. Govind Singh, CID’s additional director of police, has been appointed as the inquiry officer. Singh has been asked to submit a report at the earliest.KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the Srisailam power station fire. Describing it as unfortunate, KCR said all the efforts were made to rescue the trapped engineers and bring them out alive, but in vain. He expressed his deep condolences to the bereaved families.Telangana Minister for Power Jagadeeswar Reddy, Nagarkurnool district collector L Sarman, Telangana Transco, GENCO CMD Prabhakar Rao, local MLA G Balaraju, were among those who visited the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-condole-loss-of-lives-in-fire-at-telangana-hydroelectric-plant/story-aWlepn9WhulpEWkTIKMQPN.html
21-08-2020||India||‘Deeply unfortunate’: PM Modi on Srisailam hydroelectric plant fire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled Telangana’s Srisailam hydroelectric plant fire that killed nine people and hoped for speedy recovery of those injured. “Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest,” PM Modi tweeted. Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest.On Friday, the officials confirmed that all nine trapped inside the hydroelectric plant in Telangana’s Srisailam after the fire tragedy that occurred late Thursday night, were killed. Of nine bodies recovered, three were identified as assistant engineers -- Sundar Naik, Mohan Kumar and Fathima.“Pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured,” President Ram Nath Kovind said.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered a comprehensive enquiry by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the cause of the accident. Govind Singh, CID’s additional director of police, has been appointed as the inquiry officer. Singh has been asked to submit a report at the earliest.The chief minister expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the Srisailam power station fire. Describing it as unfortunate, KCR said all the efforts were made to rescue the trapped engineers and bring them out alive, but in vain. He expressed his deep condolences to the bereaved families.According to TSGenco authorities, the power plant is located inside the tunnel at about 1.2 km from the entrance and the only way to reach the plant was through the tunnel. “But because of flames and heavy smoke, it was not possible to enter the tunnel. The rescue teams could enter the power house only by Friday afternoon. But by that time, all the nine employees were unfortunately found dead,” the official statement said. Out of the eight persons who managed to escape from the exit route in the initial hours, three persons were seriously injured and they are being treated, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-unfortunate-pm-modi-on-srisailam-hydroelectric-plant-fire/story-e43n5ve7G2Olp6R6qqOaeK.html
21-08-2020||India||Rajasthan Police book BJP MP’s husband for alleged molestation||Police booked husband of Bharatpur MP for house trespass and molestation after a 35-year-old woman lodged a complaint at Bayana police station on Thursday. According to the complaint, Hom Chand Koli, husband of MP Ranjita Koli, entered her house around midnight on August 11 and molested her. “He was drunk and said he would cover me with jewellery,” she said. “He fled when my mother and daughter woke up and brought sticks to beat him,” the woman added. Bayana police circle officer Khiv Singh Rathor said an FIR was registered under sections 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) and 451 (house trespass) against Hom Chand Koli. Koli’s father, Ganga Ram Koli, who was BJP MP thrice between 1991 and 2002 from Bayana-Dholpur Lok Sabha seat until the delimitation in 2008, said all allegations against his son were false. “She (the complainant) was a servant in my house and was removed a few days ago,” he said. The MP also called the allegations false. “She is trying to malign the family because we removed her. Let police investigate; everything will become clear,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-book-bjp-mp-s-husband-for-alleged-molestation/story-UZE2M0HxHglcoSp4uWxrLI.html
21-08-2020||India||Two Uttarakhand women killed in rain-related incidents, timely escape for a family||At least two women were killed while a family of five was rescued from a car trapped in an overflowing rivulet in different rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand in the last 24 hours. In one of the incidents, a 46-year-old woman was crushed under a tree, uprooted in heavy rains, on Thursday evening in Almora district. Officials, said, the woman identified as one Vimla Negi was outside her home, when the tree fell on her while it rained heavily with an accompanying storm. She was rushed to the nearby hospital but was declared brought dead by doctors. In another incident, the state disaster response force (SDRF) recovered the body of a 32-year-old woman buried under the debris brought down by a landslide on Friday afternoon in Pithoragarh district. Praveen Alok, media in-charge, SDRF said, “The woman identified as one Bhagirathi Devi got buried under the debris of landslide on August 17 while she was going to a cowshed near her house to milk a cow. Since then, an SDRF team was involved in searching for her body which was found on the Friday afternoon.” In another incident, five people including two children were rescued from a car which got trapped in an overflowing rivulet in Nainital district on Thursday afternoon. The incident came to light after a video of the trapped car with passengers inside, went viral on social media. Also Read: Rain and topography triggering flash floods, landslides in Uttarakhand hills, say experts According to police, Kamal Singh, a resident of Bhikiyasain village in Almora district was going to Almora from Ramnagar in Nainital with his wife, sister-in-law and two children on Thursday afternoon. While on their way, they tried to cross the overflowing rivulet near Dhangarhi area when their vehicle got stuck in the heavy water flow. The family was rescued when some passersby pulled them out of the car and a few minutes later, the car got washed away only to be pulled out after a few hours when the water level receded to some extent. Meanwhile, the Dehradun centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light to moderate rainfall with some intense spells in many places in Dehradun, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts on Friday and on Saturday. No weather-related warnings have been issued for Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-uttarakhand-women-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-timely-escape-for-a-family/story-Y7G1JZ3G1t1T7JV1nQcHXI.html
21-08-2020||India||Covid-19: 3 Indian companies start supply of life-saving Remdesivir to Nepal||Three Indian pharmaceutical companies have started supplying Nepal with life-saving anti-viral Remdesivir to be used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“We have confirmed three companies for supply of Remdesivir. Mylan, Cipla, and Hetero Drugs will be supplying the drugs as per our demands. We will be permitting the use of anti-viral supplied on by these companies only,” Narayan Prasad Dhakal, the Director-General of Department of Drug Administration confirmed.“Among them, Mylan has started supplying the anti-viral to Nepal. At first, we have ordered 570 vials of it and has been delivered. Indian companies are easy to reach and the cost also comes low so we confirmed them,” he added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRemdesivir has been proved to be efficient for patients who have been put in the Intensive Care Unit and take them out of danger zone but wasn’t available in the Himalayan nation.“It would cost around 7,800 Nepali rupees per vial when it comes to the Nepali market. It would save extra expenses of the family,” DG Dhakal said.Nepal’s Medical Council’s directive (Interim Clinical Guidance for Covid-19) also has enlisted Remdesivir drug for the primary medication. Family of the patients who were in critical condition had to bring it from India under special arrangements but with availability on the local market, it will save on their expenses.As per the Director-General of the Department of Drug Administration of the Himalayan nation, it is always the Indian companies who race forward to export drugs and pharmaceuticals to the nation.More than half of 123 companies permitted to import medicines from other nations are Indian companies who work on various forms for parent companies headquartered in Europe or America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-3-indian-companies-start-supply-of-life-saving-remdesivir-to-nepal/story-gRRe3cocFbclnsHeTfDpXL.html
21-08-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar polls amid Covid-19, ECI issues new guidelines for voters||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday issued a fresh set of guidelines for carrying out polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, just months before the Bihar Assembly elections scheduled for October and Bengal Assembly elections slated for next year.Candidates can file their nominations online and people have to wear face masks during election-related activities, the new guidelines said.The option of postal ballot facility has been extended to the voters who are marked as ‘persons with disabilities’. People, who are above the age of 80 years, people employed in notified essential services and those who have tested Covid-19 positive or are possibly infected can all vote through the postal ballot facility, the Election Commission said. However, guidelines for each of the categories of people who are eligible for postal ballot will be issued separately.Thermal scanning of all voters will be carried out at the entry hall or premises where the polls will be held. Sanitisers, soap and water shall also be made available to all voters, according to the new rules.Social distancing will mandatorily have to be followed in keeping with the guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs. State administrations have been told to identify large halls to ensure that social distancing can be done during the polls. On Thursday, former Union minister and United Democratic Alliance (UDA) convenor Yashwant Sinha joined a number of political leaders seeking postponement of the Bihar assembly polls in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Assembly elections are due in the months of October-November in Bihar, which has, till date, witnessed 1.15 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 574 deaths.The Election Commission, however, has not made any official announcement about the poll schedule in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-amid-covid-19-eci-issues-new-guidelines-for-voters/story-hCPA9irwIgJWjhkuyIKWZI.html
21-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Supreme Court allows prayer in 3 Jain Temples in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court allows prayers in 3 Jain temples in Mumbai amid Covid-19, cites Rath Yatra exampleThe Supreme Court on Friday allowed limited entry of devotees to three Jain temples in Mumbai’s Dadar, Chembur and Byculla on August 22 and 23 (Saturday and Sunday) to offer prayers on the occasion of Paryushan festival. Read moreMumbai, neighbouring areas likely to receive ‘heavy to very heavy’ rains in next 24 hours: IMDMumbai and neighbouring districts of Thane, Raighar and Palghar are likely to receive “heavy to very heavy” rainfall in the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. An orange warning has been issued for the Vidarbha region for the next 48 hours, Deputy Director General of the IMD (Mumbai), KS Hosalikar, said. Read moreUP doctor feted for saving Indian Army officer’s lifeIn a rare gesture of gratitude, the mother of a colonel in the Indian Army honoured chest specialist Dr Anil Kapoor in an event organised at the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hall in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Thursday for saving the life of her son who was seriously injured in a road mishap recently. Read moreAmazon removes shirts with derogatory references to Kamala HarrisOnline retail giant Amazon has removed shirts from its platform that featured derogatory references to Kamala Harris, the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee. Read morePooja Bhatt gets death threats, makes Instagram account private: ‘People hurl abuses and goad you to go die’Actor and filmmaker Pooja Bhatt has made her Instagram account private after receiving death and rape threats on social media. She says that if her fans wish to know what is happening in her life, they can send her follow requests.Read moreLego launches bricks with Braille for childrenDanish toymaker Lego is launching a new version of its iconic plastic bricks featuring Braille for the visually-impaired across seven countries. The bricks will have the same shape as the regular Lego bricks, but the studs on top are rearranged. Read moreThe one in which Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox played pool and gave us major Friends flashbacksIf you’re a Friends fan (who isn’t), you probably remember how competitive Monica got during any game. Well, this video shared by both Courteney Cox, who played the character of Monica on the legendary series, and Jennifer Aniston, who played Rachel in it, is giving people similar Friends flashbacks. Read moreIPL 2020: Delhi Capitals announces JSW Group as team’s principal sponsor for upcoming seasonIndian Premier League franchise Delhi Capitals on Friday announced JSW Group as the team’s Principal Sponsor for the upcoming season of the IPL to be held in UAE between September to November 2020. JSW Group comes in place of Daikin Air-Conditioning who had been the Delhi franchise’s Principal Sponsors since 2015. Read moreWatch: Emmanuel Macron greets Angela Merkel with ‘Namaste’ amid Covid crisis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-covid-19-crisis-supreme-court-allows-prayer-in-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Z0or9lyFiSY9cKJfFEjhAI.html
21-08-2020||India||UP doctor feted for saving Indian Army officer’s life||In a rare gesture of gratitude, the mother of a colonel in the Indian Army honoured chest specialist Dr Anil Kapoor in an event organised at the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hall in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Thursday for saving the life of her son who was seriously injured in a road mishap recently.Dr Neera, the colonel’s mother is a lecturer in a degree college in the state. Her son met with an accident on the night of August 16 and sustained serious injuries besides getting trapped inside his car. Dr Anil Kapoor, who was returning home, happened to see the damaged car and stopped. He tried to seek help from passersby but no one halted. Then Dr Kapoor somehow pulled out the injured person and took him to the nearby civil hospital where he was given first aid. He also informed his family about the accident and thereafter accompanied them to the military hospital where the injured colonel was admitted.Also Read: In Uttar Pradesh, doctors grapple with triple challenge in war against Covid-19Expressing her gratitude for Dr Kapoor, Dr Neera said timely medical assistance provided to his son saved his life. She called upon people to extend their help to accident victims during the ‘Golden Hour’ (the first hour of the mishap) which enhances their chances of survival.Also Read: UP: FIR lodged against SDM for thrashing peopleAddressing the gathering, Dr Kapoor said road accidents have been a major cause of concern in the Indian subcontinent. He said 50 percent of fatalities could be avoided if the victims were taken to a hospital in the first hour of the accidents. Speaking on the occasion, IMA secretary Dr Anil Nausaran said Dr Kapoor had saved the lives of many accident victims in the past too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-doctor-feted-for-saving-indian-army-officer-s-life/story-QrEdEHOHJUGi3t0yB1YQcK.html
21-08-2020||India||I-T dept raids Bhopal builder’s premises, gets incriminating documents; Cong demands CM’s resignation||The Income tax department’s raids on the establishments of a real estate developer and close associates has led to recovery of documents related to a number of properties and unaccounted for transactions in Bhopal and neighbouring district Sehore, as per officials. The raids in what is supposed to be a major action by the department against income tax evasion began on Thursday and are still continuing. About 140 officials and personnel of the department assisted by more than 100 police personnel are involved in the raids conducted at about 20 establishments, as per officials. The raids proved a shot in the Opposition Congress’ arm and the latter launched an attack on the ruling party leaders as the real estate developer happens to be close to a state minister from the Gwalior-Chambal region. The minister played a key role in the fall of the then Congress government. He stayed all the time with the 22 Congress MLAs in a Bengaluru resort who had rebelled against then chief minister Kamal Nath. The MLAs resigned from the state assembly to join the BJP, an act that led to the BJP dislodging the Congress from power. The state Congress leaders have circulated on social media several photos of the real estate developer seen with the minister and several other BJP leaders. In a screen image of the builder’s tweet he is seen with the minister and several others in a chartered plane while returning from Bengaluru in March and with a message which said - ‘Mission Accomplished’. Though Income tax officials refused to make any formal comment on the raids going on, an officer who didn’t want to be named said more than Rs 1 crore in cash and documents concerning more than 100 properties, including documents on two cricket stadia in Bhopal were recovered till Thursday night. Bank lockers were yet to be opened. ECHOES OF VYAPAM SCAM State Congress leader KK Mishra alleged, “The builder who is close to a minister and certain top leaders of the BJP had played a key role in Vyapam Scam but later under the pressure of the then government he was made an approver in the case. That he was seen in a photo driving the car of a top BJP leader showed his proximity with the BJP leaders. The minister with his wife stayed in the Academy of the builder for several days recently when they turned positive for coronavirus.” Mishra said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should immediately step down from his post as the raids had brought to light the role of black money in dislodging of the then Congress government and BJP forming its government. However, state BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “The Congress leaders have forgotten the fact conveniently that Income Tax raids are being conducted during BJP regime only. However, making a comment just on the basis of raids and without knowing the outcome is the habit of Congress leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-raids-bhopal-builder-s-premises-gets-incriminating-documents-cong-demands-cm-s-resignation/story-xyjCg9arLNYsmwZzt76vaN.html
21-08-2020||India||Supreme Court allows prayers in 3 Jain temples in Mumbai amid Covid-19, cites Rath Yatra example||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed limited entry of devotees to three Jain temples in Mumbai’s Dadar, Chembur and Byculla on August 22 and 23 (Saturday and Sunday) to offer prayers on the occasion of Paryushan festival.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said that entry into temples will be subject to the undertaking given by the petitioner - a trust dedicated to Jain community - as per which they agreed to allow only five people at a time inside the temple with an upper limit of 250 people per day.“We are of the view that if the undertaking of faithfully complied with, it would not be hazardous to permit prayers at the three temples,” the bench which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said.It cited the example of allowing Odisha Rath Yatra and said, “This is exactly the choice we had with Odisha Rath Yatra. We believe that if we can ensure that distancing is maintained and people do not gather then merely putting the Rath is not damaging.”The court also made it clear that its order will not apply to any other temples or festivals involving large congregation.“We are referring in particular to the congregation that happens during Ganesh Chaturthi in Mumbai and other places,” the court noted.The Maharashtra government had opposed the plea saying that the state is worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and it will be difficult for authorities to ensure adherence to precautions to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.The bench was, however, critical of the stance by the state pointing out that the government was allowing other economic activities but disallowing religious activities.“We find it strange that you are allowing every activity involving economic interests. But if it involves religion, you say you cannot do it because of Covid,” CJI Bobde said.The Bombay high court had earlier rejected the interim prayer by petitioner to allow entry to Jain temples during the days of Paryushan festival from August 15 to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-prayers-in-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai-amid-covid-19-cites-rath-yatra-example/story-Gs3DTxgjQdWztm5gyALRLJ.html
21-08-2020||India||14 Air India passengers have tested positive for Covid-19 till Thursday: Hong Kong govt||Fourteen passengers who travelled from Delhi to Hong Kong on an Air India flight on August 14 have tested positive for Covid-19 till Thursday, the Hong Kong government said.Due to this incident, Air India’s passenger flights have been barred from landing in Hong Kong till August-end, it added on Friday.A passenger from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if he or she has a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey, according to the rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July.In a statement to PTI on Friday, a spokesperson of the Department of Health of the Hong Kong government said, “A flight operated by Air India (AI314) arriving Hong Kong from India on August 14 had 11 passengers confirmed to have infected with Covid-19.”  Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs a result, the department invoked the “Prevention and Control of Disease (Regulation of Cross-boundary Conveyances and Travellers) Regulation (Cap. 599H) on August 17 to prohibit landing of passenger flights operated by Air India for two weeks from August 18 to 31 in Hong Kong”, the spokesperson noted.  “As of August 20, a total of 14 passengers on that flight were confirmed to have infected with Covid-19,” he added. The statement did not elaborate if these 14 passengers had Covid-negative certificates with them from the tests done 72 hours prior to their journey, as required by the aforementioned rules.Besides India, a pre-flight Covid-19 negative test result certificate is mandatory for all passengers coming from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa and the US, according to the Hong Kong government’s rules.An airline operating a flight to Hong Kong from any of these nine countries has to submit a form before departure stating that all passengers on board have Covid-19 negative certificates, as per the rules.Moreover, all international passengers are required to take a post-flight Covid-19 test at the airport premises in Hong Kong.In India, the total cases of coronavirus infections mounted to 29,05,823, while the death toll climbed to 54,849 with 983 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, data updated by the Union Health Ministry at 8 am on Friday showed.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, special international flights have been operating with the approval of aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).Air India has been operating special international flights since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations.Since July, India has established separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with countries like the US, Germany, France, the UAE, the UK and the Maldives for international flight operations.Under a bilateral air bubble pact, airlines of both countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-air-india-passengers-have-tested-positive-for-covid-19-till-thursday-hong-kong-govt/story-0hU0yg66wE0OADYTSKjoCJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Mumbai woman booked for threatening doctor who asked her to wear mask||A woman has been booked by the police for abusing and threatening a doctor of a nursing home in Mumbai’s Grant Road who had asked her to wear mask and not to crowd. The police has not arrested the woman yet.According to the DB Marg police, doctor Kavita Tilwani, 48 has given the complaint to the police on Wednesday. Tilwani,who is a resident of Malabar Hill area, runs the SP Nursing Home in Grant Road along with her brother.On August 17, a pregnant patient Faizma Shaikh was admitted at the nursing home for pregnancy-related complications. Her caesarean delivery was done on August 18, the police said.On Thursday while Shaikh was at the patient room more than 20 of her relatives turned up at the nursing home to see her. Few of them were not wearing masks, the doctor said in her complaint.When Tilwani visited the patient’s room to see Shaikh, she saw that her relatives had crowded the place while three women were sitting on the patient’s bed. And few of them were not wearing masks.When Tilwani raised objection for the same and asked them to wear mask and leave the patient’s room, a woman sitting on the patient’s bed Nafisa Abbas Lakdawala started abusing her and also threatened to assault her. The relatives left after other staff intervened and the relatives left the room.Tilwani called up the DB Marg police and registered a case under section 4 of Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010 against Lakdawala.“We will verify the allegations made in the complaint and would soon record the statement of the accused woman and then file charge sheet against her,” said Suryakant Bangar, senior inspector of DB Marg police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-woman-booked-for-threatening-doctor-who-asked-her-to-wear-mask/story-6ahBaFSHmSseXiIQBrhZQL.html
21-08-2020||India||All 9 trapped in fire at Telangana hydroelectric plant killed||All nine trapped inside a hydroelectric plant in Telangana’s Srisailam after a fire broke out late Thursday night were killed, the officials said on Friday.Of nine bodies recovered, three were identified as assistant engineers -- Sundar Naik, Mohan Kumar and Fathima. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered a comprehensive enquiry by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the cause of the accident. Govind Singh, CID’s additional director of police, has been appointed as the inquiry officer. Singh has been asked to submit a report at the earliest.The chief minister expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the Srisailam power station fire. Describing it as unfortunate, KCR said all the efforts were made to rescue the trapped engineers and bring them out alive, but in vain. He expressed his deep condolences to the bereaved families.Telangana power minister G Jagadeeshwar Reddy, who rushed to the spot along with top TSGenco officials, told reporters that the fire erupted possibly due to short circuit in the electric panels of the power house and it spread to other parts of the power house.There were 30 employees of TSGenco inside the powerhouse when the accident took place late on Thursday night. While six employees were rescued and brought out of the tunnel, 15 others managed to come out through the emergency exit route of the project.However, nine others were trapped inside as thick smoke engulfed inside the tunnel, making it difficult for the rescue teams to reach the place, Reddy said.The rescued employees, including deputy executive engineer Pawan Kumar, plant junior assistant Ramakrishna, junior engineers Mathru, Krishna Reddy and Venkataiah and driver Palankaiah were shifted to TSGenco Hospital at Eegala Penta closer to the power house. They are out of danger.SLBP is on the Telangana side of the Srisailam reservoir on the Krishna River, a joint irrigation project under Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The power house was constructed in the huge tunnel under the Nallamala forests adjacent to the reservoir, which is presently brimming with heavy inflows into the river forcing the authorities to lift all the gates to discharge water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-bodies-recovered-from-srisailam-power-plant-fire-mishap-6-still-trapped/story-a4SsxbJX2Dq4pLtnT3dcYO.html
21-08-2020||India||UK issues urgent call for more Indian, South Asian Covid-19 plasma donors||The UK’s state-funded National Health Service (NHS) on Friday issued an urgent call for people of Indian and South Asian heritage who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma to help save lives of others infected with the deadly virus.According to experts, people from a South Asian background are around twice as likely to have high enough antibodies for their donations to be used in life-saving treatment trials, compared to white people. The NHS said that this antibody-rich plasma, which could save the lives of people with coronavirus, is being sought urgently ahead of a feared second wave of the pandemic in the country later in the year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have had a fantastic response from the Asian community. Covid-19 is attacking the Asian community more than the wider community and donating plasma could save a life,” said Rekha Anand, a Consultant Haematologist for NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT), which is a Special Health Authority in charge of blood and organ donation.NHSBT said that its data shows that people of an Asian heritage have been donating in strong numbers, at over 7 per cent of all plasma donors so far, and also sought to highlight the donation as a safe and easy procedure.“Plasma donation is safe, clean and easy. It takes about 45 minutes and your body quickly replaces the plasma and the antibodies,” explains Dr Shruthi Narayan, a Consultant Donor Medicine for NHSBT. “Because your red blood cells are returned to you, you can carry on with your day as normal,” she said.A Public Health England (PHE) report had concluded that people from South Asian communities who have Covid-19 have a higher risk of becoming seriously ill and the emerging evidence is that the more seriously ill people become, the more antibodies they produce.  This seems to be borne out in statistics as NHSBT found that among first-time donors from an Asian background, 44.1 per cent (330 out of 749) had high enough antibodies for the trial, compared with 22.4 per cent (2,126 out of 9,509) of white donors. “Some people may feel nervous about donating, particularly if they’ve had a tough time with coronavirus. Our donation team will look after you and people usually feel fantastic after donating, knowing they are doing something to help the community,” said Dr Suhail Asghar, from NHSBT’s Clinical Support Team.Plasma donor centres have been set up across all major towns and cities of the UK, especially those with a significant South Asian population, including London, Birmingham, Leicester and Manchester.Dr Naim Akhtar, a Consultant in Donor Medicine for NHSBT, added: “Plasma donation is a way to help those who are in need. By donating plasma, you could help someone to survive from Covid and spend more time with their family.” The NHSBT campaign involving experts from a South Asian heritage for more plasma donors follows the UK government’s appeal earlier this week for more people of Indian and South Asian origin to sign up for Covid-19 vaccine trials, after a low rate of sign up from these communities to the Vaccine Research Registry. A targeted recruitment programme broadcast in Gujarati, Punjabi, Bengali and Urdu is among the measures being deployed to reach out to different communities to ensure any future vaccine that clears all trials works for everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-issues-urgent-call-for-more-indian-south-asian-covid-19-plasma-donors/story-gZHTxMR2tYGxIEcSOxJsMM.html
21-08-2020||India||Explained: How Covid-19 pandemic has impacted daily commute to office||The coronavirus pandemic has impacted almost every sector of the economy. From travel to traffic, there is chaos everywhere.The pandemic has also led to changes in our daily lives and the way we commute. In fact, the impact has been the most significant in our daily commute to office.With new social distancing norms in effect, more and more people are using their cars to commute to office or elsewhere. Single-occupancy vehicles have increase on the road as public transport system is shunned.A survey done by Capgemini in May had said that more than 50 per cent of consumers in India are considering purchasing a car this year. The number is far higher than the global average of 35 per cent, according to Capgemini.Also read| Second day of 48-hr lockdown; Over 750 arrested for violationsResearchers across the world have offered mathematical models to predict the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on vehicular traffic. The models shows risk of extreme traffic in large metro cities.The congestion has led to increased drive time in many big cities across the world, including Delhi.According to India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki, the percentage of first-time buyers and additional car buying increased during the coronavirus pandemic. The reason for this is more and more people are preferring personal mobility over public transport, said Maruti.“First-time car buying is up and replacement buying is down, which means exchange is down. However, additional car buying is also up because of the functionality requirement,” Maruti Suzuki India Ltd Executive Director (Sales and Marketing) Shashank Srivastava told news agency PTI.Also read: Blow to business but Covid curbs needed, say traders as Punjab extends night curfew from todayHe said that the company has seen the share of first-time buyers going up by 5.5 per cent, to 51-53 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal as compared to the fourth quarter of 2019-20.Those dealing in used cars also say that there is a huge uptick in demand for such cars. “The pandemic outbreak has changed people’s preferences and we believe they will opt for personal mobility solutions rather than shared mobility,” co-founder and CEO of CarDekho Amit Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-covid-19-pandemic-has-impacted-daily-commute-to-office/story-wTEX0PS6XoYugkbqAYyLBN.html
21-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Institutional isolation must for 50-plus patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has modified quarantine guidelines and made institutional isolation compulsory for all Covid-19 patients above 50 years of age from this week in a bid to bring down morality rate.According to the modified guidelines issued on August 19, all Covid-19 patients above 50 years with or without co- morbidities should be insisted to get admitted in Covid Care Centres, irrespective of symptoms.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“No home isolation should be allowed,” reads the modified guidelines of the BMC.According to the civic body, the decision has been taken to curb the high morality rate among Covid-19 patients in the city. An analysis of data shows that mortality rate in patients in the 50 to 60 age group is very high.The BMC guidelines further stated that home isolation should be allowed only to those patients, who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, aged below 50 and are without any co-morbidity.As per the earlier guidelines in Mumbai, home isolation was recommended for patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, are below 60, do not have any co-morbidity and have separate toilet facility.The guidelines also directed the SWM (solid waste management) department of the civic body to carry out sanitisation of premises and home at least once when a coronavirus case is detected in a housing society.“The home of the patient and common areas of (the housing society) should be sanitised,” said the BMC norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-institutional-isolation-must-for-50-plus-patients/story-g7If9lXGTykLug00AkkecO.html
21-08-2020||India||Bengal governor alleges ‘multi-crore scam’||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) got into a war of words again on Friday after he said a three-member inquiry panel set up to probe corruption allegations in the purchase of medical equipment to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic was an attempt to cover up the truth. He alleged a multi-crore scam in purchase.Also read:Guv hits out at WB govt over I-Day eventDhankhar said the panel includes top bureaucrats, who lack credibility and that only an independent probe could track the “money trail and ill-gotten gain”. Home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay heads the panel.“Multi Crore Scam-Pandemic Purchase @MamataOfficial. Cover Up Probe-Lacks credibility. Decision Makers (-one) probing to shield culpability #MAP. Post facto saviour mechanism! Independent Probe can alone fasten culpability. Need Probe to track money trail and ill gotten gain,” tweeted Dhankhar.A state government official this week told HT the West Bengal health department has purchased several items over the past few months. “More than Rs 2,000 crore have been spent. The allegations relate to corruption in this expenditure.”TMC reacted sharply to Dhankhar’s allegation saying if he has proof of the corruption, then he should give it to the government instead of making statements. “Nobody knows how to deal with the governor’s propensity to go public every day. Can he prove what he is alleging? If he has proof, he should give it to the government instead of making public statements. His statements degrade the dignity of the office he holds,” said TMC spokesman Saugata Roy.The West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Limited usually purchases medicines and equipment in bulk. But the government formed a committee for procuring these items during the pandemic to avoid delays.Some of the items were allegedly purchased from particular agencies bypassing rules. The quality of the products has also been questioned. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-alleges-multi-crore-scam/story-SYMY30bT0EgTh9nA3akQ6H.html
21-08-2020||India||I-Day celebrations: Maoists assault tribals for taking part||The outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist rebels assaulted and inflicted injuries to over 30 residents of Chikpal village in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district for taking part in the 74th Independence Day celebrations on August 15, the police said on Friday. Around 40 Maoists reached the Chikpal village under the jurisdiction of Katekalyan police station on Wednesday night to take revenge against the local residents for wearing patriotism on their sleeves on the occasion of the Independence Day. The rebels thrashed them with sticks and butts of their guns, the police said. ‘The villagers were assaulted for attending the 74th Independence Day celebrations and flag-hoisting programme at Marjum village, which took place after 30 years. The Maoists had been hoisting black flags on Independence Days for all these years,” said Abhishek Pallav, superintendent of police (SP), Dantewada. He said 10 villagers, including a woman, have lodged a first information report (FIR) at Katekalyan police station, following which a case has been registered. “Many villagers were beaten. However, they are not coming forward due to fear of being targeted by the Maoists again. We are sending a team of doctors along with security forces for the treatment of the injured villagers,” said the SP. The Maoists have other reasons to be unhappy with the villagers, according to the SP. “There has been an active participation of these villagers in developmental activities that have been initiated by the district administration. The Left-wing Extremists (LWEs) are facing a gradual erosion of discipline and poor command-and-control mechanism, which have led the junior cadres to target innocent villagers for no rhyme or reason. Besides, several local youths had joined the Chhattisgarh Police last year. As a result, the Maoists are apprehensive that the new recruited police hires are leaking information about them,” the SP added.Intelligence sources said that in 2014 a Maoist meeting was held in Chikpal- Marjum, which was attended by over 10,000 villagers. Both the villages had boycotted last assembly, parliamentary and assembly by-elections. “Chikpal and Marjum were cut off from mainland in 2008, when Maoists had dug up the Katekalyan -Chikpal road at 40-50 places. This area used to be the hotbed of Katekalyan area committee of Darbha division of the Maoists,” said a police official. On July 19, 25 people were injured in a similar attack by the Maoists in Parcheli village of the Dantewada district. Chikpal-Marjum is a key strategic conduit for the Maoists, who freely move between Odisha and southern Bastar, and they are determined to maintain a stranglehold over these villages, the police said. Soni Sori, a tribal right activist from the Maoist-hit Bastar region, has also condemned Wednesday’s incident. “The Maoists’ assault of innocent tribals should be condemned. The police authorities must understand that when they (villagers) were planning to celebrate the 74th Independence Day in Marjum, the invitation should have been also extended to local leaders, sarpanchs and other activists, who have consistently resisted the Maoist aggression. Local leadership that acts as a pressure group cannot be ignored for any anti-Naxal campaign to become successful,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-beaten-more-than-30-tribals-for-taking-part-in-independence-day-ceremony/story-gzaWBUDS2GzajfCcc8TG7J.html
21-08-2020||India||Kerala HC orders CBI probe into custodial death of farmer in Pathanamthitta||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the alleged custodial death of PP Mathai, a farmer who was found dead in a well hours after he was allegedly taken into custody by Forest Department officials.A single-judge bench of Justice VG Arun, after hearing arguments from all the sides on a petition filed by Mathai’s wife, handed over the probe in the matter to the CBI. The State government submitted that it is ready to hand over the case to the CBI.The bench also directed Mathai’s wife to do necessary requirements for the last rites of the deceased person’s body, which has been kept at the Ranni Marthoma Hospital mortuary ever since his death on July 28.His wife Sheeba and family members are adamant that the body will not be buried until those responsible for his death are arrested.The body of PP Mathai was found in a well hours after he was allegedly taken into custody by Forest Department officials of the Chittar forest division in Pathanamthitta district for questioning him over the destruction of a camera in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-custodial-death-of-farmer-in-pathanamthitta/story-QrsvFYOSR2umVjNr4wGRBL.html
21-08-2020||India||Maha police records highest single-day increase: 303 cops test positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra police has recorded 303 fresh cases of Coronavirus in the last 24 hours, making it the highest single-day spike the force has seen since the lockdown began in March. Also, four policemen succumbed to the virus on Thursday.Also read: Bombay HC not to interfere with compulsory Covid test for those travelling to Konkan for GaneshotsavWith the new cases, the total number of infected policemen in state has reached 13,180. Of this, 10,655 have recovered. There are 2,389 policemen who are active patients and are being treated at various medical facilities, a statement issued by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), Maharashtra police, said.Of the four Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, three were from Mumbai police.Head constable Ravikant Salunkhe, 52, of Cuffe Parade police station died on Thursday. “Salukhe was undergoing treatment at the Nagpada’s Richardson & Cruddas Covid Care Centre and breathed his last on Thursday. He did not have any co-morbidities. He was a good policeman,” said Rajkumar Dongre, senior inspector of Cuffe Parade police station. Salunkhe is survived by his wife and two kids.Early on Thursday, 54-year-old police inspector Vishwanath Tambe of Mulund police station succumbed to the infection. He was holding charge of administration at the police station.“Tambe had some co-morbidities and succumbed to the virus during treatment,” confirmed Lakhmi Gautam, additional commissioner of police (East region).Another police officer who lost life to Coronavirus was also from the east region police. Thirty-five-year-old police sub-inspector Vinayak Babar from Deonar police station died of Covid-19 on Thursday early morning.Babar had been tested around 10 days ago after he developed Covid symptoms. On August 9, he tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to Dr D Y Patil hospital in Nerul, Navi Mumbai for treatment.As his condition deteriorated, he was moved to the intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday where he died a day later. “Babar was a good detection officer and was very active. The entire police station is shocked as he was so young,” said Vishwapal Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police (Deonar division).A native of Pune’s Purander district Babar was a resident of Kamothe, Navi Mumbai. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. His parents live with his brother’s family in Pune.In the fourth fatality, police Naik Shrikant Wagh died at the Shivaji hospital. Wagh was attached to the Kalwa police station of Thane police.On Friday morning, the state police headquarter received news about the death of head constable Gajendra Kamble from Rasayni police station of Raigad district on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-police-records-highest-single-day-increase-303-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-KKJPqQBF5zC7tCKZmveRQN.html
21-08-2020||India||UP: FIR lodged against SDM for thrashing people||Police lodged an FIR against a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) here on Friday, a day after he was suspended for beating people on the pretext of enforcing a drive to wear face masks amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.A case was lodged against SDM Ashok Chaudhary on the basis of a written complaint by Rajat Chaurasiya who alleged that the officer had thrashed and verbally abused him, SHO Ubhaon Police Station, Yogendra Bahadur Singh said. The matter is being investigated, the SHO said.Two videos of the Bilthara Road SDM beating up youths went viral on the social media on Thursday following which some of the victims lodged a complaint with the police.Taking serious note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on Thursday suspended Chaudhary and attached him with the Revenue Board. In the complaint, Chaurasiya alleged that he and his brother Ashu were sitting inside a shop on Chaukiya turn when the SDM reached there along with his guards and started beating them and aslo used foul language.  He also claimed that the officer dragged them on the road because of which his brother, who is a B.Tech student suffered injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-fir-lodged-against-sdm-for-thrashing-people/story-sFwE4K5wbPRralSBuiQqIP.html
21-08-2020||India||Polls to UP Rajya Sabha seat set for Sept 11||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday announced September 11 as the date for election to the Rajya Sabha seat in Uttar Pradesh previously held by Samajwadi Party MP Amar Singh. The last date for filing nominations will be September 1. Polls will be held on September 11 and the results will be announced on the same day . The late SP Member of Parliament, who was elected in 2016 as an Independent MP with the support of the party, passed away on August 1 this year. He was 64 at the time of his demise. On July 30, the EC had announced that by-elections to two other Rajya Sabha seats, in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, will be held on August 24. These seats fell vacant due to the demise of MPs holding them.Samajwadi Party MP Beni Prasad Verma, and LDF-backed Independent MP, M P Veerendra Kumar, had held the seats. The seats fell vacant in March and May, respectively.“The commission has also directed the chief secretaries concerned to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that the extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections,” the EC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-to-up-rajya-sabha-seat-set-for-sept-11/story-8D7oyaAYQ1wv9aVfaSbS1M.html
21-08-2020||India||In Bihar, 65-yr-old had 8 kids in 18 months in govt records||Leela Devi (65), a resident of Chhoti Kothia village in Musahari block of Muzaffarpur district, last gave birth to a boy 21 years ago, her fourth child. She is one of the many beneficiaries of National Maternity Benefit Schemes (NMBS) under the National Health Mission (NHM) in the district. NMBS is a scheme to boost institutional delivery of babies. Under the scheme, Rs 1,400 is given to the mother, while Rs 600 is paid to ASHA worker for assistance. Leela, however, is surprised. Her husband, a small farmer, is too. Documents in HT possession show Leela has given birth to babies eight times in the last 18 months. “My last baby is a boy and was born 21 years ago. I came to know I had been included as a beneficiary and money had been given to me nearly a week ago. When I approached the operator of a CSP (customer service point) centre, where my account is, I was asked by the operator not to lodge a case and that they will return the money withdrawn in my name,” she says. Leela is not the lone elderly woman to have “benefited” under the scheme. Money has been deposited into and withdrawn from the accounts of more than 50 women fraudulently in the district. Another woman, Shanti Devi (66), has been shown having given birth to two babies the same day, within an interval of 10 hours, despite the fact the babies are not twins. Sabina Khatoon (59) of the same village also has been shown as a beneficiary of the scheme. After the embezzlement came to light, district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh on Thursday ordered a probe. When approached for comment, Charanjit Kumar, branch manager of State Bank of India’s branch at Musahari the CSP center is attached with, feigned ignorance. “I don’t know how the CSP operator has managed all this even after the transaction system has been attached with finger print enabled system and Aadhaar identification. He can tell more about this,” he said. The CSP operator, Sushil Kumar, has gone into hiding soon after the matter came to the light. The DM could not be contacted despite repeated calls and messages. Civil surgeon and chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailesh Prasad Singh termed it a very serious matter. “I, along with some of my subordinates, met the DM and discussed the matter. He expressed his concern over the entire episode and asked me to set up an inquiry committee, led by a senior doctor and account experts,” he said. Senior gynecologist Dr Indu Kumari said, “No woman can give birth to baby after menopause.” However, superintendent of Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital, Dr Sunil Kumar Shahi, said woman older than 50 years giving birth to a baby cannot be ruled out altogether. “It has been seen that some elderly woman have given birth. But these are rare cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-gives-birth-8-times-in-18-months-gets-money-under-nhm-say-records/story-mSGVlodb7DyPKVkpech9CK.html
21-08-2020||India||CBI starts probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death; questions staff, gets documents||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) began its probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on Friday, two days after the Supreme Court asked the agency to take over the case, as it questioned a former staff of the Bollywood actor and collected documents and reports from Mumbai Police.The agency’s special team, which is being lead by superintendent of police (SP) Nupur Prasad comprising officers, other personnel and forensic experts, had landed in Mumbai on Thursday evening to take over probe into the high-profile case which had triggered a war of words between Maharashtra and Bihar governments.News agency PTI reported that CBI officials brought Rajput’s cook for questioning at Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Air Force guest house in suburban Santa Cruz, where the visiting probe team members are staying, on Friday morning. A vehicle, in which the cook was seen sitting next to an official, was spotted entering the guest house in a video tweeted by ANI.Watch l Sushant death case: CBI collects documents from Mumbai police; cook questioned Another CBI team, which was led by a superintendent of police-rank officer, reached the Bandra Police station, where an accidental death report (ADR) was registered after the alleged suicide by the actor, reports said. The team collected case diary of the ADR and other important documents related to the investigation of the case, which included autopsy and forensic reports, they said.The CBI officials also met Abhishek Trimukhe, the deputy commissioner of police who was heading the Mumbai Police probe team. It will also visit Rajput’s flat where he was found dead, he said.PTI cited sources as saying that the probe team will record statements of people connected with the case. It will also scan financial transactions of the 34-year-old actor, who was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra, it added.“Officers from the special investigation team and a forensic expert will visit the crime scene which is Sushant’s residence in Mumbai where he was found dead. The SIT will recapture the crime scene,” ANI quoted a source as saying.CBI officials said they will not be “arresting any suspect in the death case until any concrete and solid evidence is found against them”.The Supreme Court had on August 19 directed the central agency to investigate the case while holding that the first information report (FIR) registered in Patna over the death of the Bollywood actor was legitimate. An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by KK Singh, Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide.The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said the Bihar government was competent to recommend transferring the case to CBI. The top court had also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against actor Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput’s former girlfriend, and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Bandra on June 14.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-starts-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-questions-staff-gets-documents/story-OAloYXiYiEvl4fzfRytjfO.html
21-08-2020||India||Election for Rajya Sabha seat vacant after Amar Singh’s death to be held on Sept 11||The Election Commission will hold by-election to the Rajya Sabha to fill up a vacancy from Uttar Pradesh following the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh. The commission said that the election will be held on September 11.According to the poll panel, elections will be held between 9 am and 4 pm on September 11, and counting of votes will begin at 5 pm on the same day.The issue of notification will take place on August 25 and the last day for making the nominations is September 1, the Election Commission said in a press release on Friday.Singh had died at a Singapore hospital on August 1. He was 64. His term as a Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh was till July, 2022.The politician had been undergoing treatment at the hospital for several months and had lately been admitted to its intensive care unit.The flamboyant businessman-politician, who once counted India’s most influential icons from industry, politics and Bollywood among his closest friends, had been a key player in the cut and thrust of Indian politics till about a decade ago.Singh’s latest stint in the Rajya Sabha was facilitated by the Samajwadi Party - he won as an independent, but supported by the party (he was expelled from it in 2010, but made up with Mulayam Singh Yadav in 2015).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-for-rajya-sabha-seat-vacated-by-amar-singh-to-be-held-on-sept-11/story-GOAla7CG0qJPVzR1woy5oN.html
21-08-2020||India||UP assembly adjourned for second day in row after BJP MLA’s death||The Uttar Pradesh assembly was adjourned for the second consecutive day on Friday after paying homage to its sitting BJP MLA from Deoria (Sadar) seat Janmejaya Singh (75), who died in a hospital here earlier in the day.Soon after the House assembled at 11am, Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit said as the house had to take up condolence resolution to mourn the death of a sitting member, the leaders of all political parties met in the morning and decided to take up Friday’s listed agenda on Saturday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath moved the condolence resolution saying Singh was a popular leader in his constituency. He said Singh held various posts and remained in district jail of Deoria. He said with Singh’s death, the state had lost a leader dedicated to public life.Leaders of all parties echoed similar views urging the Speaker to convey feelings of the house to the bereaved family. Samajwadi Party leader Shailendra Yadav ‘Lalai’ said it was probably the first time that the house was condoling death of a member for the second consecutive day. Others who spoke on condolence motion included Bahujan Samaj Party legislature party leader Lalji Verma, Congress legislature party leader Aaradhna Mishra ‘Mona’, Apna Dal (Sone Lal) leader Neel Ratan Patel and SBSP leader Om Prakash Rajbhar.Dikshit said during the monsoon session, the House was mourning death of its fifth sitting member. He also said he would convey the feelings of the House to the bereaved family. The assembly observed a two-minute silence to pay respect to the departed soul before being adjourned for the day.On Thursday, the house was adjourned for the day after paying tribute to four sitting members, including two ministers Kamla Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, 20 former members, 20 soldiers of the Indian army who died in Galwan valley in clash with Chinese forces and corona warriors who are sacrificing their lives in fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-adjourned-for-second-day-in-row-after-bjp-mla-s-death/story-gN1N7ZnGOBzcOdOgtyxrgP.html
21-08-2020||India||Cops planning case against girl, 16, for wrongly accusing neighbour of rape||A 16-year-old had wrongly accused her 21-year-old neighbour of raping her in Bhopal, said police on Thursday, adding that another person who had sex with the girl has been arrested on charges of rape. The police are also looking to file a case against the girl for wrongly identifying an innocent person of rape.The neighbour was found innocent during police investigation. Another accused who was arrested on Wednesday later tested positive for coronavirus, said police. He was produced before the court through video conferencing and later hospitalised, said police. Family members of the girl had filed a missing report with the police on August 4. She returned three days later, on August 7, on her own, said the police.“When a police team recorded her statement, the girl said she had been drugged and kidnapped by two persons, including her neighbour, who raped her for two days. Later, they let her go. On the basis of her statement, her medical examination was conducted and her neighbour was questioned intensely,” said Nagendra Pateriya, City superintendent of police (CSP).“Shahjahanabad police found several discrepancies in the statement of the girl and upon investigation it was found that the man who was accused by the girl for kidnapping and raping her was in fact present in his office at the time when the crime took place as was alleged by the girl. This man had CCTV footage too to corroborate his statement,” said Pateriya. The girl was counselled and was asked to give a statement again.“The girl then said she had told a lie as she was scared. She said her brother had spotted her talking to another youth a few days back and thrashed both of them. That’s why when police asked her about the name of the accused who had kidnapped and raped her she took the name of her neighbour. She thought if she named her neighbour her family members would believe her statement as there had been a feud between the neighbour and her family,” said the police officer. Since the girl is a minor, the officer said, the youth arrested has been booked under rape charge. The girl’s medical report confirmed that the girl had sex.Police are looking into the matter to decide if the girl should be booked for accusing an innocent person for her rape, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-planning-case-against-girl-16-for-wrongly-accusing-neighbour-of-rape/story-w7gHcEUSsA7hTpL1wGWn6N.html
21-08-2020||India||Police mitra launches website to provide blood to needy patients||Police Mitra, a voluntary blood donor group set up by a policeman three years ago which has helped save lives of hundreds of poor patients through blood donation in Uttar Pradesh and other states, has now launched a website for patients in urgent need of blood.Earlier, the group used to reach out to patients and blood donation volunteers through social media platforms and Whats App groups. The group mostly includes policemen of all ranks and has played an important role in improving relations between cops and common people.Inspector General of Police (range) Prayagraj, KP Singh, who himself donates blood every three months, launched the website www.policemitra.org on Wednesday and honoured the team which designed it free of cost for helping the poor patients.Singh said people in need of blood or who want to donate blood may register on the website.A police mitra team will carry out a verification of the person in need of blood along with volunteers before taking the next step. The website contains a column of ‘request’ which can be used for applying for blood, the IG said.“The group was launched in February 2017 by constable Ashish Mishra and has succeeded in saving over 1,500 lives not only in Uttar Pradesh but other states as well. Police mitra group is now working in 18 states of the country and is receiving massive support from people of all walks of life. The group has organized ten blood donation camps on large scale and has made a record when it organized a blood donation camp during Kumbh-2019 during which 247 units of blood was donated by cops, devotees and even saints” Singh said.Founder Ashish Mishra, who is posted in the social media cell at IG Range office, said software engineers Sanjeev and Rishabh designed the website for the group. Mishra said the group will soon be working across the country and will help save the lives of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-mitra-launches-website-to-provide-blood-to-needy-patients/story-IzCxctYq8qroN7TbGmgNCL.html
21-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Stranded in Pakistan, Hindus on long-term visas desperate to return to India and all the latest news||Stranded in Pakistan, Hindus on long-term visas desperate to return to IndiaIn the last week of June, India and Pakistan operated a shuttle service for people stuck on both sides of the border due to the pandemic. Being Indian citizens, the husband and the children returned to Jodhpur but Janta Mali, a Pakistani living in Jodhpur on long-term visa since 2007, was denied permission to travel. Read more here. Bipasha Basu shows off her incredible physique in social media postBipasha Basu has been one of the foremost actors in the industry when it comes to fitness and she has been quite vocal about the importance of strengthening the body and being fit rather than just focusing on a skinny or hourglass figure. Read more here. Mee Raqsam movie review: A simplistic but warm tale of a father’s loveMee Raqsam is produced by actor Shabana Azmi, directed by her brother Baba Azmi and is a tribute to their late father Kaifi Azmi. Read more here. Watch: In acceptance speech, Joe Biden says he will ‘end season of darkness’Joe Biden officially accepted the presidential nomination of the Democratic Party and vowed to be an ‘ally of the light’ urging Americans to unite to overcome a ‘season of darkness’ that President Donald Trump has cloaked the US for ‘much too long’. Watch. ‘Generations will remember you’: PM Modi sends letter of appreciation to Suresh RainaSuresh Raina and MS Dhoni announced their retirement from international cricket on India’s 74th Independence Day. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-stranded-in-pakistan-hindus-on-long-term-visas-desperate-to-return-to-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CqXP32xSnfsvheU1zdmg4J.html
21-08-2020||India||Russian DJ held in Goa: Friends back home launch crowd-funding for her release||A Russian disc jockey (DJ), who was arrested by the Goa Police’s Crime Branch on charges of possessing drugs on August 15, has found support among her friends and well-wishers back home, as they have launched a crowd-funding campaign on social media to help raise funds for her bail, legal and other incidental expenses. DJ Elena Emelyanova, who goes by her stage name ‘Sunrise Dark’, was a popular attraction at Russian rave parties in Goa. She was among the three foreigners and 20 Indian nationals, including an actor, who were arrested by the police at night on August 15 on charges of possession of narcotics. The Crime Branch authorities had kept the local police in the dark and busted a rave party at a hired villa in Vagator. Altogether, 23 people were arrested and narcotics, including cocaine, hashish and ecstasy, etc, worth Rs 9 lakh were seized. The arrested accused have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. The arrested accused include actor Kapil Jhaveri whose photographs with several ruling Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) leaders such as Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and state party president Vinay Tendulkar have gone viral on social media. Also read: Cop shoots gym owner dead in Delhi’s RohiniShailesh Shetty, a close aide of independent Goa lawmaker Rohan Khaunte, was also arrested later. Eva Ova (29), a Czech Republic national, and Ana Nucamendo (28) from Mexico are the other two arrested accused foreigners. The social media campaign that has been launched in several Russian cities is appealing to the public to donate generously for the release of Emelyanova on bail. The drive claimed that she has been falsely implicated. “Our beloved friend Lena (Elena) is a good person. She is an incredibly bright DJ, who gives us only positive emotions and music … she was invited to play at a party on August 15 ... her love for music is boundless … suddenly, the police came and arrested her,” said the appeal shared by Viktoriya Uvarovska, a Russian national. “I ask for your help in collecting money for the release of an innocent girl. She has been charged with organising an illegal party. But she is a DJ, who was invited to play at the party. She didn’t even get a chance to be at the console,” it stated. The appeal contains three bank account numbers, including two in Russia and also the State Bank of India’s Porvorim branch in Goa, where the donations can be sent to get legal redressal for Emelyanova.Agni Pavalonka, another Russian national, is also part of the social media campaign to ensure Emelyanova’s release on bail. There was a free-for-all at Pavalonka’s farewell party in early August that had spilled on the streets in Goa. Later, police had booked the party organisers for the unruly scenes and violation of law and order. The social media campaigners for Emelyanova have cited that the other two accused were released on a bail bond of Rs 1 lakh each, but the DJ would need more money because she has been held on charges of possession of cocaine. However, the police contradicted Emelyanova’s supporters’ version. Shobit Saksena, superintendent of police (SP), anti-narcotic cell (ANC), Goa, said none of those booked under the NDPS Act, 1985, has been released on bail yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-dj-held-in-goa-friends-back-home-launch-crowdfunding-for-her-release/story-slwWHNqQvUGiuvKtIcmxXO.html
21-08-2020||India||Sushant death case: CBI moves from DCP Zone 9 office to Bandra Police Station||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team investigating the Sushant Singh Rajput Death case moves from the office of DCP Zone 9 Abhishek Trimukhe to Bandra Police station along with some documents on Friday.The CBI team reached the Bandra Police Station for further investigation in the Rajput death’s case on Friday. Earlier today, the CBI team brought an unidentified person related to the case, to the guest house where they are staying, for questioning.On August 19, while holding that the FIR registered in Patna over the death of Bollywood actor was legitimate, the Supreme Court directed the CBI to investigate the case.The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said the Bihar Government was competent to recommend transferring the case to the CBI.The apex court also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. The State of Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar Government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by KK Singh, Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-death-case-cbi-moves-from-dcp-zone-9-office-to-bandra-police-station/story-uMR7GBRvLR91ic0ltWzk6H.html
21-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh first state to offer govt jobs on basis of NRA test score: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh will become the first state in the country to offer government jobs on the basis of marks obtained in the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) test, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said.Chouhan’s announcement on Thursday came a day after the Union cabinet approved the setting up of NRA to conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) for selecting candidates for a majority of central government jobs. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar had said the decision will allow job seekers to take one common test and save costs and time spent on writing multiple exams.“Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country to take this unprecedented decision of giving government jobs to youths of the state on the basis of their NRA score. Other states can also emulate it to give relief to their sons and daughters,” Chouhan tweeted.“We had already decided that only the youth of the state will have the right to government jobs in Madhya Pradesh. Now you will also get rid of the wasteful expenditure and travelling due to repeated examinations. My children my priority is to make your life enjoyable and better,” he said.The chief minister also released a statement saying the country’s youth will now be able to appear in just one test, CET, in place of individual examinations such as Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). “This will not only save candidates’ time but also enable transparency in the recruitment process. The examinations will be conducted online and every district will have at least one examination centre,” Chouhan was quoted as saying in a statement, according to news agency ANI. He also said that efforts were being made to make Madhya Pradesh self-reliant and the main priority was for the state’s resources to be given to the children of the state. “A remarkable decision has been taken to implement the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and to provide jobs only on the basis of marks obtained in the examinations conducted by NRA. We will give shape to the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat of PM Modi by realising the dream of Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh,” he added.NRA will set up examination centres in every district of the country, according to a statement issued by the Union ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions on Wednesday.The agency will conduct a separate CET each for graduates, higher secondary (Class 12) students and Class 10 candidates for non-technical posts to which recruitment is currently carried out by SSC, RRBs and IBPS. It will benefit around 25 million aspirants who apply for multiple government jobs every year and have to apply for each exam separately.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-first-state-to-offer-govt-jobs-on-basis-of-nra-test-score-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-mOu0g5S7doFgQN6En5YrKL.html
21-08-2020||India||STF, UPPCL experts still clueless on Janmasthami blackout in UP||The special task force (STF) of police and the experts of the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) are still to unravel the mystery shrouding the incident involving the blackout caused in several cities due to snag in over two lakh hi-tech smart meters on Janmasthami.Investigators, however, have not ruled out the possibility of the sabotage. While it is taken for granted that a wrong server command generated from the centralized control and command centre caused all the problem, those probing the issue are clueless as to who gave the wrong command and why. According to UPPCL chairman and additional chief secretary, Arvind Kumar, the departmental technical committee and the STF are examining the issue from all possible angles but not much headway has been made yet. “It is clear that the problem occurred because of a wrong command from the server. The issue before us, however, is to find out whether the sending of a wrong command was due a technical error or it was given deliberately as a mischief,” he said. The STF that has been looking into the issue primarily from the conspiracy or sabotage angle for the last several days has not been able to make any headway. “There is a state of utter confusion so far largely because we are not being provided with the details we are looking for,” a top STF official told HT. He said it was too early to make a comment but the possibility of sabotage could not be ruled out. The departmental technical committee, led by Lucknow discom managing director, SP Gangwar, is learnt to have submitted its report to the UPPCL management on Wednesday. “The committee has not reached any definite conclusion though it has blamed some wrong command as the reason for making smart meters defective causing blackout in consumers’ residences,” they revealed. The Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL), company that has partnership with Union power ministry, purchases smart meters for UP and also manages the UPPCL’s control and command centre in Lucknow. The company had suspended two of its command centre officials the same night. UPPCL has already installed around 10 lakh smart meters and is in the midst of purchasing 40 lakh more. One of the features of these meters is that power supply of a consumer gets automatically disconnected if they do not pay their bills by the due date but on August 12 a large number of consumers went powerless even though they did not have any arrears pending against them. The EESL has admitted in one of its correspondences with the UPPCL that around 1.60 lakh smart meters went powerless on Janmasthami. Though UPPCL bosses claim all the meters had been rectified the next day, sources claim a large number of meters were still defective. UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman, Awadhesh Kumar Vera, meanwhile, on Wednesday, filed a public interest litigation with the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) seeking strict action against the UPPCL, EESL and other stakeholders in the smart meter blackout matter. “The installation of outdated technology-based smart meters in UP is a clear violation of the Central Electricity Authority’s Advanced Metering Infrastructure Rules,” he pointed out in his complaint.Meanwhile, the work of installing smart meters in the state has been deferred for the next 15 days, minister of energy Shrikant Sharma said on Thursday. After the power cut on the day of Janmashtami, the quality of smart meters installed by the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation has been questioned by the experts. He said , “Around 40 lakh electronic smart meters are to be installed in the state. Till now around 12 lakh smart meters have been installed in cities like Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut and Kanpur, but after the blackout on Janmashtami, I have directed the officials only to install meters with advanced technology which cannot be tampered with either by officials or by consumers.” Sharma said it is important to learn lessons from the past. “That’s why only advanced smart meters would be installed so that such incidents may be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stf-uppcl-experts-still-clueless-on-janmasthami-blackout-in-up/story-05cAlErWds4EA7bJJAYOcP.html
21-08-2020||India||For those in lockdown, Alwar cop helps through e-sunwai; wins praise||On Wednesday, a family of four from Aravali Vihar told the Alwar superintendent of police that they didn’t have drinking water and no one was ready to deliver water to them because all of them had Covid-19. The SP sent a water tanker to the house and also wrote to the civic body to resolve the issue. Last week, a man from Dubai got in touch with the SP seeking help for nonagenarian parents living without food in Alwar because their maid wasn’t visiting them. The SP sent police to deliver food and medicines to the house and also offered to arrange for domestic help. These are some examples of how Alwar SP Tejaswani Gautam is helping people who reach out to her through the e-sunwai initiative started to integrate technology with core policing. Through this, the SP reaches out to those in need and help of police but are stuck in containment or lockdown zones. “We are trying to get in touch with those who are unable to come to my office or any police station due to the corona situation or lockdown in their area,” said Gautam. For e-sunwai, one has to register at Alwar Police’s e-sunwai WhatsApp number. People receive links to join the virtual conferencing platforms after this. “We are getting many requests, but for now we are sticking to helping only those who have Covid-19 or are in containment zones; the others can come to my office or visit a police station,” she added. The initiative started on August 12 and two sessions have been conducted until Wednesday. “We plan to do this twice a week,” she said. In the second session on Wednesday, there were 11 people, including one from Agra, who registered out of curiosity. “The man is from Alwar and had heard about the initiative. He said he wanted to check if this was actually happening or was just a publicity gimmick,” the SP said. Later, he said he was overwhelmed with the interaction with the SP and also gave her some suggestions for effective policing in Kathoomar area of the district. After talking to the Aravali Vihar family, the SP said she was thinking of starting a campaign against discrimination against Covid-19 patients. Gautam said video conferencing gives complainants a real feeling and is extremely convenient as they can communicate with the SP sitting at their homes. During her previous posting in Churu, she used social media and online platforms for sessions with celebrities to provide entertainment to people who had been in lockdowns. After Alwar started reporting a rise in cases, she came up with the idea of e-sunwai to help people in home or institutional quarantine, or those who had issues related to the police and needed her intervention. Meanwhile, the Aravali Vihar family has sent her a recorded video message over WhatsApp to thank her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-those-in-lockdown-alwar-cop-helps-through-e-sunwai-wins-praise/story-YBbEwv1kTeP1fdA0kFBnDN.html
21-08-2020||India||Govt merges Centre for Glaciology with Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology||The department of science and technology (DST) under Ministry of Science and Technology and Earth Sciences has decided to discontinue the project of Centre for Glaciology (CFG) in Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) in Dehradun, officials said.The decision was communicated with the WIHG officials in a letter dated June 25 which was received in July. Under the letter, the DST also mentioned that CFG to be merged with WIHG from July 1 and all its activities to be managed by the existing staff of WIHG. The letter also asked WIHG to relieve all the staff involved in the project from July 1. HT has a copy of the letter. The Centre for Glaciology was set up in 2009 during the UPA regime in WIHG, which was appointed as its nodal agency. It had aimed to carry a coordinated research initiative on Himalayan glaciology to understand the effects of climate on glaciers in order to develop strategies for climate change adaptability. The Centre for Glaciology was also assigned to carry programmes in setting up a specialised institute on glaciology named Indian Institute of Glaciology in Mussoorie. The then government had planned a fund of about Rs 500 crore to develop the institute of which about Rs 23 crore was released. Confirming the development, director WIHG, Kalachand Sain, said, “We were asked to discontinue the project in a written communication from the DST. It has asked us to carry all its activities in WIHG and relieve the non-permanent staff involved in the project.” Sain, however, said that the ‘research on glaciology will not be stopped’ as they will continue in WIHG. “The move doesn’t mean that scientific researches on glaciology will stop. Apart from the Centre, researches were also being done in WIHG which will continue and the researches done in the project will now be done in our institute,” said Sain. The director also said that the project which was started in 2009 was initially for about 4-5 years after which it was extended every year. “As in the case of other scientific research projects, this was being extended every year on our request as the desired output was received. This has now stopped with the Centre’s letter on which we cannot comment anything as it is purely the prerogative of DST,” said Sain. The experts, however, feel that the move will affect the studies on Himalayan glaciers in the country, because the Centre would have been the first such institute in the whole country. Dr BR Arora, former director of WIHG who was involved with the CFG project from the starting said, “Discontinuing it will surely affect the glaciology research. It will slow down glacial researches, as it was a completely scientific project to study the dynamics of glaciers which were not known yet.” Arora said the major implication will be the loss of trained manpower for glaciology study. “When the project was started, we at WIHG were tasked to train manpower to study glaciology as it is not being taught in the country anywhere. The trained manpower was to be then deployed in the glaciology institute to be set up in Mussoorie for which land was also earmarked. We trained about 7-8 people for the institute since last 6-7 years who will now be lost as the project itself is discontinued. Loss of trained human resource will be the biggest implication of this move,” said Arora. He said that till the project was continued, there were many significant studies being done under him. “We all say that the Himalayan glaciers are melting but nobody exactly knew why they are melting. Whether it’s all because of only global warming or any other man-made factors also? Under the CFG project we were studying all this. We had also studied the difference between North facing glaciers and South facing glaciers and the reason of their melting accordingly,” he said. He also said that there were plans to invite foreign scientists working on glaciology to the Centre in Mussoorie. “There was plan to send our trained researchers for training to countries like China, Norway and Switzerland which have expertise in studying glaciers and ice-scoring in which frozen gas particles in glacial ice are being studied to analyse the climatic conditions in earlier years and ages. There was also a plan to invite the researchers from there to help is develop laboratories in the centre in Mussoorie under the project,” said Arora. “I hope there will be a solution to be brought up at WIHG after this recent move to compensate the loss in glacial research. But the loss of trained manpower couldn’t be compensated as this study needs in-depth knowledge and expertise which comes after years of training,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-merges-centre-for-glaciology-with-wadia-institute-of-himalayan-geology/story-CU2MFZKQsjxOqiHSm3RAYI.html
21-08-2020||India||Sushant case: CBI team reaches Mumbai’s Bandra Police Station||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team reached Bandra Police Station for further investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case on Friday.Earlier today, the CBI team brought an unidentified person related to the case, to the guest house where they are staying, for questioning.On August 19, while holding that the FIR registered in Patna over the death of Bollywood actor was legitimate, the Supreme Court directed the CBI to investigate the case.The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said the Bihar Government was competent to recommend transferring the case to the CBI.The apex court also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all the evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. The State of Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar Government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by KK Singh, Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-case-cbi-team-reaches-mumbai-s-bandra-police-station/story-EpWH7uuGMS4W5tradtPaSM.html
21-08-2020||India||Soldier found dead in Poonch||A soldier was found dead at a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The deceased has been identified as Mohit Kumar, 27, of 16 Grenadiers, who was attached with 39 RR. A police officer said at around 2.40 am on Friday, the soldier allegedly shot himself in the head. An FIR has been lodged and police have begun investigations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-found-dead-in-poonch/story-OWSla1o4lALH2m1x0fOUgJ.html
21-08-2020||India||PM Modi wishes ‘hardworking’ Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu on his 41st birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday wished Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on his 41st birthday, saying that he is doing path-breaking work to transform the state and to empower its youth.“Birthday wishes to the hardworking Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Pema Khandu ji. He is doing path-breaking work to transform Arunachal Pradesh and empower the youth of the state. May Almighty bless him with long and healthy life in service of the people,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.Khandu became India’s youngest Chief Minister at 37 years in July 2016. Previously, he had served as Minister of Tourism, Urban Development and Water Resources in former Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Nabam Tuki’s government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-hardworking-arunachal-pradesh-cm-pema-khandu-on-his-41st-birthday/story-wHMg3yVSpIWl2gE2rw4k8K.html
21-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh police rescue kidnapped 6-year-old boy within 24 hours||A six-year-old boy who was allegedly kidnapped in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday for a ransom of Rs one crore was rescued on Thursday morning from a village of the same district, police said. Four of the accused have been arrested while another accused is absconding, said police. “The child Abhinn Tiwari is grandson of a renowned businessman Awdesh Narayan Tiwari who resides in Chaubeypur locality of Chhatarpur city. He was kidnapped by miscreants when he was playing outside his home on Wednesday,” Chhatarpur superintendent of police Sachin Sharma said, The kidnappers had demanded the ransom of Rs one crore from the family. Police took a swift action and rescued the boy from Khop village of the district with the help of local villagers, said police.The accused are being interrogated, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-police-rescue-kidnapped-6-year-old-boy-rescued-within-24-hours/story-2IdNDjUCdKYToaInhbodKN.html
21-08-2020||India||Maha proposes Mayani Lake cluster as Conservation Reserve||The Maharashtra forest department has proposed to designate the Mayani Lake cluster of four water bodies and forest patches spread across 996.16 hectares (ha) in Satara district as a conservation reserve. Conservation reserves are protected areas, which act as buffer zones or migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, reserved and protected forests.What is a conservation reserveAccording to the Union environment ministry, conservation reserves are protected areas that act as buffer zones or connectors and migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and reserved and protected forests of IndiaThese protected area categories were first introduced in the Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Act, 2002. These categories were added because of reduced protection in and around existing or proposed protected areas due to private ownership of land and land useThere are 92 conservation reserves in India across 12 states. Jammu and Kashmir has the maximum reserves (34), followed by Karnataka (15) and Rajasthan (11)(Source: National Wildlife Database, Wildlife Institute of India)Officials said the proposal was mooted after residents of four villages around the proposed reserve gave their consent for it on Wednesday. “The informally known Mayani Bird Sanctuary was never declared [so] on paper by the forest department,” said chief conservator of forest (Kolhapur) V Clement Ben.Also read: Lesser human interference leads to more nestings in Surajpur wetlandBen said they will submit the proposal to the state’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) for the declaration of this area as a conservation reserve following the completion of the provisional public consultation under Section 36 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. He added they received a positive feedback from the residents.List of birds at Mayani wetland clusterThe CR proposal has 57 resident and migratory speciesSome of the major migratory birds include: Greater and lesser flamingos, Black-tailed Godwit, Bar-tailed Godwit, Little-ringed plover, Black stork, Whiskered tern, Northern shoveller, Eurasian marsh harrier, Eurasian wigeon, Northern pintail, common teal, cormorant, and the endangered Steppe eagleMajor local migrants include: Wooly-necked stork (vulnerable), River ternNative birds include: White-breasted waterhen, common coot, Black-headed ibis, Purple heron, yellow-eyed babbler, pied kingfisher, oriental honey buzzard, little grebe and comb duck (Source: Proposal for the Conservation Reserve)The area proposed as the conservation reserve includes Mayani dam (227.11 ha), and Yeralwadi dam (709 ha) and is interspersed by 74 ha of forest area.It is located 100 km from Sahyadri Tiger Reserve and 65 km from Satara city, and is home to a wide variety of migratory and resident birds of 57 species. The species include the greater flamingo (taller, pink bill with black tip) and lesser flamingo (shorter, dark crimson bill), endangered steppe eagle, black-tailed godwit, bar-tailed godwit, the vulnerable woolly-necked stork, Eurasian marsh harrier, osprey among others.Satara’s honorary wildlife warden, Sunil Bhoite, who has prepared the proposal, said the flagship species for the reserve will be flamingos, and protection of this habitat for native 35-40 bird species is the focus . “Flamingos have a lot of roosting and nesting areas along the west coast. However, near-threatened local species such as painted stork, black-headed Ibis among others have nowhere to go if this habitat is lost.”Maharashtra’s 7 Conservation Reserves180.72 sq km Kolamarka Conservation Reserve (Gadchiroli) - declared in 2013122.74 sq km Muktai Bhawani Conservation Reserve (Jalgaon) - declared in 201493.42 sq km Tornamal Conservation Reserve (near Nandurbar) - declared in 201654.46sq km Mamdapur Conservation Reserve (near Nashik) - declared in 20145.69 sq km Anjaneri Conservation Reserve (near Nashik) - declared in 20173.49 sq km Borgad Conservation Reserve (eastern Nashik) - declared in 200829.53 sq km Tillari Conservation Reserve (Sindhudurg) - declared in 2020Bhoite said apart from not having any protected status, the threat to this habitat was from illegal soil or silt excavation. “The silt is used for making bricks and other construction activity. This eventually leads to uneven depth of the water bodies and lake peripheral areas.”The proposal entails conservation of the strategically located wetland cluster acting as a stopover for water birds. Being one of the driest regions in the state, conserving the area would help recharge ground water, protect endangered species such as the Indian wolf, and the overall lake habitat as a major water source for birds and local residents.“A committee for this CR [conservation reserve] will help provide a restoration plan for the lakes, identify and avoid threats, and build it as an eco-tourism destination involving the local community,” said Bhoite.Bombay Natural History Society interim director Deepak Apte said the clusters are crucial. “If some ecosystems are under threat, water birds can take refuge in such areas. This is a good quality wetland cluster and such decisions are the need of the hour.” Once approved, the proposal for the reserve will be presented before the State Board of Wildlife and the Maharashtra government. This will be the second such reserve along the Konkan coast and the eighth in Maharashtra. On June 23, the state granted the status to the 2,953 ha Tillari Conservation Reserve.Conservation reserves many be protected areas, but they do not have surrounding eco-sensitive zones (protected buffers) like sanctuaries or national parks. Also, any developmental or agricultural activity proposed within a reserve needs approval from the state and Central Wildlife Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-proposes-mayani-lake-cluster-as-conservation-reserve/story-YphlCUqsuOht1o6Jp71jpI.html
21-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to remain stable, still on ventilator: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition continued to remain stable for second consecutive day on Friday, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.The hospital said, in a statement, that Mukherjee is being treated for a lung infection and continued to be on ventilatory support, adding that his vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable.If a patient’s blood pressure and heart rate is stable, then that is considered as being haemodynamically stable.“The medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains the same. He is being treated for lung infection and continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said in a statement.The 84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-remain-stable-still-on-ventilator-hospital/story-YjCJBzEFa8KULAHUZ7WzRO.html
21-08-2020||India||MP cops’ new initiative to find parents of hearing impaired woman repatriated from Pakistan||Police in Indore are banking on experts to evaluate facial features, culture, favourite food and liking of regional songs of different states in their efforts to find the parents of speech and hearing impaired Geeta (29), who was repatriated in India from Pakistan in 2015. “Former foreign affairs minister late Sushma Swaraj, who had played an important role in the repatriation of Geeta had admitted her in a shelter for speech hearing impaired people at Indore. For the past five years, a local NGO and district administration had been trying to find her parents but they didn’t succeed. Many couples claimed themselves as her parents but they failed to establish their parenthood due to DNA mismatch,” said Monica Purohit, whose NGO is taking care of Geeta for the past one month. Purohit said, “In a conversation with Geeta, we tried to know about her childhood memories. With some important information regarding her childhood, we approached Indore police and they have taken a scientific approach to find her parents.” Police have short-listed Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand as Geeta’s possible home but her responses so far have not given the police any concrete indication of her place of origin.Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police in Indore, Harinarayanchari Mishra said, “We are seeking help of food, culture and face features experts who can tell us about the area or state which she may belong to. As of now, we have zeroed in on three states- Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. This will help us in inquiring about missing children from these states at the time when Geeta went missing.” “After having an idea that she may belong to any of these states, we showed some pictures of these areas, local movies, regional songs, food and traditional dresses. She identified paddy fields, some south Indian superstars and also showed familiarity with Telugu and Chhattisgarhi music but her memories related to culture matched with that of Jharkhand,” said Mishra. The Indore police will also seek data from these three states of hearing and speech impaired children who went missing in 2000.“Now, we are going to write to all these states to share old data related to missing deaf and speech impaired kids. As she says that she boarded a wrong train in New Delhi and reached Pakistan we will also write to government railway police (GRP) in Delhi to check old data to see the complaints of missing kids related to these states,” he added. Geeta had gone missing 20 years ago. According to documents provided by Edhi foundation of Pakistan which took care of her for 13 years, she was found sitting alone in Samjhauta Express in Lahore in 2000. She was then about 9 years old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cops-new-initiative-to-find-parents-of-hearing-impaired-woman-repatriated-from-pakistan/story-c3lEY3sPOaodecdyEwFERK.html
21-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI questions actor’s staff in Mumbai||A person was brought in for questioning in connection with the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput by a team of officers from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Mumbai on Friday, news agency ANI reported.The news agency reported citing an unnamed source that the meeting of CBI officers, who arrived from Delhi on Thursday, to investigate the Rajput death case, is underway at the airforce transit facility in Santacruz area of Mumbai. The CBI team brought the person to the guest house where they are staying, ANI added. He was later identified as Rajput’s cook.The Supreme Court had on August 19 directed the central agency to investigate the case while holding that the first information report (FIR) registered in Patna over the death of the Bollywood actor was legitimate. An FIR was registered in Patna on a complaint filed by KK Singh, Rajput’s father, under sections related to abetment to suicide. The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy also said the Bihar government was competent to recommend transferring the case to CBI. The top court had also asked the Mumbai Police to hand over all evidence collected so far in the case to the CBI. Maharashtra refused the option to challenge the order, Justice Roy said.The CBI has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-questions-unidentified-person-in-mumbai/story-cB6MMDdyAfaDkutvctZ70M.html
21-08-2020||India||In Uttar Pradesh, doctors grapple with triple challenge in war against Covid-19||It is a triple challenge for government doctors waging a grim battle against Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. First, they have lost eight of their colleagues to the coronavirus disease. Second, numerous others are under treatment for the same infection. Third, several doctors have retired from service this year. The result: the number of doctors Uttar Pradesh has is gradually reducing but their work pressure is increasing. “Our number is reducing in three ways. The third (way) is doctors retire from service. Every year, 250-300 doctors retire in Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Amit Singh, secretary of Provincial Medical Health Services Association (PMHSA), a body of government doctors. Also Read: With 68,898 Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 2.9 million; recovery rate over 74%He said against the need of 33,000 specialists and 14,000 MBBS doctors as per Indian public health standards, there are only 3,000 specialists and 8,000 MBBS doctors in permanent positions in Uttar Pradesh. The state has a sanctioned strength of 18,382 doctors. Uttar Pradesh has a population of about 23 crore (230 million) and a bed strength of 76,000 (as calculated in February 2020). “The risk is increasing every day as the number of fresh cases goes up and our strength is limited,” said Dr Amit Singh. Also Read: Deworming drug a supporting medicine for Covid-19 patients, say doctorsThe government doctors who died of Covid-19 are: Dr SP Gautam, chief medical superintendent of the Ambedkarnagar district hospital on June 9; Dr Ajeezuddin of Lucknow’s Avantibai Hospital on July 15; Dr Ganesh Prasad, former district surveillance officer, Prayagraj, on July 25; Dr Subodh Kumar of the Alchhada community health centre at Auraiya on July 25, Dr PN Gupta, Kasganj district TB officer on July 30; Dr RP Mishra (surgeon) of the Joint Hospital, Balrampur, on August 1; and Dr Jung Bahadur, additional chief medical officer, Varanasi on August 12. Dr Nizamuddin, a doctor working on contractual service at Tajpur Moradabad, died on April 20. “In India, 200 doctors have lost their lives after getting infected by Covid-19 on duty,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow. Also Read: 3 in 10 Delhi residents have antibodies against Covid-19: New sero resultIn Lucknow alone, about 150 medical staff members have been infected since the pandemic started. About 100 such instances were reported at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), the first hospital to start a Covid-19 facility for patients in Uttar Pradesh. Four faculty members, 25 resident doctors, nurses and other staff were among the 100 who got infected. Vacancies in the Provincial Medical Services have increased the pressure on doctors during the fight against the pandemic, leading to a tussle between the government doctors and administrative officers. This situation is also affecting the functioning of doctors. Also Read: Bihar polls may cost Rs 625 cr, one fifth of funds for Covid-19 preparationsIn Varanasi, the disquiet came into the open on August 12 when 27 government doctors resigned from their administrative posts alleging harassment by bureaucrats. Uttar Pradesh Provincial Medical Health Services Association (PMHSA) demanded a check on bureaucratic interference in the functioning of government doctors posted in Covid hospitals in all 75 districts of the state. While the government doctors were working round the clock to save lives, some bureaucrats were breaking their morale, the PMHSA said. Also Read: Serum Institute registers its Covid-19 vaccine trialThe state health department should ensure that administrative officers do not misbehave with government doctors, office bearers of the PMHSA said. Dr DR Singh, a former president of PMHSA, said successive governments in the state had not given priority to health services. Covid pandemic had exposed the health facilities, forcing the state government to mobilise its resources to improve the condition in government hospitals, procure modern equipment and establish laboratories, he said. Also Read: Daily deaths best way to assess Covid-19 pandemic | OpinionA large number of posts, including that of directors, additional directors and joint directors were lying vacant and promotions pending. Doctors should be given free hand in running health facilities and providing treatment to patients, he said. When asked, director general, medical health, Dr DS Negi said the risk was more for doctors in certain conditions. “In emergency cases, you can’t wait for Covid-19 test report, hence medical care is given, keeping all precautions in place. But exposure to a positive case for about 30 minutes puts doctors at risk of getting infected and this has happened in several cases.” Also Read: Ghaziabad: Phone survey finds only 14 Covid-19 cases since June 1, residents concernedHe said utmost care was taken to ensure the highest protocol level for doctors on Covid-19 duty, but people were not adhering to protocol. “At a Covid-19 hospital, you consider everyone a positive case and work as per protocol but in general hospital, people move around and you never know who is a carrier of infection,” said Dr Negi. Another issue was fresh appointment, said Dr Singh. “This year, no process has been done to make a fresh appointment. Amid the pandemic situation, about 250 doctors have retired this year,” said Dr Singh. The state has 1605 doctors working on contractual basis and there are 4,416 vacancies at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttar-pradesh-doctors-grapple-with-triple-challenge-in-war-against-covid/story-41tWLQVOKEIxRvt05FJkjK.html
21-08-2020||India||In a first, Lok Sabha employees to get annual uniform allowance||Employees of Parliament’s lower House, or Lok Sabha, will have a greater say in choosing their new uniforms and get an allowance for them annually instead of cut pieces of cloth once in two years they would get earlier, officials aware of the matter said on Friday. They would earlier have four to five Delhi tailors empaneled with the House stitch the pieces. The annual uniform allowance is being introduced for the first time and it will be up to Rs 17,000 for women and Rs 16,000 for men depending on the nature of their jobs and ranks.Employees from five key branches of the Parliament secretariat, including reporting, table office, and security, will be eligible for the allowance. “These branches deal with MPs [members of Parliament] and other visitors. They are the face of the Parliament secretariat and so they have a set uniforms that add to the dignity and glamour of the Indian Parliament,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Officials said the benefit of the allowance system is that the employees will be able to buy their new uniforms whenever they want, instead of getting it every two years. They are free to buy clothes, which must adhere to the fixed colour patterns of quality.Also read: Parliament monsoon session may start around September 10The dress code for women employees is a fixed pattern saree. For the men, it is a range of safari suits—blue, fawn, Prussian blue, charcoal—depending on the section an employee works in. In the winters, both men and women wear blazers and buttoned up coats.The table office handles the entire range of paperwork for the House, and receives notices for debates, and introduction of bills. It also sorts questions for the Question Hour. The Parliament security branch handles all security aspects.The reporting branch takes verbatim notes of all discussions inside the House and parliamentary committees. Chamber attendants, who are also eligible for the allowance along with drivers, are on duty at the Speaker’s chamber. They handle VIP guests. The drivers drive the lawmakers from their residences to the House.The chamber attendants will get Rs 8,000 annually and the drivers Rs 9,000 as uniform allowances. Women officers in the Parliament security service will get Rs 17,000 and their male counterparts Rs 16,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-employees-to-have-greater-say-in-choosing-new-uniforms/story-4zswGXXnGVK5yaApM6okoJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Stranded in Pakistan, Hindus on long-term visas desperate to return to India||Thirty-three-year-old Janta Mali has been stuck in Pakistan since February after she went there with her husband and three children to see her ailing mother in Mirpur Khas before the Covid-19 lockdown was clamped.In the last week of June, India and Pakistan operated a shuttle service for people stuck on both sides of the border due to the pandemic. Being Indian citizens, the husband and the children returned to Jodhpur but Janta Mali, a Pakistani living in Jodhpur on long-term visa since 2007, was denied permission to travel. Like her, several Pakistani immigrants, who visited Pakistan to meet relatives or renew passports and other identity cards, are stranded. The immigrants visited Pakistan on No Objection Return to India (NORI) visa valid for 60 days. That period is long over. In 2017, Rajasthan High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the deportation of Pakistani nationals from minority communities. During hearing on it on Wednesday, amicus curiae Sajjan Singh Rathore raised this issue in the division bench of justices Sangeet Lodha and Rameshwar Vyas. “Due to the expiry of the (NORI) visa and closure of international routes, many people are stranded in Pakistan,” he told the court. The court has sought response from the Central and state governments on this. Rathore said the NORI visa of Janta Mali and others who went to Pakistan was not extended by the MEA. Many Hindus in Pakistan immigrate to India to escape religious persecution and stay here on LTV until they become eligible for Indian citizenship. The extended stay in Pakistan may jeopardise that, said Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangthan, an organisation working for Indian citizenship to Hindus from Pakistan. “The period of NORI is 60 days. If they do not return in these 60 days, their NORI gets expired and they have to apply fresh for the visas. When this happens, their previous stay in India will not be counted for grant of citizenship,” he said. “Their NORI visas should be extended and they should be allowed to return to India,” Sodha said. The Seemant Lok Sangthan also wrote to the Central government on July 11, requesting intervention in the matter. It also wrote to Subodh Agarwal, the Rajasthan official in charge of coordination cell overseeing return of Indian nationals. The state government had written to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of External Affairs last month to intervene in the matter of stranded people.Meanwhile, the responsibility of raising the three children – Kuldeep (9), Mohit (8) and Chanchal (6) – has now fallen on Leelaram, Janta Mali’s husband. “The children talk to their mother through WhatsApp video call but she starts crying on seeing them,” Leelaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-in-pakistan-hindus-on-long-term-visas-desperate-to-return-to-india/story-07D16Wp09h1qrenq48vGeL.html
21-08-2020||India||With 68,898 Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 2.9 million; recovery rate over 74%||India recorded 68,898 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) disease and 983 deaths in a single day, taking the country’s tally past 2.9 million, Union health ministry data showed on Friday.This is the third day in a row that the daily Covid-19 cases in the country have been more than 64,000--it was 64,531 on Wednesday and a record 69,652 on Thursday. The number of active cases stands at 692,028 across the country and the death toll at 54,899, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am.With 62,282 recoveries in the last 24 hours, India’s recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients has reached 74.29%. India now has 2,158,946 coronavirus disease patients who have recovered. The gap between active and recovered has gone up further at 1,466,918.“Early identification through TESTING, surveillance & contact TRACING along with focus on timely and appropriate clinical TREATMENT of COVID19 patients have ensured that not only is the Case Fatality Rate is lower than the global average and progressively declining ( current figure is 1.89%), but also a small proportion of the active cases are on ventilator support,” the health ministry said on Thursday.India performed 9 lakh tests in close to 15,00 labs spread across India for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day on Thursday, taking the total number of tests in the country to 3,66,71,613 so far, which experts say is important to know the exact disease burden.“Recovery of 20,96,664 patients has been made possible because of effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently. Focus on Standard of Care protocol including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the intensive care units (ICUs) and hospitals, and improved ambulance services have culminated in yielding the desired results,” said the Union health ministry in a statement.Uttar Pradesh performed the maximum number of tests at 109,516 on Thursday. The close second was Bihar with 107,945 tests, followed by Maharashtra that performed 76,591 tests. Meghalaya had zero tests performed on Thursday, followed by Andaman and Nicobar Islands with 366, and Sikkim with 387 tests in a day.India is the third-worst country hit by the coronavirus pandemic as 22,609,467 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 792,708 have died, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. The United States has recorded 5,573,743 cases and Brazil 3,501,975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-68-898-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-surges-past-2-9-million-recovery-rate-over-74/story-YrsslH9sjodMOe8iQPJg8N.html
21-08-2020||India||20 in hospital after ammonia gas leak in Andhra Pradesh||About 20 workers, including 14 women, were hospitalised following an ammonia gas leak from a private dairy unit in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Thursday night, officials said. The incident happened at Hatsun Dairy at M Bandapalli village of Poothalapattu block around 9 pm as workers were undertaking welding of the plant at around 9.30 pm. All the affected persons were contract workers and came for the night duty. The latest incident comes three months after a deadly gas leak near the port city of Visakhapatnam, at a plant operated by a unit of South Korea’s LG Chem Ltd, killed 12 and led to the hospitalisation of hundreds.Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, superintendent of police Senthil Kumar rushed to the factory to supervise rescue operations. The reasons for the leakage of the gas were being ascertained, they told reporters late at night. However, the situation was brought under control instantly and all those who had fallen sick were shifted to Chittoor government hospital, they added. “The condition of three of them is said to be serious, but they are out of danger as they had no other complications. If necessary, they would be shifted to Tirupati hospital for better treatment. They would be under observation for three days,” Gupta said. The collector said he would order a comprehensive inquiry by the general manager of the department of industries and also the fire department. State panchayat Raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy spoke to the collector and enquired about the incident. He directed that the victims be provided the best medical care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-in-hospital-after-ammonia-gas-leak-in-andhra-pradesh/story-iqrTaaxk6r582bz3angNPJ.html
21-08-2020||India||4 electrocuted as heavy rain lashes south Bengal, flood low-lying areas||At least four people died of electrocution and one was seriously injured in Kolkata and Howrah on Thursday as intermittent heavy rain continued to lash the districts of south Bengal since Wednesday night. In the coastal district and in the Sunderbans a few hundred families had to be shifted to local schools as many rivers breached their embankments and entered the villages. The heavy rain coupled with the spring tide triggered high waves in the sea which entered nearby towns and popular beach destinations. The India Meteorological Department had warned on Wednesday of heavy rain in south Bengal because of two back-to-back low pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal. While one had formed on Wednesday, another is likely to form on Sunday. Two labourers were killed inside the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata and one was seriously injured when they accidentally touched a live wire while repairing a hoarding near the elephant enclosure. Two more persons were electrocuted at Shibpur in Howrah when they touched an exposed live wire. Many rivers across south Bengal swelled and the water gushed into some villages in South 24 Parganas, East Midnapore and Bankura districts. “The water of rivers Muriganga and Kalindi entered in a few villages over the embankments as there was heavy rain during high tide. Our officials have rushed to the spot to pump out the water,” said a senior official of the irrigation department. At Sagar block in South 24 Parganas, more than 250 families had to be shifted to schools after river water entered their houses through breaches in the embankments, said S Mondol, BDO of Sagar Island. At Digha, a popular beach destination in East Midnapore, high waves crashed on the guard walls and entered the shops along the beach. “During high tide the sea water entered the marine drive running parallel to the beach in places like Shankarpur, Digha, Shyampur and Jamra after high waves crashed on the guard walls,” said S Bhattacharya, SDO of Contai, a subdivision in East Midnapore district. At Malda and Murshidabad districts, there has been large erosion by the Ganga amid the rain. While thousands are spending sleepless nights as the river is gobbling more land every day, a few hundred families have moved to safer places. “Even though erosion is an old problem in Murshidabad, this year it has taken a serious shape. The erosion at Hossainpur, Kulidear and Parsujapur has taken serious shape. We have requested the administration to shift some families from those villages. From the TMC party we have provided them relief materials,” said Ejarat Ali, the Trinamool Congress’ block president of Farakka in Murshidabad. In Bankura at least about a dozen villages were cut off after water started flowing over a bridge. People had to take a detour of more than 10 km to reach the village. “Heavy rains would continue in an intermittent manner till August 25 as another low pressure is expected to form. The monsoon trough is also very active which is triggering heavy rains in south Bengal,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-electrocuted-as-heavy-rain-lashes-south-bengal-flood-low-lying-areas/story-CyB4GInJTS1jx2sYwiHsMJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Highest monsoon rain of the season recorded last week: IMD||The week of August 13 to 19 recorded 42% excess rain compared to the long period average (LPA) for the week, according to India Meteorological Department data. This is the highest rainfall received in a week during this monsoon.The average rainfall recorded during the August 13 to 16 week is 60.2mm, but the country recorded 85.7mm last week, with 93% excess rain over central India; 56% excess rain over south peninsula; 12% excess rain over northwest India and 23% deficiency over east and northeast India. LPA is the average monsoon rain recorded between 1951 and 2000. “All the classical monsoon components were being met. A low pressure area had formed over Bay of Bengal. The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) was south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). There were moist, strong southwesterly winds blowing over the northwestern region. In fact, within a week, we had two low pressure systems—one on August 13 and another on August 19. Monsoon conditions are very active now,” said RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre, IMD. This also shows that we may have an extended monsoon season this year. “Normally by the last week of August, rainfall reduces very gradually. But this time, the monsoon in July was very weak. It picked up in August, and as of today no monsoon model is showing any likelihood of a reduction in rainfall. A fresh low pressure area is forming over the Bay of Bengal around August 23, which will bring another round of excess rainfall,” Jenamani added.Also read: After 80% of the season’s rain in 11 days, HS Puri says Delhi’s monsoon woes to be over soonIMD had issued a data sheet titled “New Normal Dates of Onset/Progress and Withdrawal of Southwest Monsoon over India” based on the analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and dates of withdrawal of monsoon based on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists in IMD Pune. As per the new normal, monsoon withdraws from northwest India around September 17, which is a delay of over two weeks compared to the earlier normal date of September 1. Monsoon withdrawal is much faster now. By September 20, it withdraws from most parts of Rajasthan and some parts of north Gujarat and some western areas of Punjab and Haryana with a delay of only around five days compared to earlier.IMD had declared the beginning of monsoon retreat only on October 9 last year, and within only five days, it had withdrawn from most parts of the country. The withdrawal took only eight days. Earlier, monsoon would withdraw over about 45 days.“Modified onset and withdrawal dates have already been issued by IMD. Our forecast also shows that we will record excess rain of about 106% of LPA in August and September so it’s very difficult to say when monsoon will retreat,” said K Sathi Devi, the head of national weather forecasting centre.Many parts of northwest India, including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi, are likely to record heavy to very heavy rain till Friday afternoon, India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities said in their Thursday bulletin.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 cm, is likely to be recorded on Thursday over parts of central India such as Odisha, Chhattisgarh and eastern Madhya Pradesh (MP). It has been raining in many parts of the national capital since early morning on Thursday. Delhi recorded moderate rains on Thursday.Also read: Five reasons that led to Delhi’s monsoon messThere is a well-marked low-pressure area over northern coastal Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. It is likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD bulletin said.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Vidarbha during the next three-four days.Extremely heavy rain is likely over southwest Odisha, Chhattisgarh and eastern MP on Thursday; western MP on Saturday and Sunday; eastern Rajasthan on Saturday and Gujarat over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-monsoon-rain-of-the-season-recorded-last-week-imd/story-mqA2ADL1PZrSFveXoKiySI.html
21-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Delhi’s three municipal corporations among dirtiest in country and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Areas under Delhi’s three civic bodies among dirtiest in countryBarring the Lutyens’ zone of the national capital -- administered by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) -- areas under Delhi’s three municipal corporations were among the dirtiest surveyed for the Swachh Survekshan 2020 rankings for cities with a population of more than one million. Read moreFront-line workers must be vaccinated first, says reportWorkers essential to sustaining the ongoing response to coronavirus disease (Covid-19); people maintaining core societal functions; and those at greatest risk of severe illness and death and their caregivers should be vaccinated first whenever a vaccine is approved but is still in limited supply , according to a new report released in the US on Wednesday. Read moreAndroid 11 will limit third-party camera apps due to location spying fears, says GoogleWe told you that Google is bringing in a feature with Android 11 that’s going to make all the apps on your smartphone use the main built-in camera app for photos and videos even if you have other third-party camera apps on your device. Google has confirmed this and has explained why that’s going to be the case going forward. Read more‘It is a question of arithmetic’: N Srinivasan reveals how CSK bagged Dhoni in IPL auctionWhen the Indian Premier League was started in 2008 by the BCCI, one of the biggest craze was to see which Indian player goes on to represent which franchise. The fact that most of the Indian legends belonged to one of the cities that a franchise came from, it became imperative for that franchise to get that legend on board as an icon player. Read moreBrighten up your morning by watching Chris Hemsworth say nice things to youChris Hemsworth, the Australian actor, most prominently known for playing Thor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, is capturing netizens’ attention once again. This time around, it isn’t because of his swoon-worthy screen presence or praiseworthy talent but due to his kind words. Read moreISRO not being privatised: Chief K. Sivan explains govt’s recent space reformsISRO chief K. Sivan cleared the air regarding recent space sector reforms. The Indian Space Research Organisation is not being privatised, Sivan said. On June 24, Union Cabinet approved private sector participation in space projects. A new body called IN-SPACe will help private firms use Indian space infrastructure. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-delhi-s-three-municipal-corporations-among-dirtiest-in-country-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qON4Me4nrQYefA2hifBYgJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Deworming drug a supporting medicine for Covid-19 patients, say doctors||Covid-19 patients in home isolation and their contacts can use the deworming agent, Ivermectin, as a ‘supporting medicine’, doctors here said. “It is not a treatment for Covid-19, but yes, as a supporting medicine, its role has been identified to boost immunity. It can be taken under a doctor’s guidance for a proper dose,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow. Doctors said the medicine was found effective against the virus in a lab in-vitro study (study on a microorganism outside its normal biological context). “In Australia, researchers claimed the viral load went down 5,000 times in 48 hours with this medicine taken in combination. Also a Bangladesh scientist claimed a similar effect. At present, research on this medicine is going on at 28 places,” said Dr Kauser Usman, senior faculty at King George’s Medical University (KGMU). Doctors said people who tested positive for Covid-19 and were in home isolation and their contacts may take the medicine. “But children and pregnant women should avoid taking it,” Lucknow’s chief medical officer Dr RP Singh said in a press statement on Thursday. Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity Hospital, said, “It would be better if anyone consuming this medicine takes doctor’s advice first.” “Ivermectin is a medication that has been used to treat worms for years. There are no known side-effects. But its consumption should not be taken as a complete safety against infection as research is still going on,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Residents are finding it difficult to purchase the medicine from chemists, but traders say the situation is temporary. In the next two or three days, at least 1,000 chemist shops in Lucknow will have this medicine, they added. “Sale of Ivermectin has been limited (previously) as it is required for deworming by people once in six months or even more. Hence, not all chemists keep it. But with its role in Covid-19, we have placed orders and at last 400 chemists shops have this medicine,” said Giriraj Rastogi, president of the medicine traders association. He said at least 2,000 chemists in Lucknow will have the medicine by Monday and even more would stock it later next week. Lucknow has about 4,000 retail medicine shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deworming-drug-a-supporting-medicine-for-covid-19-patients-say-doctors/story-srH4xsaI5flGZ4wL8T3BCI.html
21-08-2020||India||India performs 900k Covid tests for 2nd consecutive day||India performed 900,000 tests for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day on Thursday, taking the total number of tests in the country to 36,671,613 so far.With 900,000 samples being tested in close to 1,500 labs spread across India, the country seems to be right on track to meet the target of performing one million Covid-19 tests in a day by August-end.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is in the process of making arrangements to further ramp up testing in the country.“Recovery of 2,096,664 patients has been made possible because of effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently. Focus on Standard of Care protocol including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the intensive care units (ICUs) and hospitals, and improved ambulance services have culminated in yielding the desired results,” said the Union health ministry in a statement.Also read:Serum Institute registers its Covid vaccine trialAt 109,516, Uttar Pradesh performed the maximum number of tests on Thursday. A close second was Bihar with 107,945 tests, followed by Maharashtra that performed 76,591 tests.Among states or Union Territories with low testing, Meghalaya had zero tests performed on Thursday, followed by Andaman and Nicobar Islands (366), and Sikkim with 387 tests in a day. “Early identification through testing, surveillance and contact tracing along with focus on timely and appropriate clinical treatment of Covid-19 patients have ensured that not only is the Case Fatality Rate is lower than the global average and progressively declining (current figure is 1.89%), but also a small proportion of the active cases are on ventilator support,” the ministry statement further read.ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava, in a recent Covid-19 briefing, had also said that the research body had adopted an intelligent and calibrated approach as far as Covid-19 testing in India was concerned to meet the testing requirement.All states in India are currently are performing at least 140 tests per day, per million population as prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as minimum requirement for adequate Covid-19 testing. Most states are performing much higher numbers, with the national average being 580 tests per day per million population.Experts also agree that it is important to keep the testing momentum high to know the exact disease burden.“The more you test, the higher will be the number of infected that you will be able to identify. To curtail an infectious disease from spreading, one must be able to identify, through testing, as many infected individuals as possible in time so that they are isolated and put on treatment. It will also ensure they don’t roam around freely within the community and transmit the infection,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-performs-9-lakh-covid-tests-for-2nd-consecutive-day/story-qGpUicXlPrE3hBQTnVYbUP.html
21-08-2020||India||For Qureshi’s China visit, Imran Khan scripted a 3-point proposal for Prez Xi||Pakistan foreign minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi landed in the island province of Hainan late on Thursday to begin a “very important” visit that is designed to deepen the strategic partnership between the two countries that often call themselves ‘iron brothers’. Qureshi and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi are expected to hold a one-on-one meeting as well as delegation-level discussions as part of the second round of China-Pakistan foreign ministers’ strategic dialogue.“The visit aims to project Pakistan’s political and military leadership’s vision,” Qureshi said in a video message before boarding the Pakistan Air Force flight to the island in the South China Sea. The province, sometimes marketed to tourists as the ‘Hawaii of China’, is also home to China’s strategic submarine base.Qureshi, who has been in news for the past fortnight over his broadside at Saudi Arabia that led Prime Minister Imran Khan to depute Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa to firefight in Riyadh, added that he had discussed the China visit with PM Khan.Qureshi and the accompanying team of officials led by foreign secretary Sohail Mahmood are also expected to prepare for President Xi Jinping’s visit to Islamabad. President Xi’s visit, initially expected earlier this year, was deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and is expected to take place soon next month.A Pakistan watcher in New Delhi said Qureshi was travelling with a three-point plan in hand that included scaling up military cooperation between the two countries. The People’s Liberation Army and Pakistan army had, in August last year, signed a pact in Rawalpindi army headquarters for defence cooperation and capacity building of Pakistan Army. Islamabad is keen to upgrade this relationship to provide for what is being broadly referred to, in some quarters, as a joint military commission.This idea, he said, appeared to be centred around setting up a mechanism to take strategic decisions on a military-to-military level so that the armed forces on the two sides are on the same page.The Imran Khan government is also looking at discussions to expedite implementation of phase 2 of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC projects.Qureshi, people familiar with the matter said, wants China to help upgrade the infrastructure in Sindh, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the Gilgit-Baltistan region, the last two regions controlled by Pakistan but claimed by India.The $60 billion infrastructure projects in Pakistan proposed under CPEC are central to China’s wider Belt and Road Initiative to develop land and sea trade routes in Asia and beyond. Just two weeks back, Pakistan’s top economic body National Economic Council cleared a $6.8 billion project - its costliest CPEC project till date.- to upgrade its railway lines for the Islamabad-Beijing link. The CPEC seeks to connect Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan with China’s Xinjiang province.Qureshi is also expected to seek some sort of transport corridor between Nepal and Pakistan for trade with Kathmandu. Nepal had last year signed nearly 20 infrastructure-building agreements with China during President Xi’s visit including an upgraded all-weather road connection that includes building tunnels through the Himalayas.India is expected to figure prominently in the discussions, given that the two ministers are meeting when Beijing and Islamabad’s ties with New Delhi are at an all-time low due to tensions along the Line of Actual Control and the Kashmir issue.According to information available with New Delhi, China has already assured Islamabad full coordination and support over the Kashmir issue to Islamabad. The Imran Khan government wants Beijing to go one step further and raise the Kashmir issue at the forthcoming UN General Assembly session next month. Last year, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and then Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad were the only ones to go this far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-qureshi-s-china-visit-imran-khan-scripted-a-3-point-proposal-for-prez-xi/story-gBx636mEZY26sfDQwiqaKL.html
21-08-2020||India||National Recruitment Agency: All you need to know||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the plan to set up a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) on Wednesday. NRA will conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) for all non-gazetted posts, including Group B and C (non-technical) jobs.Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced that government jobs will be allowed to the youth of the state on the basis of their score in the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) test.He said Madhya Pradesh has become the first state in the country to take such a decision.“We have taken an important decision that the state government jobs will be only given to youngsters, who belong to MP. We are putting in place necessary legal provisions to this effect. MP’s resources are only for the state’s children,” the CM said in a video clip released to the media.In a tweet, the CM said: “From today, the children of Madhya Pradesh will have the first right over the resources of Madhya Pradesh. All government jobs will be reserved only for the children of Madhya Pradesh. Our aim is to involve the local talents in the upliftment of the state”.Also read| National Recruitment Agency to be boon for youngsters, will boost transparency: PM ModiHere’s all you need to know about National Recruitment Agency test:•The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved creation of a National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct an online Common Eligibility Test (CET) for selecting candidates for majority of central government jobs.•The decision will allow job-seekers take one common test and save costs and time spent on writing multiple exams, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had said.•Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country to take this unprecedented decision of giving government jobs to youths of the state on the basis of their NRA score.•The NRA will set up examination centres in every district of the country, said a statement issued by the Union Personnel Ministry in New Delhi.•The NRA will conduct a separate CET each for the three levels of graduate, higher secondary (12th pass) and the matriculate (10 th pass) candidates for those non-technical posts to which recruitment is currently carried out by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).•According to a press release issued by the government, NRA has been envisioned as ‘a specialist body bringing the state of the art technology and best practices to the field of central government recruitment’.•NRA will benefit around 25 million aspirants who apply for multiple government jobs every year and have to apply for each exam separately.Here’s how National Recruitment Agency will benefit government job aspirants:• Aspirants do not have to apply and appear separately for multiple recruitment exams. They will be able to apply once for a single or multiple recruitment exams in various departments and take the Common Eligibility Test (CET). CET will be a preliminary level test. Its score will be valid for 3 years. After the CET is conducted, NRA will send the scores of eligible candidates to the respective agencies to continue the recruitment process. So, those who clear the CET will have to appear for the mains or second level of the recruitment.•CET would significantly reduce the lengthy recruitment cycle as some of the recruitment departments have decided to skip their tier -2 or second level test and go ahead with the recruitment based on CET score which will be the preliminary level test followed by physical tests and medical examination. This will reduce the time taken by the agencies to hire the candidates.•CET will be conducted separately for graduate, higher secondary (12th) and matric (10th) levels. Each level of exam will have a common syllabus and will serve as screening (preliminary) test for that level.•Candidates who clear CET once, will be eligible to attempt for the second level exam (mains) thrice (once every year). They will not have to appear for the PT/ screening test again for three years. Currently, those who pass the PT and fail in Main exam (tier 2) have to again appear for the PT next year and start afresh. This way, CET will save their time and energy.•There shall be no restriction on the number of attempts to be taken by a candidate to appear in the CET subject to the upper age limit. Relaxation in the upper age limit shall be given to candidates of SC/ST/OBC and other categories as per the extant policy of the Government.•Candidates will have the facility to give a choice of centres and they would be allotted the chosen centres, based on availability. They will be given an option to schedule their own tests at their choice centres. “The ultimate aim is to reach a stage wherein candidates can schedule their own tests at Centres of their choice,” the press statement reads.•Government has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1517.57 crore for the NRA. The expenditure will be undertaken over a period of three years. The cost will also be incurred for setting up exam infrastructure in 117 districts with large numbers of aspirants. The proposal is expected to ease the access to aspirants residing in rural areas.•Candidates will not have to incur additional expenses for travel, boarding, lodging to reach their exam centres that are usually far from their home town. Single exam will reduce the financial burden on candidates.•The availability of exam centres in every district would benefit the female candidates as well. Girls generally depend on a guardian (father/brother/ husband) to accompany them in reaching their exam centres if it is far away from their home town. The location of test centres in every district would benefit the candidates, particulary women.•CET would be available in a number of languages, benefitting aspirants from different regions of country. Presently, most of the exams are conducted in English and Hindi languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-recruitment-agency-all-you-need-to-know/story-896VyTk9ePb6uQIJplDEOO.html
21-08-2020||India||14 hospitalised after ammonia gas leak at milk dairy unit in Andhra’s Chittoor||Fourteen people were affected after an ammonia gas leak at a milk dairy unit at Bandapalli in Putalapattu Mandal here on Thursday and have been shifted to hospital.“We got the information that Ammonia gas was leaked at Hatson company milk process unit near Putalapattu at around 5 PM. 14 labourers who were working in that shift are brought to the hospital here in Chittoor. Among them, 3 people are serious and probably will be shifted to SVIMS or Ruia hospital in Tirupati,” Dr Narayan Bharat Gupta, Chittoor District Collector said. “All are stable. All of them are women. It is to yet be ascertained whether this incident is a result of the negligence of management or the negligence of the workers. Industries department General Manager and fire department officials will review the ground-level situation on Friday,” he said. Putalapattu Sub Inspector, Chittoor District informed that the gas has been contained at the dairy. Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has spoken with the Chittoor District Collector and ordered an inquiry into the incident. He gave directions to better treatment to the affected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-hospitalised-after-ammonia-gas-leak-at-milk-dairy-unit-in-andhra-s-chittoor/story-YNTJ2jXBijefBLGGy3PUuL.html
21-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi’s second sero survey (blood test for Covid-19 antibodies) has shown that 29.1% of the roughly 15,000 people surveyed across the Capital’s 11 districts have been exposed to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease – and are, therefore, immune. That’s a 6.2 percentage point jump from the last survey (which was conducted in late June and early July; this one was conducted in early August). In a sign of how our understanding of Covid-19 is increasing by the day, at the time when the first results were declared, it wasn’t clear what kind of immunity these antibodies would provide against the disease.At least four studies since then have added to our knowledge on immunity. As HT’s Binayak Dasgupta put it in an article summarising the key findings of several immunity-related studies, and their importance: “…a person once infected may be immune to reinfection; this protection may last for at least 3-6 months; the immune system is likely to remember the virus to offer protection in a highly infectious situation; and the level of protection may be strong even if the infection was mild”.Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraThe 29.1% number should be cause for some cautious celebration – just as Mumbai’s 57% (in slums), and Pune’s 36%-65%, both the results of similar surveys, albeit with smaller samples should be. For it means almost a third of the Capital’s population has immunity against the infection, and will likely be protected when the second wave of infections emerges (that one will, is a given).Delhi has decided to conduct a sero survey every month (in the first week). It should also consider expanding the sample. Earlier this week, New York City published the results of 1.46 million antibody tests (yes, 1.46 million of a population of roughly 8.4 million, around 17.5%) that showed that while a disproportionate number of people in low-income neighbourhoods were exposed to the virus, far fewer people in the richer ones were. Overall, 27% of those tested were exposed to the virus – based on the presence of antibodies. That qualifier is important. This column has referred to a study from the Karolinska Institute in Sweden that showed that some people exposed to the virus develop T-cell based immunity, but do not test positive in antibody tests. Also read: Front-line workers must be vaccinated first, says reportAccording to the study (published in Cell), the number of people with such immunity is around double those who show antibodies. To be sure, the sample of the study was small (only 200), but this is a finding of phenomenal significance. And it could explain why Covid-19 infections appear to taper off when the proportion of those exposed to the virus reaches roughly 25% (again, this writer has put forth this hypothesis before, with a caveat that still holds – it needs to be studied). Interestingly, a mathematical model developed by researchers at the University of Nottingham and Stockholm University (it has been referred to in this column before, as have most things to do with Covid-19; this is, after all, instalment 137) argues that the herd immunity level for Covid-19 could be around 40%.Also read: Serum Institute registers its Covid vaccine trialHow reliable are antibody tests? From the perspective of assessing the prevalence of disease in a population, they are very reliable. Sure, they may not pick antibodies (which show up a few days into the infection) in some cases, but this only means a high false negative rate of 20-30%. A false negative means the test identifies someone who has been infected as uninfected. This means that such tests typically understate exposure (and therefore immunity) – which is always better than overstating it.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Last word: While Delhi’s sero survey results are good news, it is important that the state government and people guard against complacency. The latter would do well to maintain mask discipline and practise social distancing. And the former would do well to continue to test aggressively – using molecular tests such as the RT-PCR ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-7zf7dTQ9wDgKofYTEAL7kJ.html
21-08-2020||India||180 million PANs may be defunct without Aadhaar||At least 180 million permanent account numbers (PANs) could become defunct unless linked with Aadhaar numbers by the March 31 deadline, as the income-tax (I-T) department, which is equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), is all set to nab tax evaders who use multiple PANs and conduct high-value transactions, two officials said, requesting anonymity. The government may also track expenditure patterns of individuals who spend large sums on luxuries but underreport their income and evade tax, they said. The I-T law provides for a statement of financial transaction (SFT), earlier known as an Annual Information Return (AIR), to track prescribed high-value transactions undertaken by taxpayers. The department gets such expenditure details through banks, financial institutions, mutual funds, credit card companies, and other entities. “It is surprising that in a population of 1.3 billion only 15 million contribute to the I-T kitty. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also pointed this out recently. Available data suggest that there is an urgent need to expand the tax base,” one of the officials said. PM Modi unveiled India’s first charter of taxpayers’ rights and duties on August 13 and had appealed to the public to introspect on the fact that only 15 million people in a population of 1.3 billion pay income tax. The official quoted above said there are 509.5 million (50.95 crore) PAN cardholders in the country as on June, but only 64.8 million (6.48 crore) of them file income-tax returns (ITR), and only 15 million actually pay tax. “Around 49.8 million people file ITR. But they either show zero tax liability or claim the full amount of tax paid through ITR,” he added. A second official said some use multiple PAN cards to hide their high-value transactions and manage to keep themselves out of the tax net. “As a result, only 327.1 million PANs are linked with Aadhaar. More than one-third PANs could be under the scanner unless linked with Aadhaar before March 31,” he said. Naveen Wadhwa, deputy general manager at Taxmann, a consultancy, said: “ If PAN is not yet linked with Aadhaar, there is a possibility to obtain multiple PANs. Once a PAN is linked with an Aadhaar, it will not be possible to obtain multiple PANs.” A PAN and Aadhaar linkage will help tax officials to keep a tab on tax evaders, the officials said. The government may expand the list of such high-value transactions that the I-T department tracks. According to the second official, the list may grow to include payment of education fee above Rs1 lakh annually, consumption of electricity above Rs1 lakh per annum, domestic air travel in the business class, purchase of jewellery or white goods above Rs1 lakh, payment of property tax above Rs20,000 per annum, life insurance premium above Rs50,000 and health insurance premium above Rs20,000. However, these details will be collected from the third party only and taxpayers would not be required to provide expenditure details in their ITRs, the second official said. “The proposed move is to bring tax evaders into the tax net and not to harass honest taxpayers, as they are not required to file details of high-value transactions in their ITRs,” he said. Citing an example of a person paying Rs5 lakh per annum school fee, including donations, without paying any tax, the second official said, “By claiming that his income is not taxable he is trying to dodge the I-T system. Similarly, a person, who has made purchases of luxury items or spent sizeable amount on hotel bills, is a potential taxpayer.” Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform, said, “There is a possibility and proven cases, where multiple PAN numbers have been acquired fraudulently and used to evade tax.” Wadhwa said the proposed move of the government to expand the list of expenditure would not cause any incontinence to honest taxpayers. The government zeroes in on only those cases that manifest a larger gap between the returned income and expenditures, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/180-million-pans-may-be-defunct-without-aadhaar/story-7RgsRz2rOC4HctmaYh7yUO.html
21-08-2020||India||CWC to meet soon as clamour for Rahul Gandhi’s return as party chief grows||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is expected to meet soon amid growing clamour for Rahul Gandhi to lead the party once again, people familiar with the development said. A Congress functionary said the party’s highest decision-making body will primarily deliberate on organisational matters and also discuss current political situation in the country. The proposed meeting assumes significance as Sonia Gandhi completed one year as the party’s interim chief on August 10. The party had then said that she will continue on the post till a new president is elected. Reports also suggested that many Congress leaders, including former chief ministers and Members of Parliament, have written to Sonia Gandhi seeking an early settlement of the leadership issue. Leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari have demanded internal elections if Rahul Gandhi does not return to the post he gave up in May 2019, owning responsibility for the party’s rout in the general elections. The functionary quoted above said Sonia Gandhi, 73, is not ready to continue in the post and had agreed to be the party’s interim chief last year only on one condition that it will be a temporary arrangement. On Wednesday, the Congress dismissed Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s remark that she agreed with her brother that a non-Gandhi should become the party chief. The party claimed that millions of Congress workers want Rahul Gandhi to return as the party chief as he is suited best for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-to-meet-soon-as-clamour-for-rahul-gandhi-s-return-as-party-chief-grows/story-RydJDfEl3MqCHUsSfsarCN.html
21-08-2020||India||In June, EPFO records 6.55 lakh net new enrolments||The Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) saw a rise of 4.83 lakh new enrollments in the month of June, in comparison to the last month when 3.18 lakh people had joined the formal workforce, according to data released by the retirement fund body.In June, net new enrolments with EPFO rose to 6.55 lakh, according to its latest payroll data. Almost 50% of the new enrollments are in the age group of 18-2, according to the EPFO figures. The latest figures provided a perspective on employment in the formal sector amid the Covid-19 crisis. EPFO said that the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak had adversely affected the enrolments in the month of April and May 2020. However, in the month of April and May this year, around 0.20 lakh and 1.72 lakh net new subscribers were added to social security schemes of EPFO, despite the lockdown.The month of June has seen speedy recovery with addition of 6.55 lakh net subscribers, registering a remarkable 280 per cent month-on-month growth. The EPFO has been releasing the payroll data of new subscribers since April 2018, covering the period starting from September 2017.The data also showed that during September 2017-June 2020, the number of net new subscribers was around 1.63 crore.Meanwhile, the exits from EPFO subscriber base declined by nearly 33 per cent from 4.45 lakh in May to 2.96 lakh in June 2020. The number of members who exited and then rejoined, indicates switching of jobs by subscribers within the establishments covered by EPFO.This has also increased by approximately 44 per cent for the month of June over May 2020, with more subscribers choosing to retain membership by transferring funds rather than opting for final settlement. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-june-epfo-records-6-55-lakh-net-new-enrolments/story-sVYCpRA6E55r5Ru9LX7z7L.html
21-08-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi, Prince Charles hail 25 years of iconic London temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prince Charles on Thursday joined British MPs, charity organisations and others to mark the 25th anniversary of the first Hindu temple in the western hemisphere: the Shri Swaminarayan Mandir in London, which has become a centre of community events, worship and festivals over the years.Inaugurated on August 20, 1995, the temple in Neasden in the borough of Brent has been visited by several world leaders, including former US President Jimmy Carter. Modi visited the temple when he was the chief minister of Gujarat.Modi tweeted: “Neasden Temple marks its silver jubilee. The Temple has been at the forefront of many community service initiatives. It has brought people together and inspired them to work for humanity. When I was Gujarat CM, I had the honour of visiting the Temple”.Prince Charles issued a video message, recalling visiting the temple with his wife Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, during festivals. He said: “The first of its kind outside India, Neasden Temple serves the local community as a place of worship, learning, celebration, peace and community service”.The temple, built with pillars and stones intricately carved by traditional craftspeople in Gujarat and Rajasthan and shipped to London, is one of the most visited places in London by tourists from India and elsewhere.According to the temple’s history, its ground-breaking ceremony was held in July 1991, as almost 3,000 tonnes of Bulgarian limestone were shipped 3,900 miles to India along with 1,200 tonnes of Italian Carrara marble, which made its own journey of 4,800 miles.With a further 900 tonnes of Indian Ambaji marble, the over 5,000 tonnes of stone was hand-carved by more than 1,500 skilled artisans at 14 different sites around India into 26,300 pieces.Also Read: 55-year jail term for brother of Manchester terror attack bomberThey were then coded, packed and sent on their final 6,300-mile journey to London where each piece – the largest weighing 5.6 tonnes and the smallest only 50 grams – was assembled like a giant 3-dimensional jigsaw puzzle in two and a half years.MPs Dawn Butler and Gareth Thomas (both Labour) and Bob Blackman (Conservative) were among those hailing the anniversary of the temple, where leading politicians invariably join ‘arti’ and other rituals before elections to seek support of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-prince-charles-hail-25-years-of-iconic-london-temple/story-S2nUcXQcyILqI3AFMQatQP.html
21-08-2020||India||Don’t punish Prashant Bhushan in contempt case, says AG KK Venugopal||Attorney General of India KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Thursday that lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan should not be punished for criminal contempt of court, in an unexpected twist to the proceedings even as the court reserved its judgment and gave time to Bhushan till August 24 to tender an unconditional apology for his tweets criticising it and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. During the hearing before a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra, Bhushan stuck to his position saying speaking up was his duty as a citizen, refused to tender an apology, and indicated he was unlikely to change his mind. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, cited the range of public interest causes Bhushan has been involved in. Also read| Prashant Bhushan case: Spotlight on AG’s role after hearingThe Supreme Court, on August 14, held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for two tweets — the first, on June 27, where he was critical of the top court and the role of the last four chief justices, and, the second, on June 29, where he criticised the current CJI. The hearing on Thursday was to decide on the sentence to be imposed on Bhushan.Appearing in his personal capacity before the three-judge bench, Venugopal — whose consent was not obtained before the matter was taken up and who was not heard by the Supreme Court during the contempt hearings — said that while he is not seeking a review of the court’s judgment, the court should be magnanimous in not imposing any punishment on Bhushan.“I request your lordships not to punish him (Bhushan),” AG Venugopal said, adding that Bhushan had done a lot of public good.Also read: What KK Venugopal said in 1987 speechThe AG also attempted to draw the attention of the court to previous instances when judges of the Supreme Court have criticised the functioning of the court and raised concerns of corruption in higher judiciary. “I have a list of five judges of Supreme Court who said democracy has failed. I have a list of nine judges who said there is corruption in higher judiciary. Of these nine judges, two made statements while they were sitting judges and seven immediately after they retired. I myself gave a speech in 1987 at the Indian Law Institute…”The bench, however, cut short the AG’s arguments, stating that its judgment of August 14 will not be reconsidered and the AG should not make arguments on the merits of the case since the case had already been decided. The bench asked the AG to restrict his submissions to the sentencing aspect.“We are not on merits here. We are not hearing any review. Our judgment of August 14 stands,” justice Mishra said.The bench, which also comprised justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari, maintained that it can show leniency only if Bhushan expressed regret and reconsidered his statement where he declined to apologise.Bhushan had prepared a statement which he read out to the court when the hearing of the case began on Thursday. He expressed dismay at the judgment of August 14, which, he said, arrived at a conclusion against him without providing any evidence of his motives. He said he stood by his tweets, and invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s stance in a case slapped against him by the colonial British government.“I can only humbly paraphrase what the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen,” Bhushan said, reading out from his statement.The bench, however, said, “We can become lenient only if the person enters an apology in the real sense. Let us give him some more time to think over his statement.” Justice Mishra told Bhushan, “We can give you time to consider it. We will give you 3 to 4 days time to think about the statement made today.”AG Venugopal said that Bhushan was unlikely to change his stance, while Bhushan maintained that his statement was “well considered and thought out” and it was unlikely that he will make any substantial changes to it. He, however, said he would consult his lawyers and get back to the court. The role of the AG — the government’s most senior law official — has come into sharp spotlight in the case. The case itself has its genesis in a petition filed on July 9 by Mehek Maheswhari, an advocate. As per section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual can be heard by the court only if the petitioner has obtained the consent of the AG.Maheswari had not obtained such consent, which would have normally led to the registry of the court rejecting the petition outright without listing it before the judges. But the court proceeded suo motu (on its own) with the contempt case after the registry brought the petition to the notice of the court on the administrative side. The court listed the case for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day. The court also issued notice to AG Venugopal that day. However, when the case was heard on merits on August 5, the AG was not heard though he was present throughout the day-long hearing.The hearing on Thursday regarding sentencing also witnessed a repeat of the same, as the bench heard the AG only towards the end of the hearing and did not allow him to complete his arguments.Experts believe this is unusual. “There is a reason why the AG’s consent is required before a private individual can prosecute a criminal contempt case. It is a safeguard which ensures application of mind by an independent person because in a contempt case, the court is both the prosecutor and the judge. In this case, since the AG’s consent was not taken, they issued notice to him so that they could hear him in case they need his advice. In such cases, the AG acts as a guardian and a guardian has to act or speak only when called upon to act or speak. Therefore, the AG was seen but only heard almost at the very end,” senior counsel Sanjay Hegde told HT.Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, pointed to the activist-lawyer’s credentials and his contributions to the cause of public interest. He mentioned the coal mining case, the Odisha mining case, the case on removal of the Central Vigilance Commissioner, the 2G case, the police reforms case, the euthanasia case, the street vendors case, the Singur land acquisition case, and the RTI cases as Bhushan’s work. “All these cases are pro bono (work undertaken without charging fees). He has not received any advantage out of these,” Dhavan said.The court appreciated Bhushan’s work but said there are limits and boundaries to the freedom to criticise courts and judges.“We appreciate all your efforts in filing good public interest cases; we welcome all that. But there is a ‘lakshmana rekha’ (limit). Why do you cross it? You are part of the system. You forget it,” justice Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-punish-bhushan-in-contempt-case-says-ag/story-8h4l3zSegrwtYd16Wb6tFI.html
21-08-2020||India||3 in 10 Delhi residents have antibodies against Covid-19: New sero result||Almost 30% of 15,000 people surveyed in the Capital had antibodies for the Sars-Cov-2, according to the second serological survey that suggests approximately 1.2 million people more may have silently contracted, and recovered, from Covid-19 between July and early August. The data showed that prevalence of the disease may be higher in women (32.2%) than men (28.3%), while the youngest age group (0-18) showed the highest rates of past infection (34.7%). Among the 18-50 age group, 28.5% had antibodies and for those 50, this number was 31.2%.Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraThe data also indicated that the outbreak may be less deadly than previously feared, and that a large chunk of infections are going undetected by the existing testing mechanism in the Capital.  “It is relieving to know that around 29% of the city’s population has recovered after being infected by the coronavirus. On the other hand, 71% of people in Delhi have not developed antibodies, which means that they are still vulnerable,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain while releasing the results.“The people of Delhi are being very careful in taking precautions against Covid-19. So, this is a very positive development. It shows that the Covid-19 infection numbers are no longer rising exponentially in Delhi,” Jain said, while adding that the Capital “is heading towards herd immunity, but experts say that should be at least 40%”. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe minister said the higher prevalence, which also indicates a larger proportion is now immune to the disease, does not mitigate the risks of resurgence. “We cannot rule out a second wave because only yesterday India saw the highest ever spike in daily fresh Covid-19 cases,” he added.A serological survey involves testing of blood for the presence of antibodies. The city has held two till now and the latest findings suggest the rate of silent spread has been slower than expected given that activity increased in recent weeks following the lockdown.The first such study, involving 21,837 people, was carried out in early July and revealed close to 23% had antibodies. This number corresponded to infections that took place over roughly 120 days, an average monthly infection rate of 5.7% of the population. The latest 6.2% figure for the month is only marginally higher. “We had expected that in the second sero survey the seroprevalence would increase considerably. But it has increased by around 6-7% since July,” said Jain.Also read: Serum Institute registers its Covid vaccine trialThe findings also underscore the challenge posed by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which experts believe largely does not cause symptoms in those infected, but all infected people can pass it on to others. The July 10-August 7 period had roughly 33,500 confirmed infections, compared to the 1.2 million who may have actually had it if the survey findings are extrapolated. It also suggests that the infection fatality rate (IFR) – a measure of how many people will succumb to the disease from all infected person, not just known cases – was at 0.07%. The CFR, based on known cases, comes to about 2.7% for the Capital.Government officials said the latest findings that those under 18 had the maximum antibodies compared to other age groups and would play a crucial role in the Delhi government’s decisions on opening schools and colleges. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageChief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in his Independence Day speech on August 15, said that the government will not open schools until it is fully convinced about the city’s Covid-19 situation.Giving the district-wise break-up, the health minister said the south-east district has seen the biggest increase in people developing antibodies. The lowest increase was seen in north-east Delhi, which once had the highest number of Covid-19 cases.“Antibodies are found in high numbers anywhere between three and six months after the recovery of a patient. In the process, the person also develops T-cells because of which the chances of contracting Covid-19 again become extremely low,” Jain said.In the south-west district, 16.3% of the people have been found to have developed antibodies, which is the lowest of all the 11 districts in Delhi. The second-lowest was the New Delhi district (24.6%).A day after the high court directed the Delhi government to do a comparative analysis of the two serological surveys conducted in Delhi so far, the health minister on Thursday said the government will comply with the order.Jain said Delhi has a population of around 20 million and the findings of the latest survey suggest that around 5.9 million have contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered from the disease. He pointed to subsequent spike in other nations to stress on the need to maintain precautions. “In Europe or the USA, numbers have started rising again. Our country saw the highest rise in cases at 69,000 cases. So, we cannot believe that coronavirus is over in Delhi,” he said. Jain said there was a time when the cases in Delhi were increasing by 4,000 daily and the test positivity ratio was 30%. “It is also reassuring to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has reduced to nearly 7%, which is much lower than the national average. The situation in Delhi is improving.” Charoo Hans, a former head of the microbiology department at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said if 71% of people are still vulnerable, it is quite a high number. “It suggests that the government should continue with its efforts on aggressive testing, contact tracing, surveillance, isolation, and providing good treatment. It also suggests that people should continue ensuring strict compliance with social distancing, wearing masks, washing their hands frequently, and following respiratory etiquettes. There is no room for any complacency,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-in-10-delhi-residents-have-antibodies-new-sero-result/story-PvMP8qgPhCmDNBnTKpGsRL.html
21-08-2020||India||India, Bangladesh to create new mechanism to monitor bilateral projects||India and Bangladesh will create a new mechanism to regularly review the progress of bilateral development projects, with five such ventures, including an oil pipeline and three cross-border rail links, set to be completed in 2021. The setting up of the high-level monitoring mechanism to review ongoing projects was discussed during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s meeting with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka on Tuesday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. People familiar with developments said the monitoring mechanism will be jointly chaired by the Indian envoy in Dhaka and the Bangladesh foreign secretary. It will be on the lines of a similar mechanism India has created with Nepal, the people said on condition of anonymity. India’s developmental assistance for Bangladesh and connectivity and power projects were discussed during the meeting between Hasina and Shringla, who made an unannounced two-day visit to take forward the bilateral relationship. Shringla also delivered a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Hasina. “Several of these projects, including the Rampal Maitree power plant, India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline, and rail links between Akhaura-Agartala and Chilahati-Haldibari and Khulna-Mongla rail line are expected to be completed next year,” said Srivastava. India also proposed that the next meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission at the level of the foreign ministers should be convened shortly to review the entire gamut of bilateral ties and the development projects, he said. India’s proposal to launch a travel air bubble between the two countries with limited flights for official, business and medical travellers was appreciated by the Bangladesh side, Srivastava said. The two sides also discussed the celebrations of the 100th birth anniversary of Mujibur Rahman in 2020 and 50 years of the liberation of Bangladesh and the establishment of diplomatic ties in 2021. India plans to issue a commemorative stamp on Rahman during Mujib Barsho and the two sides propose to hold joint events. India has also provided Covid-19 related assistance to Bangladesh and organised capacity-building courses for Bangladeshi medical personnel following the video conference of Saarc leaders and creation of the Saarc Emergency Response Fund. Bangladesh has committed $1.5 million for the fund. Also Read: Speakers’ conference: India asks international community to isolate Pakistan“In the last few years, India and Bangladesh have amicably resolved complex issues, including the land and maritime borders, and have taken several initiatives to boost connectivity and trade, including commencement of movement of Indian cargo from Agartala to Kolkata via Chattogram, expansion of the scope of the protocol that governs trade and transit on inland waterways, India’s gifting of 10 locomotives to Bangladesh, and introduction of parcel and container train services between the two countries,” Srivastava said. Shringla’s visit was useful in discussing specific initiatives in key areas of mutual interest and also reflected the priority that India accords to Bangladesh as part of its “neighbourhood first” policy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-to-create-new-mechanism-to-monitor-bilateral-projects/story-I1f7uV1GrTKpFuD4m4onHM.html
21-08-2020||India||IMD’s heavy rainfall forecast accuracy improves to 70%||New Delhi: The Indian weather office has become more accurate on all four measures it uses to audit the accuracy of its predictions, the top government officer overseeing it said, adding that it got seven of every 10 forecasts of heavy rainfall right between 2017 and 2019, up from under five between 2002 and 2016 -- a change weather scientists attribute to superior weather models, better quality of input data, and more computing power. The so-called probability of detection (POD) used to forecast heavy rainfall has made a significant progress, said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) at an Indian Meteorological Society lecture on Wednesday, going up from 45% in 2002-16 to 70% in 2017-19. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration describes POD as the number of accurate forecasts divided by the total number of events observed. “We are using the global forecasting system (GFS) at 12km resolution which is a very good model. We have also started with a probabilistic forecast which tells us which forecast would have more probability. This has given us much better skill and confidence. We are also providing good input for the model by using data from satellite, radar and ground data. To run the model we need higher computing power which has also been made available in recent years. The combination of all three have helped IMD improve,” DS Pai, senior scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD)Similarly, the false alarm rate (FAR) has reduced from 42% to 32% over the corresponding period for heavy rain episodes during monsoon season. The four measures of forecast accuracy documented by IMD are false alarm rate, miss rate, probability of detection and critical success index (CSI).Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company claimed it has 80% accuracy in forecasting heavy rain during monsoon. “We are around 80% accurate with heavy rain forecast. Our forecast system is also model based which is then improved on by our meteorologists. World over, forecasts are improving because data points are increasing. We have around 7000 automatic weather stations for surface data,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.HT couldn’t independently verify the claims of both IMD and Skymet. Apart from an overall improvement in forecast reliability, IMD scientists can now make monsoon rainfall forecasts for five days instead of three days when IMD launched its monsoon mission (in 2012). The mission, which involved an expenditure of Rs 400 crore involved IMD acquiring the capability to make accurate short-, medium-, extended- and seasonal-monsoon forecasts, critical in a country where much of agriculture is still rain-fed. “We can forecast with the same accuracy, but for five days now, as far as the short-range forecast for monsoon season is concerned,” Rajeevan said during the virtual lecture, which was attended by scientists from across the country. The first phase of the monsoon mission was completed in 2017. IMD and other teams from MoES are working on the second phase of monsoon mission , which is focused on extreme weather events and development of applications for various sectors such as renewable energy (solar and wind energy projects require accurate forecasts). agriculture and hydrology.For example, Rajeevan said IMD has already developed a percentile-based forecast of extreme weather. Similarly, IMD is coming out with 550 new automatic weather stations and state-of-the-art sensors for soil moisture and soil temperature detection. “These can help us understand landslides and help immensely with forecasts,” he added. Importantly, the weather office has now started issuing forecasts that look at impact and outcome. “I remember the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. We did forecast very heavy rain. But what does it mean for the common man? What action should he take when he has heavy or extremely heavy rain warning? The impact-based warning takes into account all these factors,” said Rajeevan.The MoES secretary, however, conceded that though the 25 June lightning events in Bihar was predicted by IMD and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), several people still died because of the natural disaster.Independent experts maintained that more long-term data is needed to measure improvements in making accurate predictions. “These three years are not sufficient enough to judge improvement in forecast skill. There is a method called hind-cast verification. Where you run the current model for earlier years and generate the skill score ...,” said a climate scientist who spoke on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, climate change is increasingly making a prediction of extreme rain and seasonal forecasts a difficult proposition. In an article, co-authored by Rajeevan, published in Nature in 2015, titled: “Rethinking Indian monsoon rainfall prediction in the context of recent global warming,” the authors said: “Despite enormous progress having been made in predicting ISMR (Indian summer monsoon rainfall) since 1886, the operational forecasts during recent decades (1989–2012) have little skill. Here we show, with both dynamical and physical–empirical models, that this recent failure is largely due to the models’ inability to capture new predictability sources emerging during recent global warming.” “Some extreme rain events pull up or down the average leading to deviation from the seasonal forecast. We have seen it happening,” the MoES secretary said.“Undoubtedly, the overall weather forecasting accuracy in India has improved in recent years and a 70% POD of heavy rainfall events during 2017-19 is impressive considering challenges associated with the prediction of tropical rainfall. However, verifying forecasts for more years in the past (such as 10 years) is essential since it will add to the robustness of results and eliminate any statistical biases due to below average seasonal rainfall in 2017 and 2018. In addition, exploring other skill scores and regional biases in them will help in further improving forecasting capabilities,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at University of Reading, United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-s-heavy-rainfall-forecast-accuracy-improves-to-70/story-6iTyJQt1KKMUj4C7xKEZdI.html
21-08-2020||India||Haryana to approach Centre, President over pvt sector job quota||Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Thursday he will follow up with the Union government and the President the issue of approval for the state’s ordinance that reserves 75% of private sector jobs for those who belong to the state.The remarks came after Haryana governor decided to send the ordinance to the President, a move Chautala said was the governor’s prerogative. “However, we will be tabling a Bill, a replica of the ordinance to provide 75% reservation to local candidates in private jobs, during the assembly session starting on August 26,’’ said Chautala who holds the portfolio of labour and employment department as well. The governor’s move to reserve the ordinance for the consideration of President is being seen as a setback for Chautala whose Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) made a poll promise to implement the quota. Chautala though on Thursday said the development will not have any impact on JJP’s relations with its coalition partner, the BJP. “The proposed law has a clause which gives it an overriding effect over other laws. Probably, that’s why it was sent to the President,” Chautala said. The Law secretary had advised that the proposed law be reserved for the consideration of the president as its section 23 gave it an overriding effect over other laws and has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. The second aspect was that provision providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana seemingly was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. Asked about the move of the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh to provide public employment only to local candidates, the deputy chief minister said that the constitutional barriers cannot be overlooked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-to-approach-centre-prez-over-pvt-sector-job-quota/story-KGj7XRYE2c7MReeiKINK3H.html
21-08-2020||India||Pak wanted Davinder Singh to find contact inside MEA: NIA chargesheet||Davinder Singh, the dismissed Jammu and Kashmir Police deputy superintendent of police (DSP), not only played a key role in providing safe passage to the terrorists and leaking information about the deployment of Indian security forces, but also hid Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists in the J&K police’s guest house a day before his arrest, according to the charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last month. The charge sheet, exclusively reviewed by HT, states that apart from the Hizbul Mujahideen, Singh, 59, was in touch with the Pakistani establishment through Shafkat Jatoi alias Hussain , an officer of Pakistan high commission in New Delhi through secure messaging platforms. Revealing Singh’s closeness to the Pakistani official, NIA’s charge sheet says that Singh saved the mobile number of Shafkat Jatoi as “Bhai Pak” . Shafkat was using Singh to gain some access to other arms of the government and tasked him (Singh) to find a contact in the ministry of external affairs (MEA), NIA adds. Singh was arrested on January 11 this year when he was ferrying HM Commander Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, an advocate, Irfan Shafi Mir, and another terrorist, Rafi Ahmad Rather, from Shopian to Jammu -- in his car. He had done this before, NIA adds, commenting that people like Singh have played a “crucial” role in making HM one of the region’s most active terror groups. The charge sheet, filed on July 6 in a special court in Jammu, claims that Singh transported Naveed Babu with another HM militant in February 2019 from Shopian to Jammu and later back to Shopian in April same year. “His ( Singh’s) level of commitment in the execution of conspiracy is established by way of the fact that he harboured the HM militants – Babu and Rather on January 10 (a day before they were arrested this year) in a guest house meant for stay of J&K police personnel -- by making forged entries in the records of the guest house,” the charge sheet says. The location of guest house is not mentioned in the charge sheet but Singh, Mir, Babu and Rather left Shopian for Jammu on January 11. It adds that Naveed Babu once asked Mir to confirm from Singh as which social media and messaging platforms they should use to avoid surveillance by Indian agencies. Mir, who enjoyed clout with the HM leadership and Pak’s spy agency ISI, was using the official position of Singh for collection of information about the deployment of security forces, and engaged in getting arms and ammunition for further supplying to the active militants in the valley, the NIA charge sheet says. “The evidence on record reveals that Singh was in constant touch with Irfan Mir for providing all kind of support including supply of arms and ammunition for which he was receiving funds at different point of time,” it adds. For supplying arms, Singh used to receive money from Mir and another HM operative Syed Irfan Ahmad. It was Mir who had introduced Singh to Naveed Babu and Pakistan high commission officials. The NIA has stated that Mir became part of conspiracy to help Naveed Babu further the agenda of HM sometime in June-July 2018 in the valley. During his four trips to Pakistan since 2016, Mir met HM chief Syed Salahuddin, the terror group’s operation head Khurshid Alam and several ISI officers according to the charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/davinder-hid-hizbul-terrorists-nia-charge-sheet/story-SKjT5YUNwCRV8HYv8sj7LO.html
21-08-2020||India||Manjhi’s HAM(S) exits Oppn coalition||PATNA: The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), led by former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, announced on Thursday its decision to leave a five-party opposition coalition that includes the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).The party, also known as the HAM(S), did not announce as to whether it would contest the upcoming Bihar assembly elections — due in October-November — alone or become part of some other alliance. “HAM is no longer a part of the grand alliance. The party’s executive committee has authorised Manjhiji to take a call on the future,” party spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. “Politics is full of probabilities and possibilities,” he added. Manjhi, a former leader of Bihar’s ruling Janata Dal (United), quit the party in 2015 after he was forced to step down as the chief minister to make way for the return of Nitish Kumar to the post. He later formed the HAM(S) and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). With Kumar returning to the NDA in July 2017, Manjhi quit the alliance and became part of the opposition grouping. HAM(S) unsuccessfully contested three Lok Sabha seats in 2019 general elections. HAM(S) leaders indicated that Manjhi could return to the NDA. “The party has laid no pre-conditions on seats,” said a senior party leader who did not want to be named. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the grand alliance “mistreated” Manjhi. “They didn’t pay adequate respect and even ignored his phone calls. He was feeling down and out — which ended in him quitting the grand alliance,” he said.Manjhi has a big following in the Maha Dalit and Dalit communities, which form 16% of Bihar’s population of 104.1 million as per the 2011 census.The HAM(S) issued an ultimatum to its alliance partners — the RJD, Congress, Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) — for the formation of a coordination committee by June 25 to begin seat-sharing talks, according to Rizwan. Though there were some efforts by the Congress to broker peace, the panel was not formed, he added.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha said: “It is an unfortunate development. He was getting his due respect but it seems he did not learn from his earlier experience about the treatment meted to him...(by the NDA).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manjhi-s-ham-s-exits-oppn-coalition/story-09CyBqXRO0YfrqiPmDIArO.html
21-08-2020||India||Girl raped, killed by sibling, three friends in Jaipur||The police charge sheet in the gang rape and murder of a 10-year-old disabled girl in Jaipur on May 17, filed Thursday, has revealed horrific details, about how she was kidnapped by her own brother (20 years old) and raped by him and three of his friends, and then killed. Sulesh Choudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police ( organized crime) in Jaipur City, completed investigation into the case. She was additional SP in Jaipur Rural when she investigated the case under Manoharpur police station.“During investigation, we found that the brother of the victim, who is the prime accused in the case, hated his sister because he thought that she was a burden on the family. She was dependent on the family for everything. The statements of neighbours and other relatives show that he preferred to be out of house most of the time to avoid seeing her,” the police officer said.The family is from Uttar Pradesh and worked at a brick kiln in Jaipur. “On May 17, the victim was very happy as her mother had got her a new pair of jeans and a T-shirt. In the evening around 4.15pm, the brother along with his three friends, all between 18 and 20, kidnapped her,” Choudhary said. She added that the accused confessed to watching pornography on a mobile phone during the act. The family registered a missing person complaint the following day. In the evening, police found the body. Choudhary said that the police traced the locations of the mobile phones of neighbours and family-members at the approximate time of the crime. One phone was present near the scene of the crime -- it belonged to a friend of the girl’s brother. When he was interrogated, he confessed to the crime, and named three others, including the brother of the girl. The accused were arrested on May 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-raped-killed-by-sibling-three-friends/story-cf3jsVa7Pb202UKjr0pMWN.html
21-08-2020||India||Bihar polls may cost Rs 625 cr, one fifth of funds for Covid-19 preparations||The upcoming Bihar Assembly polls, the first such exercise in the country to be held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, will cost the state exchequer an estimated Rs 625 crore, more than double the amount spent to hold the last state polls in 2015, and one-fifth of the total amount is estimated to be spent in ensuring safety arrangements for voters and polling personnel at booths as per guidelines to be issued by the Election Commission soon, officials in the state election department have said.Compared to the 2015 polls, when around Rs 270 crore was spent on the exercise, there will be an estimated increase of 131.48% in the expenses of holding elections this year, thanks to the raging pandemic.Also read: Curbs at rallies, booths likely in first Covid-19 pollsThe expenditure for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was Rs 535 crore, as per state government records.While the cost of holding Lok Sabha elections is borne by the central government, respective states foot the bill for holding Assembly elections.According to officials familiar with the matter, the drastic rise in poll expenses this time is on account of safety measures like purchase of PPE kits for six lakh polling personnel, besides gloves and masks, and sanitizer for voters before they enter the booths.The Election Commission of India (ECI) is also considering other proposals for safety of electors, including putting circles outside the booths where voters would be asked to stand before casting their vote to ensure social distancing.Also read: Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM-S exits Grand Alliance ahead of Bihar assembly pollsThe expected expenditure on transportation of polling personnel and central armed police force (CAPF) is another factor for cost escalation. “This time, requirement of buses, trucks, SUVs and other vehicles will be much higher than previous elections to ensure there is no crowding inside vehicles ferrying polling personnel,” said an official engaged in poll preparations.“This time, counting centres will be much bigger so that polling agents and poll personnel can maintain proper social distance during the counting process,” he said.The increase in number of booths by 45%, with creation of 33,797 auxillary booths apart from 72,727 booths to cap the number of voters to 1000 or below in each booth for maintaining safety norms, is another reason behind cost escalation, sources said.Bihar has a total 243 assembly constituencies.“There is an assessment that Rs 2 crore-plus per assembly constituency would be spent on election-related activities. Besides, an additional Rs 125 crore will be spent on purchasing safety gears and implementing various measures for social distancing. The figure can even go up,” said the official.The assessment of high cost to be incurred in the coming polls is also reflected in the budget 2020-21. While the initial budgetary provision for the state’s election department in this year’s budget was Rs 627 crore, an additional allotment of Rs 250 crore was made in the recently approved supplementary budget by the state government, based on the election department’s revised cost estimates.This means the state government has made a total budgetary provision of Rs 877 crore, of which Rs 122 crore has been provisioned for payment to central security forces to be engaged for poll duty.Bihar’s chief electoral officer H R Srinivasa refused to comment on the projected cost of Rs 625 crore. “Sufficient budgetary provisions have been made for the election expenditure. We have adequate funds,” he said.Principal secretary (finance) S Siddharth said the state election department had been allotted funds as per demand for conduct of polls. “ The state government has made additional allotment in supplementary budget for election purposes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-may-cost-rs-625-cr-one-fifth-of-funds-for-covid-preparations/story-SKRgydDHmGv2MFc0aFl81L.html
21-08-2020||India||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Indore ranked cleanest city fourth time in a row||Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has been ranked India’s cleanest city for the fourth consecutive year by Swachh Survekshan 2020, the central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation in urban centres under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The findings were released on Thursday.While Indore ranked first among cities with more than one million population, Patna in Bihar was ranked the lowest at 47.Surat in Gujarat and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra were ranked the second and third cleanest cities, respectively. In the category of cities with a population of less than 100,000, Karad won the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala. All three are in Maharashtra.  The survey’s findings were based on assessments by field officers and citizens’ feedback on garbage disposal, open defecation free ratings, functionality and maintenance of community toilets and safe management of faecal sludge from the toilets and ensuring that no untreated sludge is discharged into open drains or water bodies.Also read| Swachh Survekshan Awards 2020: List of winning citiesChhattisgarh was ranked the cleanest state of India in the category of states with fewer than 100 urban local bodies (ULBs) category. Jharkhand was adjudged the cleanest state of India in the above 100-ULBs category. Among cantonment boards, Jalandhar was rated the cleanest followed by Delhi and Meerut. The announcement of this year’s rankings was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of housing and urban affairs said. The survey, performed in January before the lockdown to curb the outbreak, was completed in 28 days, covering 4,242 cities, and saw the participation of 18.7 million citizens. “When the Swachh Bharat Mission- Urban (SBM-U) was launched in 2014, it was with the objective of making urban India 100% open defecation free (ODF) along with 100% scientific solid waste management. With no concept of ODF in urban areas and solid waste processing standing at a mere 18%, it was clear that an accelerated approach was necessary if the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s dream of a Swachh India was to be achieved within the time-frame of five years ,” housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri said at a virtual press conference on Thursday. Also read: Indore India’s cleanest city, Surat and Navi Mumbai bag 2nd, 3rd spot“A framework was therefore needed to bring about rigour in the progress in monitoring and a spirit of healthy competition amongst states and cities to improve their performance in key cleanliness parameters. It was this underlying thought that led to the conceptualization and subsequent implementation of Swachh Survekshan (SS), a competitive framework to encourage cities to improve the status of urban sanitation while encouraging large-scale citizen participation,” he added. Every year, cities and towns across India are awarded the title of “Swachh Cities”’ on the basis of their cleanliness and sanitation drives as a part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Mission) that was launched in 2014. “Overall, I feel, the Survekshan assessments have been very holistic addressing different categories of cities and also including and acknowledging different city models on waste and sanitation. The focus has been on sustainable management and interventions and maximum citizen participation,” said Swati Singh Sambyal, a Delhi-based waste management expert and former programme manager , environmental governance (municipal solid waste), at the Centre for Science and Environment. Sambyal said the waste generation had increased manifold as the cities battle the pandemic and wondered how things may change in the next Swachh Survekshan. “How do we address behaviour change at the same time strengthen waste management,” Sambyal added.The ministry of housing and urban affairs is the nodal agency for the Swachh Bharat Mission, conducted its first survey in 2016, ranking 73 cities (urban local bodies). To expand the coverage, the ministry conducted its second survey the following year, ranking 434 cities. In Swachh Survekshan 2018, the scale increased to 4,203 cities.In the 2019 Swachh Survekshan 4,237 cities were covered.“Mainstreaming of informal waste workers, provision of social security schemes and safety gears to all sanitation workers, dignity and recognition and welfare of sanitation workers and their families was accorded due importance” in the latest survey, Puri said. He added that the survey team visited over 58,000 residential and over 20,000 commercial areas covering over 64,000 wards – all in 28 days.“I think if the methodology is expanded to include processes in the full cycle of waste {generation and disposal} , and not merely outcomes, we can get a more holistic picture of the Mission. Repeated winning by some of the cities also indicates that the competition can improve if the methodology is fine-tuned,” said KT Ravindran, urban planning expert and former chairman of Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC).This year, the ministry also introduced a new category called Ganga Towns, ranking the cleanliness of towns situated along the river’s banks. Among them, it ranked Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh the cleanest of towns with a more than 100,000 population and Kannauj, also in UP, the first among towns with population of 50,000 to 100,000. “We have gone through the methodology of the survey conducted this year thoroughly and we really believe there has been a vast improvement in the methodology from the past few years. When they started with the survey a few years back ,they focused only on doorstep collection of waste. Now the focus has grown from that to the process of waste collection and recycling. What is even better is the emphasis this is year is also on landfills and how to minimise them. They have not only included solid waste but also liquid waste management. The indicator have improved tremendously and now the cities should work on them,” said Sunita Narain, director general of the Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-ranked-cleanest-city-fourth-time-in-a-row/story-YJNbYNKLNeyXVYOYMGHPAO.html
21-08-2020||India||In talks with China, India emphasises ‘outstanding issues’||New Delhi/Beijing India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during diplomatic talks on Thursday, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual media briefing the two sides will continue to work towards “complete disengagement” on the LAC. He added: “In this context, they agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with existing agreements and protocols.” The WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. This was the body’s fifth virtual meeting since the standoff along the disputed border emerged in the open in May. The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, rejected the Chinese foreign ministry’s assertion that the two sides had “positively evaluated” the progress in disengagement of troops at friction points on the LAC. “That’s their assessment. It isn’t our assessment,” said one of the people. “The disengagement process is a work in progress and more needs to be done.” The people pointed to the external affairs ministry spokesperson’s comments on August 14 about “some progress” being made in the disengagement process, and that translating the principles of disengagement on the ground is a “complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”. This, they said, continues to be India’s position. Spokesperson Srivastava characterised the discussions during the WMCC meeting as “candid and in-depth” and said the two sides “reaffirmed that in accordance with the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives (SRs), the two sides will continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in the western sector”. He added, “The two sides were in agreement that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.” The two sides acknowledged the need to maintain close communication through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement, and agreed to continue ongoing engagements, including the meetings of WMCC, he said. The Chinese foreign ministry’s readout, issued in Mandarin, said the two sides reviewed the situation in the border areas and “positively evaluated the progress made in the disengagement of the frontline forces of the two countries”, and had a frank and in-depth exchange on “remaining issues on the ground”. The two sides “agreed to earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two countries’ foreign ministers and Special Representatives on border issues, continue to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, promote further relaxation and cooling of the Sino-Indian border situation, properly handle remaining issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the readout added. Experts believe India now has no other option but to prepare for deploying thousands of troops along the LAC during the winter as several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level haven’t led to the restoration of the status quo as it existed in April. Christopher Clary, assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, said: “It’s been over 100 days since the first clashes at Pangong Tso and more than two months since the Galwan clash. While modest progress has been made, and it is a good sign both sides are talking, the reality is India shouldn’t expect talks will achieve much.” India’s strategy of having “more video teleconferences with various Quad countries is probably insufficient to change China’s cost-benefit calculus”, he said. “India can hope the nasty winter of eastern Ladakh might nudge China toward somewhat more disengagement, but it seems more likely Indian troops are facing additional long, cold months of forward deployments to prevent future Chinese land grabs,” Clary added. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-talks-with-china-india-emphasises-outstanding-issues/story-CQMeaWInzzvJaksS0OtINJ.html
21-08-2020||India||Ex-Bhushan Steel director, another person raided||The Enforcement Directorate said on Thursday that it has raided the premises of a Resolution Professional (RP) and a former director of debt-ridden Bhushan Power and Steel Ltd (BPSL) after it found some “clandestine clearances” of goods were taking place from the company’s Odisha plant.The central agency said that BPSL cleared finished goods worth Rs 700 crore without payment of applicable taxes and duties. “…this practice which was resorted to by the erstwhile management of the company had continued even after initiation of CIRP (company insolvency resolution process) and some irregularities on part of Resolution Professional M K Khandelwal were also revealed,” the ED said in a statement. An RP is a professional appointed to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process.The raids were conducted at the offices and residence of Khandelwal in Delhi and Gurugram apart from the residence of a former BPSL director.“Incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones, extracts and other valuables such as jewellery worth Rs 86 lakh were seized. Incriminating documents indicating receipt of cash by M K Khandelwal while discharging duties of Resolution Professional/Interim Resolution Professional have also been seized,” ED said. Khandelwal could not be reached for a comment.The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 5 last year approved JSW Steel’s Rs 19,700 bid for BPSL, which was challenged by ED. JSW Steel has moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from an ongoing criminal money laundering investigation against the former promoters of BPSL.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for Committee of Creditors (CoC) of BPSL, said – “Without commenting on the facts of the individual case, I think institutionally it is time to set the clear the dirty and murky waters which lie behind an actual CIRP. Excessively high fees, huge expenses and now serious allegations of embezzlement can destroy the entire concept of beneficial public interest quick insolvency and mire it in corruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bhushan-steel-director-another-person-raided/story-UjHZuSyKt8G9jrDhWRI8qO.html
21-08-2020||India||House panel calls Facebook execs on Sept 2||The parliamentary standing committee on information and technology has summoned representatives of social media company Facebook to appear before it on September 2 to present their views on the issue of safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social and online news media . The summons come in the backdrop of the controversy that has erupted after a Wall Street Journal report that showed that Facebook’s top lobbyist in India recommended against taking down hate speech posts of a BJP leader on the ground that this could spoil the media company’s relationship with the government. The committee headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has also summoned representatives of the ministry of communications (department of telecommunications), ministry of home affairs and the representatives of the state of Bihar, union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and union territory of Delhi on September 1 to discuss the subject of suspension of telecom services/ internet and its impact. On the same day it will also hear the views of the representatives of news broadcasters Association, press Council of India and Prasar Bharati on the subject of ethical standards in media coverage. While the BJP has denied the allegations made in the WSJ report, its Lok Sabha MP Nishikant Dubey on Thursday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker, Om Birla seeking the removal of Tharoor from the position of chairman of the standing committee on IT. Former union minister and BJP MP, Rajyavardhan Rathore has also written separately to the Lok Sabha speaker complaining against Tharoor. Dubey’s letter comes a day after he and Tharoor filed breach of privilege notices against each other following a disagreement over the Congress leader’s remarks on summoning Facebook India executives. In his letter to Birla, Dubey has said “speaking in ‘Spenserian’ English with a foreign accent does not give freedom to an individual to not only disregard our glorious parliamentary institutions/organs to meet his own political ambitions but also to abuse our constitution.” Rathore, who, like Dubey, is also a member of the IT committee said members have no issue on “summoning whosoever the committee feels needs to be summoned for the protection of the rights of citizens of our country” but added that the matter should be discussed in the panel first. Responding to the allegation leveled against Tharoor, the Congress said Dubey made “disparaging remarks” on social media over the decision to summon a panel meeting to discuss the alleged “misconduct” of Facebook. The Congress-BJP spat over the issue exacerbated when BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya alleged that Congress leader Manish Tewari “wrote a letter to Facebook management on 18th August, where he says that Facebook management can get in touch with his senior policy advisor Bharat Gopalaswamy in the USA”. “Can Indian MPs hire lobbyists in US masquerading as advisors? Whose interests do these US based lobbyists serve when they advise Congress MP Manish Tewari?” Malviya tweeted. Tewari shot back, “Reactions of both @BJP4India & @Facebook demonstrate that the @WSJ story has probably opened a can of worms. Employees at @Facebook are asking serious questions as to why hate speech rules were bent by @Facebook & overlap between government relations & businesses interests.” He also said, “Nothing demonstrates alleged collusion between certain elements @Facebook & certain elements in @BJP4India than tweeting of my letter to Facebook Senior Management sent-18th August 2020 in the evening by @amitmalviya. Who in Facebook gave letter to @amitmalviya without it being even formally acknowledged by @Facebook. “ He said Dr. Bharat Gopalaswamy is director of South Asia Centre at Atlantic Council and advises him pro bono on policy issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-calls-fb-execs-on-sept-2/story-im7gyfwWXnpYtEpyGhzpgK.html
21-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan case: Spotlight on AG’s role after hearing||Senior advocates on Thursday expressed concern over Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal not being heard in detail during the Prashant Bhushan contempt-of-court hearings in the Supreme Court.Venugopal, 89 — whose consent, which is otherwise required, was not obtained before the matter was taken up by the Supreme Court and who was not heard by the court during the contempt hearings — appeared in his personal capacity before the bench on Thursday and argued the judges shouldn’t impose any punishment on Bhushan. The activist-lawyer was found guilty of contempt of court for two tweets on August 14. “The Attorney General (AG) is the pre-eminent member of the Bar and generations of judges have known and understood the high constitutional authority of that office. The manner in which he was ignored for four-and-a-half hours during the conviction hearing and then interrupted repeatedly today by the presiding judge is a slight against the entire Bar. Under the Constitution, the AG doesn’t need anybody’s permission to appear -- the fact that the present incumbent is a gentleman should not be taken as a sign of weakness,’’ said senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, who was following the proceedings of the court.Other lawyers said they were glad that Venugopal spoke up on the matter and tried to argue against his sentencing. “I am relieved the AG has appeared before the court now, and has taken a stand which befits his position,’’ said senior advocate Anjana Prakash. “On the first hearing, he sat there for four hours and he wasn’t heard,’’ said Dushyant Dave, senior advocate and one of the lawyers appearing for Bhushan. In court, Dave cited the Contempt of Court Act of 1972, which makes it mandatory for the AG to give his consent to a contempt petition in writing. Also read: Law has to be fair and balanced: Congress on Prashant Bhushan contempt case“I requested the court twice to hear him but they didn’t,’’ said Dave. “Fortunately for the country , the AG made himself heard but the way they treated him was a grave miscarriage of justice. Mr Venugopal is one of the most respected, knowledgeable and wise lawyers in the country today. Any court would have deferred to his assistance and advice.’’Venugopal has been practising since the 1950s and was appointed additional solicitor general by Prime Minister Morarji Desai after 1977. He was appointed AG in 2017. When the single-page order in the case heard by the justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari was published on Thursday evening, the record of proceedings mentioned all lawyers who appeared but for Venugopal.Senior advocate Chander Uday Singh, who was appearing for activists such as Aruna Roy in the case, contended that the bench did not give Venugopal a fair hearing. “I think it was improper of the court of having called the AG, having issued him notice, not to give him fair hearing,” Singh said. In court on Thursday, the three-judge bench cut short the AG’s arguments and said its judgment of August 14 will not be reconsidered, and that the AG should not make arguments on the merits of the case. The bench later gave Bhushan 3-4 days to reconsider his stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-case-spotlight-on-ag-s-role-after-hearing/story-KcQe0VtBKXxNgIPHBl1zPP.html
21-08-2020||India||What KK Venugopal said in 1987 speech||On Thursday, the Attorney General of India, KK Venugopal, during a hearing in the Supreme Court on the Prashant Bhushan contempt matter, said that Bhushan should not be punished. He then referred to critical speeches about the judiciary made by some former judges, and mentioned a 1987 speech he had delivered on the judiciary — before the three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra told him that it would not reconsidering its judgement (the bench has already held Bhushan guilty) and that the AG should not make arguments on the merits of the case.What then was the 1987 speech that Venugopal was referring to? While the exact text of the speech is not available, in a separate speech in 2002, while calling for a National Judicial Commission, Venugopal mentioned the issue of corruption in the judiciary. Then, too, he went back to his 1987 speech, which, he said, was delivered during a discussion organised by the Bar at the Indian Law Institute. Quoting from that 1987 speech, he said: “However, like distant thunder, we start hearing rumours of corruption, nepotism and favouritism entering the portals of the courtroom as well. The subject is taboo and like the Chinese monkeys, one does not see, hear or speak of this evil; but if there is a likelihood of this nightmare ever becoming a reality, then it is necessary to hunt down the causes and neutralise the same before it becomes a reality.” In the 2002 speech, Venugopal went on to then quote retired SC chief justices who, too, had flagged the issue of corruption in the judiciary. Thirty-three years after Venugopal made a speech which had more than a hint of criticism of certain tendencies in the judiciary, as AG, he pointed to it to suggest to the court that it should review its approach to the current case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-venugopal-said-in-1987-speech/story-GoFZ2pnBdc209yZhv34sSO.html
21-08-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah holds 1st meeting of leaders after Article 370 move||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah met senior party leaders at his residence at Gupkar Road in Srinagar on Thursday. The move came in the backdrop of the Jammu and Kashmir administration denying in court the NC’s contention that several party leaders were in illegal confinement at their homes.Abdullah said the meeting — the first at his Gupkar residence since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019 — was called to find out whether his party colleagues could come out of their homes.NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and former ministers Mohammad Shafi Uri, Abdul Rahim Rather and Nasir Aslam Wani attended the meeting. Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone, Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi and NC treasurer Shammi Oberoi, too, were seen entering the residence of Abdullah, the Srinagar parliamentarian.“Today, they came out from their homes and came here. I am hopeful this is not for just one meeting. They should now be free people,” Abdullah said, briefing the media.Abdullah also said all detained leaders should be set free. “...when all the leaders are set free, we will sit and discuss all the things, and then media will be briefed on future plans about J&K.” On July 13, Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah, filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court, contending that several NC leaders were being held in “brazen violation” of constitutional guarantees of the right to liberty.The party decided to convene Thursday’s meeting after the administration told the court that none of the 16 leaders, who the party said were in illegal confinement, were detained.“How sad that we have normalised this illegal detention! That we have to be “allowed” to meet freely in spite of the government claiming in court that none of these leaders are detained is a blot on Indian democracy & rule of law,” Omar Abdullah tweeted.An NC spokesperson said the party president chose to call “all the incarcerated leaders in batches of four to meet him at his residence” keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols and government advisories.As part of the programme, five other party leaders — Mubarak Gul, Choudhary Mohammad Ramzaan, Shameema Firdous, Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi and Basharat Bukhari —will call on the party president at his residence on Friday, the spokesperson said.The government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, last August and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. As protests erupted in the wake of the announcement, several political leaders and activists including former chief ministers were detained as a preventive measure. While prominent politicians such as ex-CMs Farooq and Omar Abdullah have been released, about 20 leaders, including Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti, are still in detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-holds-1st-meeting-of-leaders-after-art-370-move/story-8vLLn5Nc7EYULwCoyUOvOO.html
21-08-2020||India||Why Delhi sero survey findings do not mean you’re safe||Close to 1.2 million people more may have silently contracted the Sars-Cov2 virus between July and August, if the results from Delhi’s second round of antibody surveys are extrapolated. This suggests that while the city has turned a corner on its peak, and the impact of the disease appears to be less dire than previously thought, the outbreak is far from under control, and there is little scope for rules to be relaxed or people to become less cautious.Data released by the Delhi government showed 29.1% of the 15,000 people sampled in the beginning of August appeared to have antibodies for the virus, which means that they likely recovered from the disease and are immune to it for now. This proportion was 22.9% in the beginning of July.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the findings indicate the city was inching towards the herd immunity threshold, but cautioned that a resurgence of the virus cannot be ruled out. “It is relieving to know that around 29% of the city’s population has recovered... but 71% of people in Delhi have not developed antibodies, which means that they are still vulnerable... We cannot rule out a second wave because only yesterday India saw the highest ever spike in daily fresh Covid-19 cases,” he said.The herd immunity threshold is a point in infection prevalence where the spread of a virus slows down as the proportion of immune population increases, but experts cautioned against pinning hopes on this just yet. Also read| 3 in 10 Delhi residents have antibodies for Covid-19: New sero result“The concept of herd immunity does not hold when you talk about natural infection. Herd immunity is calculated as 1-1/R0 only in the case of vaccine-induced immunity. In case of a natural infection, anyone who is infected also passes it on to others, which is not the case with vaccinations. So talking about herd immunity in this case, when we don’t have a vaccine yet, will be a mistake,” said T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.R0 is the basic reproduction number of a virus, or the number of people each infected person can infect. This number can vary based on how people reduce or increase social contact. This fluctuation is noted as the effective reproduction number, or Rt, which for Delhi was estimated to be below 1 for over a month till August 10.Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraIf Rt falls below 1, it means not every infected person is passing the virus on, which effectively begins to reduce the size of the outbreak. “As more and more people are getting infected, assuming you cannot get reinfected, the number of susceptible people is going down. So, if an infected person goes out, their chance of meeting someone who already had it is increasing, so it is now indeed harder to spread the disease than in March. But we cannot let the virus run through like wildfire in a forest, we have to let the slow burning continue,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of epidemiology and the head of biostatistics at University of Michigan, which tracks state-wise Rt numbers for India. “Herd immunity may be achieved but cannot be actively pursued,” Mukherjee added. The numbers also underscore the scale of silent spread, which makes infection control harder. In the time when roughly 1.2 million silent infections took place, only 33,583 – or 2.79% -- were officially recorded.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThis, Mukherjee added, makes it important for people to continue with precautionary measures, which are likely getting harder as fatigue sets in. “This is not going away very soon,” she said, adding that the public and authorities need to focus on a “survival and prevention strategy”. For this, she suggests, people could carry out some social contact while being careful. “Think of outdoor evening gatherings while maintaining social distancing, forming pods with families and friends who are self isolated and meeting them exclusively, washing hands, wearing masks, etc. All of this is part of our defence mechanism,” she said, adding that the stigma around a Covid diagnosis should also be fought so that people can be tested and treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-delhi-is-not-out-of-woods-yet/story-deMbXCbBj5vMutMrT9uVBN.html
21-08-2020||India||Serum Institute registers its Covid-19 vaccine trial||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has registered for Phase II/III clinical trials on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate, Covishield, being developed by Oxford University-Astra Zeneca, with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI). The trials will be conducted on 1,600 healthy participants across India. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, is one of the 17 sites selected to conduct the trial-- a Phase II/III, observer-blind, randomized, controlled study, to check the safety and immune response of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate on healthy Indian adults. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The study is planned for a duration of seven months, and the date of first enrolment will be August 24, as reported to the CTRI. Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced and sold globally, has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine, if and when it is approved for use. On August 3, India’s drugs controller gave approval to SII for conducting Phase II and III clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country. The trials will be overseen by Dr Prasad Kulkarni as the principal investigator for SII. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayConfirming that the trial process has started, representatives of SII declined to reveal any more details on the development. The 17 hospitals that will be conducting these trials are Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam; JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysore; Seth G. S. Medical College and KEM Hospital, Mumbai; KEM Hospital Research Centre, Vadu; B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, Pune; All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur; Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna; Institute of Community Medicine,Chennai; Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh; Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital, Pune; Jehangir Hospital, Pune; All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre, Gorakhpur; Sri Ramchandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai; TN Medical College & BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai; Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sewagram; and Government Medical College, Nagpur. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Barring one hospital- KEM Hospital Research Centre Ethics Committee, Pune, which has received the mandatory approval, ethics committee approval is still under process for the remaining 16 hospitals, shows a CTRI document. Institute ethics committee clearance is a mandatory criterion to begin any clinical studies in India. The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified. “The Oxford University-Astra Zeneca vaccine candidate seems like the best bet at the moment but the stages at which all these vaccines candidates are currently, it could go either way. There is always a possibility that none of these might eventually work out but that doesn’t mean there should not be any planning for procurement or distribution,” says Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India. Healthy participants, both men and women, selected for the trial are above 18 years of age. Those who are not eligible include people with acute illness with or without fever at the time of study vaccine administration, history of laboratory confirmed Covid-19 disease in household contacts or close workplace contacts, IgG seropositivity (antibodies) to Sars-Cov-2, history or currently positive for Sars-Cov-2 by real-time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR), history of severe allergic reactions after previous vaccinations or hypersensitivity to any component of study vaccines, any confirmed or suspected condition with impaired/altered function of immune system, and pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-registers-its-covid-vaccine-trial/story-I7USDU7cfvIYYjUV2RK8sN.html
21-08-2020||India||Daily deaths best way to assess Covid-19 pandemic | Opinion||The release of antibody-based serological surveillance studies from Delhi and Pune have revealed high rates of viral dissemination in the urban populations. Delhi‘s recently completed repeat survey, which took place in July-August , reported that 28.3% of Delhi’s residents had tested positive for anti-Covid-19 antibodies. This indicated a rise from the previously reported figure of 23.4% a month earlier. A survey conducted during the same period in five highly affected wards of Pune reported a prevalence of 51.5%. A sewage sampling study, of viruses excreted in faeces, estimated that 6.6% of the population in Hyderabad were probably infected. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The exact number of persons infected, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, is uncertain as the antibody tests can yield false positive tests due to cross-reactive antibodies produced by other coronaviruses. The false positivity rates get amplified when mass surveys are done, due to variable rates of pre-test probability between the hospital cases and the general population (Bayes Theorem). To some extent, the false positives may be balanced by false negative results in persons who were infected early in the epidemic, as the antibody levels decline in about three months. Despite these uncertainties, we may assume that at a fifth of Delhi’s population may be already infected, if not a fourth. Even in other big cities, a far higher number of persons would have been infected than identified by viral testing methods (Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction and Rapid Antigen Tests). While debates continue on how short these numbers are from the herd immunity threshold, there are pertinent questions on how this information affects our reliance on some widely used statistical measures for tracking the course of the epidemic. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe popular measure is for infectivity in the population R, expressed as Ro or Rt. The number provides an estimate of how many others are infected by an infected person. The number used in the initial part of the epidemic is Ro. This assumes that everyone in the population is equally susceptible and derives its estimates from the numbers of cases and deaths being reported. However, susceptibility varies over time as some people get infected and recover and are presumed to be no longer susceptible. So a different number (Rt) is used when the epidemic advances and estimates of numbers recovered are also available. Though this is called ‘effective R’ (Re) by some, the term Rt is more conventionally used. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage However, both these estimates of R are dependent on testing rates and other diagnostic criteria employed to identify ‘cases.’ Infected individuals who are asymptomatic and untested do not enter into these calculations. The antibody tests now tell us that these ‘missed’ numbers are far higher than conventionally identified cases. So, the total numbers of infected and recovered persons are very difficult to estimate and the reported statistics are at a far distance from the actual. The numbers of infected, untested and recovered persons will vary from location to location in the country, and even within a state or city. Therefore, we cannot even assume a uniform or constant ratio of diagnosed to undiagnosed persons who were infected and have recovered, from estimates provided by an antibody survey in a part of the population. A generally applicable ‘correction factor’ is not possible to use, given such variability from place to place and over time. So, how much reliance should we place on the estimated R (even when measured as Rt) when the epidemic is advancing? Also read: Covid-19 vaccine deals in the works with candidates, producers says Harsh VardhanThe value of R will vary with the freedom the virus has to move in a population. It is higher in a crowded location-- especially an urban indoor one. It will be lower in a rural area where people are more mobile and meet in open areas. To derive a single value for a state, with a collage of urban and rural populations, is untenable. The added uncertainty, of the numbers infected but untested, makes it even more imprecise to draw conclusions on the changing rates of infectivity in any state just based on estimated R values. The same problem arises with the ‘Doubling Time’, or ‘’Doubling Rate’, which has been popular on the social media. It has also been referred to by our officials to report progress. However, it must be noted that the US, where the epidemic has been raging, now has a doubling rate four times higher than India’s. That demonstrates the effect of the high cumulative base count. When the base count rises to a high number, its doubling time takes longer than when the count was low. Even if we consider only the time taken to add each increment of 100, 000 new cases, do we know how the numbers of infected but asymptomatic and untested persons changed in between? If the numbers of such persons are very high, as the antibody surveys suggest, how do we estimate the rates of increase in the actual numbers of infected persons? We will be painting a portrait looking only at changing shadows. What then can we measure to track deaths? A comparison of daily case counts is subject to variations in the numbers and types of tests, as well as the criteria employed for testing persons. The uncertainty is compounded by the false positives (‘dead viruses’) and the false negatives (modest sensitivity of RT-PCR and even lower sensitivity of Rapid Antigen Tests). In any case, there is likely to be a big gap between the measured daily case count and total number of persons infected on that day if we go by the surveillance estimates. We are left to depend on the one variable which is least subject to time-dependant variations in measurement methods. That is the ‘daily death count’ in a defined population. Is that count consistently falling? Or, how is a 7- day moving average of deaths behaving? Admittedly, there will be some undercounting of deaths. However, that proportion is unlikely to change over time. Even if the absolute numbers are short of the mark, time trends will be clearly discernible. We should try to improve the measurement of both in-hospital and out-of-hospital deaths, with clearly defined criteria for certification of death supplemented by ‘verbal autopsy’ techniques when needed. The cause of death assignment should not depend only on test results but also take into account the clinical history and any other investigations such as chest X-Rays or CT-scans. Even as we try to improve our measurement of Covid19 related deaths, the changes in daily death counts over time will be the best indicator for us to gauge whether the epidemic is waning in a city, district or a state. With deaths, we will not be questioning “what R we measuring?” The author, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is president, Public Health Foundation of India. He is the author Make Health in India: Reaching a Billion Plus. Views are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-deaths-best-way-to-assess-pandemic/story-zbxFP5Ktzd4glDo6iMDPfP.html
21-08-2020||India||Kerala govt to fight privatisation move||The Kerala government, controlled by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI (M), on Thursday said it would explore legal options against the Union Cabinet’s decision to lease the Thiruvananthapuram airport, along with two others,to Adani Enterprises Limited of billionaire businessman Gautam Adani . After an all-party meeting on Thursday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state assembly will also pass a resolution opposing the move. “The all-party meeting decided to explore all options. We will not allow this to happen. We firmly believe {that} without the state’s consent nobody can take over it,” the CM said. The chief minister also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi deploring the move on Wednesday, announced soon after a Union cabinet meeting in New Delhi. The cabinet meeting approved a proposal to lease out three airports run by the Airports Authority of India, in Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram ,on a public- private partnership model.The state Congress unit has supported the Vijayan government, but Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has sided with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying that handing over the airport to a private entity would benefit growth in the Kerala capital. “My position on the airport has been consistent from the beginning itself and I stick to it. I am not a politician who says one thing to voters and something else afterwards for political convenience. The reality is that a private entity running the operations competitively is the only way the airport could flourish,” he tweeted.Pradesh Congress Committee chief Mullapally Ramachandran, however, said, “Congressmen can’t support the move to loot a public property by an industrialist close to PM Modi.” All India Congress Committee general secretary K C Venugopal also slammed the cabinet’s decision, calling it “a sell-out”. Responding to comments made by the Congress, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted, “Make up your minds, my friends. By the way, do you remember what the Left said when you privatised Delhi & Mumbai airports?”The BJP, however, dismissed the state government’s opposition to the move. “One of the oldest airports of the country, it is in bad shape. The CPI(M) and Congress want to sabotage its development,” said BJP state secretary S Suresh. “The state was consulted on every occasion. It also participated in the bid. Now the CM is crying hoarse as investigating agencies are coming close to his office in gold smuggling case,” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedhran, criticising what he called a “new-found bonhomie between the Congress and CPI(M)”.He was referring to the seizure of 30 kg gold at the airport delivered in the name of an employee of the UAE consulate last month. The Airports Authority Employees Union (AAEU) has decided to move a petitioner before the high court against the federal cabinet’s decision. “Employees were not consulted by anyone at any stage,” said AAEU convenor S Ajith Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-to-fight-privatisation-move/story-wVP6PZYPIvHGgtFzWYeWQL.html
21-08-2020||India||Kulbhushan Jadhav should get an Indian lawyer: Govt||India on Thursday insisted that Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former naval officer given the death sentence in Pakistan for alleged involvement in spying, should be represented by an Indian lawyer for filing a review petition to ensure a “free and fair trial”. The issue of filing a review petition in the Islamabad high court to challenge the death sentence given to Jadhav by a military court has run into trouble because of differences between the two countries on legal formalities. Islamabad has said only Pakistani lawyers and those entitled to practice in the country can be appointed to represent Jadhav. Asked about the issue during the weekly news briefing on Thursday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India is in touch with Pakistan through diplomatic channels on this issue. “For a free and fair trial in keeping with the letter and spirit of the ICJ [International Court of Justice] judgement, we have asked for Jadhav to be represented by an Indian lawyer,” he said. “However, Pakistan has to first address the core issues – giving copies of relevant documents of the case and providing unimpeded consular access to Jadhav,” he added. Earlier this month, the Islamabad high court directed the Pakistan government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav, 50, so that he could file a review petition against his conviction. The court also directed the Pakistan government to again inform Jadhav of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the ICJ’s order of 2019 staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction. A larger bench of the Islamabad high court is set to hear Jadhav’s case again on September 3. India has accused Pakistan of coercing Jadhav not to file a review petition and of not complying with the ICJ’s verdict. Jadhav was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected these allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kulbhushan-jadhav-should-get-an-indian-lawyer-govt/story-asWNVWzpTbspxMDHRf3VXI.html
21-08-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine agreements in the works with candidates, producers: Harsh Vardhan||Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke to Sanchita Sharma about when Covid cases will peak in India, whether Delhi and Mumbai have already crossed their peaks, a possible second wave of infections, the low fatality rate in the country, and India’s vaccine procurement plan, among other Covid-related issues. Edited excerpts:Have Covid-19 cases already peaked in metro cities such as Delhi and Mumbai? The current level of outbreak is showing a decline in new infections in both Delhi and Mumbai. This is also corroborated by the fact that hospital admissions of Covid-19 cases have come down. Moreover, the number of tests being offered continues to be high in these cities. Based on these evidences, it appears that the spread of Covid-19 has slowed down in these two cities. A big part of the credit goes to people practising precautions. Is a second wave expected? A second wave has not yet been observed with its prior intensity globally. This is a seven-month-old infection. We still have many gaps in understanding the natural history of the outbreak. So far, a few countries that were reported to have “controlled” the infection have reported smaller second waves in comparison to the first outbreak. It is still not clear whether the second wave of infection is smaller due to implementation of effective public health implementation and/or a proportion of people continuing to follow precautions. When are infections projected to peak across India, following which there will be a fall in new cases? It is difficult to predict. India is a large country, and the outbreak is heterogeneous in different states in terms of their vulnerability, the maturity of outbreak, and the number of confirmed cases. The outbreak is likely to peak at different points in different cities and states.Also read: Why Delhi is not out of woods yetAlso, different states are continuing to implement different measures for containment, and the proportion of people following preventive precautions differs in different places. All this makes it difficult to say when the outbreak will peak, and when a drop in new cases will occur. With multiple peaks, what is the strategy going forward? “Test, Track, Treat” will remain our strategy to move forward. When is India going to cross one million tests a day?India has rapidly upgraded its Covid-19 testing capacity and is very near to crossing the mark of one million tests a day. In last past 24 hours, 918,470 tests have been done. When we promised to take testing to 1 lakh a day by 31st May, we achieved the goal on the 10th of May. Just a few weeks ago, I promised to reach the one million mark in 12 weeks, but within three weeks, you can see the progress. We are working ahead of targets. The case fatality ratio (CFR) is under 2% and falling every day. What are we doing right on that front?CFR depends on the number of tests conducted, test positivity rate, improved management strategies, and the improved health systems responses. On charting the seven-day moving average of CFR, it is observed that there was an inflection point on 23rd June, when the crude CFR was noted to be 3.27%. Beyond this point, there has been a steady, almost linear trend of reduction in the CFR. The current CFR (on August 20) is 1.9%.Also read: What Delhi sero survey means | HT EditorialThe effective containment, aggressive testing with contact tracing and standardized clinical management protocols based on a holistic standard-of-care approach continues to result in a progressively reducing CFR and keep it well below the global average. Three India-made vaccines have entered advanced stage trials. If successful, by when will a vaccine be ready for use? Vaccine trials against Covid-19 are being fast-tracked globally. It is expected that the trials of India-made vaccines would be completed by the end of this year. We will know the efficacy of vaccines by then. The Oxford vaccine produced by Serum Institute of India is already being produced parallelly, so that the time required to market it will be reduced to a larger extent. The other two vaccines may require at least a month more to produce it and introduce in the market in a phased manner. It is expected that if the vaccine trial results are good, we could be ready to use the vaccine by the first quarter of 2021. Human trials of Covaxin, which has been developed and manufactured in Hyderabad by Bharat Biotech, started about two week back and it may be available by end of the year. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Serum Institute of India said it is ready to begin human trials in India this month and is hoping to have the AstraZeneca vaccine available by the year-end. ZyCoV-D from Zydus Cadila has started clinical trials with the first human dosing and is likely to complete clinical trials in few months. Several countries have preordered millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines. What are India’s procurement plans? The details of the procurement plan are being developed by the ministry of health and family welfare, but it is important to note that India has the world’s largest vaccine manufacturing industrial base that provides two-thirds of childhood vaccines used across the world. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is collaborating with Bharat Biotech and has entered into an MoU that clearly states that priority will be accorded to provide vaccines, if successful, to the Government of India at an affordable and subsidised rate. A similar agreement is in the advanced stages of negotiation with the Serum Institute of India for three Covid-19 vaccine trials to be supported by ICMR. Serum institute and ICMR are to undertake the trials of Oxford vaccine and two others – one produced by Novavax-Serum and another by Serum Institute by itself. Once the results of Phase I and II will be available, the detailed contours of plan to roll out will be finalised. Who will be vaccinated first? Health care workers, front-line workers and vulnerable subgroups such as persons over the age 65 years and those with chronic morbidities will be prioritised. Then, depending on the number of available doses, a special drive to provide vaccines to all will be developed and implemented.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this article gave the incorrect name for the company Novavax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-deals-in-the-works-with-candidates-producers-harsh-vardhan/story-62dsK6jUCrAV3GtNovpJUK.html
21-08-2020||India||There’ll be no jobs in a few months: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday contended that the country will not be able to give employment to its people in the next few months because the unorganised sector is being destroyed by the Union government. Gandhi, who was speaking to party workers in Chhattisgarh via video conference on the birth anniversary of his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, said the he was mocked when he had warned about the impact of Covid-19 on the country’s economy, but his comments were proven to be correct.“… The people who are running small and medium industries will be destroyed after this lockdown and this country will not be able to give employment to its youth…You will see it… Just like when I said that coronavirus would have a severe impact on the economy, media laughed at me..Wait for six–seven months you will see this happening,” Gandhi said. He added that 90% of employment in India is generated by an unorganised economy. “Modi ji destroyed this system...one by one companies will fall and small and medium businesses will collapse which has already started…This country will not be able to provide employment to youth in the coming days. It will be for the first time in the Indian history, our country will not be able to give jobs to its youth because the small and medium business sector will be destroyed,” he said. Reacting to his remarks, senior Chhattisgarh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and spokesperson Sacchinand Upsane, said: “ Rahul Gandhi is should first settle the problems of his own party and the states where his party is ruling. Secondly, the most of the problems which the country is facing is because of Congress party, and everyone knows this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-ll-be-no-jobs-in-a-few-months-rahul/story-SQ6TePLhCcv4qxmDLbd8iP.html
21-08-2020||India||63% work under model village scheme over, Tamil Nadu tops the list||The Narendra Modi government’s flagship Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY), for targeted development of select villages, has seen 63% of its work completed, according to official data. Tamil Nadu has clocked the best usage, completed 96% of the projects, followed by Uttar Pradesh which finished 88% of works. On the other hand, West Bengal has not completed a single project, the data shows. The rural welfare programme was launched in October 2014 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to develop model Gram Panchayats under the leadership of Members of Parliament (MPs). The project allows MPs to cherry pick a village to push development projects. So far, 1,418 Gram Panchayats have prepared Village Development Plans (VDP) with 72,720 projects. “But around 300 GPs identified under SAGY-II are yet to prepare VDP,” said a document of the rural development ministry. With 38% incomplete work and 17% plans not available, the progress of the scheme will be reviewed later this month by officials and experts. Adding to problems, official records also say that in 2014, the first phase of the programme saw adoption of 1,493 Gram Panchayats, but in the second phase with 2019, MPs adopted 348 Gram Panchayats, showing a sharp decline in the rate of adopting a village. A senior Opposition MP maintained that picking one village over another is always a tricky choice. “There is always a fear that residents of villages left out in the scheme would be upset. After all, only five villages can be adopted in five years.” Apart from West Bengal, Assam (25% work completed in each of these), Bihar (36%), Punjab (37%), Odisha (42%) and Maharashtra (44%) are the bigger states where large number of projects are pending. The rural development ministry has also identified that only 30% of utilization certificates or statement of expenditure have been shared by States/UTs till July 15, 2020. These documents are necessary for release of next instalment of funds and delay is submitting these proofs of expenses, further delays the work. The official document also points out that after the union rural development ministry asked the states to organize orientation programmes for MPs to make the scheme more successful, only 4 states/ UTs have done it. Along with the schemes such as cooking gas and electricity connections, rural housing and roads, the SAGY forms an important component for development of Indian villages. Officials emphasize that the scheme attempts to develop the value chain in rural India. Officials added that despite the difficulties in the scheme, there is no plan to shelve the programme. But the situation will be reviewed on August 28-29 to plug the loopholes and ensure a better delivery system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63-work-under-model-village-scheme-over-tn-tops-the-list/story-ktqk91Tsl7BWZ68x3fwdmO.html
21-08-2020||India||68.7k fresh Covid-19 cases take tally near 3 million||India on Thursday reported a spike in new cases, with close to 70,000 (68,797 to be exact) coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positives taking the total number of cases to close to 3 million (29,02,178). Maharashtra continued to top the list of states with higher case load, as it saw a jump of 14,647 cases, which is the highest in weeks. Andhra Pradesh has been a close second with 9393 new cases, followed by Karnataka with 7,385 cases.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Of the 981 deaths reported from across the country in the corresponding period, maximum deaths were also reported from Maharashtra (326), followed by Tamil Nadu (116) and Karnataka (102). On the positive side, more patients are recovering, and being discharged from hospital and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), with India’s total Covid-19 recoveries having reached nearly 2.1million (2,154,879) as on Thursday, of which new recoveries are 61,221.According to the Union health ministry, improved recoveries have been made possible because of effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine deals in the works with candidates, producers, says Harsh Vardhan“Focus on standard of care protocol including use of non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the Intensive Care Units and hospitals, and improved ambulance services has culminated in yielding the desired results,” health ministry said in a statement on Thursday. India’s recovery rate amongst the Covid-19 patients has reached nearly 74% (73.91%) reflecting that the number of patients recovering is on a steady rise over the past several months.“This is a good sign that people are getting better and our mortality is low. Most positive cases do not require hospitalisation, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number. Most people in hospitals have moderate disease with good chances of recovery,” says Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare.Also read:| Covid-19: 10 biggest hotspots of the disease in IndiaThe record high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country in terms of the active cases, has reduced and currently comprises only 24.19% of the total positive cases since the first case was diagnosed on January 30, 2020.The case fatality ratio (CFR) is lower than the global average of about 3.5%, and is progressively declining. India’s current case fatality rate stands at 1.89%, and a very small proportion of the active cases (0.28%) is on ventilator support.“The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that is at high risk of developing severe illness,” says Dr Tickoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-7k-fresh-cases-take-tally-near-3mn/story-WIR7jlM53kgfHq5eU5Z5rI.html
21-08-2020||India||Glittering Golf Course Road at centre of Gurugram’s regular flooding woes||Gurugram: Golf Course Road (GCR) is a seven-kilometre, signal-free corridor that boasts some of the toniest residential apartment blocks and imposing steel-and-glass office facades in Gurugram, with wide driving spaces and underpasses leading into and out of the city . Underneath all the glitter, the stretch between Ghata T-Point and Bristol Chowk has many drawbacks that were exposed when torrential rain lashed GCR on Wednesday and triggered chaos.Three underpasses were flooded by the rain, one of which at DLF Phase 1 could be cleared only by late Thursday evening, after more than 30 hours of non-stop efforts by fire service personnel to drain the water. Such was the extent of flooding that the entire structure was filled with rainwater, some of which started overflowing onto the main carriageway located more than three metres above the underpass.It was in October 2010 that the project of redesigning Golf Course Road was outsourced to DLF. In June 2012, DLF and Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP).jointly started construction of the 16-lane project and three years later, most of the work on the main carriageways was completed.In March 2017, the first of the three underpasses was opened to traffic at Bristol Chowk; the second opened at DLF Phase 1 a month later; and the one at Genpact Chowk became operational in March 2018.As part of the agreement between HSVP and DLF, the latter was the caretaker of the stretch and the former the owner.Starting at 11 am on Wednesday, each of these three underpasses was flooded and the traffic police had to close them to traffic. Underpasses at Genpact Chowk and Bristol Chowk were drained of flood waters by Wednesday evening, but the one at DLF Phase 1 proved to be more challenging.A DLF executive said the main HSVP drain through which the underpasses’ drainage system is connected was choked and as a result, the rainwater flowed back.“At each of the three underpasses, we have a chamber located below the underpasses where rainwater is stored and is pumped out from our motors towards the HSVP’s master line. On Wednesday, HSVP’s pipeline was choked especially at the line connected to DLF Phase 1 underpass due to which the entire rainwater flowed back and inundated the underpass,” said the executive, who requested anonymity.Starting in 2018, all of HSVP’s drains were transferred to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).“We are still examining the reason behind the waterlogging of the underpasses on GCR as it has occurred for the first time at this particular stretch. GCR does not have any drains on the surface and as a result rainwater from across the road flows down towards the underpasses. We are suspecting that the motor pumps installed by DLF were either not working or working at a limited capacity. We are verifying this,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer of GMDA. Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF 5, said that he had a narrow escape; he managed to navigate his vehicle through the underpass just a few minutes before it was completely flooded. “I have an SUV, which has a high ground clearance due to which I was able to clear the underpass in the nick of time as the level of rainwater suddenly started rising. Soon after I cleared the underpass, I took a U-turn and decided to head back home. On my way, I saw a sedan was stuck inside the underpass, and its occupant had left it midway. I was left completely shocked and appalled. I paid crores of money to purchase a house in a safe area, but I cannot even get a safe stretch of road to drive on during rains. My moving from Delhi seemed futile,” said Kapoor. Nine cars broke down in the waterlogging on Wednesday on Golf Course Road and seven two wheelers got stuck, said Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic). “We removed the cars with the help of cranes and ropes tied to PCR {police control room} vehicles and the personnel helped the motorcyclists to park their vehicles at safe places. Two drivers had to swim to get to a safe spot, leaving their cars in water. One of the luxury cars was removed on Thursday,” he said. Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) in Delhi, said that drainage system of the underpasses in the city needs to be reviewed. “Since their construction, underpasses have regularly flooded each time there is heavy rain. It is obvious that there is an inherent issue there somewhere. Underpasses are located below the surface level and hence, will always remain susceptible to waterlogging. The underpasses are either not or poorly linked to the master drains, or the latter are choked or operating at a minimal capacity, leading to drain water flowing back. Unless a thorough study and survey assessment is done, the situation will remain the same,” he said. Golf Course Road also has few pedestrian facilities and high-speed accidents are common on the stretch. Barring crossing the stretch from the five rapid metro stations on the road, there are no other facilities available to pedestrians, four of whom died in road accidents on GCR last year, according to the Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ) report.In May 2018, two people died and a woman co-pilot with a commercial airliner was severely injured after their cab collided with an SUV that was travelling on the wrong side inside the Bristol Chowk underpass. In January last year, a 30-year old man working as a chef in one of the eateries on GCR died after he and his pillion rider were hit by a speeding cab at the Genpact Chowk crossing. In January, a luxury sedan hit two motorcycles near the Genpact Chowk underpass, injuring four people.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert and the programme coordinator of the now-defunct HVZ, said that in July, last year, the district road safety committee recommended the implementation of pedestrian-friendly measures at eight key crossings on the GCR at Bristol Chowk, DLF Phase 1 and DLF Phase 4 traffic junctions, the Sector 42 junction, two points opposite Club Drive, AIT Chowk, Sector 55-56 bus stop and Ghata T-point.Bhatt said that none of the recommendations ,including pedestrian crossings, signage, road markings and pedestrian lights, have been implemented so far.“None of our recommendations were ever implemented on the stretch. A fresh safety audit of the GCR is required to identify all its ailments for once and get these measures rectified immediately or else lives of thousands would continue to be endangered,” said Bhatt.A statement from DLF said Golf Course Road was jointly upgraded by the Haryana Urban Development Authority and the company, and “designed and developed as per international standard, as a toll-free 16 lane expressway to enhance the connectivity of the adjoining sectors to the national highway.”“The idea behind the Golf Course Road has always been to provide the citizens of Gurugram with world class infrastructure.”The statement further said every element including pavements, foot over-bridges (with the exception of one, pending government approval), wide and tall road partitions, was designed to ensure he safety of pedestrians.“While we have put in all our efforts in making it seamless for both commuters and pedestrians, however, the day to day management and policing is beyond our control, and lies with the civic authorities.” the statement said. The statement blamed the flooding of the underpass in DLF Phase I on reverse discharge of rain water from the master drainage system, without apportioning blame. “Despite two consecutive nights of rains, a team of more than 60 people from DLF have been working tirelessly over the past 30 hours, with 2 fire engines, water tanks and pumps, alongside the government authorities, to make the underpass operational by Thursday evening.We were extremely swift in deploying all our resources to clear 6 out of 7 underpasses on Raghavendra Marg, in less than 6 hours time, despite high intensity rainfall which is 6-7 times higher than the designed capacity of the master drainage system of Gurugram,” the company added in the statement. HSVP administrator Jitender Yadav said his agency had nothing to do with maintaining the GCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glittering-golf-course-road-at-centre-of-gurugram-s-regular-flooding-woes/story-Zi3nRN7WR7IIXE2m74jCiM.html
21-08-2020||India||Record 900k Covid-19 tests done on Wednesday||Only 0.28% of Covid-19 patients are on ventilator, 1.92%, undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICUs) and 2.62%, on oxygen therapy, the latest data from the health ministry shows -- indicating that most of the infections are either asymptomatic or mild, and that , in keeping with the trend evident around the world, doctors here are being able to cure most cases that require hospitalisation. The active cases as on Wednesday were 686,395, according to the ministry. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India on Wednesday tested a record 9 lakh-plus samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the total number of people who have been tested crossing 30.25 million. Pune’s National Institute of Virology, under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), conducted the first Covid-19 test on January 23, while the first case of the viral outbreak in the country was detected on January 30. “India scales a new peak in daily testing. More than 9 lakh (9,18,470) Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate has come down to below 8% (in the past 2 weeks). The daily testing capacity is likely to reach 10 lakhs (1 million) soon . The tests per million has also seen a sharp rise,” the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW) said in a statement.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Expanded diagnostic lab network across the country and effective measures to facilitate easy testing have given a substantial boost to the present numbers. As a result of these focused actions, the tests per million (TPM) have seen a sharp increase to 23668. The TPM continues to maintain the constant upward trend,” the ministry added. India has approved 1494 labs for Covid-19 testing (977 government and 517 private labs). While the country’s testing capacity is recording a constant rise, it is the positivity rate of about 8% that experts believe is a cause for concern. Because of increased testing, the positivity rate of Covid-19 recorded a jump from about 4% in April to about 9% in August. Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraHowever, since August 1 the positivity rate has hovered between 8.81 and 8.93%. “The positivity rate, which has by and large been constant since August 1, signifies that Covid-19 cases are still being reported, and the transmission cycle has not yet been broken. The virus is still very much in circulation. The positivity rate of 5% or below for a prolonged period of time is what should be aimed at in a bid to rein in the spread of the contagion,” said Dr. Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-900k-tests-done-on-wednesday/story-qY6Gt6tYwh4a5FfxnQBoIL.html
21-08-2020||India||ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infra||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is ramping up molecular testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by approving medical colleges, including private ones, with labs that have the capacity to do Reverse-Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing, the most accurate way to diagnose the viral disease. With 900,000 tests performed on Wednesday, ICMR is inching closer to achieving its target of building enough capacity for India to perform one million tests a day by the end of the month. Currently, about 25-30% of the Covid-19 tests are performed using rapid antigen tests, according to ICMR. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Among the 47 labs that are currently under various stages of receiving ICMR approvals to conduct Covid-19 testing, 46 belong to private medical colleges. RT-PCR is the gold standard of testing for Sars- CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. All the identified laboratories are equipped to perform the test, ICMR said. RT-PCR has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment; it needs a sophisticated laboratory to carry out the test, and ICMR has been making efforts to identify and add as many laboratories as possible to conduct it. Currently, 1,494 labs are conducting Covid-19 tests in the country, including 977 labs in the government sector and 517 in the private sector. Experts say RT-PCR may be a complex text to perform, but is the most accurate molecular test available currently, and an important component in enhancing testing capacity. Also read: 68.7k fresh Covid-19 cases take tally near 3 million“RT-PCR is the gold standard of testing . Having said that, rapid antigen is quicker so there is this accuracy vs. speed challenge that we have to face. As far as accuracy is concerned, RT-PCR any given day is more reliable,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR. Rapid antigen tests throw up more false negatives (they identify infected people as uninfected, but results are usually available with the hour. In contrast, RT-PCR tests could take three to four days including logistical delays -- something that could work against the principle of quickly identifying and isolating infected people. The maximum number of labs are located at private colleges in two states, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, with the former having 24 lab approvals under process and the latter, 15. The other states with their labs under consideration are located in Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan with one lab each. One college on the list is a government medical college in Maharashtra. Also read: Serum Institute registers its Covid vaccine trial“Several measures are being taken to ensure testing capacity meets the target of one million tests in the coming weeks. The measures include making use of labs of medical colleges with the basic infrastructure to conduct molecular tests that can be mentored and upgraded to equip them to perform Covid-19 tests,” said an ICMR official who asked not to be named. In addition, this person added, work is also afoot to upgrade existing labs by way of increasing testing machines, manpower and shifts to be able to run more samples in a day. The million-tests-a-day target was first suggested in a column in Hindustan Times. Efforts are also being made to make use of some RT-PCR machines installed in other government labs that are being used for performing other molecular tests. “There are about 200 such machines in other labs that can also be deployed for Covid-19 testing. All this is being done to ensure we reach the target of one million as planned,” the official cited above added. “In times of pandemic, it is a good idea to make use of all available resources at hand, and the private sector has come in quite handy both for testing and patient management in Covid-19 response. Almost all medical colleges have a full-fledged microbiology department running and their laboratories are well-equipped to do these tests,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “Since we still have a long way to go in this pandemic, the capacity building in whichever way possible must be continued,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-looks-at-private-medical-colleges-to-ramp-up-testing-infra/story-8n56mfHrFd20U5q3ACWmHK.html
21-08-2020||India||India, China hold fresh round of diplomatic talks on border standoff||India and China on Thursday agreed to resolve outstanding issues in an “expeditious manner” and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said after the two sides held a fresh round of diplomatic talks on the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the two sides had a “candid and in-depth” exchange of views on the existing situation on the Line of Actual Control(LAC). The virtual talks were held under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. “The two sides were in agreement that restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” Srivastava said at an online media briefing. He said both sides reaffirmed to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in the western sector in accordance with the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers as well as Special Representatives (SRs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-fresh-round-of-diplomatic-talks-on-border-standoff-agree-to-resolve-outstanding-issues-expeditiously-mea/story-IHuO8cfxiSrWELOsuZRDGI.html
21-08-2020||India||Allahabad University gets refurbished website with extra safety built in||A team of students, research scholars of the Allahabad University (AU) has redesigned and upgraded the Central varsity’s website, which allows it to digitise the workforce, maintain productivity and also move towards paperless office functioning. Called the ‘New File Management System’, this package would help all departments of the university to deal with different files confidentially and safely online, informed AU officials. For this, the computers in the administrative and the accounts sections of the university would be linked to a separate server, they said. “It is a robust package wherein a person granted access to the system will be able to access it from anywhere. A two-stage authentication has been provided to take care of security. To use the system, the user will have to login using the e-mail ID and password with which the admin has created the account of the user. Then, a second authentication will be done using Google Authenticator App,” said acting vice chancellor Prof RR Tiwari. One would be able to write a note on a file and pass it on to the next person in the hierarchy, who after putting his/her own noting would pass it on to the next person, he added. This package had been developed by a team comprising Sugam Tripathi, Rahul Kumar Mishra and Saumya Srivastava, he said. Prof Tiwari said that each employee had been provided a unique ID code through which the system would be accessed. Any registered user could access the system and work according to his/her role. So, proper tracking of the files would be automatically maintained by the system as the code of each employee was registered, he claimed. The acting VC said that the new system would cut down processing time and increase accountability as it would be easy to track how long a file had been stuck with a particular person in the queue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-university-gets-refurbished-website-with-extra-safety-built-in/story-F3cN7WmqNWAJaNvyMOYpxK.html
21-08-2020||India||Bihar govt rescues Covid patient allegedly held captive by hospital for failure to clear bills||The Bihar government Monday initiated de-empanelment procedure against a private hospital in Patna after it found serious lapses in its functioning, following a complaint that a Covid-19 patient was held captive for failure to clear hospital bills. The Patna district administration had to intervene to secure the patient’s release later in the evening. The JDM Hospital at Kankerbagh had demanded Rs 6.34 lakh for 20 days of treatment of a 48-year-old man from Patna. His relatives had paid Rs 2.44 lakh, after which they wanted the patient to be discharged, saying the hospital’s charges were inflated and arbitrary. The Bihar government is yet to put a cap on charges though last month it forced private hospitals to initiate treatment of Covid-19 patients. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“The rates for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals may be ready by Wednesday,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. It was Amrit who came to the rescue of the patient after his attendants reached out to him on Monday. He sent a medical team to the hospital to scrutinise the bill and arbitrate the case. The team slashed down the bill to Rs 1.90 lakh. “The hospital had raised exorbitant and frivolous charges in the bill. It had even included the cost of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. The cost of gloves alone came to Rs 8,000 per day. I was told another Rs 85,000 was to cover for the government’s ex-gratia payment to the next of kin of those who die of Covid-19,” said Amber Kaifi, the patient’s nephew. Bihar has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of those who die of Covid-19. “The cost of medicines, prescribed in huge quantities was repetitive in the bill. The hospital would not give proper break-up of charges,” he added. The hospital administration, however, denied it. “The patient’s relative had claimed in the media that we are charging them Rs 50,000 per day. As per that calculation, the hospital bill should have run up to Rs 10 lakh. We have raised Rs 6.34 lakh only, which the attendant doesn’t want to pay now,” said Amit Kumar, co-director of the JDM Hospital. “Twenty days of ICU treatment, with 10 days on ventilator support, you tell me what the bill should be?” he asked this reporter. “We are paying our hospital staff double and triple their salary and yet they are reluctant to work in Covid-19 wards. In the instant case, we are not willing to refund any money to the patient’s attendant. In fact, we just want the attendant to pay an additional Rs 70,000 incurred on medicines and tests of the patient,” he said. “If we are forced to refund money to the attendant and not even recover our basic cost, I may have to close down our hospital or even think of committing suicide,” added Kumar. “We got the matter enquired and found that the hospital is not maintaining records properly and is giving provisional bills to patients. An FIR is being filed against the hospital and it is being de-empanelled for treatment of Covid-19,” said Amrit. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary said, “This is the second such case in about a week at the hospital. Earlier, it refused to release a body of a Covid-19 patient, forcing us to intervene and sort out the issue.” Later, Kaifi confirmed that he did not have to pay anything beyond Rs 2.44 lakh, which he had already paid to the hospital, as the patient was discharged around 8.30pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-rescues-covid-patient-allegedly-held-captive-by-hospital-for-failure-to-clear-bills/story-bGkMVkrdGfH08pthfALO7M.html
