22-08-2020||India||Bloomsbury says it won’t publish book on Delhi riots after social media backlash||Bloomsbury India on Saturday said that it will not publish an upcoming book on the February Delhi riots after there was outrage over a virtual pre-publication launch, which it said was being organised without its knowledge.The authors - advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra - were however, undeterred, saying one publisher may have declined but there many others to publish the book.The publishing house faced massive backlash online on Friday after an advertisement of the book launch on Saturday with BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour did the rounds on social media.There have been allegations that several leaders including Mishra made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in Northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury India issued a statement saying it strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society. “Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. “However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society,” the statement said.The authors slammed “left liberals and intellectuals” for launching a social media campaign against the book, its writers and guests of the launch including senior BJP leader Bhupender Yadav, Mishra and Bollywood filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri.“The book very well reveals how the urban Naxals and jihadists are weakening the theory of Indianness that is based on democracy, the Constitution and elections in the country,” Yadav said.Reacting to Bloomsbury India’s decision to withdraw itself from publishing the book, Arora said, “If one publisher withdraws, ten will rise. The messiahs of freedom of speech are scared of this book. They mounted a frontal attack on its writers, publisher and guests of the launch even before the book was released and one could go through it.” Mishra asserted “no power in the world can stop this book from coming out and people want to read it” and the “contractors of freedom of speech are scared that the book will expose how training was given for the riots and the propaganda machinery was involved in it”.Yadav said those behind Shaheen Bagh protest against the citizenship law earlier this year did not raise the issues of rights of women but spread “poison” in the society.Arora said that the Delhi riots need to be probed by the NIA, claiming it was “pre-planned”. She said the book has been divided into eight chapters and five annexures, all based on ground research in the riot-affected areas. The chapters of the book were about urban-Naxalism and jihadist theory in India, CAA, Shaheen Bagh Model, among others, she said.Malhotra said that the book was opposed by the “so-called leftist thinkers and intellectuals” who earlier “spread lies” that the citizenship law was against the Muslims.“The Delhi riots were an outcome of the urban Naxal and Islamic fanatics and the book exposes it,” she said.Chitalkar said the book was a result of “thorough ground research”.“We talked to everyone, including Muslims. We were not biased. This books takes stand against urban Naxals and Islamic jihadists, it is not an anti-Muslim book,” she claimed. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after citizenship law supporters and protesters clashed with each other in the area, leaving 53 people dead and nearly 200 injured. A number of people took to Twitter to react to Bloomsbury’s decision with many decrying it.“I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia,” tweeted author, economist and Principal Economic Advisor in the Ministry of Finance Sanjeev Sanyal.“Bloomsbury is doing a Facebook and feels that their giving platform for hate will pass in India. Oh well appeasement of Sanghi falsehoods will not work. Will it adopt similar standards to legitimise and glorify and racists and fascists in America and Europe?,” tweeted All India Student Association (AISA). Author Ashwin Sanghi said, “What utter hypocrisy @BloomsburyIndia ... why did you agree to publish it if you had problems with the book?” Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “After facing massive outrage, publishing house #Bloomsbury India has decided to withdraw the book titled ‘Delhi Riots 2020 - The Untold Story’, which was slated to be launched on 22 August by #BJP leader #KapilMishra. Sense prevails & so does spine.” Novelist Nilanjana Roy tagged a news report on the Delhi riots and tweeted, “Hi, @BloomsburyIndia. Some reasons why you should never have published a book that pushes the rightwing’s rotten conspiracy theory about the Delhi riots: Safoora, Meeran, Ishrat, Khalid, Devangana, Natasha, scores of local residents who are jailed.” The authors also put out tweets saying how their book exposes several wrong theories about the Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bloomsbury-says-it-won-t-publish-book-on-delhi-riots-after-social-media-backlash/story-KsEs4hLXrRfxCj3X0vimyN.html
22-08-2020||India||CBI registers case against MD, directors of oil company for alleged bank loan fraud||A CBI team carried out raids at five places in Morena and Delhi on Saturday after registering a case against the managing director, promoter and directors of KS Oils Ltd of Morena for allegedly committing a loan fraud of Rs 938 crore with the State Bank of India, a CBI official said.A case has been registered against managing director Ramesh Chandra Garg, director Saurabh Garg and director Devesh Agrawal. The raids were carried out at the factory and registered offices of the company in Morena, residences of Garg and another director Saurabh Garg and an office in New Delhi. CBI, Delhi, public relations officer RK Gaur said, “It was alleged that the findings of the forensic audit indicated that the financials of the company while applying for loan facilities were inflated. It was further alleged that the loan amount was misappropriated through fraudulent diversion.” Earlier in 2013, Income Tax officers had also raided the office and factory of this company following reports of tax evasion by the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-case-against-md-directors-of-oil-company-for-alleged-bank-loan-fraud/story-A3403AmOnBTHEV2F6JwEfL.html
22-08-2020||India||UP assembly passes bill to recover damages from protestors||The Uttar Pradesh state assembly has passed the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill 2020 that provides for putting up posters or hoardings listing or displaying protestors and recovery of damages caused to public and private property during political agitations/processions and demonstrations.It will replace the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Ordinance 2020 that was promulgated earlier this year in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Besides empowering the state government to put up hoardings/posters to name and shame protestors at public places, the bill has stringent provision to recover the cost of damages caused to public and private property from protestors and rioters. The state government has recently set up two tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to investigate the cases of damage to property under rules framed under the provisions of the ordinance.The government had earlier in March this year quoted controversy for publicly listing names of protestors alleged to be involved in anti-CAA protests.Bill for repealing 62 laws passed The state assembly passed the Uttar Pradesh Repealing Bill 2020 to repeal 62 acts that have become obsolete, useless and redundant over the years. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had decided to repeal all such acts. Also Read: Yogi counters opposition’s Parsuram ploy, says he is not different from RamSetting up of MSMEs eased The Uttar Pradesh Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Bill was also passed in the assembly. It provides to ease the process to set up MSMEs that will be entitled to begin operation within 72 hours of submitting an application. The no objection certificate (NOC) may be obtained in 1,000 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-passes-bill-to-recover-damages-from-protestors/story-whFmz4H1K54m8wmwBFgDkI.html
22-08-2020||India||In poll-bound Bengal, TMC gears up to reach out to women voters||With West Bengal moving towards the crucial assembly elections in 2021, state chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s two recent announcements - both aimed at women – are being seen as a renewed effort by the party supremo to win over more women voters. Earlier this week, Banerjee had announced that the Trinamool Congress-led government would weed out gender bias in the state police force. In another announcement, which was more of a direct effort to win over women voters who constitute more than 48% of total electorate, the party supremo said that female workers of the party would visit each of the 70,000 odd booths in the state and speak to 20 women in the area making them aware of the TMC’s developmental programs. Women empowerment has always been a core segment of the Mamata Banerjee government’s development issues since it assumed power. This is exemplified by the dozens of welfare schemes that have been rolled out by the government including the Kanyashree scheme which aims at promoting education and prevent child marriage by using cash incentives. But recently when the TMC government was on the back foot with allegations of massive corruption and nepotism in the ration delivery and distribution of relief, women could be seen in the forefront of protests. “The TMC had started an initiative ‘Didi Ke Bolo’ (Tell Didi) so that people could tell her their concerns and grievances. But now the government has been unmasked and the women of the state have seen the actual face of Mamata Banerjee and her government. They have stopped telling her about their grievances. Instead they are hitting the streets with broomsticks as we have seen during the Cyclone Amphan relief scam and ration scam. That is why the TMC is undertaking such drama,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Out of the 6.98 crore voters in the state during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 3.39 crores or around 48% of the voters were women. If one goes by the representation the TMC has been on the forefront of fielding women candidates. In the 2019 elections 41% of the TMC candidates were women candidates in Bengal. The number of women candidates contesting for Trinamool Congress in 2011 was 31 while in 2016 the number has increased to 45. Compared to this the BJP fielded around 31 candidates in 2016. The CPI(M) fielded around 19 women candidates while the Congress fielded only eight women. Tapas Roy, Bengal minister of state for parliamentary affairs and a spokesperson of the ruling TMC said: “If you have seen women coming to the forefront during protests, I would say it is a good sign. We never saw women protesting during the Left regime. Mamata Banerjee gave them that platform and empowered them. They have the faith in the government and that’s why they are coming out in large numbers to tell us where we have gone wrong. We welcome this.” Even though the TMC said that the party has always put women empowerment at the forefront and it is a continuous process while the opposition has taken a jibe saying it is a lost game for the ruling party, political analysts said that such schemes and efforts by the TMC would definitely have an impact on the society. “The Kanyashree scheme has won accolades from within the country and abroad. Not all efforts by a political party may give it political gains but it would definitely have an impact on the society at large,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, professor of political science at Kolkata’s Bangabasi College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-bengal-tmc-gears-up-to-reach-out-to-women-voters/story-emeNEjX5q5FrlxXXjGKTWO.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be developed by end of 2020’: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||A vaccine for Covid-19 will be developed by the end of this year, union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday as the infection tally crossed three million mark.“One of our Covid-19 vaccine candidates is in the third phase of the clinical trial. We are very confident that a vaccine will be developed by the end of this year,” the health minister said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, the minister didn’t mention which vaccine he is referring to.Also read: Bharat Biotech gets nod to conduct Covaxin trial through skinMeanwhile, just 16 days after crossing 2 million mark, India’s Covid-19 tally soared to 3,040,492, according to the data published by the worldometers.info.On Saturday, India recorded 68,898 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) disease and 983 deaths in a single day. While, the total number of recoveries surged to 22.71 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-developed-by-end-of-2020-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-sV0i4KZQ46bHrdPKzvl2gO.html
22-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s latest Atmanirbhar Bharat push involves Indian toys||In line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign launched by him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting with top functionaries of his government aiming to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys.India is home to several toy manufacturing clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys which not only have cultural connect but also help in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children at an early age, Modi said at the meeting, according to an official statement.He said such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods, the statement added.Significantly, the toy market is one of the several, flooded with Chinese products.According to the official statement, the Indian toy market has huge potential and can bring a transformative change in the industry by promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ under Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. PM Modi said the focus should be on the use of technology and innovation and also towards manufacturing quality products that meet global standards.Highlighting the importance of toys in moulding a child’s mind, the Prime Minister said toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all anganwadi centres and schools for all-round development of children. He even suggested that youth should be engaged to come up with innovative designs and toys that can instill a sense of pride towards national goals and achievements.Modi noted that toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ and exhorted that toys should reflect India’s value system and culturally established environment-friendly approach. He further suggested using tourism as a tool to promote India’s culture especially in regions which are renowned for handcrafted toys. The prime minister emphasized the need to organize hackathons for youth and students for innovations in toy technology and design, including online games, to reflect the Indian ethos and values.Laying emphasis on the fast growing digital gaming arena, Modi said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-latest-atmanirbhar-bharat-push-involves-indian-toys/story-InMz5jbrYNiN4R7JUcmNlM.html
22-08-2020||India||Yogi counters opposition’s Parsuram ploy, says he is not different from Ram||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday took on the opposition over its apparent ploy of projecting Parshuram as a Brahmin icon by asserting that both Parshuram and Ram were incarnations of Lord Vishnu and therefore attempts to wedge a divide in the name of divinities was futile.Both Lord Ram and Parshuram were incarnations of Lord Vishnu and were revered by the people, Adityanath said in his counter-attack after the opposition resorted to sloganeering in the state assembly over the law and order and other issues. The House was later adjourned sine die after the day’s proceedings during which 27 bills were passed. During the three-day monsoon session, the House conducted its business only for about four and a half hours. The Parshuram issue had come up earlier this month when a foundation led by a Samajwadi Party leader announced plans to install a 108-foot statue of Parshuram in the state capital and the Bahujan Samaj Party responded by vowing to install even a bigger statue. The move was seen as a way to woo Brahmins, who constitute 10% of the state’s electorate, as Parshuram, considered the sixth incarnation of Lord Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, was also a Brahmin. He is also said to have cleansed the world of Kshatriyas on several occasions. In a veiled message, Adityanath said going against Ram or his values has proven to be self-destructive.“Whoever remembers Ram becomes ‘pujya’ (worthy of veneration) for all, be it Hanuman or Maharishi Valmiki, and the one who goes against him faces death like Maricha (a demon killed by Ram),” Yogi Adityanath said in the assembly. He said those who remembered Lord Ram did not face any problem in the world. Be it Ram, Parsuram or ‘Mara’ (Rama written backwards in Devnagari script), remembering Ram’s name in any manner was important but the opposition did not realise this, he said. The chief minister also targeted the opposition for its role on the Ram temple issue. Even those who spoke of Rome earlier were talking of Ram now, he said. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh Assembly passes 27 key bills on SaturdayHe announced that ministers of his government would take the temple construction ‘prasad’ from Ayodhya to all the states in the same manner in which they took the invitation for the Prayagraj Kumbh earlier in 2019. He congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah for their efforts in ending the ‘492-year-old dispute’ in a peaceful and democratic manner. This was a matter of pride for the people of the country, he said. The Supreme Court had delivered its verdict in the Ayodhya title dispute case on November 9, 2019. The foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya was laid on August 5 this year. Adityanath targeted the opposition and said, “But these people don’t like the concept of Ram Rajya….they could not suppress their feelings when the construction of Ram temple began… I am surprised to hear their statements… They are the same people who ordered firing on the ‘Ram Bhakts’.” He made a special reference to the Samajwadi Party and the Congress and said they were the ones who indulged in divisive politics and casteism. “They are the same people who asked for the head of Kannauj’s BJP worker Neeraj Mishra and they are the same people who talk of tilak and tarazu. But Ram’s work will continue,” he said.Neeraj Mishra, a BJP worker from Kannauj, was brutally murdered in 2004. The opposition members staged a walkout after the chief minister began his address. Yogi said the opposition was running away from a debate as his government was moving at a faster pace than the opposition. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh govt to table bill for recovery of damages from protesters Yogi asked members to speed up developmental work as assembly polls are due in early 2022. “You don’t have even a year and a half for elections. Give the government a list of the village areas that you want to get electrified. We will launch a campaign to complete the electrification in one year,” he said. He hit out at the Congress alleging the party had given a list with registration numbers of scooters instead of buses to ferry migrant workers home during the initial days of coronavirus induced lockdown. He also made a mention of Aam Aadmi Party’s attacks on his government and took a dig at AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh without naming him or his party. He used the Hindi word ‘namuna’ or a joker in his description. In a tweet in Hindi, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said the UP chief minister had committed contempt of Parliament by using insulting words against a Rajya Sabha member. Parliament should take suo motu cognisance and take decisive action, he said. Facing attack over the alleged rise in crime graph in the state, Yogi asserted there has been a drastic fall in criminal cases since 2016. “They don’t want to hear this truth and they have gone out now,” said Yogi, pointing out the Opposition’s walkout. He also referred to his government’s handling of the Tablighi Jamaat issue, saying, “We made them understand in the language they understood.” In a lighter vein, Yogi said an opposition member wore a placard around his neck in the same manner in which a criminal of Meerut had appealed to save his life. The opposition would have to go to the public with a placard to save them, he said. During the day’s proceedings, the assembly passed 27 bills, including 17 for replacing ordinances, amid unruly scenes and sloganeering. The Samajwadi Party and the Congress members remained in the well of the House while the BSP members displayed placards with slogans against the state government on the law and order issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-counters-opposition-s-parsuram-ploy-says-he-is-not-different-from-ram/story-mGOWKKcS3NmbNE2TGyXodM.html
22-08-2020||India||India’s coronavirus tally crosses 30-lakh mark||India’s Covid-19 tally hurtled past the 30-lakh mark on Saturday night, just 16 days after it crossed 20 lakh, while the total number of recoveries too surged to 22.71 lakh, according to data from states and union territories.Union health ministry data updated on Saturday 8 am showed a record single-day spike of 69,874 infections, taking the country’s Covid-19 caseload to 29,75,701, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHowever, by night, a PTI tally showed India’s Covid-19 caseload at 30,37,657, death toll at 56,762 and recoveries at 22,71,054. The tally has been compiled as per information provided by the states and union territories.India is the third worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US and Brazil.The Union health ministry on Saturday said the total number of recoveries has surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent while the case fatality rate has further declined to 1.87 per cent. Recoveries exceeded active cases of the coronavirus infection by more than 15 lakhs.India also crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in 24 hours on Friday, taking cumulative tests to 3,44,91,073, the health ministry said on Saturday.There are 6,97,330 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.43 per cent of the total caseload, it stated.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, India has been conducting on an average 8,89,935 tests in the last five days. The country has tested 3,44,91,073 samples across the country till August 21, it said.India also has been testing around 74.7 people per lakh population, much higher than WHO’s guidelines of testing 14 people per lakh population, the apex health research body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-tally-crosses-30-lakh-mark/story-YbkUDaOVfA3zkhk2ck7TyN.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura govt considering to hold assembly session outdoors in view of Covid crisis||Tripura law minister Ratan Lal Nath on Saturday said that the state government is considering to hold its assembly session at a park here due to the coronavirus outbreak. The session is scheduled in the third week of September and it will be difficult to maintain social distancing in the assembly house, said Nath who paid a visit to the Heritage Park. The law minister said that assembly sessions in many states such as Assam were held outside the assembly building. However, the final decision on holding the assembly session in the open is yet to be taken, he added. Tripura on Saturday registered 280 new coronavirus cases, pushing the state’s tally to 8,389, a senior health department official said. The total cases include 2,240 active cases, 6,061 recoveries and 70 deaths. Nearly 238,000 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far. Tripura’s budget session, which started on March 20 was cut short by two days due to the pandemic and was called off soon after the budget was passed in the assembly. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-considering-to-hold-assembly-session-outdoors-in-view-of-covid-crisis/story-m8xQxmzTKpGrxcNuBa6ihM.html
22-08-2020||India||Anti-fibrotic drugs effective in Covid-19 patients: Army||For the first time in the country, anti-fibrotic drugs have been used to treat patients suffering from Covid-19-related lung fibrosis and breathlessness which has helped in the recovery of four such patients in Maharashtra’s Pune, the Army has said.“The researchers at the Pune-based Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences (AICTS) have found this therapy very effective in this subset of Covid-19 patients and they were safely tolerated as well. This is a novel strategy to tackle the lung fibrosis to treat subset of Covid-19 patients,” the release said.It said these are early results and more research is being undertaken in this field to identify the patients who are likely to benefit from the therapy.“Scientists have achieved a breakthrough in management of severe cases by commencing anti-fibrotic therapy in four such patients who were difficult to wean from oxygen due to extensive lung fibrosis. The patients have been discharged from the hospital after the recovery,” it said.It said a breakthrough in management of severe cases has been achieved by pulmonologists at the Pune-based AICTS by commencing anti-fibrotic therapy (tablet Nintedanib) in four such patients.“The therapy proved to be very helpful in reducing the oxygen requirement of these patients and they were discharged home on minimal oxygen after few weeks.“This is the first time in the country that these anti-fibrotic drugs have been used in Covid-19 related lung fibrosis. These drugs have been used for other types of lung fibrosis secondary to auto-immune diseases (arthritis related) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,” it said.These drugs have an established safety profile in these fibrotic diseases, the statement said.“Researchers at AICTS have found this therapy very effective in this subset of Covid-19 patients and they were safely tolerated as well. This is a novel strategy to tackle the lung fibrosis to treat subset of Covid-19 patients,” it said.The release said it had been observed that a significant number of patients treated for severe Covid pneumonia are developing lung fibrosis, which means a severe scarring of lung tissue that causes low oxygen levels.“This may manifest as fatigue, breathlessness and lifelong requirement of oxygen support,” it said.“The lung fibrosis is usually seen in those patients who are detected late and have extensive pneumonia. Many a times, it becomes difficult to wean these patients off oxygen in spite of anti-inflammatory therapies like steroids and they remain in ICU for a long period of time,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-fibrotic-drugs-effective-in-covid-19-patients-army/story-8z3wtyaXTGzbcdHQrRiJCO.html
22-08-2020||India||Inspection of centres in Odisha run by alleged British-origin paedophile ordered||Three days after the 68-year-old England-born Indian owner of an orphanage and children shelter home in Jharsuguda district of Odisha was arrested over allegations of paedophilia, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights asked Odisha government to furnish detailed report on the matter by the end of August this year.Taking cognizance of the matter under section 13 (1) (j) of the CPCR Act 2005, the NCPCR asked the Odisha chief secretary to issue directions to district level officials and women and child development departments for inspection of each and every home, institution, hostel, school and day care centre run by John Patrick Bridge, who ran a child shelter home called Faith Outreach in the Cox Colony area of Jharsuguda town.The Commission also asked the Odisha government to find out the number and types of child care institutions run by Faith Outreach and whether the NGO was registered under JJ Act 2015. It also asked whether inspection committees were formed as per JJ Act and sought the latest report in respect of the homes run by Faith Outreach.On August 19, Odisha police had arrested 68-year-old Bridge following a complaint by a tribal boy about the latter sexually abusing him.In his complaint, the victim alleged that when he had gone with Bridge to his native place in Rayagada district for Christmas in 2015, then the latter had sexually abused him inside an SUV. The boy, who has now become a major, alleged that he was sodomised by Bridge but could not reveal it due to shame and fear.Also Read: 6 arrested for Bihar gang rape after video surfacesAfter a complaint was lodged at Jharsuguda police station under section 341 of the IPC (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 10 POCSO Act (aggravated sexual assault ) and section 3(i) (r), 2 (va) of SC/ST (POA) Act, Bridge was arrested.Also Read: Odisha Lokayukta demands to bring vigilance department under its control, gets supportBridge arrived in India some 25 years ago on an evangelical mission and started Faith Outreach in Jharsuguda to provide education to the tribal students. As per the description on the website of his organisation, he decided to dedicate his life for the poor when he saw the poverty in the western tribal belt of Odisha. He later married a Tamilian girl named Delphine alias Dell and took Indian citizenship in 1992. In the Faith Outreach facility at Jharsuguda town, he ran two schools, a baby care center, which provided a home and care for abandoned babies as well as a children’s home that provided clothing, education, medical care and daily food to over 400 poor children. The organisation also has a training centre that prepares volunteers to work as social workers in the local communities.The shelter homes and schools run by Bridge have been sealed after his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspection-of-centres-in-odisha-run-by-alleged-british-origin-paedophile-ordered/story-Uz1sucrBny8CElDDxceD1O.html
22-08-2020||India||Kerala minister says he is ready for probe in gold smuggling case||Amid reports that the Union Finance Ministry asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to probe the Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel’s so-called import of holy books and accepting contribution from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate, the minister said he is ready for any probe. While investigating the Kerala gold smuggling case in which 30 kg of gold was seized by the customs on July 5 from a diplomatic consignment, probe agencies had stumbled upon another consignment that came to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in March weighing more than 4,000 kg. Later, the minister admitted that 31 consignments of Quran came and he took them to his constituency for distribution. He also said the consular office provided money for food kits to be distributed in his constituency. But the opposition Congress and BJP claimed that some of the boxes carried gold. “Let any agency probe it. I am least worried because I did not do anything wrong. Among 31 bags that arrived only one bag was opened. Anybody can examine them. I think distributing the Quran is not a big crime either,” he said. But the opposition said he was dragging in religion to camouflage his alleged wrong doings. Diplomatic experts said religious books can’t be imported like this and he can be booked under the foreign exchange regulations act for receiving funds from a foreign country without permission of the Ministry of External Affairs. Jaleel came under a cloud after his name figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling racket. But he insisted he interacted with Suresh as a diplomatic official and did not know about her past or other dealings. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency, which is heading the multi-agency probe in the gold smuggling case, told a special court in Kochi that blue corner notices will be issued against four more people staying abroad to unearth a larger conspiracy in the case. It also said during investigation it found that a well organized racket was functioning in the state and it wielded enough influence in high echelons of power. The NIA had arrested 20 people in connection with the case so far. It told the court that the accused had conspired to damage the monetary stability of the country by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantities of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-says-he-is-ready-for-probe-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-E922HN7gcE2Ns28gvBLdUM.html
22-08-2020||India||Pakistan mentions Dawood Ibrahim’s Karachi addresses in sanctions document||Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of its counter-terror financing actions, Pakistan has tightened curbs on eight Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) leaders, including its founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim by taking steps to enforce UN sanctions against them. This is perhaps the first time that any government document released by Islamabad lists Dawood Ibrahim’s addresses in Pakistan after continuous denials of India’s allegation of harbouring the 1993 bomb blasts accused.Pakistan’s foreign ministry quietly issued two statutory regulatory orders on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against hundreds of terrorists, including operatives of LeT, JeM, al-Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani Network and Islamic State, and 93 terrorist groups and entities. The action clearly appears to have been taken with an eye on the upcoming assessment of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing and anti-money laundering regimes by the Financial Action Task Force, which is expected to take place by October. FATF was scheduled to review Pakistan’s actions in June but the Paris-based watchdog pushed back the deadline by four months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In some cases, Pakistan hadn’t acted on UN sanctions imposed more than a decade ago despite growing pressure from Western countries, including the US. It also repeatedly failed to meet FATF’s deadlines to implement a 27-point action plan, and the watchdog has warned of harsher measures since Pakistan has addressed only 14 of the 27 points in the action plan. The first statutory regulatory order issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office listed 88 entities, including terror groups, front organisations such as Al Rashid Trust that has been linked to al-Qaeda, and money exchange firms involved in terror financing, and hundreds of terrorists. Besides Hafiz Saeed, the seven other LeT operatives named in the notification are Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the chief of its operations and one of the main accused in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Haji Muhammad Ashraf, the chief of finance, Mahmoud Mohammad Ahmed Bahaziq, a Saudi national and the leader of LeT in Saudi Arabia, Hafiz Abdul Salam Bhuttavi, a founding member and deputy to Saeed, Zafar Iqbal, co-founder of the group who has held senior positions in its front organisation Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), Mohammed Yahya Mujahid, a former spokesman, and Arif Qasmani, who was associated with al-Qaeda. The first notification also listed JeM chief Masood Azhar and Abdur Rehman, who has provided facilitation and financial services to al-Qaeda and was associated with Harakat-ul-Jihad Islami (HuJI) and JeM. It also lists Dawood Ibrahim, wanted by India for the 1993 Mumbai bombings, and gives three different addresses in Karachi given for him by the UN Security Council. This is possibly the first Pakistani document that lists addresses for Ibrahim in the country. In the past, Pakistan has always dismissed assertions by India and other countries that Ibrahim is based in Karachi. The second notification listed prominent Taliban and Haqqani Network leaders such as Abdul Ghani Baradar alias Mullah Baradar, Siraj Haqqani, Bakht Gul and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. Baradar and Stanekzai are key members of the Taliban team that is currently negotiating with the US. The two notifications ratified the UN Security’s Council’s call for freezing the assets of the terrorist individuals and terror entities, banning the travel of the terrorist individuals and ensuring that they cannot access any weapons, ammunition and military equipment. Also Watch: BSF shoots down 5 infiltrators at India-Pakistan border in Punjab, arms recoveredThe notifications ordered the seizure of all movable and immovable properties of these groups and individuals, and freezing of their bank accounts. They were also barred from transferring money through financial institutions. Saeed was convicted by a court in Lahore and given a five-and-a-half year prison term in two terror financing cases in February. Lakhvi, one of the seven men arrested by Pakistani authorities for the Mumbai attacks, was granted bail in April 2015 and his current whereabouts aren’t known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-mentions-dawood-ibrahim-s-karachi-addresses-in-sanctions-document/story-0r9Ihriyn7subi7HI1d6xK.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Top Kashmiri leaders decide to strive for restoration of Article 370 and 35A, J&K statehood and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehoodTop Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood. National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Congress state president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, CPI (M) general secretary M Y Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman, Sajad Gani Lone and vice president Awami National Conference Muzuffar Shah have stated so in a joint statement issued on Saturday. Read moreBihar polls: BJP picks development as winning card, Fadnavis fine tunes messageThe two-day BJP state executive committee meeting has set the agenda for Bihar assembly elections by declaring that the alliance will contest on the plank of development and would leverage the youth power for return to power. The political resolution passed on the day one of the meeting also made it clear that the BJP was also going to repeat its time-tested formula of projecting the opposition Grand Alliance as a coalition formed to protect ‘scam-tainted’ families. Read moreAndhra Pradesh irrigation minister reviews flood situation in state,directs officials to be alertAndhra Pradesh’s irrigation minister P Anil Kumar on Friday held a virtual meeting with officials from all 13 districts of the state and reviewed the situation in flood affected areas. Kumar further directed them to be alert to face any situation. The minister termed the opposition’s allegations of not taking care of people in low lying areas and lack of planning as ‘baseless’ and said that all precautionary measures were taken. Read morePublic-safety, a primary focus during 10-day festivalThe 2020 Ganesh festival has gone to another level in terms of public safety, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Though there won’t be any grand celebrations by Ganpati mandals this year, the enthusiasm of Punekars to welcome Ganesha at home is high. Read moreDonald Trump’s Iran Move at UN Amplifies ‘America First’ Snub of AlliesThe US move to “snap back” UN nuclear sanctions on Iran involves legal arcana unlikely to be resolved quickly. What’s clear, however, is that the Trump administration took an approach certain to inflict damage on Iran and relations with America’s allies. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s neighbour says no party at actor’s house night before his death: ‘Lights were switched off’Sushant Singh Rajput’s neighbour has said that on the night of June 13--a day before the actor’s death--there wasn’t any party at his home. As per ANI, the neighbour said that only a light in the kitchen was turned on. Read moreMan creates record by wearing several t-shirts at once. Guess how many?Guinness World Records often takes to social media to share record-breaking videos which usually make people say “Omg” or “Wow.” For instance, just a few days ago, they shared a video of an “extreme basketball challenge” which involved the use of a trampoline. Read more‘Promise to bring many more laurels to the country’: Rohit Sharma thanks fans after Khel Ratna honourIndia batsman Rohit Sharma on Saturday thanked his fans and followers around the world a day after he, along with four other Indian sportspersons, won the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award. Read moreChina: Thousands of maskless revellers gather for beer festival, pool party raves in Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus pandemicWhile healthcare systems around the world buckle under the pressure of the coronavirus pandemic, Wuhan, which emerged as ground zero for the pandemic, in a very non-2020 fashion is busy raving, hosting beer festivals and pool parties. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-top-kashmiri-leaders-decide-to-strive-for-restoration-of-article-370-and-35a-j-k-statehood-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0nZXz6nVDO8aaaGFZshrfN.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal police bust gang that stole more than 100 LPG cylinders from Farakka godown||The West Bengal police busted a gang which had allegedly stolen more than 100 LPG cylinders from a godown in Murshidabad. Six people have been arrested from two districts. “Out of the 132 LPG cylinders that were stolen from an Indane godown we have recovered around 123 cylinders. Besides this 340 oven regulators and one electronic weighing machine were also recovered,” said Y Raghuvamshi, Superintendent of Police of Jangipur. A senior officer said that all the cylinders were stolen from an Indane godown at Farakka on August 17. When police reached the spot they found a blade which the accused had used to break the godown locks. Preliminary inquiry with some local shops revealed that one Shyamal Mondol had purchased the blade on August 15. Mondol was picked up and during interrogation he coughed up the names of other people who were part of the gang. Based on the information, police arrested six people, including two persons who purchased the stolen cylinders, from Murshidabad and Malda. “Further investigation is on to find out whether any other person was involved,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-police-bust-gang-that-stole-more-than-100-lpg-cylinders-from-farakka-godown/story-ecBLBnzEJZcswLhF4SquSO.html
22-08-2020||India||MHA issues SOP for global travel, Air Bubble passengers need not register with Indian missions||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under the Vande Bharat Scheme and Air Transport Bubble arrangement. The SOP, reviewed by HT, states that persons wanting to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded/residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). On the other hand, people coming to India on flights operating under air-bubble arrangements will not need to register themselves with the Indian missions. India, so far, has bilateral air travel arrangements or ‘air bubbles’ with the US, the UK, Germany, France, Qatar, Maldives and the UAE while negotiations are going on with 13 more countries. The Vande Bharat flights have been operating since May 6 and currently the Scheme is in Phase-5. The SOP issued on Saturday said that priority will be given to compelling cases in distress, including workers who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly persons or those required to return to India due to death of family members and students. For inbound passengers, MEA will prepare flight/ship wise database of all travellers, including details such as name, age, gender, mobile number, place of residence, place final destination, and information on RT-PCR test taken and its result. “This database will be shared by MEA with the respective state/UT in advance (where the passenger is heading),” the SOP reads. It said that “in case of people travelling to India under air-bubble arrangement, passenger manifest containing the same details as above for Vande Bharat flights or in a revised format as may be finalized by the MEA with the country concerned, will be submitted by the airlines to the Indian mission in the country concerned before operation of each flight with a copy to the state/UT government of the destination port in India”. All travellers coming to India will have to give an undertaking that they are making the journey at their own risk, according to the SOP. In case of people wanting to travel out of India under these two programs, they will have to apply to ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) or to an agency designated by MOCA for this purpose, along with necessary details, including the place of departure and arrival, the SOP issued on Saturday said. It said that Indian seafarers seeking to accept contracts abroad to serve on vessels abroad can travel on the non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the civil aviation ministry or the flights arranged by their employers subject to clearance given by ministry of shipping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-sop-for-global-travel-air-bubble-passengers-need-not-register-with-indian-missions/story-OKagYpfRKN8yP37aOBbIpJ.html
22-08-2020||India||India-China standoff at Ladakh discussed at top-level security meeting||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security advisor Ajit Doval and the military’s top brass on Saturday met for a security review during which they also deliberated on the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese forces have been locked in a standoff for more than three months and the disengagement process has hit a roadblock, people familiar with the developments said.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, air force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh attended the meeting that took place two days after diplomatic talks between the two nuclear-armed countries on the border issue, the officials said, asking not to be named. Details of the discussions were not immediately known. The top level security review also came a day after the army’s top commanders discussed the security situation at the northern and western borders.“A meeting of the Army Commanders was conducted on 20-21 August 2020 to review the security situation and operational preparedness on both the Northern and Western Fronts,” the army tweeted on Saturday. The army is preparing for a long haul in the Ladakh sector, stretching through the harsh winters, due to the Chinese build up at the LAC.India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks on Thursday, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process.The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock, the officials said.Also Read: hina stepping up military activity near Lipulekh pass, new satellite imagery suggests The August 20 WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. This was the body’s fifth virtual meeting since the Ladakh standoffs emerged in the open in May. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. Also Read: Rumblings within China over President Xi’s ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy | AnalysisThere is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-standoff-at-ladakh-discussed-at-top-level-security-meeting/story-Upsq669XwSe6jmwK2sFP7H.html
22-08-2020||India||UN needs to enhance sustained action against states sponsoring terror: Ambassador Tirumurti||Any country sponsoring terrorism should not be allowed to paint itself as a victim of terror, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti has said, underlining that the global body must enhance sustained action against perpetrators and states that sponsor terror, especially cross-border terrorism, in a veiled reference to Pakistan.The UN held a virtual commemoration of the 3rd International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, a day established by the General Assembly to be marked annually on August 21 to honour and support the victims and survivors of terrorism and to promote and protect the full enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms.“Let’s not allow any State sponsoring terrorism paint itself as its victim. The UN needs to enhance sustained action against perpetrators of terror and against States sponsoring terror, especially cross-border terrorism,” Tirumurti said in a tweet on Friday. @MEAIndia @IndiaUNNewYork @UN_OCT Let is not allow any State sponsoring terrorism paint itself as its victim. The UN needs to enhance sustained action against perpetrators of terror and against States sponsoring terror, especially cross-border terrorism.India’s Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted that on this International Day, “we remember the victims of terror, and also remember that the perpetrators of terror continue to enjoy State patronage with impunity from across our border.” Accompanying the Indian Mission’s tweet was an over three-minute video on the devastating attacks carried out across India by Pakistan-based terrorist groups - the deadly 1993 Mumbai blasts, the 2001 Parliament attack, 2002 Akshardham Temple attack, 2008 Mumbai attacks, 2016 Uri attack and the 2019 Pulwama attack.The video begins with the footage of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and has audio of the handlers from Pakistan providing instructions to the Lashkar e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists carrying out the three-day attack on some of Mumbai’s most prominent addresses, including the Taj Hotel.The commemoration of the day included an interactive discussion with a panel of survivors of terror attacks and victims’ associations on the impact of terrorism on their lives and how the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the ability to honour and commemorate victims and survivors of terrorism.Speaking at the virtual panel from India was Nidhi Chaphekar, survivor of the March 2016 bombing at Brussels airport and subway that killed 31 people and wounded 270. A photograph of Chaphekar, who was then a flight attendant with Jet Airways, had become one of the most haunting and impactful images of the terror attacks. The photo showed Chaphekar sitting injured and anguished, her leg stretched across a bench at the Brussels airport, her bright yellow uniform ripped open, her hair turned grey with dust and soot from the blast.“My name is Nidhi Chaphekar and I’m one of the survivors of the deadliest attack of terrorism that ever took place in the history of Belgium,” she said at the panel.Chaphekar said the blast had left her extensively injured and she is still bearing the consequences of it. “I fought between life and death,” she said, adding that she was in an induced coma for 23 days.Chaphekar said she sustained nearly 25 per cent burns, underwent dozens of surgeries, suffers from partial loss of hearing and still has multiple pieces of shrapnels in her body.After the terror attack, Chaphekar said she felt dejected and thought it was the end of her life but slowly she learnt to fight her fears. “I stood more powerful, more courageous and more confident,” she said, adding that she shares her story with other survivors to help them realise that they are not alone in this battle.“By sharing our experiences, we are trying to encourage others to be more resilient, more powerful, more important,” she said.As people around the world fight against the coronavirus disease, she said, “I feel terrorism is a disease and it needs to be uprooted” and this is not only a responsibility of each country or the UN but it is a “moral responsibility” of each human being to contribute towards a peaceful world.Underlining that everyone must acknowledge the lives of innocent people taken away during heinous terror attacks, she said, “We should rise, we should unite together against terrorism for the sake of humanity. Let’s take the oath that our voices should be stronger and louder to unite humanity than the act of terrorism to divide us.” UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the UN stands in solidarity with the families who have lost loved ones, the wounded survivors, and those whose lives have been forever changed by acts of terrorism.“We commit to raising their voices and seeking truth and justice. We cannot undo the damage done, but we can defend their human rights and dignity. We have a duty to ensure they are always heard and never forgotten,” he said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, vital services for victims, such as criminal justice processes and psychological support, have been interrupted, delayed or ended while governments focus attention and resources on fighting the pandemic, he said.Guterres stressed that victims should remind the international community every day of the importance of global counter-terrorism efforts.“Let us put in place measures that uphold their rights to justice, protection, support and rehabilitation, so they can rebuild their lives. Let us do everything in our power to prevent terrorist attacks and demand that those responsible are held accountable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-needs-to-enhance-sustained-action-against-states-sponsoring-terror-ambassador-tirumurti/story-8rBzLqyXyWbdwdnLCCNblK.html
22-08-2020||India||Bharat Biotech gets nod to conduct Covaxin trial through skin||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited got approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a separate clinical trial of their Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ through the skin. Currently, the vaccine was being tested through intramuscular route, where it is injected directly into the muscle. The CDSCO is a pharmaceutical regulatory body under the health ministry. It regulates the quality of drugs and vaccines in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe trial is being conducted on 1,125 patients at 12 hospitals across the country including All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The Bharat Biotech is working on the Covid-19 vaccine project call “Covaxin”. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has also partnered with the company on the trials.As per the report, the findings of the intradermal route will be analysed separately along with the current intramuscular trial. If the result proves to be successful, the vaccine could be made cheaper as the vaccine would be injected in the dermis, one of the layers of the skin. Lesser dosage is required in this method which can then help in more people getting vaccinated.However, the committee’s approval is subjected to two conditions that the company is required to follow— following up on participants for six months to check how much antibodies have been developed along with general health assessment. The sites for the study should be different from the sites of the intramuscular study, according to the second condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-nod-to-conduct-covaxin-trial-through-skin/story-slISz7aHe425LEjqm3xnAM.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 cases rise marginally in Delhi with 1,412 new patients, count over 1.6 lakh||After witnessing a slight dip in Covid-19 cases earlier this month, Delhi on Saturday logged 1,412 new cases of coronavirus taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,60,016 while the death toll touched 4,284, health department data indicated.At least 14 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 4,284. On Saturday, 1,230 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals. A total of 1,44,138 patients have recovered, migrated or been discharged while the number of active cases in the capital currently stand at 11,594.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, 6,090 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 13,345 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | India records highest one-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 69,878; tally nears 3 millionWith the 1,412 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally has now crossed the 1.6 lakh mark.The number of containment zones in the national capital now stands at 591. The number of containment zones in Delhi has risen from 539 on August 1 to 591 on August 21, with officials attributing the rise to smaller areas which are being contained now.According to health department data, the number of containment zones had decreased to 496 in the national capital on August 2 and had witnessed a marginal increase to 499 on August 4. On those days, the number declined to 481 and 466. On August 12, the number of containment zones went past 500.After a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the government has issued an order for winding up healthcare facilities operating in banquet halls linked with the designated Covid-19 hospitals of the Delhi government. On Saturday, India crossed a milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in a single day, taking the cumulative tests to more than 3.4 crore, while the viral caseload inched towards the 30 lakh-mark, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.“Although higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually lower when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking, and timely effective and clinical management,” the ministry said.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, “Keeping its promise of exponentially increasing daily Covid-19 tests, India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples in a day.”The number of daily tests has been increasing steeply. The average daily tests during the past three weeks also indicate the progress made in enhancement of coronavirus testing across the country, Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-rise-marginally-in-delhi-with-1-412-patients-count-over-1-6-lakh/story-SA8OvIgWMvrJpADfpLumnM.html
22-08-2020||India||Nagaland church body warns against ‘dangerous’ Chinese cult||The most powerful church body in Nagaland has issued a warning to its followers against a “dangerous” Chinese cult and its online activities. The Nagaland Baptist Church Council (NBCC), the umbrella body of Baptist churches and associations in the state, sounded the warning on August 19 through a letter to all its associate units. “I am writing this with a grave concern concerning a cult, called the Church of Almighty God from China, reportedly making inroads into our land,” the letter by NBCC general secretary Rev. Zelhou Keyho said. NBCC is the central organisation of nearly 1,500 Baptist churches in Nagaland. Christians account for 87.93% the state’s population of 1.97 million people, according to the 2011 census. It is the biggest church body in the state and has considerable clout. According to the NBCC letter, the Church of Almighty God, also called Eastern Lightning cult, is a well-organised group, which is aggressively spreading its influence in the northeastern state by creating many Facebook pages and by publication of colourful artwork that appears “biblical and enticing”. “Till date, this cult, which seems to have started in 1991 and has since spread to the US and other countries, doesn’t have any office in Nagaland or have conducted any activity in the state. But they are very active online and usually target young people by sending friend requests,” Rev. Keyho told HT over phone. “They also conduct indoctrination online. The teachings of this cult are faulty and don’t conform to our faith. They are connecting with people across India, and not just Nagaland. We have warned our organizations, but have no plan of filing official complaint against the cult,” he added. A Facebook page by the name The Church of Almighty God has over 137,000 followers. The page claims Almighty God is the second coming of Jesus, and the organisation says it has offices in the US, the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Germany, Netherlands, France and South Korea. “The cult teaches that Jesus/God has come back to Earth as a woman, named Yang Xiangbin, also called Lightning Deng, and the New Testament has been replaced by their new bible, called ‘The Word Appears in the Flesh’,” the NBCC letter read. According to the letter, the Chinese cult proclaims that there are three ages: “Age of Law”, when salvation begins and the God’s name is Jehovah; “Age of Grace”, when salvation continues and the God’s name is Jesus; and “Age of Kingdom”, when salvation is completed and the God’s name is The Almighty.  “Jesus said in his word that he would return to Earth, not as the Almighty who speaks through a woman from China, but as he was, is and shall ever be. Let us beware of this dangerous cult as they are actively spreading a false gospel and false teachings,” the letter read. Rev. N Paphino, vice president, Nagaland Joint Christian Forum, said: “I am not certain how much inroad the Chinese cult has made into Nagaland. But if Rev. Keyho has issued the letter, it means that there is definitely some cause of worry as he will not write without a genuine concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-church-body-warns-against-dangerous-chinese-cult/story-e2SrkRHGpV7D6ZbKVSLneK.html
22-08-2020||India||Railways told to finish key Kashmir railway project by Aug 15, 2022||Jammu and Kashmir’s newly appointed lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday reviewed the progress of 272 km long Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line project, being built at a cost of Rs 27,949 crore. Sinha, who was informed that the 161 km length of the project has been commissioned, asked the railways to complete the remaining portion between Katra and Banihal by August 15, 2022. The railway line project-- considered a key infrastructure initiative for the region—includes the construction of the world’s highest railway bridge over river Chenab, at a height of 359 metres. Similarly, India’s first cable-stayed railway bridge on Anji Nallah in Reasi is also coming up along the link. The LG directed the railway authorities to expand the rail link towards unconnected areas of Rajouri-Poonch and Kupwara region. Railway officers said that a preliminary survey for the 223 km long Jammu-Poonch rail link, at an estimated cost of Rs 22,768 crore, was completed and submitted to the railway board in 2017. They added that another survey for a 39 km long Baramulla-Kupwara rail link to be built at an estimated cost of Rs 3843 core has also been completed and submitted to the board in July 2020. Also Read: Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s BaramullaThe LG requested the railways to prepare DPRs (Detailed Project Report) for both the projects so that the matter could be taken up with the ministry of finance for funding of these projects. Sinha also asked the railways to run Vistadome coaches in Kashmir to attract tourists and offer them a better view of the scenic Kashmir valley, once the Covid situation normalises. On the intervention of LG, the railways agreed to run local train service between Kathua and Udhampur for the benefit of local commuters. The local train service will be started once the Covid pandemic subsides. Sinha also proposed launching a single-ticket travel facility allowing travel from Kashmir to Kanyakumari via trains and busses. It was decided that the service would be started after the Covid situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-told-to-finish-key-kashmir-railway-project-by-aug-15-2022/story-A5XFIqT94ed1pvdfdmc4mL.html
22-08-2020||India||Two more arrested in Kerala’s snake bite murder case||Three months after the mysterious snake-bite murder of Uthra S (25) in south Kerala’s Kollam district, the special investigation team (SIT) on Saturday arrested her mother-in-law and sister-in-law on charges of destroying evidence and domestic violence. Earlier two people, including the deceased’s husband P Sooraj and a local snake handler, were arrested for letting a cobra loose in Uthra’s room on May 6 night, which led to her death a day later. Shockingly, the fatal bite occurred when Uthra was undergoing treatment for the first bite by a viper at her husband’s home two months ago. Later, the father-in-law was also arrested. The chilling murder was allegedly executed by Sooraj with much precision and training but his design fell flat after Uthra’s father approached the police suspecting foul play in his daughter’s death. The sordid tale came out during the investigation and shocked the southern state. Sooraj later admitted that he gave sleeping pills to Uthra before letting the snake loose and provoking it to bite her twice. During one of the evidence collection trips he publicly admitted that he committed the heinous crime and never thought he will be caught. The SIT said in the murder case Sooraj will be the lone accused and another case was registered for domestic violence and destroying evidence-- besides him, his mother, father and sister are accused in the second case. The snake handler who gave him the snake on both the occasions will be made an approver, it said. Her parents had alleged that the in-laws were also a party to the crime and there were many attempts earlier also. “We are very particular about the murder case so we collected enough scientific evidence to corroborate the crime. There is no delay in latest arrests. We arrested the mother and sister after collecting evidence,” said S Harishankar, Kollam rural superintendent of police (SP), who supervised the probe. The case surfaced after Uthra’s parents filed a complaint a week after her death. They alleged that Sooraj and his family members often harassed her for dowry and many of her ornaments were missing. The couple had got married two years ago and has a one-year-old son. Her father said that he had gifted over 100 sovereigns of gold and a new car to appease her demanding in-laws. During the probe Sooraj reportedly told the SIT that he had bought a cobra from a snake handler for Rs 10,000. On May 6, he took the snake to Uthra’s paternal house in Anchal, where she was undergoing treatment since the first snake bite two months ago. The police said after Uthra fell asleep, Sooraj allegedly took out the snake from the bottle and threw it on her. He kept awake all night to ensure that he could escape unscathed. He left the room in the morning and started reading a newspaper in the verandah. Soon, Uthra’s mother found her daughter lying unconscious in the bed. She was rushed to a hospital, where doctors said she died of a snake bite. Later, when the room was examined, the family members found a cobra, which was killed by Sooraj. The couple slept in an air-conditioned room and it was difficult to believe that he did not notice the snake before, the woman’s parents alleged in the police complaint. The SIT had later conducted a post-mortem on the carcass of the black cobra which bit the deceased in a bid to collect scientific evidence. Veterinary surgeons who conducted the post-mortem later said after examining the fangs of the cobra they found that it bit the victim twice. The 80-cm long cobra was capable enough of killing a human being, they said. Later a DNA test was also done on the carcass. The SIT had filed the charge sheet last week in the Punalur magistrate’s court. The charge sheet said it was a well-planned and executed murder to secure her family property and the husband had tried his best to make it appear like a natural death. He thought of making his son a bargaining chip and later would marry another woman, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-arrested-in-kerala-s-snake-bite-murder-case/story-K449vsquXy6ppH4y2FsL2O.html
22-08-2020||India||Odisha Lokayukta demands to bring vigilance department under its control, gets support||A year after it was set up, Odisha Lokayukta has suggested to the Naveen Patnaik government to bring the directorate of vigilance under its control to enhance the trust and credibility of its office and requested that the state issues an advisory to all the departments to promptly respond to Lokayukta’s notices.The Lokayukta, in its first annual report for the year 2019-20, has said that bringing the directorate of vigilance under its ambit will not only enhance the trust and credibility of the anti-corruption institution, but also substantially improve the functioning of both Lokayukta and the vigilance directorate. Odisha, last year commissioned its first Lokayukta under the Odisha Lokayukta Act, 2014 with the appointment of former justice of Guwahati High Court as its chairperson and 3 others as members. Though set up a little more than a year ago, the office of Lokayukta is yet to have an investigation agency of its own and currently has to entrust the investigation to other agencies.Lack of a dedicated investigation agency in Lokayukta’s office has resulted in pendency of more than 50 per cent of cases. Of the 1132 cases lodged with the Lokayukta in 2019, at least 548 cases were pending for disposal. With 1252 unresolved cases transferred from the office of Lokpal, the total number of pending cases have ballooned to over 1800.In its annual report, the office of Odisha Lokayukta headed by former HC judge Ajit Singh also asked the state government to issue instructions to departmental heads to promptly respond to notices issued by the office. As per Section 22 of the Odisha Lokayukta Act, the Lokayukta may require any public servant to furnish information or produce documents relevant to preliminary inquiry or investigation. Similarly, as per Section 28 of the Act, the Lokayukta can utilize the services of any officer or organization or investigating agency of the Government.“But the experience so far shows that sometimes, the government officials do not respond to the notices issued from the Lokayukta, even though the proceedings before the Lokayukta are deemed to be judicial proceeding within the meaning of Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code,” the annual report suggested.Also Read: Odisha whistleblower alleges threat from IAS officer accused of irregularitiesFormer SC judge Ananga Patnaik, who was a member of the selection committee for Odisha Lokayukta, said the anti-corruption body will be more effective in curbing corruption, if the directorate of vigilance arm of the state government is put under its control. “The Odisha Lokayukta does not have an investigation agency of its own and has to entrust the investigation to other agencies. The investigation agency entrusted with the investigation may not be impartial and may also delay the investigation. This step of putting the directorate of vigilance under the Odisha Lokayukta will also ensure that investigation into corruption cases are speedy, credible and free from political influences,” Patnaik said.Opposition Congress and anti-corruption activists, too, supported the demand to bring the vigilance directorate under the Lokayukta. State PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik said his party had raised the demand in 2014 when the Act was first passed in Assembly.“If vigilance is brought under Lokayukta, then the director of vigilance would not have to report to the state government and it would be free from political influence. Vigilance in Odisha lacks credibility as many IAS officers against whom complaints were raised were never investigated by vigilance officials. Though Odisha Vigilance claimed to have a conviction rate of 51% in 2018, a large number of corruption cases were pending trial in different courts. Most importantly the department had not taken any action against several senior officials though they were under the needle of suspicion,” said Patnaik.Anti-corruption activist Pradip Pradhan said unlike the CBI, the directorate of vigilance in Odisha remains under the direct control of the government.“There is no law to regulate the vigilance directorate. As the vigilance director is appointed by the government and his tenure and service matters are under the control of the chief minister, they cannot function independently. Besides, no approval of the Lokayukta is needed for the transfer of a vigilance officer investigating a case referred to by the Lokayukta,” alleged Pradhan.Alluding to the India Corruption Survey, done by corruption watchdog Transparency International in 2019, which said 40% citizens of Odisha admitted to paying a bribe to get their work done, Pradhan said the vigilance department has failed to tackle corruption as most of the financial irregularities happened in government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-demands-to-bring-vigilance-department-under-its-control-gets-support/story-MXtaYUiPnVbPDYbImrJOqK.html
22-08-2020||India||Rajasthan: Hike in family pension of deceased legislators proposed||The Rajasthan government introduced a bill in the assembly on Friday to increase the family pension of former legislators and sumptuary allowance of the deputy government chief whip. Eight other bills were also introduced on which discussions are likely to be held on Monday. According to the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, family pension of ₹17,500 or equal to 50% of the last drawn pension, whichever is higher, shall be paid to the family of a former MLA. The bill said the spouse of a deceased ex-member shall be paid the whole amount of any arrear of the family pension and if the spouse is not alive, the amount of arrear shall be paid in equal shares to the members of the family. For the bill, family means the sons and unmarried daughters and such parents of the deceased ex-member who were wholly or mainly dependent on him or her at the time of his or her death. The statement of objects and reasons of the bill said the family pension payable to the spouse of the deceased ex-member appears to be inadequate in view of price rise. The bill also proposes to increase the sumptuary allowance of deputy government chief whip to ₹80,000 per mensem (every month) from ₹70,000. “It has been decided that the sumptuary allowance payable to the deputy government chief whip should be at par with the sumptuary allowance payable to the state minister,” the statement said. After the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government decided that it needed to take prevention and remedial measures and promulgated the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, on May 1 with more effective and stringent measures than those in the existing the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957. An amendment to this was brought on May 22 through the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2020, has been introduced to replace the two ordinances. The third bill – the Rajasthan Police (Amendment) Bill, 2020 – is for village guards in rural areas. The bill seeks to amend the minimum age of these people from 30 years to 40 years, and reduce the tenure of village guards from 3 years to 2 years. The bill also proposes to add the duty of assisting the police in patrolling to the existing duties and responsibilities. The village guards will be honorary workers. The government promulgated an ordinance for this on July 4 and the bill seeks to replace that. The government has also introduced the Rajasthan Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to introduce a surcharge for mitigating natural or manmade calamities. This surcharge shall be charged on any excisable article at such rate not exceeding 50% of the duty for mitigating natural or man-made calamities such as drought, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies and fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hike-in-family-pension-of-deceased-legislators-proposed/story-Yr4o8jg5MOUe8MNXPfZPVI.html
22-08-2020||India||Illegally printed NCERT books worth Rs 35 crore seized in UP, 12 held||In a joint operation, the special task force (STF) and the Uttar Pradesh police arrested 12 persons and claimed to have busted a gang that was allegedly involved in illegally printing National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books. Officials said the team also seized printed books worth Rs 35 crore from two stores in Partapur area of Meerut and Gajraula in Amroha district. Six facilities, where the books were allegedly printed, were sealed on Friday evening. Meerut Police SSP, Ajay Shahni said, “The joint team recovered Rs 35 crores worth NCERT books, and printing machines. During the initial investigation, we came to know that these books were being sold in Delhi, Uttarakhand and other places through illegal means after being printed.”Brajesh Singh, the deputy SP of STF, said the raids were conducted after receiving a tip-off. More than a dozen employees of the press and store were rounded up for interrogation. “The mastermind, Sachin Gupta, is still at large and efforts are being made to arrest him,” he added. Singh said that approximately 900,000 books of NCERT were confiscated from Partapur store and STF would register a case after preparing a seizure list. He said that approximately the same number of books were found in Gajraula store and the list would be made soon . Singh said that NCERT distributes its books after printing them in its Delhi-based printing press and that it doesn’t have any press in Meerut and other locations. Sachin Gupta and his aides started printing these books in their printing press. Over the period of time, they developed a good distribution system across the country. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegally-printed-ncert-books-worth-rs-35-crore-seized-in-up-12-held/story-KujHUGOd4HXQIVVq5WgOJM.html
22-08-2020||India||Sold for £260,000, Mahatma Gandhi’s glasses set to transform seller’s life||A pair of gold-plated circular glasses worn by Mahatma Gandhi during his time in South Africa was on Friday sold for £260,000, surprising the owner who did not realise its value and left it in an envelope for the local auctioneer in Bristol three weeks ago.The rare item was bought by an unnamed collector from the United States, auctioneer Andy Stowe said, adding that the initial reserve price was set for £15,000 but it attracted much interest from various countries, including India.Stowe said on Saturday: “It’s a phenomenal result! These glasses have been lying in a drawer for the best part of 50 years. The vendor literally told me to throw them away if they were ‘no good’. Now, he gets a life-changing sum of money”.“It’s the ‘good news’ story that we all want – as an elderly gentleman, our vendor has probably had a rough time in recent months and to be able to change his life is just incredible. The price is outstanding, but it’s not about the money.”“We had interest from all over the world – bids came from India, Qatar, America, Russia, Canada. It’s completely spellbinding, and a wonderful thing to be a part of. It’s been a complete honour to handle these spectacles and find them a new home”.The glasses were in the vendor’s family for nearly a century, given to his uncle by Gandhi between 1920 and 1930. The uncle was working with British Petroleum in South Africa, where Gandhi spent years before returning to India to launch the freedom struggle.“It can be presumed that these (glasses) were gifted by way of thanks from Gandhi for some good deed. A note from the vendor is included”, the auctioneer said.The glasses were described by the auctioneer as being “of usual form, with sprung gold plated arms and prescription lenses. Jointed by a gold plated nose bar. The spectacles formed an important and somewhat iconic part of Gandhi’s overall appearance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sold-for-260-000-mahatma-gandhi-s-glasses-set-to-transform-seller-s-life/story-yyVUwQolWJCUwaYRjwfNZJ.html
22-08-2020||India||UP man, father of 4 and cosmetic shop owner, was in touch with ISIS for years: Police||The suspected ISIS operative, arrested by Delhi Police on Friday night, had planned to carry out terror strikes in crowded areas of the Capital after being instructed by his handlers in Afghanistan, a senior official said.Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said the operative identified as Mohd Mustaqeem Khan, Yusuf aka Abdul aka Abu Yusuf, was in direct touch with the commanders of Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in Afghanistan through social media platforms.Khan was arrested after a “brief exchange of fire” late on Friday night from the section of the Ridge Road between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh. He was going to install the two pressure cooker Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), which were recovered from him, at “heavy footfall area” in Delhi, he said. The IEDs were defused later.Police had been keeping an eye on the 36-year-old resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Balarampur and his contacts since the past one year, Kushwaha added.“He was connected with ISIS for the last many years and was directly in touch with ISIS commanders. He was handled by Yusuf Alhindi, who was killed in Syria later. After that, Abu Huzafa, a Pakistani, was handling him,” he said during a press briefing.Huzafa had promised Khan, an owner of a small cosmetic shop, he would call him to Khorasan and he had passports made of his wife and four children. He learnt to make IEDs while he was in touch with Huzafa, who was killed in a drone attack, Kushwaha said.“We are verifying whether he made the IEDs found on him or someone else gave them to him. He has told us during interrogation that he had made them,” the senior official said.The new amir had instructed him to stay put and carry out lone-wolf attacks in the country. Khan had planned a terror strike in the national capital on August 15 but could not do so due to heavy security arrangements, he added.He had been instructed to carry out fidayeen attacks after installing the IEDs and but was not told about the places he was to strike. “A terror strike has been averted through this operation and I think a major incident has been avoided,” Kushwaha said.He was sent to eight-day police custody by a local court in the Capital. The accused was presented at the house of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat, who allowed Special Cell to question the accused for eight days, news agency ANI said citing sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-father-of-4-and-cosmetic-shop-owner-was-in-touch-with-isis-for-years-police/story-uGiHbjhV7TojglzIuzSgfL.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: In Bihar, BJP might begin seat-sharing talks with allies and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP may soon begin seat-sharing talks with allies in BiharThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may begin seat-sharing talks with allies in poll-bound Bihar after its two-day state executive committee meeting that begins on Saturday. J P Nadda, the party chief, and BJP’s Bihar election in-charge, Devendra Fadnavis, and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav will hold talks with chief minister Nitish Kumar and other top leaders of his Janata Dal (United), or JDU, in Patna next week. Read moreKashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehoodTop Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood. Read more‘Lift all restrictions on inter-state movement of people, cargo,’: Centre tells statesUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to chief secretaries of all states explaining that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. His letter mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs during the Unlock phases. Read moreHeavy rainfall lashes parts of western Madhya Pradesh, low-lying areas floodedHeavy rains inundated low-lying areas in several parts of Madhya Pradesh, especially those in the western parts of the state, affecting normal life, officials said on Saturday. Incessant rainfall in the western districts, including Bhopal, Indore and Sehore, since Friday has sent small rivers and nullahs into spate, they added. Read moreIsrael’s Covid-19 chief urges Ukraine to ban annual Jewish pilgrimageThe head of Israel’s coronavirus task force has asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy to ban an annual pilgrimage in which Hasidic Jews visit the central Ukrainian town of Uman over concerns the site may become a virus hotspot. Read moreDo a Shahid Afridi and come out of retirement: Former India opener Aakash Chopra tells Suresh RainaDrawing Shahid Afridi’s example, former India opener Aakash Chopra asked Suresh Raina to reconsider his decision to retire from international cricket. Raina had decided to call time on his international career on India’s 74th Independence Day, minutes after legendary cricketer MS Dhoni had decided to hang his boots. Read moreGanesh Chaturthi: Malaika Arora amps up festive vibe in red Banarasi sareeSlaying this festive week like the true diva she is, Bollywood actor Malaika Arora amped up Ganesh Chaturthi vibes as she dressed up in her ethnic best. Gearing up for the upcoming episode of television dance reality India’s Best Dancer, Malaika set fans’ hearts on a frenzy with her drop-dead gorgeous look. Read moreNetflix India asks Instagram users to caption this still from Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara. They complyNetflix India’s Instagram account often shares posts which leave netizens in fits. Their recent post is no different. On August 21, the account shared a still from the 2011 film Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara. The image features the three male leads, Hrithik Roshan, Abhay Deol, and Farhan Akhtar. Read moreWatch: How you can stay safe on this Ganesh Chaturthi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-in-bihar-bjp-might-begin-seat-sharing-talks-with-allies-and-all-the-latest-news/story-au94PFjUze00LJLnc7wcpM.html
22-08-2020||India||Kashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehood||Top Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of J&K and its statehood.National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, Congress state president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, CPI (M) general secretary M Y Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman, Sajad Gani Lone and vice president Awami National Conference Muzuffar Shah have stated so in a joint statement issued on Saturday. The first such joint statement signed by mainstream parties after the revocation of Article 370 also hints at launching a joint struggle for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood. “We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution of J&K and the restoration of the State and any division of the State is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be ‘nothing about us without us’”, the joint statement said. Panchayat polls have been held in Jammu and Kashmir after it was reorganised as a Union Territory and the Centre has stated that it will soon have a government elected by people once assembly elections are held after the ongoing delimitation exercise. However, the joint statement was silent on this. The statement said the signatories to the Gupkar declaration of 4th August 2019 have barely managed to establish a basic level of communication with each other in the face of a series of “prohibitive and punitive” curbs imposed by the government, aimed at “impeding” all social and political interactions. “The limited confabulations held within the constraints imposed have resulted in this unanimous resolution that the unfortunate events of 5th August 2019 have unrecognizably changed the relationship between J&K and New Delhi. In a spitefully shortsighted and unconstitutional move, Articles 370 and 35A were abrogated and the State was bifurcated and relegated to the status of two Union Territories and its Constitution tried to be made unenforceable.”The Centre has maintained that the provisions removed by it on August 5 were temporary and were partly responsible for breeding terrorism in the region and preventing its growth. The statement signed by the parties, however, states that the Centre’s move to abrogate Article 370 and bifurcate the erstwhile state into two union territories was a challenge to the basic identity of the people of J&K.“The measures attempt to redefine who we are. These changes were accompanied by repressive measures meant to silence people and coerce them into submission, and continue unabated,” the statement said.The statement also stresses on a collective political fight for the demands raised therein.“We want to assure the people that all our political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting to the status of J&K as it existed on 4th August 2019,” the statement further said.The statement also expresses gratitude to people, political parties, the intelligentsia and other civil society groups for opposing the changes made on 5th August 2019 and standing with the people of J&K. Several petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court against the change effected in the status of Jammu and Kashmir. The leaders also called attention to the recent skirmishes at the LAC (Line of Actual Control) and the LOC (Line of Control) that have resulted in casualties on both sides and said there was a need to work for enduring peace in the region.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti could not attend the meeting since she continues to be in detention. However, her daughter tweeted to express her support for the principle of a ‘joint struggle’ as expressed in the statement.“Ms Mufti appreciates the statesmanship shown by Dr Farooq sahab in forging a collective response to Delhi’s onslaught on J&Ks special status. It’s time we forego political differences & stand together,” tweeted Iltija Mufti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-leaders-resolve-to-fight-for-restoration-of-article-370-and-j-k-statehood/story-u6knbADZX0bGNzCpW3TuVM.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Lift all restrictions on inter-state movement of people, cargo’: Centre tells states||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to chief secretaries of all states explaining that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. His letter mentions that any such restriction would amount to a violation of guidelines issued earlier by the Ministry of Home Affairs during the Unlock phases.The home secretary’s letter to states says that local level restrictions on inter and intra- state movement of people and goods are impacting supply chains nationwide resulting in disruption of economic activity and leading to unemployment also.Bhalla has drawn attention to the fifth paragraph of Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the MHA. The Unlock-3 guidelines clearly state that there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. It also states that no separate permission or approval or e-permit will be needed for such movement for cross land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.ALSO READ | Unlock 3.0 rules get the right mix | HT EditorialSeveral reports of local level restrictions on movement being imposed by various districts and states have made their way to the Centre, he has written in the letter. The letter claims such restrictions which are different in different states are leading to problems in inter-state movement of goods and are thereby impacting supply chains across the country.The home secretary said restrictions amount to violation of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The home secretary has requested state governments to lift the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure that MHA guidelines issued during the phases of unlocking the country are followed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a nationwide lockdown with effect from March 25 to combat the coronavirus pandemic which was subsequently extended till May 31.Since June 1, the unlock process began with the opening up industrial activities and offices across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lift-all-restrictions-on-inter-state-movement-of-people-cargo-centre-tells-states/story-GKKXCSviYPqRoZEhIycIBN.html
22-08-2020||India||CBI team visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s Mumbai house to recreate last moments of actor’s life||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation officials along with forensic experts visited the house of Sushatnt Singh Rajput at Bandra along with his cook Neeraj Singh and roommate Siddharth Pithani on Saturday afternoon to recreate the happenings that led to the death of the actor, sources in the CBI said.Rajput was found dead in his rented apartment on June 14. Earlier in the day, CBI officials visited Cooper Hospital at 11 am to meet the doctors who conducted the autopsy.The investigators who spent about two hours at the facility also met the dean of the hospital, the sources said. On Friday, investigators had already questioned Neeraj Singh, the actor’s cook at the DRDO’s guest house in Mumbai. Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda was questioned in the guest house of a private company at Marol in Andheri. The CBI team also collected documents from Mumbai police including forensic report, post mortem report, statements of more than 60 people that Mumbai police has recorded in the case, and other material evidence, a police official said.The team also collected evidence like the three mobile phones that Rajput used, his laptop, clothes, blanket, bedsheets, a green kurta, a glass used to drink juice and CCTV footage of his house and building. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court allowed the CBI to continue with its probe into the case filed against actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-mumbai-house-to-recreate-last-moments-of-actor-s-life/story-OSqcRCuLISYxBVSTtDL7iL.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura voters in Mizoram’s list? Probe ordered||The Tripura government has ordered a probe into the inclusion of 130 voters from the state’s Phuldungsei village on Mizoram voters’ list. The village that borders Mizoram is located over 300 kilometres from capital Agartala and has a population of 640.“We have heard about the matter [and] already asked our concerned higher officials to conduct a probe into the matter,” said Tripura minister NC Debbarma. Sub-divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran raised the issue in a letter to magistrate Raval H Kumar after the scrutiny of Mizoram’s voters’ list. She pointed out the 130 voters have been added to Mizoram voters’ list even as they are ration holders in Tripura. She stressed the urgency of demarcating the exact boundary between the two neighbouring states and incorporating the entire Phuldungsei Village Council in Tripura. “ ....the road leading to Kawnpui border village of Jampui hill RD block is regarded as the boundary between Tripura and Mizoram in Phuldungsei where the Eastern side belongs to Mizoram and the western side is Tripura. Traditional Phuldungsei VC [village council] as a whole (despite Eastern side falling in Mizoram) has been accepted as a part of Tripura. Hence, the inclusion of the VC and its residents in Mizoram electoral rolls seems to be problematic. There is an urgent need to demarcate the exact boundary between Mizoram and Tripura incorporating the entire Phuldungsei VC in Tripura,” the letter said. The village council elections in Mizoram would be held on August 27. District Magistrate of Mizoram’s neighbouring Mamit district, Lalrozama, could not be reached for a reaction. Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance founder Pradyot Bikram Kishore Manikya Deb Burman said the boundaries of Tripura cannot be negotiable and asked the state government to deal with the issue firmly. “We want an investigation on how people can hold two voting cards in two separate states and also demand that our state government take strict measures to ensure that no territory is seen as a part of another neighbouring state, “he wrote on his Facebook page. He asked the state government to open a police outpost at Phuldungsei and cancel the election process and the illegal voting cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-voters-in-mizoram-s-list-probe-ordered/story-222UuDUEAGMf2eF2pdjXWI.html
22-08-2020||India||Assam observes weekend lockdown to combat Covid-19||The weekend lockdown to combat Covid-19 was observed in Assam on Saturday following the guidelines issued by the state government on August 14.Guwahati also wore a deserted look today with people staying indoors in the fight against coronavirus.Earlier on August 14, the state government issued new Covid-19 lockdown guidelines with relaxations between August 16 and 31.“All permitted activities mentioned in our earlier orders shall continue to be allowed between 5 am and 9 pm between Monday and Friday. Inter-District movement of passenger vehicles and people are allowed between Monday and Friday only. Inter-District movement of vehicles is allowed with 50 per cent capacity,” the state government order read.“City buses are allowed subject to maintenance of all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing and with 50 per cent capacity. Public transport is allowed subject to maintenance of all Covid-19 protocols and social distancing with 50 per cent capacity,” it further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-observes-weekend-lockdown-to-combat-covid-19/story-4pXcsLQ56vSzIahaZ6x8GL.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Scapegoats’: Bombay High court cancels FIR against 29 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has said that the foreign nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi in March this year, were made “scapegoats” and allegations were levelled that they were responsible for spreading Covid-19 in the country.A division bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar made the observations on August 21 while quashing the FIRs filed against 29 foreigners, who had attended the event.The bench also noted that while the Maharashtra police acted mechanically in the case, the state government acted under “political compulsion”.The 29 foreign nationals were booked under various provisions of the IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Foreigner’s Act for allegedly violating their tourist visa conditions by attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in the national capital.The bench in its order noted that there was a big propaganda against the foreigners who had come to the Markaz in Delhi.“A political government tries to find the scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them a scapegoat,” the court said in its order.“The propaganda against the so-called religious activity (Tablighi Jamaat) was unwarranted. The activity was going on for more than 50 years and it is there throughout the year,” it added.It said that the circumstances and the latest figures of infection of Covid-19 in India show that such action against the petitioners should not have been taken.“It is now high time for the concerned to repent about this action taken against the foreigners and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action,” the court said.In its order, the bench noted that many Muslims from across the world come to India and visit the Markaz Masjid in Delhi as they are attracted to the reform movement of Tablighi Jamat.“It is a continuous process and it appears that there are arrangements of stay also made by the Muslims at Markaz Delhi,” it said.The bench added that the visits of these foreigners to Masjids in India were not prohibited and there is nothing on record to show that this activity is prohibited permanently by the government.“The activity of Tablighi Jamat got stalled only after the declaration of lockdown in Delhi and till then it was going on,” the court said.The bench further questioned as to whether the people in India are really acting as per its great tradition and culture of welcoming guests.“During the situation created by Covid-19 pandemic, we need to show more tolerance and need to be more sensitive towards our guests, particularly like the present petitioners.“Instead of helping them, we lodged them in jails by making allegations that they were responsible for violation of travel documents and that they are responsible for spreading the coronavirus,” the court said.The bench noted that the Maharashtra police acted mechanically in the present matter and the state government acted under “political compulsion”.“The government cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries,” the court said.Apart from the foreign nationals, police also booked six Indian nationals and trustees of the Masjids for giving shelter to the petitioners.The bench was hearing three separate petitions filed by the accused foreign nationals, who belong to the countries like Ghana, Tanzania, Benin and Indonesia.At the end of the judgement, Justice Sewlikar said that while he agrees with the quashing part of the order, he has differing views on a few observations made by Justice Nalawade. However, he did not specify which observations.The petitioners claimed that they came to India on valid visa in February 2020 and before March 10, 2020 to experience Indian culture, tradition, hospitality and Indian food.They claimed that when they arrived in India, they were screened and were let to leave the airport only after they did not show any symptoms of Covid-19.The petitioners further claimed that they were visiting several places in India to observe the religious practices of Muslims.They claimed that due to lockdown imposed across the country in March, the petitioners, who were in Ahmednagar district at the time, were accommodated in masjids as most lodges and hotels were closed.They further claimed that while granting visa, there was no prohibition to visit religious places, like masjids.The police, while opposing the pleas, said that post- lockdown, announcements were made at public places, asking persons who had attended the Tablighi event to come forward voluntarily for testing, but the petitioners did not do so and created a threat of spreading the coronavirus.The prosecution further argued that the accused persons were propagating Islam religion among public.The court, however, refused to accept this and said there is nothing on record to show that the foreigners (accused persons) were spreading Islam religion by converting persons of other religions to Islam.The bench further held that no orders were issued by any authority preventing Indians from accommodating persons in masjids or supplying meals to persons, including foreigners.PTI SP NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scapegoats-bombay-high-court-cancels-fir-against-29-foreign-jamaat-members/story-ct8wNaoRENyZsu65k0rVCJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand increases honorarium of ex-servicemen in govt depts||The Uttarakhand government has increased the honorarium of ex-servicemen employed on contract basis in various government departments through the Uttarakhand Purvasainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPNL) by 20%, said officials. An order in this regard was issued on Friday evening. The move is set to benefit more than 20,000 such employees in the state, said officials. The increase ranges from Rs 6,960 to Rs 5,935 for the employees under UPNL.“The unskilled ones who with, existing honorarium of Rs 6960, will get a hike of Rs 1392, the semi-skilled, with an honorarium of Rs 8008, will get a hike of Rs 1602, skilled ones, with Rs 8892 honorarium, will get a hike of Rs 1778, highly-skilled ones, with Rs 9892 honorarium, will get a hike of Rs 1978 and those in higher positions, with an honorarium of Rs 29675, will get a hike of about 5935,” said an official. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the employees were demanding the increase for a long time. “The government has now acted on their demand and hiked their honorarium by 20% which will benefit them. The move has upheld their rights.”Hemant Rawat, general secretary, UPNL Karmchari Mahasangh, said, “We were demanding this for long and even met the CM on this matter. Now it has been accepted by the government, it will benefit all of us in this dire situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-increases-honorarium-of-ex-servicemen-in-govt-depts/story-U1e02pefn7dzFPpOhRQagO.html
22-08-2020||India||Tripura orders probe after names of 130 villagers found in Mizoram’s voters list||The Tripura government has ordered a probe after the names of 130 residents of a border village were included in Mizoram’s voters list, revenue minister NC Debbarma said Saturday.Phuldungsei village falls under Kanchanpur sub division in North District of Tripura, more than 300 km southeast of Agartala. The village has a population of more than 600. “We have heard of the matter. We have already asked our higher official concerned to conduct a probe into the matter,” Debbarma said. Kanchanpur sub divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran, recently wrote to North district magistrate Raval H Kumar after scrutiny of Mizoram’s voters’ list found that 130 residents of Phulungsei who hold ration cards of Tripura have been added in the neighbouring state’s voters’ list.She also stressed on the urgency of demarcating the exact boundary between the two neighbouring states incorporating the entire Phuldungsei Village Council in Tripura. “The PWD road leading to Kawnpui border village of Jampui hill RD block is regarded as the boundary between Tripura and Mizoram in Phuldungsei where the eastern side belongs to Mizoram and the western side is Tripura. Traditionally Phuldungsei VC as a whole (despite Eastern side falling in Mizoram) has been accepted as a part of Tripura. Hence, the inclusion of the VC and its residents in Mizoram electoral rolls seems to be problematic,” she wrote in the letter.“There is an urgent need to demarcate the exact boundary between Mizoram and Tripura incorporating the entire Phuldungsei VC in Tripura,” the letter reads. The village council elections in Mizoram are scheduled to be held on August 27. When contacted, Chandni said that the 130 voters are ration cardholders of Tripura but she could not say how many Tripura voters could be taking rations from Mizoram. District Magistrate of Mizoram’s Mamit District Dr. Lalrozama could not be reached for reaction as he did not take calls. Former Congress leader Pradyot Bikram Kishore Manikya Deb Burman said that the boundaries of Tripura are not negotiable and demanded that the state government deal with the issue firmly. “We want investigation on how people can hold two voting cards in two separate states and also demand that our state government take strict measures to ensure that no territory is seen as a part of another neighbouring state, “ Pradyot wrote on Facebook. He also demanded the government should open a police outpost at Phuldungsei and cancel the election process and the illegal voting cards. Pradyot floated an apolitical organization under the banner ‘The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance’ (TIPRA) after resigning from Congress as its Tripura president in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-orders-probe-after-130-villagers-names-found-in-mizoram-s-voters-list/story-AvcCOVipLld6sUrcdNMGTK.html
22-08-2020||India||Complete trial of BJP leaders in Babri Masjid demolition case by September end: SC||The Supreme Court has set a new deadline of September 30 for completing trial and pronouncing verdict in the criminal case against BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti for demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992.The apex court had, in May, asked special judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav to complete the trail and deliver its judgment by August 31. A 3-judge bench headed by Justice Rohinton Nariman extended the deadline by one more month after taking into account the report by Yadav stating that the trial was at its fag end.“Having read the report of Mr. Surendra Kumar Yadav, learned Special Judge, and considering that the proceedings are at the fag end, we grant one month’s time, i.e., till September 30, 2020, to complete the proceedings including delivery of judgment,” the bench which also comprised justices Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said in its order passed on August 19.This would be the fourth instance of the top court setting a deadline for completion of trial in the case. The BJP leaders are on trial for the 1992 demolition of Babri Masjid at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. They have been charged for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including promoting enmity between religious groups (section 153A), making statements affecting national integration (section 153B) or which are likely to cause public mischief (section 505).In April 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered that the additional charge of criminal conspiracy under section 120B of IPC should be framed against the accused BJP leaders. The apex court had also ordered the special court to complete trial within two years.Subsequently, the court had taken up the matter in July 2019 and extended the deadline for completion of trial and delivering the verdict by 9 months.That deadline expired on April 19 and the special judge Yadav wrote to the apex court on May 6, 2020 seeking further extension of time. The court then took up the matter on May 8 and set a deadline of August 31 while also asking Yadav to make use of video conferencing facilities to ensure that recording of evidence is complete and there is no inordinate delay in concluding the trial.The top court had, on November 9, 2019 decided the title suit to the disputed site at Ayodhya in favour of Hindu parties while also acknowledging that the demolition of Babri Masjid which stood at the site was a “calculated act”.“During the pendency of the suits, the entire structure of the mosque was brought down in a calculated act of destroying a place of public worship. The Muslims have been wrongly deprived of a mosque which had been constructed well over 450 years ago,” the November 9 judgment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-trial-of-bjp-leaders-for-babri-masjid-demolition-by-sept-30-sc/story-GEZQqiZyuheHF2VkY3hR0J.html
22-08-2020||India||With 2,474 new cases, Covid-19 tally breaches one lakh mark in Telangana||The total coronavirus caseload in Telangana crossed the one lakh mark with 2,474 fresh cases being added, health officials said on Saturday.With seven more people succumbing to the virus, the toll in the state mounted to 744.Out of the fresh cases, 447 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by districts of Ranga Reddy 201, Nizamabad 153, Medchal 149, Khammam 125, Warangal Urban 123, Nalgonda 122, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 PM on August 21.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe overall tally of Covid-19 rose to 1,01,865 as 2,474 new cases were added.It said 1,768 people were discharged on Friday taking the total number of people getting discharged to 78,735 so far, while 22,386 were under treatment.According to the bulletin, 43,095 samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, 8,91,173 samples have been tested.The recovery rate was 77.29 per cent in the state, while it was 74.30 per cent in the country.On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent.The percentage of deaths caused by Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent. PTI VVK ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-474-new-cases-covid-19-tally-breaches-one-lakh-mark-in-telangana/story-5Sf3RwbyaQHeSGwFDBJ0DI.html
22-08-2020||India||Woman shot dead by sandalwood smugglers in Kerala, 3 arrested: Cops||A tribal woman was shot dead by members of a sandalwood smuggling gang in Idukki district in Kerala on Saturday over suspicion that she was informing forest officials about their activities, police said. She was 34.The deceased has been identified as K Chandrika, a resident of a tribal settlement in Marayur. “We have arrested three people, including a relative of the deceased, and recovered the gun used in the crime. Preliminary reports suggest she was allegedly killed for passing information about the sandalwood smugglers. Local people helped us to arrest the accused,” said Munnar assistant police superintendent Ramesh Kumar.Local people said last month forest officials had raided the area and arrested some people for smuggling of a fully grown sandalwood tree and some gang members suspected her alleged role in informing officials and entered into an argument which resulted in the murder. Police said investigation was on and will seek the help of forest officials also.Marayur sandalwood is world famous for its aroma and rich oil content. Every year the forest department auctions logs fetching crores of rupees to the exchequer. Last year, Rs 80 crore was collected through auctioning. The rich forests attract smugglers.At least 20 cases of smuggling were reported last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-shot-dead-by-sandalwood-smugglers-in-kerala-3-arrested-cops/story-imB9V0Far6vqQihPVXSgUJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s case latest developments: CBI begins probe, AIIMS’ forensic experts to assist||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday took over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput as directed by the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The central agency’s officials landed in Mumbai on Thursday night. They have divided themselves into four teams to carry out the investigation in the high-profile case. While one team will translate documents from Marathi to English, another will be questioning people involved in the case. A third team is coordinating with senior officials in Delhi and handling logistics in Mumbai while the fourth one met deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe at his Bandra office on Friday to collect the case related documents.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.Here are the recent developments on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case:CBI questions Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook Neeraj SinghThe CBI on Friday questioned the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh and house manager Samuel Miranda. Singh was on Saturday brought to the guest house in Mumbai’s Santacruz, where the CBI officials are staying, for the second round of questioning.Forensic experts meet CBI officialsA team of forensic experts also arrived at the guesthouse on Saturday morning, according to news agency ANI, while some CBI officials were spotted leaving the guesthouse for further investigation.Rhea Chakraborty had ‘no relationship’ with Rajput on the day of his death: LawyerRajput’s father KK Singh’s lawyer on Friday said that Rhea Chakraborty’s visit to the mortuary is “very suspicious” since “no relationship” with Rajput on the day of his death. He pointed towards the possibility of tampering with evidence.“In what capacity was she allowed to see the body of Sushant? I believe she was taken from the backroom. Without showing grief, without sobbing, without breaking down, clearly exposes her mind that she was probably wanting to accept the blame of his death and she has no regret of it. She had no affection for Sushant,” lawyer Vikas Singh told ANI.AIIMS team to ‘look into the possibility of murder’After the CBI approached the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi to assist it with the probe, the hospital formed a five-member board of forensic experts to look into the autopsy reports of the late actor. “We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” AIIMS’ forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta was quoted as saying by PTI.Rhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats with Mahesh Bhatt surface onlineA conversation on WhatsApp between actor Rhea Chakraborty and film director Mahesh Bhatt has again surfaced online. On June 14, the morning of Sushant’s death, Chakraborty sent Bhatt a message at 9:35am, “Goodmorning sir. I demand my dose of energy via the morning quotes you send on WhatsApp. That’s it love you.” Later in the day at 2:35pm, Bhatt texted Chakraborty, “Call me,” but did not receive a response. He called her twice on WhatsApp between 4 and 5pm.ED asks Rajput’s sister about missing fundsThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka’s statement on Friday and asked her about the missing funds from the actor’s bank accounts, according to officials quoted by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-case-latest-developments-cbi-begins-probe-aiims-forensic-experts-to-assist/story-poqnyc9eGvBkgpeGkuKncM.html
22-08-2020||India||Junior doctors in Bihar threaten to boycott work from Aug 27||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 cases, around 600 junior doctors in Bihar have threatened to boycott work indefinitely from August 27 demanding a raise in stipend and relaxation in clauses of the government bond for post-graduate (PG) medical students.The junior doctors, who are at the frontline of the battle against the pandemic, have demanded that their monthly stipend be progressively increased to Rs 80,000, Rs 85,000 and Rs 90,000 during the three-year PG course. At present, they get Rs 50,000, Rs 55,000 and Rs 60,000, respectively. In a letter on Friday to the principal secretary (health), the Junior Doctors Association (JDA), Bihar, claimed that The government, while revising their stipend it on May 9, 2017, had said it would be reviewed every three years.The JDA also demanded provision of study leave in the government bond so that doctors, after completing their PG, could pursue higher superspecialty courses like DM, M.Ch, secondary DNB or fellowship programme. In 2017, the state government had made it mandatory for PG students from government-run medical colleges to serve three years in its health facilities after completing their course. The JDA argued that the academics of doctors who compete in the entrance examination for higher superspecialty courses would be interrupted and it would become difficult for them to complete the course if the government were to attach them with its health facility for three years, as mandated in their bond. They also demanded provision of maternity leave during the three-year mandatory service period. The first batch of PG students, after introduction of bond for such medical students will graduate this year. The association also sought to assure the government that doctors who completed their higher superspecialty courses would come back to the state to complete the three-year service condition in their bond. Among the JDA’s 10-point charter of demands, is one to allow doctors who complete their PG course to work as senior resident (SR) or tutor at least for one year. Subsequently, they could be attached with any government health facility, like the district or sub-divisional hospital or the community health centre (CHC), for the remaining two-year period. This, it said, would make them eligible for applying as assistant professors, as per the norms of the Medical Council of India (MCI). It also demanded that posting of doctors who complete PG courses be done on merit-cum-choice basis. In case of default of bond, the doctors demanded that the government should not take back the remuneration paid to them during their PG course. “We have also demanded that the penalty of Rs 25 lakh be recovered per defaulted year — Rs 9 lakh for one-year default, Rs 16 lakh for two years and full Rs 25 lakh for three years of default,” said Dr Harendra Kumar, president JDA-Bihar. The junior doctors also demanded that the incentive of one-month basic salary to doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty, as announced by the state government, besides Rs 50 lakh life insurance cover by the Central government, be also extended to them. The JDA also requested the government to allow treatment of non-Covid-19 patients at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in Patna, the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya, and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur — all of which have been designated as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Not allowing non-Covid patients was hampering the training of PG students, said the letter.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,17,671.There are around 600 PG medicos in six of the nine state government medical colleges, which have PG curriculum in Bihar, said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-doctors-in-bihar-threaten-to-boycott-work-from-aug-27/story-Mr572d3bkZMkBkyweUbPmN.html
22-08-2020||India||BJP may soon begin seat-sharing talks with allies in Bihar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may begin seat-sharing talks with allies in poll-bound Bihar after its two-day state executive committee meeting that begins on Saturday. J P Nadda, the party chief, and BJP’s Bihar election in-charge, Devendra Fadnavis, and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav will hold talks with chief minister Nitish Kumar and other top leaders of his Janata Dal (United), or JDU, in Patna next week.A BJP leader said with elections likely to be announced in mid-September, the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will have to sort out the alliance issues and decide the seats to be contested by each party as soon as possible. He said it was particularly important because of disagreements between the JD (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), the other NDA constituent.The seat-sharing will be discussed at the state executive committee meeting. “This is an important meeting which will begin with the address of Fadnavis. A political resolution will be passed on the first day and party national president [Nadda] will address the meeting on the concluding day,” said state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. “The meeting will plan the strategy for the assembly polls besides expanding the party’s organization.”People aware of the matter said two to three formulas were under consideration. BJP leaders believe that after distributing seats among allies, the BJP and JD (U) should get theirs on the 50-50 basis as was the case during the 2019 national polls. “HAM-S [Hindustani Awam Morcha], which is likely to align with the JD (U), is likely to get seven seats… it will leave 115 seats for the JD (U). The BJP has been asked to adjust LJP from its quota and it is demanding no less than 42 seats,” said a person on condition of anonymity.The assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November.The Election Commission on Friday released a set of broad guidelines for holding elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic. HT reported on Wednesday that the poll watchdog was finalising the guidelines to hold the first set of elections, especially in Bihar, after the pandemic disrupted electoral processes.The elections in Bihar are crucial to the BJP after it lost power in Maharashtra, and Jharkhand last year despite forming the government at the Centre with a bigger majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-soon-begin-seat-sharing-talks-with-allies-in-bihar/story-cVoaIA01R5fjSLTFV3dtIO.html
22-08-2020||India||2 years after woman’s death, report confirms rape; police begin probe||Almost two years after a woman allegedly died by suicide in Bhopal, the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report received by Bairasia police station on Friday evening confirmed that she had been raped, said police.The police have registered a case under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC on Friday and started investigation in the matter.“In November 2018, the woman complained of stomach ache. She had been taken to a hospital in Bairasia from where she was referred to Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal city. On her way to Hamidia hospital, she told her brother that she had consumed poison. Later, the brother had informed the police about it,” said Kailash Narayan Bhardwaj, town inspector Bairasia.However, there was no allegation regarding rape. After her death, post mortem was conducted and her viscera with vaginal swab had been sent to the Forensic science laboratory (FSL), Bhopal, for testing, said Bhardwaj.Additional director general of police Upendra Jain said, “We have received FSL report. According to the report, the woman was raped. Now, we will start a fresh investigation and we will register the statement of family members.”AIIMS, Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh said, “In case of death due to poisoning, chemical examination of viscera is important but in case of death of a girl or woman due to poisoning, viscera, and vaginal swab are collected. The overall chemical and molecular report of FSL confirms poisoning and rape.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-after-woman-s-death-report-confirms-rape-police-begin-probe/story-msLxpcWN4YUnwrX6bBJjdI.html
22-08-2020||India||Delhi police launch hearse van facility for poor, homeless||The Delhi Police have started a facility to assist people who cannot afford to hire hearse vans for their dead kin and to transport unidentified bodies found on the city’s roads. The facility will also be available for transporting bodies of those who succumb to Covid-19, officials said.From the homeless, who died natural deaths to hit and run accident victims or those who die of drug overdose, police find at least 6-10 bodies across the city daily. Until August 15, the number of unidentified bodies recovered this year was 937.Police officers said, apart from transporting unidentified dead bodies, the facility of free hearse vans has also been introduced keeping in mind the Covid-19 deaths. They added in many cases of deaths related to the disease, there were complaints from family members that ambulance vehicles were either not available or were charging hefty sums for transporting bodies.The facility started in Central police district on Friday and will be available in areas like Daryaganj, Karol Bagh, Rajinder Nagar, Chawri Bazar, Hauz Qazi, Jhandewalan, Patel Nagar, Nabi Karim and Paharganj. Other police districts are also expected to adopt the idea soon, officials said.Deputy police commissioner (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the facility will be available round the clock. “Those who want to avail the facility in tough times can request it through their police stations concerned. Apart from the driver, there will be two other policemen in the vehicle for assistance. The staff will take all required precautions and measures to ensure their and other’s safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-launch-hearse-van-facility-for-poor-homeless/story-IZ5POfcDci6RaubOcqf0nN.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI questions Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook for second day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions cook for second dayThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned a man, who was employed as Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook, for the second day on Saturday in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor in June. Read more BSF shoots down 5 intruders at Indo-Pak border: How it all happenedThe Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five alleged intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early on Saturday, officials said. Read more WHO mulls vaccine allocation in phases: Who would get it first?The WHO said the allocation of coronavirus vaccines should be first made proportionally to all nations and then considering the vulnerability of their populations. Read more ‘Pranab Mukherjee deeply comatose, on ventilator support’: HospitalFormer President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition continued to remain stable for third consecutive day on Saturday, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi. Read more ‘Dude with sign’ gets desi twist: Mumbai man’s hilarious messages on placards are something you can’t missIt was not that long ago when an Instagram user, with the handle name ‘Dude with sign’, piqued the attention of netizens with his funny and relatable placards about annoying day-to-day problems. Inspired by that idea, a mass media student from Mumbai, Nilraj Kadam has started his own hilarious page with a desi twist. Read more Toyota opens booking for Urban Cruiser sub-compact SUVUrban Cruiser sub-compact SUV will be Toyota’s second spin-off of a Maruti Suzuki car, the first being the Baleno hatchback which has been rebranded and marketed by the Japanese carmaker as Glanza. Read more If he was part of World Cup squad, we would have won the tournament: Suresh Raina on India batsmanIt looked like Ambati Rayudu was lock-in for the squad after being the preferred choice for Team India for the last one year. But the MSK Prasad-led selection committee sprung up a surprise when they omitted Rayudu from the squad and picked Vijay Shankar instead. Read more Kangana Ranaut isn’t Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend nor his representative, only highlighting discrimination: lawyer Vikas SinghLawyer Vikas Singh, who represents Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, has said that Kangana Ranaut is neither Sushant’s friend nor representative. He said she is ‘bringing out a general problem in the industry’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-questions-sushant-singh-rajput-s-cook-for-second-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xKhpbZtncDX4gPCsNyG8LP.html
22-08-2020||India||How to stay safe and celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi||The 11-day Ganesh Chaturthi began on Saturday. In Maharashtra, the Covid-19 pandemic has altered possibly every aspect of the festivities. As of August 21, coronavirus cases in the state stood at 657,450 with 21,698 deaths, the most for any state in India. Here’s how you can stay safe while taking part in the Ganpati festivities:Avoid crowding: Order Ganesh puja material including idols online. If an online option is unavailable, step out with all precaution – wear masks, stay away from the crowd. Seek online ritual service from priests instead of calling them home. In cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik, several priests are offering services through social media and various apps. Seek online darshan Instead of visiting temples and pandals, one can opt for online darshan. Several mandals such as Dagdusheth Halwai temple are offering online darshan in Pune The Maharashtra government has advised people not to immerse idols in artificial ponds. Instead immerse the Ganpati idols at home in big pot or keep it for next year. Install clay idols which are environment friendly and can be dissolved in water easily. Follow guidelines issued by government authorities and police, which have put in place a code of conduct that prohibits public celebration including procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-stay-safe-and-celebrate-ganesh-chaturthi/story-KKdjRfUwrHGqWAf4eIDwEI.html
22-08-2020||India||Villagers thrash, tonsure 4 boys over phone theft in Bihar||Villagers thrashed and tonsured four boys for allegedly stealing a mobile phone at Barachatti in Bihar’s Gaya district after tying them to a tree in front of their parents. The four allegedly stole the phone from one person’s house on Thursday and were caught while selling it at a local market. Their hands were tied and they were marched on the streets for over an hour till fine of Rs 5,000 was collected from each of the minor’s families.Police on Saturday said they have started an investigation into the matter after the footage of the incident went viral on social media. The video purportedly shows the four being thrashed by a mob and their heads being tonsured in full public view. Gaya’s senior police superintendent, Rajiv Mishra, said necessary action has been taken against the offenders and that he has asked the local station house officer, Kumar Sourabh, to investigate the matter. “As nobody had given a complaint, we brought the victims to our police station and will lodge a case on the basis of their oral report,” said Sourabh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-thrash-tonsure-4-boys-over-phone-theft-in-bihar/story-g7S0pfvZwA6qNc5GK2B6oI.html
22-08-2020||India||BSF shoots down 5 intruders at Indo-Pak border: How it all happened||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five alleged intruders along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early on Saturday, officials said.The BSF personnel from 103rd battalion have also recovered an AK-series rifle and a pistol from the site where these intruders were killed near Dall village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in the district, they added.This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the more than 3,300 km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade, officials said.Here is what happened at the border: • The BSF troops, officials said, first noticed suspicious activity at the border around midnight and launched a focussed surveillance on the intruders. They also set up multiple ambushes along the front after which ‘contact was established’ early in the morning, just behind the IB fence.• According to people familiar with the developments, two men at that point of time were trying to sneak into India.• The intruders were seen carrying rifles and were taking the aid of the ‘sarkanda’ or tall grass to sneak into India, they said.• The two men were asked to stop, but they continued their movement, which prompted the troops to open fire. After the firing, a search operation was launched following which the BSF found five bodies.• An intensive search operation along the front is underway. “The search operation is still going on. It is yet to be ascertained if those who were shot down are Pakistanis. An AK-series rifle and a rucksack has been recover so far. We can tell about the motive of the accused once the operation is finished,” said a senior BSF official. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-down-5-intruders-at-indo-pak-border-how-it-all-happened/story-sfBU9xL8vMcKdQAIY28VFI.html
22-08-2020||India||WHO mulls vaccine allocation in phases: Who would get it first?||The World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed allocating vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) equitably to all countries to reduce overall risk, warning that wealthy nations move to corner limited supplies will hinder efforts to end the pandemic.The WHO said the allocation of coronavirus vaccines should be first made proportionally to all nations and then considering the vulnerability of their populations.Several countries have set up expert committees to decide on the next tier of distribution as initially only a limited amount of vaccines will be available before mass production. In June, the WHO had come out with a tentative plan of ‘strategic allocation’ of the coronavirus vaccine. It said healthcare workers should be given priority first followed by adults older than 65 and those having comorbidities such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity, or chronic respiratory disease.The world body hopes the coronavirus crisis can be over in less than two years, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Friday. “Our situation now with more technology, of course with more connectiveness, the virus has a better chance of spreading, it can move fast,” he said.Here is how these countries are working a way out to distribute the Covid-19 vaccine once ready:IndiaThe government took the first steps on Monday to potentially secure a procurement deal for a Covid-19 vaccine, asking officials of five pharmaceutical firms, including three that have candidates in clinical trials, to present a road map within three days of how soon they can produce large quantities and what pricing they expect if their shot is approved.India is yet to strike a pre-production deal with any of the vaccine developers that are in the race for a successful candidate, a strategy several advanced economies such as United States, United Kingdom and some European Union nations have adopted in order to jump what might be a long waiting line.United StatesA subgroup of the Centre for Disease Control’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has suggested a tiered system on prioritising vaccine recipients, according to a report in journal Science. The top tier includes 12 million highest risk healthcare professionals and national security workers.AustraliaWhile announcing a deal with pharma major AstraZeneca, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that all Australians would get vaccinated for free and also suggested that he would also like it to become mandatory for everyone in his country.RussiaRussia has become the first country to grant regulatory approval to a Covid-19 vaccine. “We will begin the stage-by-stage civilian use of the vaccine. First and foremost, we would like to offer vaccination to those who come into contact with infected persons at work. These are medical workers. And also those who are responsible for children’s health – teachers,” Russian health minister Mikhail Murashko told TASS news agency.CanadaIn Canada, the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation has recommended prioritising people with health conditions that are risk factors for Covid-19, such as asthma, diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung disease and cardiovascular disease, followed by those whose jobs make them more susceptible, such as emergency and healthcare workers. Third on the list are those living in long-term care or crowded or remote locations and people with tobacco, alcohol or drug use disorders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-mulls-vaccine-allocation-in-phases-who-would-get-it-first/story-maQcf6WrfUPMBKrbMkV62O.html
22-08-2020||India||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla||A terrorist was killed in a gunfight with security forces in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday, officials said.The encounter in Saloosa area of Kreeri of Baramulla is underway and at least three terrorists are believed to be trapped, they added.Personnel of Indian Army’s 52 Rashtriya Rifles, Jammu and Kashmir police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a joint operation on receiving inputs about the presence of terrorists in the village, officials said.Saturday’s gunbattle site is close to Watergam Kreeri where five security personnel and three terrorists were killed on Monday when a group of terrorists had targeted the security forces’ joint patrol party. A so-called top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Sajjad Haider, was among the terrorists killed in the encounter that day.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-baramulla/story-XfOVKxqi6hI749bvRcD9JJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal: 3 held for minor’s rape and murder, family alleges police inaction||The West Bengal police have arrested three people in the state’s Jalpaiguri district for allegedly raping and murdering a 16-year-old girl even as her family alleged inaction and said she could have been saved had action been taken on time and one of the accused not released initially after questioning.The girl’s partially decomposed body was recovered from a septic tank near the house of one of the accused on Thursday, nine days after her father lodged her missing report. The family said police detained the accused on the basis of her father’s complaint but released him after questioning. On Friday, local residents staged a demonstration in front of a police station alleging inaction. They alleged that police did little to prevent the crime despite being alerted by the girl’s family and save the girl, who was alive for at least five days after she went missing on August 10. Khageswar Roy, the local ruling Trinamool Congress lawmaker, supported the family, saying the police acted casually and could have saved the girl if they had acted seriously. “It is a heinous crime. Police officials, who were supposed to find the girl, took it casually. The police are saying that the girl was raped on August 15 and then murdered. This means she was alive till August 15 and could have been saved had the police acted immediately on the complaint and took it seriously,” said Roy.He demanded immediate transfer of all the police officers involved in the investigation for dereliction of duty. Jalpaiguri police superintendent Pradeep Kumar Yadav promised action. “We will conduct an inquiry against the officers involved. If the allegations of negligence of duty are found to be true, strict action would be taken,” said Yadav.He cited the statement of two of the accused and said they took the girl to a house on August 10 and sexually assaulted her along with another accomplice. “All the accused live in the neighbouring villages and are aged around 30-35,” said Yadav.Police said the interrogation of the accused has revealed that the girl was raped on August 15 before they killed her and dumped the body in the septic tank. “The court has sent them in police custody for eight days. The accused would be interrogated to get further details,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-3-held-for-minor-s-rape-and-murder-family-alleges-police-inaction/story-qoojqIOnX5W5uB3k400neL.html
22-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions cook for second day, to call manager as well||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned a man, who was employed as Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook, for the second day on Saturday in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor in June, news agency ANI reported.A team of CBI officials questioned Neeraj Singh at the guest house in Santacruz area of Mumbai, where they are staying. A team of forensic experts also reached the guest house, according to ANI. Singh and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were questioned on Friday.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty said Sushant Singh Rajput told her to leave his house, chats with Mahesh Bhatt reveal otherwise: lawyerThe central probe agency has set up four teams to investigate the circumstances surrounding Rajput’s death. One team will focus on translating documents from Marathi to English, while another will question people involved in the case. Another team will coordinate with superiors in Delhi and handle logistics in Mumbai.According to officials privy to the probe, the central agency will also question the actor’s manager Deepesh Sawant, said sources in the CBI.Also Read: AIIMS forensic team to analyze Sushant Singh Rajput case reports, give medico-legal opinionA team of officials met deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9) Abhishek Trimukhe on Friday at his office in Bandra to collect documents, including the forensic report and post-mortem reports as well as statements of more than 60 people whom Mumbai Police had questioned as part of its investigation. These and other material evidence were handed over to the CBI team, said sources in Mumbai Police.CBI will also collect other evidence, including Rajput’s personal items including three mobile phones, a laptop, clothes, a blanket, bedsheets, a green kurta, a glass; and CCTV footage of his house and building, added sources in CBI.Also Read: ED asks Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister about missing funds: OfficialsAccording to sources, once the documentation is complete, CBI plans to visit the actor’s flat in Bandra and recreate the scene of his death scientifically, using weights.The actor was found dead in his apartment on June 14, following which Mumbai Police had registered a case of accidental death. Later, Rajput’s father filed a police complaint in Bihar, accusing actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s suicide and misappropriating his money.A first information report (FIR) was filed by Patna Police on the basis of the complaint and it later handed over the case to CBI. The Enforcement Directorate also filed a case on July 31, to probe the allegations of money laundering.CBI has also approached the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi and the premier hospital formed a five-member medical board of forensic experts to look into the autopsy files related to Rajput’s death.“We will look into the possibility of murder. However, all probable angles will be thoroughly examined,” AIIMS’ forensic department chief Dr Sudhir Gupta, who will lead the team, told PTI.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister expresses faith in CBI, Kangana Ranaut joins TwitterGupta said the team will evaluate the injury pattern on Rajput’s body and correlate it with circumstantial evidence. “The preserved viscera will be examined and the anti-depressants that were given to Rajput will also be analysed at the AIIMS laboratory,” Gupta said.The probe agency, in its letter to the premier medical institute, has said it will provide the team of forensic experts with the necessary medical papers, post-mortem reports, videographs and viscera reports at the earliest.(With agency reports)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-questions-cook-for-second-day-to-call-manager-as-well/story-g3EcA71SgbANvKlj9zeuhL.html
22-08-2020||India||‘Pranab Mukherjee deeply comatose, on ventilator support’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition continued to remain stable for third consecutive day on Saturday, said Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi.“The condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose and is being treated for respiratory infection. His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in a statement.Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, had tweeted an emotional post on August 15, remembering last year’s Independence Day celebrations with her father.“In his childhood, my dad & my uncle would hoist National Flag at our ancestral home in village. Since then, he never missed a year to hoist tri-colour on Independence Day. Sharing some memories from last years celebration at home. I’m sure he’ll do the same next year. Jai Hind,” she tweeted.Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of doctors at the hospital.Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-deeply-comatose-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-kXVR0iC17Ujv878GiUq7AJ.html
22-08-2020||India||After Thursday’s spike of 17 Covid cases, Dharavi reports 3 on Friday||Dharavi recorded three new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, returning to its earlier trend of single digit cases in a day for the past few weeks, after a spike on Thursday when it recorded 17 cases, the health department said.There are now 92 active cases in Dharavi, Mumbai’s sprawling shanty town, where the Covid-19 tally stands at 2,700.In August so far, Dharavi’s average doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has touched 406 days, as opposed to 300 days in July, 108 days in June, 43 days in May, and 18 days in April. The average growth rate of cases in Dharavi is 0.24%, as opposed to 0.39% in July, 0.83% in June, and 4.3% in May, and 12% in April.For the past week, Dharavi has reported new Covid-19 cases in single digits. On August 19, August 18, and August 17, it reported 4 new cases respectively, on August 16 and August 15 it reported 5 new cases, on August 14, there were 9 new cases, on August 13 there were 6 new cases, on August 12 there were 9 new cases.A total of 116 new cases have been reported in Dharavi in August till Friday, in comparison to 358 in July. Its peak was in May, when a total of 1,216 cases were reported. The cases fell to 480 in June. The recovery rate in Dharavi is presently 87%, higher than Mumbai’s recovery rate of 80.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-thursday-s-spike-of-17-covid-cases-dharavi-reports-3-on-friday/story-qibWuylVRof9p3MefOShXK.html
22-08-2020||India||National Council for Transgender Persons formed||The Centre has constituted the national council for transgender persons, headed by the Union social justice minster and comprising representatives from 10 central departments, five states and members of the community. The council – India’s first and formed under Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 – was announced in a gazette notification issued late on Friday. According to the legislation, the council has five main functions -- advising the central government on the formulation of policies, programmes, legislation and projects with respect to transgender persons; monitoring and evaluating the impact of policies and programmes designed for achieving equality and full participation of transgender persons; reviewing and coordinating the activities of all the departments; redressing grievances of transgender persons; and performing such other functions as prescribed by the Centre. The council will have joint secretary-level members from the ministries of health, home, minority affairs, education, rural development, labour and law. In addition, there will be a member from the department of pensions, Niti Aayog, National Human Rights Commission and National Commission for Women. Representatives from five states or Union Territories, on a rotational basis, will be members of the commission. The first such clutch comprises Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura and Gujarat. Five members of the community and five experts, from non-governmental organisations, have also been named to the commission. The tenure of the community members and expert shall be three years.“I am glad that a member from the Northeast region has been appointed to be part of the council. However, there was no transparency in the manner in which the members were selected. This is a matter of concern, said Santa Khurai, Nupi Maanbi and trans rights activist based in Manipur.“Intersex people are often invisiblised in the legal and policy discourse. The distinction between gender identity and sex characteristics is also not understood. To bring about changes in the existing governance regime, it is important to work and engage with the system. During my tenure in the Council, I plan to raise awareness about rights of intersex people in general and intersex infants and children in particular. I hope to contribute in developing a comprehensive legal protection regime for intersex people,” said panel member Gopi Shankar M.“My main aim will be to mainstream the trans community’s concerns, focusing on livelihood issues as well as to raise awareness about the trans community, so that transpersons are accepted within families and in the larger society. I look forward to working with the government to achieve this,” said Reshma Prasad, founder of Dostana Safar, a Patna-based community organisation and a member of the newly constituted council. R Subramanyam, Union social justice secretary, said: “The transgender welfare board would guide the government in welfare schemes for them. This is a landmark event.” (With inputs from Amandeep Shukla)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-council-for-transgender-persons-formed/story-QXO57cxN8jhrpdmZZaWtbM.html
22-08-2020||India||Coronavirus latest updates: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 74.69%||India has recorded 69,878 coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, taking its total to 2,975,701. With 953 fatalities reported on Friday, the country’s death toll has surged to 55,928. India remained the third worst-hit country in the world after the US and Brazil, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.The number of active cases were at 697,330 and 55,794 people have succumbed to the viral disease, data showed. The recovery rate climbed to 74.69% as record 63,631 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. There are 2,222,577 people who have been cured of the coronavirus disease till date.As many as 23,120,802 people around the world have been diagnosed with Covid-19. While 15,714,993 have recovered, 803,213 have died so far. Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 in India and recent developments:•India will see close to 57,000 deaths by the end of Saturday, with around 16,000 of them being registered since it crossed the two million mark. A little over 13,000 of them were registered between the time it crossed one million cases and touched two million. •The third million cases largely mirrored the trend of the second. Maharashtra accounted for 18.6% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 14.9%, Karnataka 11.1%, and Tamil Nadu 9.3%. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two of India’s most populous states accounted for 7.2% and 5.3% of the million cases. West Bengal accounted for 4.8% of the cases, and Assam 3.9%. Delhi accounted for just 1.8% of cases.•British Pharma giant AstraZeneca has tied up with Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to produce a billion doses for low-income nations including India. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had already given the go-ahead to conduct Phase II/III trial of Oxford vaccine in India. The trials are being conducted in 17 selected sites across India on 1600 volunteers, including KEM and Nair Hospitals of Mumbai.•Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in an interview to Hindustan Times said vaccine trials against Covid-19 are being fast-tracked globally. “It is expected that the trials of India-made vaccines would be completed by the end of this year. We will know the efficacy of vaccines by then. The Oxford vaccine produced by Serum Institute of India is already being produced parallelly, so that the time required to market it will be reduced to a larger extent.”•As the race for a vaccine against the coronavirus heats up, the US faces another potential crisis: a shortage of syringes. The US federal government has already spent hundreds of millions of dollars in hopes of warding off a syringe shortage, if and when a Covid-19 vaccine is approved. It comes as shortages of personal protective equipment continue to hamper the response to the pandemic.•India is not planning to follow a preset benchmark for selecting a Covid-19 vaccine and will explore all available options for mass immunization against the contagion. “When we will have a vaccine ready, we will look at all parameters in a balanced manner, how effective it is, what is the cost, ease of administration, besides other factors,” said Dr V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), and the chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration.•Bangladesh will be a priority recipient for the Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, according to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. “For us, Bangladesh is always a priority country,” Shringla who is on a two-day visit here quoted by local media as telling reporters here on Wednesday on being asked about the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-updates-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-to-74-69/story-0l2U2qsieXKK1DJlVSg87J.html
22-08-2020||India||BMC expects spike in Covid-19 cases amid Ganpati celebrations||Anticipating crowds around markets and Ganesh pandals, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed assistant commissioners of all wards to deploy more civic staff to disperse large gatherings and maintain social distancing as part of Covid-19 protocol.After a widely-circulated video on social media on Friday, showing an over-crowded market in Dadar West that is popular among Ganesh festival shoppers, the BMC asked the ward office concerned to disperse the crowd and take crowd control measures such as opening shops on alternate sides of the road, on alternate days. Assistant commissioners of other wards have been asked to take similar measures where necessary.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have instructed all assistant commissioners to take a round of their wards and deploy more staff for periodic rounds during the day to disperse crowds gathered anywhere. If more crowds are seen anywhere, the officers have been instructed to take a call to shut shops on one side of the road on alternate days, or shift hawkers elsewhere.”The BMC is bracing for a likely spike in Covid-19 cases during the festival as more people will venture out for shopping or visiting Ganesh pandals, but says it is prepared for it.“If cases increase, we are ready to handle the surge. At some point Mumbai is going to completely open up and a surge is expected. We have been preparing for that. People going out during the Ganesh festival take Mumbai one step closer to opening up in a controlled environment,” Kakani said.On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,406 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single day figure in August. Before this, Mumbai had recorded 1,476 cases on July 26. The city also reported 42 casualties due to Covid-19 taking the total toll to 7,356. There are 18,299 active cases in Mumbai where the Covid-19 tally stands at 1,34,228 cases. The case fatality rate is 5.4%, and the recovery rate is 80%.This year, BMC has given permission for setting up 1,820 Ganesh mandals to celebrate the festival. The civic body received 2,350 applications of which 256 were rejected and 274 are still being scrutinised. A civic official said, “Applicants are first supposed to take traffic police permissions and police permissions, and then apply to BMC. Applications are rejected if all permissions are not in place.”Earlier in July, a set of guidelines were issued for the festival directing mandals to restrict the height of Ganesh idols to four feet, and those celebrating the festival at home to restrict the height to 2 feet. BMC has also directed Ganesh mandals to restrict height of pandals, sanitise the pandal three times a day, and has not allowed any offerings such as garlands or edible items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-expects-spike-in-covid-19-cases-amid-ganpati-celebrations/story-WY3aV0XgYdNQ5ln5H7iejP.html
22-08-2020||India||BSF shoots down 5 intruders at India-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot down five intruders, who were trying to cross over the Indian territory from Pakistan, in a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, officials said on Saturday.Personnel from BSF’s 103rd battalion have also recovered an AK-series rifle and a pistol from the site where these intruders were killed near Dal village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in the district, they added.They observed suspicious movements across the fence on the other side of the border near the Dall border outpost around 5am. According to people familiar with the developments, two men at that point of time were trying to sneak into India.They were challenged but continued their movement which prompted the troops to open fire. After the firing, a search operation was launched following which they found five bodies.“The search operation is still going on. It is yet to be ascertained if those who were shot down are Pakistanis. An AK-series rifle and a rucksack have been recovered so far. We can tell about the motive of the accused once the operation is finished,” said a senior BSF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-down-5-intruders-at-india-pakistan-border-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran/story-UZWJ7bEZxuaG9CDv8hjuzL.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh govt to table bill for recovery of damages from protesters||The Uttar Pradesh government will on Saturday table 17 bills in the assembly to replace ordinances promulgated after the last session of the state legislature. The bills include the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill, 2020, that relates to putting up posters/hoardings by protesters and recovery of damages caused to public and private property during political agitations/processions and demonstrations. The state government had earlier promulgated the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Ordinance, 2020, this year in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests.The bill to replace the ordinance seeks to empower the government to make protesters and rioters pay for the damages caused to public and private property. The state government has set up two tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to investigate the cases of damage to property during the protests under the provisions of the ordinance. Opposition leader Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, who is not attending the state session on medical advice, said as there was no provision for an appeal in a civil court against the tribunal’s orders, and hence his party would oppose the bill in the assembly. The state legislature’s monsoon session began on Thursday and the state government proposed to table the bills in the state assembly on Friday. It, however, decided to take up Friday’s agenda on Saturday as the House was adjourned after condoling the death of Janmjeya Singh, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Deoria (Sadar) earlier in the day. The state government also proposes to repeal about 60 laws that have become obsolete and redundant over the years. A bill in this regard is likely to be tabled in the state assembly besides other bills. The Uttar Pradesh Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Bill 2020 is also likely to be tabled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-table-bill-for-recovery-of-damages-from-protesters/story-a2d8CnQOS4orovlnLzj3RJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations begin in India amid Covid-19 restrictions||As 10-day festivities of Ganesh Chaturthi begin today amid Covid-19 outbreak, a grand ‘arti’ of Lord Ganesha was performed in several parts of the country including at the Shri Siddhivinayak Temple here in Dwarka.Similarly, priests also performed ‘arti’ at renowned Shri Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai, the Shri Ganesh Mandir Tekdi in Nagpur, Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Mandir in Pune and the Ganesh Temple in Delhi’s Connaught Place.On the occasion, the temples and Ganpati idols are beautifully decorated. Devotees are visiting the temples to seek blessings of Lord Ganesha. However, the number of people arriving at the temples is less number as compared to previous years due to Covid-19 restrictions. At the temples, priests were seen following Covid-19 protocols, covering their faces with mask and maintaining social distancing to combat the virus. ‘Hawan’ was also performed in several temples amid chanting of mantras.Meanwhile, Dr Aditi Mittal, a resident of Surat, made a Ganpati idol with dry fruits on the occasion.“I made this idol with dry fruits with the shells still on. It will be kept at a COVID-19 hospital. After the puja, the dry fruits will be distributed among patients at the hospital,” she said.After 10 days of festivities, finally, the devotees bid adieu to the elephant-god for the year by immersing it in water bodies.However, the festival this year is being celebrated in a much more restricted way amidst the global pandemic situation. The social distancing norms will prevent people to celebrate the festival in the congregation.According to new guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued on July 29, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will continue to remain prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-begin-in-india-amid-covid-19-restrictions/story-9AfETr55tKIHaBYF6nWCLJ.html
22-08-2020||India||14 UP health officials send resignation letters citing Covid threats||Fourteen health officials have written a letter to the state government seeking to step down as in charges and superintendents of community health centres in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district, citing difficulties they face during Covid-19 sampling and lack of support from the administration. “People do not cooperate and even give fake mobile numbers, addresses during sampling. Also, they threaten to beat up medical teams and register fake cases. We are not getting any administrative support to work,” said the letter.The officials said they will continue to work as doctors in the health department. “Working is becoming difficult with every passing day. With no security, doctors and field staff are being threatened by people. There is no option, but to resign from administrative posts,” said Dr Amit Singh, secretary of the Provincial Medical Services Association, a body of government doctors. Last week, 28 health officials submitted their resignations from their administrative posts in Varanasi, alleging threats from an official. They later resumed work after assurances from the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-up-health-officials-send-resignation-letters-citing-covid-threats/story-YBLAEgVuFC4slx6toXxPEM.html
22-08-2020||India||Bengal govt to go ahead with Ganga Sagar Mela despite pandemic threat||The Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal has started planning for the Ganga Sagar Mela, the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India, after the Kumbh Mela in Prayag.The Ganga Sagar Mela is held in January every year.“The first meeting to plan for the mela was held on Thursday with various departments including the police, irrigation and transport among others. Various aspects of the preparation for the mela were discussed in detail keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas. To celebrate Makar Sankranti, the first major Hindu festival in the Gregorian calendar, more than four million people bathe in Gangasagar where the Ganga meets the Bay of Bengal.“This year, because of the pandemic, elaborate plans have to be made to maintain social distance and hygiene. A significant portion of the mela budget could be spent in this regard. The budget would be prepared soon,” said an officer of the district administration. More than 1.32 lakh people have already tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengal and the state is registering more than 3,000 new cases every day. A total of 2,689 people have died in the pandemic so far.The chief minister is expected to hold the first virtual administrative meeting on Monday. District officials are expecting some more clarifications and directions regarding the mela preparations during the meeting. “Usually the first meeting is held in the month of July and preparations start soon after, But because of the pandemic we are late this year. Joint visits by the police, district administration and engineers to inspect the mela ground and jetties would be held soon,” said an officer. Preparations have also started for the Durga Puja, the largest festival in Bengal in October. Chief minister Banerjee had shown keen interest in organsing the puja and festival this time despite the pandemic. The city’s only forum of puja organizers has drawn up detailed guidelines on how the festival may be held by maintaining social distancing norms despite the pandemic. “We can’t forecast what the situation would be in October-end. The puja would be held for sure. The question is whether the week-long festival can be organized. We are being optimistic and have prepared the guidelines with the presumption that the festival would be held,” said Saswata Bau, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-go-ahead-with-ganga-sagar-mela-despite-pandemic-threat/story-meodExxOs7YfiDDtz2UXOL.html
22-08-2020||India||Bihar launches sensitisation programme for healthcare staff for better infection control||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 in Bihar, the state government on Saturday launched an eight-day virtual training and sensitisation programme on infection control and best practices by experts from Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The exercise will cover all the 38 districts of the state and conclude on September 3. The programme on infection control and best practices involves Bihar’s healthcare workers down the line - from doctors to ward boys and cook.Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who assumed charge of the department earlier this month after two reshuffles at the top in the midst of pandemic, said experience and knowledge sharing on best practices was always helpful in such times when there was no room for getting complacent until there was a vaccine available.“I have been holding meetings with all the superintendents and principals of medical colleges and hospitals for the past couple of weeks every Monday and also made field visits to underline the importance of experience sharing for adopting best practices, as Covid management requires training at all levels - be it the cook providing food to patients, trolly boy, housekeeping staff as well as others directly involved in the treatment,, as infection at any level could turn out to be a source of superspreaders,” he said.He said that virtual experience sharing had also been done with the healthcare professionals and others at the Patna Medical College Hospital and the Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Medical College, Bhagalpur in the past by AIIMS experts. The government is also trying to engage the WHO in the exercise..“We want to make experience sharing a continuous process. From next week, we will try to rope in WHO experts also as a lot is still changing and we need to be prepared, which will require adoption of best practices. If required, we will also send doctors and healthcare staff to learn best practices at AIIMS or other top hospitals. Post-Covid treatment is also emerging as an important component, as many people have issues. AIIMS Patna is already working on it and a couple of more hospitals will also be prepared for that,” he added.Five districts will be covered on Saturday in the training and sensitisation programme.Jehanabad civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Sinha said all preparations have been made for the virtual training and all in charges of hospitals and doctors and healthcare workers of the primary health centres would participate in it. Last month, the same team from AIIMS Delhi had conducted a training session for the doctors of Sadar Hospital, Ara at the request of Union minister for power Raj Kumar Singh, it was the first of its kind initiative in the state grappling with a surge in Covid-19 positive cases. The Bihar government has now decided to extend it to all the hospitals for better clinical management and infection control.The team of doctors from AIIMS involved in the training includes associate professor Dr Neeraj Nischal, Dr Ankit Mittal, Dr Shivdas Naik and Mrs Lilu Tomas (nursing officer).The experts, according to a senior official of Delhi AIIMS, will hold interactive virtual sessions to impart training on best practices, which will cover various aspects, viz. use of PPE kit for safety of health workers while taking care of Covid-19 patients and various dos and don’ts.“In the fight against Covid, the most important aspect is that the healthcare workers and doctors need to protect themselves first. It will be immensely helpful for district hospitals to understand the nuances of Covid-19 treatment and lead to better care without having to move to Patna,” said the official.The move is significant as several doctors and healthcare professionals have died after being infected. The attempt is to create a safe environment for doctors and health staff so that they could treat patients without fear.During an earlier visit to Patna with a central team, Dr Nischal had said that the first and the foremost importance be given to hospital infection control policy and for this a mechanism be developed for proper training to staff and doctors across the healthcare system. The central team was surprised to see that attendants were allowed to freely move in and out of the Covid wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-launches-sensitisation-programme-for-healthcare-staff-for-better-infection-control/story-Mhq2Ov6wPCmpHhksxtXwUL.html
22-08-2020||India||JMM chief Shibu Soren, wife Roopi Soren test positive for Covid-19||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren and his wife Roopi Soren have been tested positive for the coronavirus disease, a party leader said on Saturday.Samples of the former chief minister Soren and his wife were collected on Friday and their test reports came late evening.Confirming the development, JMM’s general secretary-cum-spokesperson, Binod Pandey, said, “I am myself in home quarantine. But, as per our information, Guruji (as Soren is popularly known) and his wife are doing fine. There is nothing to worry. If needed, they would be shifted to hospital.”Earlier on August 7, 12 security guards posted at Soren’s official residence in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground were tested positive. The guards were in charge of external security. In July, Soren’s son and chief minister, Hemant Soren, had placed himself in home quarantine after coming in contact with an infected cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur. The father and the son live in separate bungalows.Hemant Soren, who has been tested negative twice, went into home quarantine this week after health minister Banna Gupta was found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-chief-shibu-soren-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8p09VzEuupGxA5XKagehJM.html
22-08-2020||India||‘History will judge the court’: Kapil Sibal on Prashant Bhushan contempt case||Congress leader Kapil Sibal said on Saturday “contempt power being used as a sledgehammer”, in the context of the case involving lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan which is being heard by the Supreme Court.The top court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for two tweets — the first, on June 27, where he was critical of the top court and the role of the last four chief justices, and, the second, on June 29, where he criticised the current CJI. The three-judge bench had said the tweets cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest.Prashant Bhushan Contempt power being used as a sledgehammerWhy are Courts helpless when institutions that need to protect the constitution and the laws show " open contempt " for both ?Larger issues are at stake History will judge the Court for having let us down“Prashant Bhushan Contempt power being used as a sledgehammer Why are Courts helpless when institutions that need to protect the constitution and the laws show “ open contempt “ for both ? Larger issues are at stake History will judge the Court for having let us down,” Sibal, who is also a senior lawyer, tweeted.Before Sibal, the Congress had on Thursday said the “law has to be applied in an even-handed, fair and balanced manner” in the context of the contempt case. Congress’ spokesperson and senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the concerns raised by those after the judgment are certainly not in any manner false or frivolous.“They cannot be dismissed off hand and deserve a lot of careful thinking because they include former judges of that very court, they include precedence and they include the basic spirit of the Supreme Court that its chest is larger than any chest in India and its shoulders being wider than any shoulder in India,” Singhvi had said.The Supreme Court on Thursday granted two days to Bhushan to reconsider his “defiant statement” refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan told a bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, that he would consult his lawyers and think over the top court’s suggestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-will-judge-the-court-kapil-sibal-on-prashant-bhushan-contempt-case/story-ILOloGgYHa1FUYqfoSBOwO.html
22-08-2020||India||India records highest one-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 69,878; tally nears 3 million||India’s tally of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) neared the 3 million-mark as it remained the third worst-hit country in the world after the US and Brazil, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.There were 69,878 cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day spike, and 945 fatalities reported across the country in the last 24 hours, taking India’s tally to 2,975,701, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.The number of active cases were at 697,330 and 55,794 people have succumbed to the viral disease, data showed. The recovery rate climbed to 74.69% as record 63,631 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. There are 2,222,577 people who have been cured of the coronavirus disease till date.The gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases has increased further and reached 1,525,247 on Saturday.The health ministry also said India has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million tests every day to detect Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, which experts say is important to know the exact disease burden.“Early identification through TESTING, prompt & effective TREATMENT through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, & innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days,” the ministry tweeted.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) “is maintained below the global average”, the health ministry said on Friday. “It is on a continuous positive slide and currently stands at 1.89%,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-one-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases-at-69-878-tally-nears-3-million/story-I7ubTDi2aFnDg0xZAQHkLN.html
22-08-2020||India||India crosses target of a million Covid-19 tests a day||India crossed the one million daily testing milestone on Friday with a total of 10, 23,836 tests, according to the Union health ministry data.“Early identification through testing, prompt and effective treatment through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, and innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days,” the health ministry tweeted on Saturday.In an interview with HT, Harsh Vardhan, the minister of health and family welfare, had underscored how the government was aggressively pursuing its targets.“We have met our goal of doing one million Covid-19 tests a day at least six weeks ahead of target --- just as we have done in the past for other goals. When we promised to take testing up to 100,000 a day by May 31, we achieved that target by May 10. A few weeks go, I had promised to reach the one million a day mark in 12 weeks. And now look at our progress,” he said in the interview.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine agreements in the works with candidates, producers, says Harsh VardhanICMR director general Balram Bhargava, in a recent briefing, had said the research body adopted an intelligent and calibrated approach to meet the testing requirement. “If we look at overall testing numbers, then we are comfortably placed but there are certain states/regions that need extra attention. So we focused accordingly when building testing capacity. States where there were fewer labs were given priority to establish or upgrade existing infrastructure,” Bhargava had said. All states in India are currently performing at least 140 tests per day per million population as prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as the minimum requirement for adequate Covid-19 testing. Most states are performing much higher numbers, with the national average being 580 tests per day per million population. Experts agree that it is important to keep the testing momentum high to know the exact disease burden. “The more you test, the higher will be the number of infected that you will be able to identify. To curtail an infectious disease from spreading, one must be able to identify, through testing, as many infected individuals as possible in time so that they are isolated and put on treatment. It will also ensure they don’t roam around freely within the community and transmit the infection,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. The testing lab network in the country is also being continuously strengthened and currently consists of 1,504 labs. Of them, 978 labs are in the government sector and 526 are private labs. Covid cases in India are set to cross three million on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-target-of-a-million-covid-19-tests-a-day/story-gdjeWjdG2qpejDwI7O4ylM.html
22-08-2020||India||All offices, shops to remain shut: These states are under weekend lockdown||At least a dozen states have ordered weekend lockdown citing the need to revive economic activities and reduce the risk of spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the same time. India, the third worst-affected country in the world by the coronavirus pandemic after the US and Brazil, has surpassed 2.9 million Covid-19 cases till date. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India has been reporting the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases for the last 17 days, but the fatality rate has reduced to 1.89 per cent, according to the official figures.Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are among the states put in weekend curbs.Here’s a list of states in India that are under weekend lockdown:•As Covid-19 cases continue to see a sharp spike in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on August 20 ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7pm to 5am in all 167 cities and towns of the state. Also, Singh has imposed restrictions on vehicular capacity in five districts - Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. No more than three passengers are allowed in each private four-wheeler. At present, these five districts account for 80 per cent of the active caseload in Punjab.•Following the footsteps of Haryana government, Chandigarh administration on Friday announced that all shops and establishments, barring essential stores, will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.• Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua is the second district after Jammu to announce a weekend lockdown for an indefinite period. The restrictions will begin at 5 pm on all Fridays and will last till 6 am on Mondays, authorities said.• Weekend lockdown will continue in Guwahati till August 31. “No movement of individuals shall be allowed on Saturday and Sunday at any time all over the State,” states the government of Assam’s latest guidelines of Covid-19 lockdown.• Uttar Pradesh is under weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am. These curbs had been announced on July 10. The lockdown in containment zones will continue till August 31, with only essential services allowed in such areas.• The Andaman and Nicobar administration has also announced complete lockdown on weekends to contain the spread of Covid-19. • The lockdown has been extended in Tamil Nadu till August 31 as part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government announced on Thursday. There will be complete lockdown on all Sundays (August 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30), according to a release issued by the government of Tamil Nadu.•In worst-affected Maharashtra, civic authorities of Nagpur city have announced a voluntary ‘janta curfew’ on Saturday and Sunday, when only essential services will remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-offices-shops-to-remain-shut-these-states-are-under-weekend-lockdown/story-8FoK0YmIM5wsqFx9aeAAJP.html
22-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: PM Modi greets nation on occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘May there be joy and prosperity all over’: PM Modi greets nation on Ganesh ChaturthiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted the nation on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.He said, “Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.” Read moreGovt reaches target of testing a million people in a dayThe health ministry on Saturday said that the government has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million coronavirus tests per day. The Ministry of Health also highlighted that the recovery rate has risen by 100% in the past three weeks.Read moreBreathless in cricket’s bio-bubbleBy the time the West Indies Test side (which restarted international cricket against England in England) was ready to take their chartered flight back home, the boys from the Caribbean were mentally worn thin. They had, after all, spent 51 consecutive days in two bio-secure bubbles – in Southampton for the first Test and then in Manchester for the next two. Read moreNASA shares image of galaxy that was host to a supernova explosionImages of the world outside the Earth always have the capability to evoke a sense of wonder in people. This tweet shared by NASA, a day ago, is no different. The image shows a galaxy of an irregular shape and it’s too beautiful to describe in words. Read moreSaturday Motivation: Halle Berry shares fitness tips and the secret to her ripped abs at 53Halle Berry might just be acting as an MMA fighter in her upcoming film, Bruised, but she is certainly training as hard as one. Actors go through a lot of body changes to look the part of their roles in movies, but Halle Berry walks the walk when it comes to fitness and body training. Read moreRhea Chakraborty’s WhatsApp chats with Mahesh Bhatt on day Sushant Singh Rajput died reveal filmmaker tried calling herMore text exchanges between actor Rhea Chakraborty and filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt have been revealed. A day after bits of their conversation on the day Rhea left her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput’s house were leaked to the press, further exchanges -- this time even on the day of Sushant’s death -- have been revealed. Sushant died on June 14, at the age of 34. Read moreNokia feature phone with Android, Google Assistant button in the worksHMD Global has a slew of Nokia phones in the pipeline ready to launch starting this month. There’s also been an Android-powered Nokia feature phone rumoured for the longest time. A new sketch now reveals what is believed to be the Nokia feature phone running on Android. Read moreWatch: TMC leaders cut tricolor cake on Independence Day; BJP, Cong condemnA group of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in West Bengal sparked a row after they cut a tricolor cake on Independence Day. Row broke out in Bengal’s Malda district after a video of the incident went viral. The TMC leaders, in the video, can be seen cutting the tricolor cake and eating it. Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have criticised the incident and said it amounted to insulting the national flag. TMC leaders Shehnaz Qadri, Sheikh Yasin and Krishna Das were seen in the video among others. Malda Congress chief said TMC leaders didn’t respect the national flag. BJP MP Khagen Murmu also condemned the incident. Shehnaz Qadri, on the other hand, called it a conspiracy to malign him. Watch video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-pm-modi-greets-nation-on-occasion-of-ganesh-chaturthi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6cihyxsexNlraOTuwUXPkO.html
22-08-2020||India||Big Ganpati pandals in Mumbai go online for devotees to catch a glimpse of the elephant god||The city’s favourite Ganpati Bappa will arrive on Saturday without much of the fanfare associated with the festival - grand openings, dhol tasha performance and long queues of devotees outside the many pandals in every corner of Mumbai.With the Covid-19 pandemic casting a shadow on the festival season, most big pandals have decided to go online to ensure that devotees are not devoid of a glimpse of the lord. At King’s Circle, the Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Seva Mandal (committee) - one of the richest Ganpati mandals in the city - has decided to conduct regular aartis all day long and make the same available for devotees everyday on the mandal’s Facebook page as well as YouTube channel. While live darshan will be on from 7 am to 9 pm, devotees have also been booking sevas that will be offered to the Ganesh idol over the next few days. “Since only five people are allowed inside a pandal as per restrictions due to Covid-19, we have decided to allow only five priests in the pandal who will keep performing poojas and chanting mantras through the day,” said R G Bhat, trustee, GSB Seva Mandal. He added that Ganesh seva will be done in a way that devotees can log in any time and perform the same pooja at their home as well.For the first time in the 86 years of its existence, the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganpati Mandal will not have an idol this year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, an 11-day plasma donation drive is being conducted.A few lanes away from Lalbaugcha Raja, the Mumbaicha Raja idol was unveiled on Saturday morning in Ganesh Galli. Departing from the tradition of tall idols and grand pandal decorations, this year’s idol is only 3-feet high, as directed by the state government. Devotees can catch a live glimpse of the idol on the official Facebook, YouTube and Instagram channels of Lalbaug Sarvajanik Utsav Mandal (Mumbaicha Raja). “Devotees will be allowed for darshan with social distancing and sanitisation measures only. We are encouraging devotees to opt for online darshan,” said Aniket Singh, a member of the committee. This year, the pandal will not be accepting voluntary donations from its members as the pandemic has likely increased financial burdens on most families. “There will be no immersion procession and the idol will be immersed in an artificial pond,” Singh added.Andhericha Raja in the western suburbs is one of the last idols to be immersed, giving devotees two extra days to catch a glimpse of the lord. This year, to avoid crowding, the committee has decided to place the 4-feet idol on a hydraulic crane. “The idea is that devotees can see the idol from afar and need not crowd the pandal,” said a member of the Azad Nagar Utsav Committee. Devotees will get a chance to do online darshan, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-ganpati-pandals-in-mumbai-go-online-for-devotees-to-catch-a-glimpse-of-the-elephant-god/story-g7QpoDONgmgEmlT4pNvwfP.html
22-08-2020||India||Online classes, idol kits for people to celebrate Ganesha festival at home||Coming forward to help people to celebrate the festival while being home, sculptors this year have come up with free online workshops to make ganpati idols at home and also delivered idol making traditional kits to people so that they do not have to step out amid the coronavirus pandemic and are able to celebrate the festival safely. Thum Creative Paryavaran Dakshata Kruti Munch, a Pune-based agency, that has been working towards educating kids on the importance of celebrating festivals in an eco-friendly manner, sold kits for making the idols at home.For the preparation of these kits, the agency roped in around 40 women who lost their jobs due the pandemic. The kit consists of 8.2 inches Ganesha idol mould, farm clay, three paint colours and a brush, a ready made clay modak with seeds. Not only this, the agency offered training videos for making the idols at home. Some 2,500 suck kits were sold by the agency in around a month. Prashant Avachat, director of the agency, said, “Our agency works towards making the youngsters know the importance of celebrating festivals in a traditional manner. This is done by imparting knowledge to them in the form of logic and reason. However, due to the pandemic, we decided to supply these kits containing fresh clay picked up from the farms along with other required materials and make people self reliant. We followed all necessary precautions and sanitised the kits well before getting them delivered at people’s doorsteps.”Mumbai’s Santacruz-based Rintu Rathod, inventor of chocolate Ganpati idol, conducted a free international online workshop on August 15. This workshop included tutorials for making chocolate and clay based idols at home and saw 2,400 participants from 45 countries. Rathod said, “For the first time, I had 900 registrations in just one day which assured that many people have attempted to make their own ‘bappa’ this time.” Gauri Kekre, a baker by profession, conducted two online workshops with an aim to appeal to people to immerse their idols at home. A Thane resident, Kekre has been conducting hands-on classes for students every year but decided to conduct online tutorials for people due to the pandemic this year. “By teaching people to make ganpati idols out of clay and chocolates, my aim was to ensure that more people don’t have to visit any crowded places for the immersion process,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-classes-idol-kits-for-people-to-celebrate-ganesha-festival-at-home/story-0j1KPX1W9M5N5pfnEXFtVI.html
22-08-2020||India||Delhiwale: The show must go on||He would hardly be at home, and now he always is. But his music is going on in spite of that. In fact, you have to watch the acapella video he recently conceptualised of an iconic Pink Floyd song, bringing together dozens of home-bound singers... but wait, we can’t fast-forward our track.Recalling the texture of the pre-corona era, Yeashu Yuvraj, musician and photographer, confesses he is “an outdoorsy person, for whom home was only about dinner and sleep... my schedule was always hectic… I always had so many things to do.”The illusion that his life was meant to happen outdoors stayed with him for the initial days of the lockdown. But as time passed, Mr Yuvraj started settling down into the ordinariness of these extraordinary days. “I began to sit more often with my father and mother, I would discuss music with my wife.... I would write music.”Mr Yuvraj is chatting on WhatsApp this evening from his home in Gurugram’s Sector 51. In this city of high-rises, he is one of the rare people living in a stand-alone house—the ground floor is for his parents, the first floor for him and his wife, and the second floor is his studio.A vocalist trained in the western classical tradition, he honed his skills under the guidance of well-known soprano Situ Singh Buehler, founder of the Lyric Ensemble of ﻿Delhi. But Mr Yuvraj, 36, is more of a teacher than a performance artiste, a choice that serves him well in the pandemic. He continues with his job as a music educator, teaching classes online these days. And despite being (happily) home-bound, he is not just doing the minimum required to get by. He continues to produce new work, including music videos. Since the pandemic fell on us, Mr Yuvraj has already made and released three music videos on his Instagram, working along with other musicians and singers to produce collective works of art. To do so, he would follow the modus operandi of our new normal: first, writing the parts for the music; then e-mailing the concerned fragments to select singers and musicians, who would send him back video clips recorded in their respective homes; and finally, pooling the bits together to create a smoothly flowing track. In the most recent release shared on his Instagram, late last month, Mr Yuvraj produced his own version of Pink Floyd’s Shine On You Crazy Diamond, starring a mind-boggling number of 35 singers spread in five cities. The video is an engrossing ensemble of voices, masterfully coordinated, true to the emotions of the original song. Because it was all created from so many different homes and places, the video tells us something about the art of connecting together in these unprecedented times of physical distancing. You may watch it on YouTube as well as on this Instagram handle—@withyeashuYet, there are other pursuits in Mr Yuvraj’s life that cannot be pursued while sitting at home. Such as photography. His occasional assignment to shoot in concerts held in clubs and malls are no longer possible for now, obviously. Gone also are the pleasures of occasional Sunday photo walks through picturesque spaces in Delhi like Transport Mandi, Yamuna Bazaar and India Gate. Even so, he remains mindful of his gains.“Unlike many others, I am not suffering greatly due to the pandemic. I have used this period as a beautiful opportunity to rethink my way of living.” A pause later, he says, “Probably, when the pandemic is over, I will want to retain this pace of life.”Meanwhile, he is working on a new music video, based on his “arrangement of the national anthem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-show-must-go-on/story-AJvVOv1MDesamlfeJuYX4L.html
22-08-2020||India||HT Interview: ‘The promises made to Bihar were not kept,’ says Chirag Paswan||Chirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party president and MP from Bihar’s Jamui constituency, is vocal in his criticism of the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government, even though it is a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In an interview to Smriti Kak Ramachhandran, he said he conveyed his concerns about holding elections to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the NDA. Edited excerpts: Your party is a part of the NDA. Yet, there seems to be a disconnect between the LJP and the Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), and disagreements on some issues. There is a lot of disagreement between the LJP and JD(U). The basis of my disagreement is that a lot of promises were made to Bihar that were not delivered. Consider the present scenario. Bihar is facing dual challenges of the unprecedented Covid-19 outbreak and the annual flood fury that have affected a lot of people. It is a matter of grave concern the way the state machinery is working. I expected my chief minister and my government to perform better and to deliver more, but he (Kumar) disappointed us all. What has disappointed you the most? The day the migrant worker crisis started I expected the government to help them and not leave them to die on highways. I expected that buses would be sent to ferry them back home, as was done by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath. I don’t know if any direct benefit transfer was done because a lot of people whom I met don’t seem to have received any. But the biggest issue right now is the way our government is playing with the lives of the Biharis. A few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with a few CMs through a video-conference. Soon after the meeting the PM tweeted some states are required to improve their testing records and Bihar topped the list. On that day, though about 75,000 tests were conducted, the PM said categorically that there is a need to improve. This implies that something is wrong somewhere. What is also going wrong is that until now about 90% of the testing is being done through the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test, which even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said should only be conducted in Covid-19 containment zones or during emergencies in hospitals. So not only are we not testing enough, but we are also not doing it the right way. In such a scenario, are you willing to be a part of the NDA? At present, I am not even thinking about elections; I don’t understand how my CM is thinking about elections at a time when 18 districts are flooded and Covid-19 cases are increasing by leaps and bounds on a daily basis. You have said this to the ECI, but have you mentioned this to the BJP or raised it at an NDA meeting? At a meeting with BJP national president JP Nadda a few weeks ago, I mentioned this to him. I had said our priority should be to control the pandemic and we should not be thinking about the elections. So will you participate, if the ECI decides to hold the polls on schedule? The call has to be taken only by the ECI. And if that happens, then we will participate because we are prepared for the elections but we would prefer not to hold them now. As a head of a political party, it is my responsibility to give a correct picture about the state of affairs to the ECI. Political parties are not meant to only contest elections -- to win or strategise. We have a much bigger social responsibility as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-the-promises-made-to-bihar-were-not-kept-says-chirag-paswan/story-IHkhW5GxmNFwQl6zanCmrO.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt reaches target of testing a million people per day||The Union health ministry on Saturday said India has crossed the milestone of conducting 1 million tests to detect Covid-19 per day, which experts say is important to know the exact disease burden. The health ministry also highlighted that the recovery rate has risen by 100% in the past three weeks.The union health ministry further added that the surge in recovery rate was due to early identification through testing.  #IndiaFightsCoronaIndia crosses the milestone of 1 million #COVID19 tests a day.More than 10 lakh people tested in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/McUcc1JbZJIndia recorded the highest-number of recoveries in a single day on Friday with 62,282 patients recovering from coronavirus. The total number of recoveries crossed the 21.5-lakh mark on Friday. The union health ministry highlighted in the tweet that prompt and effective measures were taken to cure the patients. Treatment under home isolation and graded policy measures which were innovative has led to this milestone, the ministry said in its tweet. #IndiaFightsCoronaEarly identification through TESTING, prompt & effective TREATMENT through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, & innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days.The government was close to crossing the milestone as more than 900,000 tests were being conducted over the last two days. More than 1,500 labs have been conducting tests across the nation and ICMR is looking forward to further ramp up testing to curb the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reaches-target-of-testing-a-million-people-in-a-day/story-6G33zy5k3VTi5ZF2u7r4bP.html
22-08-2020||India||‘May there be joy and prosperity all over’: PM Modi greets nation on Ganesh Chaturthi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted the nation on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. He said, “Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.”Ganesh Chaturthi, also known as Vinayaka Chaturthi, is a Hindu festival celebrating the arrival of Ganesh to earth from Kailash Parvat with his mother Goddess Parvati/Gauri. The festival is marked with the installation of Ganesh clay idols privately in homes, or publicly on elaborate pandals. आप सभी को गणेश चतुर्थी की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। गणपति बाप्पा मोरया! Greetings on the auspicious festival of Ganesh Chaturthi. May the blessings of Bhagwan Shri Ganesh always be upon us. May there be joy and prosperity all over.Also read: BMC issues advisory ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, urges caution on 13 dilapidated bridgesPresident Ram Nath Kovind on Friday greeted citizens on the eve of Ganesh Chaturthi and prayed that Lord Ganesha bless all to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi, celebrated as the birthday of Lord Ganesha, is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of society along on this occasion, he said.“Ganpati Bappa Morya! Greetings on Ganesh Chaturthi. The festival is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of the society along. May Vighnaharta help us all to overcome COVID-19 pandemic and bless us with a happy and healthy life,” the statement said. Ganpati Bappa Morya!Greetings on Ganesh Chaturthi. The festival is an expression of people’s enthusiasm, joy and forbearance in taking every section of the society along.May Vighnaharta help us all to overcome COVID-19 pandemic and bless us with a happy and healthy life.Kovind extended his best wishes and heartiest congratulations to all fellow citizens living in India and abroad on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-there-be-joy-and-prosperity-all-over-pm-modi-greets-nation-on-ganesh-chaturthi/story-kbpULZj9uKoMRDAXFnaiaK.html
22-08-2020||India||Low testing and delay in results a concern in Uttar Pradesh||Rajkumar Patel, a resident of Manikpur town in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot district, gave his swab samples to the local authority after he developed symptoms of Covid-19. A week had passed and Patel, 45, was still waiting for the test result. When he finally receive it, it was positive. “I have visited the local community health centres; the doctor prescribed some medicine, he told me to stay at home till the test report comes. I was worried that other members of the family might be infected,” he said.Chitrakoot’s chief medical officer, Dr Vinod Kumar Yadav, said the report on a Reverse Transcriptase -Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, takes around six to seven days. Samples collected from suspected Covid-19 patients are being sent to the Maharani Laxmi Bai Medical College in Jhansi, located 290 km from Chitrakoot.When the backlog of samples increased in the Jhansi laboratory, the district administration started sending them to a government laboratory in Prayagraj, located 150 km away, which still takes five to six days. The district is conducting 250 rapid antigen tests and 20 TrueNat tests daily besides RT-PCR tests to accelerate the pace of testing, Yadav said. Delays in the delivery of test results amid an increase in the number of infections is adding to the anxiety of people of Uttar Pradesh. Also read: In Uttar Pradesh, doctors grapple with triple challenge in war against Covid-19The first 1,000 cases (1,184) came up on April 20, 49 days after the first case reported (March 2). On June 9, UP crossed the 11,000 mark (11,335 cases) and since then every 48 hours, the fresh case count has been rising by more than 1,000. The doubling rate — the time it takes for the cases to double — in the state is 24 days, worse than the national average of 29.3 days. Among the high case-load states, UP’s doubling rate is only worse than two states, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh (Chart 1). Director General, Health, Dr DS Negi said although the trajectory of cases was still on an upward trend, there is a silver lining in that the case fatality rate (number of people dying of Covid-19, at 1.6%, remains low.That compares with a national average 1.9%.In April, the case fatality rate was 1.2%. It increased to 4.1% in May and then came down to 3.0% in June and to 1.0% in July.In a study conducted by the state health department, it was found that comorbidity (the existence of another serious disease) was one of the main reasons for the death of patients. Delays in testing and admission of patients in hospital for treatment also contributed. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in UP was 61.16% (compared to a national average of 70%). Until Monday, out of the 131, 763 coronavirus infected patients detected in Uttar Pradesh, 80,589 had been discharged from hospital treatment after recovering. Dr Rajendra Prasad, former director of the Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute and former head of pulmonary department at King Geoge’s Medical University (KGMU), said the infection rate in Uttar Pradesh is 5-6% compared to 20% in Delhi and Mumbai at their peak in July. Uttar Pradesh is likely to reach its peak in September, and then start to plateau, he said. Prasad said Uttar Pradesh was working to ramp up testing. Until July 23, it had tested 1.705 million samples since the start of the pandemic. Until June 24 since the beginning of March, 600,000 samples had been tested. The state conducted a record 109,516 tests on August 20, taking the total tally of tests to upwards of 4.18 million. The state is conducting more tests than the 140 samples per one million target prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO), he said.To be sure, although daily testing has picked up, overall tests per million is 18,600, significantly lower than the national average of 25,109. In contrast, other high-caseload states such as Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra have all fared far better than UP with 58,881, 52,693, 34,300 and 27,995 tests conducted per million residents, respectively (Chart 2). Laboratories in the state are testing 35,000 to 40,000 samples daily; in March, a mere 60 samples were tested daily. The state government is also increasing the number of laboratories for Covid-19 testing. In March, the samples were being tested only in KGMU, the count of labs conducting the tests have increased to 33.Also read | Covid-19: Tracing India’s journey to two million casesUttar Pradesh has set the target of conducting 60,000 to 80,000 rapid antigen tests per day.The state is working to increase the number of RT-PCR tests from 35,000 daily to 50,000 to 60,000. Around two-thirds of all tests in the state are antigen tests, much higher than the national average. A high dependence on antigen tests, which throw up more false negatives (they identify infected people as uninfected), leads to two major problems – under-detection of cases, and tilting data metrics such as positivity rate and case distribution, HT reported on Thursday.Despite the increase in testing, the positivity rate in the state has not changed much. According to recommendations by WHO, the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least 14 days before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%.In UP, although the positivity rate has remained relatively low, the low per capita testing numbers may be masking the true infection rate. In fact, despite the recent increase in number of tests, the positivity rate has not dropped at all (Chart 3), which may not be a good sign. In mid-July, the state added seven new laboratories in the district hospitals of Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Aligarh and Lucknow. The state government has also decided to set up new laboratories in government medical colleges located in Jalaun, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Banda, Badaun, Azamgarh, Ayodhya, Firozabad, Basti and Bahraich districts. The laboratories will test using the RT-PCR method. Yet, experts caution that delays in delivering the test results is a cause of concern for both the patients undergoing the tests and the community at large. “Reports should come the same day (as the tests are done). When you give a report on the fourth or the fifth day, crucial time is lost {in treatment},” .said Professor TN Dhole, former head of the department of microbiology at the Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. Experts say public flouting of Covid-19 protocols was a key reason behind the increase in the case tally. “A majority of offices are now open and while stepping out, frequently people forget to maintain protocols such as physical distance and wearing masks correctly,” said Dr Kauser Usman, a senior faculty member KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-testing-and-delay-in-results-a-concern-in-uttar-pradesh/story-mEBubv2RC6ZtR2gEyEjo4H.html
22-08-2020||India||EC issues guidelines for conduct of general elections during Covid-19: Full details||The Election Commission of India has issued guidelines for the conduct of general elections/by-elections during coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Door-to-door campaigns with only five people and gloves for voters before they press the button at electronic voting machines are some of the guidelines for holding elections amid the coronavirus pandemic.Here are the do’s and don’t’s to be followed during elections:•Every person shall wear face mask during election-related activities.•Thermal screening to be carried out at the entry of hall/room/premises used for election purposes. Sanitizer, soap and water shall also be made available.•Social distancing shall be maintained as per the extant Covid-19 guidelines of the state government and Ministry of Home Affairs.•As far as practicable, large halls should be identified and utilised to ensure social distancing norms.•Adequate number of vehicles, shall be mobilised for movement of polling personnel, security personnel to ensure compliance of Covid-19 guidelines.•Full nomination process can be completed online; for physical filing of nomination, only two persons can accompany candidate.•All voters will be given gloves to sign voter register and press EVM button to cast vote.•Those running temperature and even Covid positive patients shall be facilitated to vote in the last hour of poll.•Maximum of 5 people, including candidate, will be allowed for door to door campaign•No more than 5 vehicles to be allowed in roadshows; public rallies to be held in grounds pre-identified by district election officer.•Nodal officer to be designated for the state, district and assembly constituency to oversee enforcement of Covid-19 safety measures.•A reserve pool of polling, counting and other staff will be maintained by the Returning Officer to replace election staff who show symptoms of coronavirus infection.•Only two people and two vehicles can accompany a candidate if coming to the election office to file papers.•Returning Officer’s chamber should have sufficient space to perform the functions of nomination, scrutiny and symbol allocation following social distancing norms. Returning Officer should allot staggered time in advance to prospective candidates.Elections are due in later this year in Bihar, which has reported 1.15 lakh coronavirus cases and over 570 deaths till now. The Election Commission, however, has not made any announcement about the schedule.In Bihar, except Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and the BJP, almost all major political parties have demanded that elections be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-issues-guidelines-for-conduct-of-general-elections-during-covid-19-full-details/story-mGY55YpjNjVTZ3cJlb79qI.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 toll on MSMEs: 3 in 4 at below half capacity||Nine out of every 10 of India’s 63.3 million small businesses (termed micro, small, and medium enterprises or MSMEs) have restarted operations after the lockdown necessitated by Covid-19, but only one in four is producing at least half its capacity -- largely on account of poor demand, logistical issues, and their own financial troubles (at least half said they faced a liquidity crunch as of August 1). “85% of MSME units operate from households and as their exposure to formal banking is almost zero, they are not able to take the benefit of the Centre’s liquidity package, which is linked to outstanding bank credit. The government should come out with a separate fund or fast-track MUDRA [Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency Ltd] loan for these people. For bigger MSMEs, e-marketing should be strengthened and a special fund for technology upgradation is required as many MSMEs want to invest heavily in technology,” said Tamal Sarkar, executive director of Foundation for MSME Cluster. And as of August 6, four million MSMEs had been sanctioned around ~140,000 crore under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme announced as part of the government’s ~20 lakh crore relief package, of which around ~95,000 crore had been disbursed. Also read: World Bank, government of India sign $750 mn agreement to support MSMEs amid Covid-19 crisisThe numbers highlight the toll the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread (while the national lockdown ended on May 31, localised lockdowns continue across many parts of India as cases continue to rise) has taken on what is popularly described as the backbone of Indian industry -- MSMEs.The numbers are part of a presentation made by the ministry of MSMEs this week, and based on a survey conducted by National Small Industries Corporation. India’s small businesses employ around 110 million people and accounted for almost half of India’s exports in 2019-20. According to the presentation, they also account for around 30% of GDP. “If the MSME can’t produce, big industries would not be able to survive in India. To give just one example, India is the world’s largest producer of bicycles and 98% of bicycle parts are made by MSMEs. They are also a cost-effective way of production as one MSME’s scrap is raw material for another. The government must do everything to turn it around to revive the Indian industry,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organization (FICO). To be sure, the August survey (around 3,100 MSMEs responded) show an improvement over the July and June ones. For instance, in June, only 18.2% of MSMEs were producing more than 50% of their capacity; and in June 70% of MSMEs said they faced a liquidity crunch. Also read: Special Covid package has 6 MSME reforms to power PM Modi’s reliant India mantra“One cannot talk of last month or August only but have to start from the beginning. In April and May, there was almost total closure, no [availability of] labour, no liquidity. June onwards, there is tremendous improvement, especially after the Atmanirbhar Bharat package was put in place in mid-May. To be precise, from mid-March to entire April, [there] was almost total closure and the sector started opening only from May,” said the spokesperson of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises. In addition to this, the presentation also identified sectors such as automobiles, tourism, consumer products and apparel as those worst affected by the pandemic, while listing internet service providers, online retailers, and pharma companies as possible beneficiaries. Interestingly, the presentation also showed the overlap between India’s industrial belts and the regions worst affected by the pandemic: states accounting for 72% of the country’s total industrial output saw around 60% of Covid-19 cases (till August 1). This highlights the economic challenge before the country; consensus estimates say the Indian economy will contract by at lest 5% this financial year. For instance, Maharashtra , Tamil Nadu and Karnataka accounted for exactly a third of the country’s industrial output but also 43% of active cases (as on August 1). Most MSMEs do not seem to be worried about labour shortage -- despite at least 10 million migrant workers leaving for their homes in the hinterland during the lockdown. Just 9% of the respondents in the August survey flagged labour shortage compared to 12% respondents facing problem with raw materials. Still, this could just be because of poor demand and lack of working capital -- forcing many of these businesses to operate at low capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-toll-on-msmes-1-in-4-at-below-half-capacity/story-s9Uw0IgdoxJTPRGqmacSUO.html
22-08-2020||India||Virus spreads in aircraft but transmission risk low: Study||Two people were most likely infected with Covid-19 on a 4 hour, 40 minute international flight in the early days of the pandemic, according to a new scientific study that confirms the possibility of viral spread in an aircraft but also highlights that the risk may be lower than previously believed.The two were among 102 passengers on a Tel Aviv-Frankfurt flight on March 9. Among these were seven confirmed Covid-19 infected persons, or index patients, with four being symptomatic during the flight. None of the passengers wore a mask.“When we started with the interviews to determine whether transmissions had occurred, we expected the rate of suspected transmissions to be higher, as there was an unusually large number of index cases, some of which were symptomatic, on the plane. The passengers did not wear masks,” said Sandra Ciesek, director of the Institute for Medical Virology at Frankfurt’s Goethe University, in an e-mail interaction with HT.Ciesek, one of the authors of the study that was published on Tuesday on the JAMA Open network, said that it appeared “as though the air circulation inside the airplane cabin may have reduced the rate of transmission” and that wearing masks could further reduce the risk of spread.The seven index patients, the study notes, may have picked up the infection from a hotel manager a week before the flight. “At the destination airport, we conducted a medical evaluation of the tourist group, including testing Sars-CoV2 in a throat swab specimen. In addition, we contacted all passengers four to five weeks later by phone and conducted structured interviews,” they said.In all, 71 of the other 78 passengers (91%) who had been exposed to the group on the flight completed the interview and serum samples were obtained from 13 of these individuals six to nine weeks after the flight. An analysis of these revealed that two of the people who had contact with the infected group also got the virus, although the researchers acknowledge the slim chance that transmission may have also occurred before or after the flight.Several of the passengers could not be reached, and it was not clear whether they too were infected, the authors note, identifying it as another of the limitations of their study.Closed indoor spaces have become a particular worry for the spread of the Sars-Cov2, which can linger on as aerosols; people usually breathe out microscopic viral particles even when they speak but the volume increases drastically if someone coughs or sneezes. In such circumstances, experts have feared that a long flight may be particularly risky, even as airline industry representatives say cabin air circulation systems replace air at a regular rate and passenger jets have adequate particulate filtration devices. The researchers indicate this may be a possibility. “The airflow in the cabin from the ceiling to the floor and from the front to the rear may have been associated with a reduced transmission rate. It could be speculated that the rate may have been reduced further had the passengers worn masks,” they say in the report. According to Ciesek, both passengers with likely infections on flight were seated within the two-row perimeter. “This means seating in the same row as an index passengers as well as the two rows in front and behind. It has previously been demonstrated that the risk of droplet-mediated transmissions is higher in this area,” she said. The professor underscored that “it is important to note that transmission of Sars-CoV2 in air travel may occur. Measure to prevent transmission should be applied, such as the wearing of masks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-spreads-in-aircraft-but-transmission-risk-low-study/story-oD0oxQSnxmPTVjOXColUON.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Sometime today, Saturday, August 22, India’s coronavirus case count will cross the three million mark. India will become the third country to do so after the US and Brazil. If cases in India continue to grow at the same rate, it will overtake Brazil sometime in the next two weeks. India crossed two million cases on August 6 and one million cases on July 17. The country has around 700,000 active cases right now, mostly people with mild infections (or no visible symptoms) who have isolated themselves at home — and some experts say this is the number to look at. India will see close to 57,000 deaths by the end of Saturday, with around 16,000 of them being registered since it crossed the two million mark. A little over 13,000 of them were registered between the time it crossed one million cases and touched two million. Almost 50% of India’s total deaths were registered in the pandemic’s run to one million cases in the country — an indication of the difficulties faced by administrators in coping with cases (there weren’t enough hospital beds; protective kits for health care workers were in short supply) and health care workers (no one knew which therapies or medicines worked) in the early days of the pandemic. Some other experts say this (the daily death toll) is the number to look at.It isn’t clear what explains the increase in the number of deaths corresponding to the third million when compared to the number of deaths corresponding to the second. The number (2,700+) is significant enough to be worrisome — it is the kind of detail that the health ministry and researchers should look at, although it can be explained mathematically by a growing base of active cases.The big trend — no longer new; the HT newsroom has been writing about it for at least a month — is the fact that the growth in cases (and there is no sign that India has seen its peak) is being driven by states in the hinterland and the peninsula. Of the first million cases, around 57% came from two states, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, and the Capital. Maharashtra accounted for 28.3% of the million, Tamil Nadu 15.6%, and Delhi 11.8%. Only one other state (Karnataka) accounted for more than 5% of cases (5.1%).Of the second million cases, around 57% came from four states, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Maharashtra accounted for 19.2% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 15.6%, Tamil Nadu 12.1%, and Karnataka 10.5%. Delhi only accounted for 2.2%. Two other states, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, accounted for at least 5% of cases (6.4% and 5% respectively), and Bihar accounted for 4.6%. The third million cases largely mirrored the trend of the second. Maharashtra accounted for 18.6% of the million, Andhra Pradesh 14.9%, Karnataka 11.1%, and Tamil Nadu 9.3%. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two of India’s most populous states accounted for 7.2% and 5.3% of the million cases. West Bengal accounted for 4.8% of the cases, and Assam 3.9%. Delhi accounted for just 1.8% of cases. Interestingly, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, which are still seeing a high number of cases, have seen their contributions drop from the first million to the third. In Maharashtra’s case, the decline is about 10 percentage points, and in Tamil Nadu’s case a little over 6 percentage points. Other states have stepped in to take the slack. Delhi perhaps has the most reason to celebrate, although as the cautionary tales of South Korea, Australia and New Zealand show, it still needs to remain vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ofoz1sQiPUC7DzmyQHID3L.html
22-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand rights body orders probe against senior IPS officer accused of stripping class 11 student||The Uttarakhand Human Rights Commission on Friday asked inspector general (IG), human rights to probe allegations that a senior IPS officer, posted in the Dehradun, stripped a class 11 student inside a police check post in the city to dissuade the boy from speaking to his daughter. The father of the boy had lodged a complaint with the Commission on August 12. On Friday, member of the commission, Justice Akhilesh Chandra Sharma, asked IG human rights Pooran Singh Rawat to probe the matter and submit a report to the commission on the same. Confirming the development, IG Rawat said, “I have received the letter from the Commission on Friday asking me to probe the matter and submit a report to it. Usually there is a time frame for such probes, but there is no timeframe in this letter.” “I will soon probe the matter by speaking to the IPS officer as well as the boy,” said Rawat. Also Read: Two Uttarakhand women killed in rain-related incidents, timely escape for a familyThe incident came to light after the father of the18 year old class-11 student of a Dehradun-based school, lodged a complaint against senior IPS officer, PVK Prasad, who is deployed as the additional director general (jail) on August 11. The complaint alleged that Prasad had beaten and tortured the boy inside Bindal police check post of the city while objecting to him speaking to his daughter over phone. Following his complaint, Prasad lodged a counter complaint against the boy accusing him of harassing his daughter by sending objectionable messages on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-rights-body-orders-probe-against-senior-ips-officer-accused-of-stripping-class-11-student/story-M9iH6UzTtcPWtAijUlvaTP.html
22-08-2020||India||51 eco-friendly Ganesh idols gifted to devotees facing financial woes in Mumbai||A Mumbai-based group and Ghatkopar mandal have offered 51 eco-friendly Ganesha idols made from clay, turmeric and vermillion, free of cost to devotees facing financial difficulties, salary cuts or job losses during the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of Malhar Foundation and Deepak Baba Hande Mitra Mandal Ghatkopar have also developed an artificial immersion pond with support from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals, for the immersion of each of the 51 idols.“By bearing the cost for each idol—up to Rs 1600-- our intention is to ensure that devotees are not troubled during this difficult period. This way we are providing our services during this auspicious festival by helping others. We are providing flower offerings and other puja material also with the idols with no cost. Additionally, we have also provided washable masks to all family members,” said Pratik Jadhav, one of the organisers from Malhar Foundation.Also Read: Coimbatore NGO creates eco-friendly Ganesha idols with seeds insideAn Andheri resident, who lost her job during the Covid lockdown said, “We had planned not to celebrate the festival at all this year until we were approached by members of Malhar. They did not treat us with pity. Their only intention was that we must not sacrifice the happiness this one time of the year and complete the objective of preserving our culture and traditions.”Jadhav added that all instructions and guidance have been provided to citizens for making their way to the pond on all immersion days. “They need to wear masks and follow mandatory social distancing protocol,” he said.MPCB officials said the effort is in line with their awareness campaign to ensure the city celebrates an eco-friendly festival. “This initiative aims to celebrate Ganeshotsav in an environmentally friendly manner with due respect to Ganesha devotees as well as to the environment,” said Sanjay Bhuskute, public relations officer, MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-eco-friendly-ganesh-idols-gifted-to-devotees-facing-financial-woes-in-mumbai/story-cvNGKfjRMfOdiCy5cGUwGI.html
22-08-2020||India||Covid-19 count in MP crosses 50K, another minister tests positive for viral infection||Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 50,000 mark on Friday with 1,147 new cases identified in the past 24 hours. The tally stands at 50,640 now, as per the state health department’s bulletin released on Friday night. Another minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet tested positive for coronavirus on Friday which he announced on his Twitter account. He happens to be the sixth minister in Chouhan’s cabinet to have tested positive for the virus besides chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan himself. Indore continues to be the worst affected among all the 52 districts with 10,786 positive cases out of whom 353 have died so far. Bhopal follows with 8,989 cases and 255 deaths. Besides Bhopal there are six other districts which have Covid-19 patients in four digits- Gwalior (3,840), Jabalpur (2,867), Morena (1,936), Ujjain (1,434), Khargone (1,226) and Barwani (1,014). The total number of deaths of Covid-19 patients in the state stands at 1,185 and thus the death rate in the state is 2.34%. Out of the total 50,640 patients 38,527 have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals across the state. The recovery rate in the state is 76%. The number of Covid-19 tests conducted so far is 11,33,826 with 22,678 tests conducted in the past 24 hours. On Friday, PWD minister Gopal Bhargava shared information with people through a tweet that his Covid-19 test report had come back positive and he was going to be hospitalised on doctors advice, though, he added, he was in good health. The minister advised people who came in contact with him in the past one week to get themselves tested and go in for home quarantine. Earlier, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his five ministerial colleagues tested positive for coronavirus and were hospitalised since July 22. The state government transferred district collectors of Harda and Morena Anurag Verma and Priyanka Das. Morena in Gwalior-Chambal region which will witness bypolls by the next month is on the MP-Rajasthan border and is one of the worst affected districts in the state. Priyanka Das has been replaced with Anurag Verma who was transferred from Harda while Sanjay Gupta will be the new collector of Harda, as per the state government’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-count-in-mp-crosses-50k-another-minister-tests-positive-for-viral-infection/story-7XRfVCkKAZrKoiPnNY6tBI.html
22-08-2020||India||Muslim woman gets triple talaq on WhatsApp, MP CM promises justice||An NRI woman lodged an FIR in Bhopal on Friday accusing her husband of divorcing her by uttering talaq thrice through WhatsApp, said police. Triple Talaq has been banned in the country through an act of the parliament to protect the rights of Muslim women.The case became a high profile one when Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took note of the woman’s grievance, saying justice will be ensured.The accused, a resident of Bhopal, is working as a manager in a hotel in Bengaluru while her parents reside in Bhopal.As per the complaint lodged by the 42-year-old woman with Kohefiza police station, she was married to one Faiz Alam Ansari, a resident of Kohefiza locality on October 4, 2001. They have two children. After the marriage, Ansari shifted to Singapore with his family and now they both have citizenship of Singapore.Officer-in-charge of Kohefiza police station Anil Bajpai said, “As per the woman’s complaint, she was regularly harassed by her husband who exerted pressure on her to give him Rs 25 lakh in dowry. The couple shifted to Bengaluru in 2013. In June, her husband asked her to leave the house and come back only when she has Rs 25 lakh. She came to her parental place in June. On July 31, the husband gave a call on WhatsApp to her brother and when she talked to him, he uttered talaq three times.”Also Read: MP budgets Rs 1.6 daily for 1.8 lakh cows in state shelters, department sends SOS The police officer said that an FIR has been lodged against the accused under Dowry Prohibition Act and Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act. He added that a team of police personnel will go to Bengaluru in connection with the investigation.” In a series of tweets on the issue, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “A Muslim sister in Bhopal lodged an FIR with police this morning regarding her divorce through triple talaq delivered through a message. I can assure the sister that MP police will take all possible steps to ensure justice to her.” Also Read: Madhya Pradesh police rescue kidnapped 6-year-old boy within 24 hours Referring to the Central legislation banning triple talaq, he said, “After years of struggle of our Muslim sisters, the central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi enacted a law to prohibit the practice of triple talaq but still there are still some mean-minded people who are playing with the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-woman-files-fir-against-triple-talaq-on-whatsapp-mp-cm-promises-justice/story-C6t27CafprYtmlQXeH4d3M.html
22-08-2020||India||Clamour grows to delay NEET, JEE but govt firm||With the number of coronavirus disease cases increasing steadily, several politicians have joined the clamour to postpone the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-Undergraduate) after a large section of students made such a demand. On Friday, politicians such as Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Subramanian Swamy, Congress’s Vivek Tankha and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s Tejashwi Yadav raised safety concerns over the conduct of NEET ( for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses) and JEE (for those aspiring to join top engineering schools). But the education ministry said the tests will be conducted in September as scheduled. In a statement the National Testing Agency (NTA), which functions under the ministry and holds these exams, said a full academic year cannot be wasted. Congress Rajya Sabha member Tankha sent a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, urging him to postpone the exams. “The number of cases and the death rate have been increasing. If the situation persists, the country may have to face lockdown again. Holding exams at such a large scale leads to the threat of further escalation of the pandemic,” Tankha said. RJD’s Yadav tweeted: “Central Govt, NTA, UGC & IIT Delhi must have a considerate & humane view of the plight of the students & youth of this country! This hurry to conduct exams amidst spiking Covid cases will prove to be costly! In Bihar floods+Govt apathy will compound problems!” Similar views were expressed by a large number of students on social media. BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Swamy, too, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct entrance examinations such as the NEET and the JEE after Diwali in the wake of the pandemic. But in a statement, NTA made it clear that it plans to go ahead with the exams and cited that the Supreme Court rejected a plea seeking postponement of the two entrance tests. “In our opinion, though there is pandemic situation, but ultimately life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted…the examination is going to be held with due precaution and it is not going to be postponed. Thus, we find no merit in the writ petition,” said the NTA statement, quoting the SC order. The premier testing agency said it released the admit cards for the JEE (Main) examinations scheduled from 01-09-2020 to 06-09-2020. Altogether, 649,223 candidates have downloaded their admit cards against a total number 858,273. “NTA is happy to share with the JEE (Main) 2020 candidates that it has been able to offer the first choice of preference of centre cities to 99.07% of the candidates. 142 candidates have, subsequently requested for a change in their allotted centre city due to various reasons, and the NTA is considering these requests positively,” the statement said. The agency said NEET aspirants, too, were allowed to change their exam venue and 95,000 availed it. “The NEET (UG)-2020 exam is now scheduled on September 13 and the total of 15,97,433 candidates are registered for the same. The admit cards will be released shortly. Overall, 99.87% candidates will be accommodated against their first preference of centre city,” it added. The agency said it made elaborate arrangements to sanitise the test centres before and after the examinations, and will even provide masks and hand gloves to candidates if needed. According to a government official, NTA reached out to top medical professionals for a “comprehensive plan to ensure all students and staff” are safe. NTA has also developed a detailed protocol to ensure the exams are held following social distancing norms. “The predicament is that there is no alternative to the highly competitive exams such as NEET and JEE for admission to coveted institutions like IITs (Indian Institutes of Technology) and top medical colleges. Therefore, it is important that these exams are held with utmost safety precautions,” said a second official.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said the JEE (Advanced), which is slated for September 27, will be held with all precautions and safety measures. “The number of centres has been doubled, computers will be sanitized and all safety measures have been put in place,” Rao told HT. Prof Furqan Qamar, former secretary general of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), said the Supreme Court had already given its verdict. “These are all related to admissions. Admissions need to be done otherwise students lose a year. The only thing is that all necessary precautions for social distancing and hygiene etc should be taken,” he said. Prof Ajit K Chaturvedi, director, IIT Roorkee, said: “We should go ahead with the exam as per the announced schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clamour-grows-to-delay-neet-jee-but-govt-firm/story-5itcuihiX8BO6fKvezvhTL.html
22-08-2020||India||Apex court permits prayers at 3 Jain temples in Mumbai||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the entry of a limited number of devotees to three Jain temples in Mumbai over the weekend (August 22 and 23) to offer prayers during a community festival. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that the opening of the temples would be subject to the undertaking given by the petitioner trust, which said that only five people will be allowed to enter a temple at a time and only 250 people would be allowed to enter per day in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “Considering the peculiar facts and circumstances, the prayer made by the petitioners is allowed to the limited extent of permitting them to open the three temples one each in Byculla, Dadar (West) and Chembur in Mumbai on August 22 and 23 for devotees to perform the rituals connected with ‘Paryushan’,” the bench said. The court was also critical of the Maharashtra government’s policy of allowing economic activities to continue but imposing restrictions on activities connected with religion on ground of Covid threat.“We find it strange that you are allowing every activity involving economic interests and money. But if it involves religion, you say you cannot do it because of Covid,” CJI Bobde said.The court stated that its order allowing entry into the three temples would be limited to this particular case and would not apply to any other temple or festivals involving large congregation, including the annual 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, which start on Saturday. “We make it clear that this order is not intended to be used as a precedent by other persons to seek permission to hold any festivals/festivities which would involve, by their very nature, congregation of people, such as ‘Ganesh Festival’,” the court said.The order was passed on a plea by Shri Parshwatilak Shwetamber Murtipujak Tapagacch Jain Trust, which had approached the apex court against a Bombay high court on August 13, in which the HC said that it did not wish to interfere with the state’s decision not to permit Jain temples in Mumbai to open during the Paryushan festival. ‘Paryushana’ is a key festival for members of Jain community, during which they observe fast and come together to pray.The Maharashtra government opposed the plea before the Supreme Court stating that the state was worst hit by the pandemic in the country and it would be difficult for the state to ensure adherence to Covid-19 precautions if places of worship are opened.“Maharashtra is the state most affected by Covid in India. I am here opposing the plea vigorously due to the unimaginable situation in the state and keeping in mind the interests of the state,” senior counsel AM Singhvi, who was appearing on behalf of Maharashtra, said.CJI Bobde, however, pointed out that if the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the central government on June 4 and the undertaking given by the petitioner can be enforced, the plea can be allowed.The central government, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, supported the plea provided all precautions and SOPs are adhered to. “This is exactly the choice we had faced with the Puri Jagannath Ratha Yatra. We held that of congregation can be avoided then mere pulling of Rath will not lead to anything bad. And nothing bad happened after that. Lord Jagannath forgave us. We will be forgiven in this case too,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-permits-prayers-at-3-jain-temples-in-mumbai/story-5G3AQxdzs8p8oCvLPwuj6M.html
22-08-2020||India||China, Pak say oppose J&K ‘unilateral’ action||China has told Pakistan it opposes any “unilateral” action that complicates the situation in Kashmir, after Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi briefed his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi of his country’s concerns regarding the situation in the Indian state. The Kashmir issue figured in the second strategic dialogue of the Chinese and Pakistani foreign ministers in the southern province of Hainan on Friday. Qureshi arrived in China on Thursday for talks against the backdrop of the India-China LAC standoff. “The Pakistani side briefed the Chinese side on the situation in Jammu & Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues,” said a joint statement issued at the end of the two-day strategic dialogue. “The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation,” it said. China and Pakistan believe a “peaceful, stable, cooperative and prosperous South Asia was in common interest of all parties”, the statement said. It added: “Parties need to settle disputes and issues in the region through dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect.” There was no immediate response to the joint statement from Indian officials. India has traditionally bristled at China’s efforts to raise the Kashmir issue on Pakistan’s behalf, describing it as interference in its internal affairs. China had issued a similar statement immediately after India scrapped Kashmir’s special status in August last year. Since then, it has sought to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council on Pakistan’s behalf several times, but without much success. The dialogue between Wang and Qureshi took place at a time when the ties of both Beijing and Islamabad with New Delhi are at an all-time low, over the border tensions in eastern Ladakh, and India’s decision last year to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The joint statement was issued soon after President Xi Jinping was quoted as saying that China and Pakistan are “good brothers” and “good partners”, and that the economic corridor between the two countries, which passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), is key to forging even closer ties between Beijing and Islamabad. In a recorded message addressed to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi, Xi said the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), “a landmark project” under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), is of “great importance to promoting in-depth development of the China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership and forging a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future”. India has consistently opposed CPEC because it passes through PoK. Beijing has paid little attention to New Delhi’s reservations about trade and transit corridor and pumped in money and resources to building infrastructure such as power plants and highways. CPEC is among the new irritants and concerns for India’s ties with China, but Beijing has refused to address this issue, arguing it is only an economic project. State-run Xinhua news agency released Xi’s statement, which said: “China and Pakistan are good brothers and partners who share special friendship.” He added that the frequent meeting of political parties from both sides is conducive to steadily advancing the construction of CPEC and high-quality cooperation under BRI. According to the joint statement, both sides also “agreed on continuing their firm support on issues concerning each other’s core national interests”. Beijing told Islamabad that China “firmly supports Pakistan in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, independently choosing a development path based on its national conditions, striving for a better external security environment and playing a more constructive role on international and regional affairs”. In a statement released separately, Wang said China and Pakistan had agreed on cooperation in research and development of a Covid-19 vaccine. Fu Xiaoqiang, an expert on South Asia at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told state media that India has a narrow approach to China-Pakistan friendship. “India has adopted a hostile attitude toward the cooperation between China and Pakistan and believes China and Pakistan will soon unite against India. It’s a rather ‘narrow-minded’ perspective that does not conform to India’s position of a big country in South Asia,” Fu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pak-say-oppose-j-k-unilateral-action/story-IZ1nfLHn5daZpdGMasQOwI.html
22-08-2020||India||In 3 months, 430 more CATS ambulances put on Covid duty, cuts response time||The size of the ambulance fleet in Delhi, deployed on free-of-charge Covid-19 service, has been increased threefold in the past three months, with the result that the response time has now reduced to one-third of what it used to be earlier, said a senior government official on Friday, citing the findings of a report from the health department.The report was submitted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office this week, after he sought to assess the response of ambulances to Covid-19 distress calls.According to the report, as on May 15, there were 164 centralised emergency trauma services (CATS) ambulances on Covid duty, with a response time of 55 minutes per distress call. The fleet size has now been increased to 594, thereby cutting their response time to 18 minutes per call, the senior official said, on condition of anonymity.Also read: Delhi govt plans to augment its ambulance fleet to up to 1,000To increase the fleet size within such a short span, the government signed contracts with numerous small and medium scale service providers and hired ambulances not only from those within Delhi but also from neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Around May 15, ambulances collectively used to attend to around 750 Covid related distress calls every day. The support centres were forced to refuse services to 222 distress callers a day on average, thus compelling people to rely on private ambulances that charge money. The response time then was 55 minutes per distress call,” the senior official elaborated. The official further said, “Currently, the response time of CATS ambulances has reduced to 18 minutes after the fleet size was increased to 594. Collectively, these ambulances attended 944 calls a day, on average, between August 5 and 15. No caller has been refused service since July 31 and the staff get adequate breaks between trips.” A Delhi government spokesperson said, “In Delhi, the Covid-19 situation was tough in June as the number of cases and deaths was rising. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took a serious note of the situation and immediately started discussions with top medical experts in the country to formulate a plan to combat the pandemic. After several rounds of discussion, the chief minister directed officials to improve the response time of CATS ambulances as soon as possible. He then started monitoring the response time of ambulances himself.”Also read | Mission impossible: 163 Covid ambulances, 3,000 patients to transportDelhi witnessed its peak Covid-19 caseload in June, recording more than 3,500 cases a day at one point, but the numbers have now dropped to around 1,100 fresh cases a day. During the peak period, there were rampant complaints of call drops and people not being able to get through to CATS helpline because of high volume of calls. Such issues have been resolved after the government increased the number of lines to the support centre from 20, as on June 1, to 30 by July 31, a second senior official said.The government ambulances ferry Covid patients between hospitals and also from their residences to hospitals and quarantine centres. Other than the 594 on Covid duty, the CATS also has around 200 ambulances reserved for non-Covid emergencies. And then there are private hospitals and service providers with their own fleet of ambulances – the number of which is pegged at 800 by the government’s health department. T Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at Christian Medical College in Vellore, said: “This is a good achievement by the government. Reduced response time for ambulances can be a life saver in cases where the patient develops respiratory issues or cardiac issues, which are very common among those in the higher age groups and those with co-morbidities.” Of the current fleet on Covid service, only 164 ambulances that were there with the CATS as on May 15 belong to the administration, the others have been hired on a temporary basis, said another senior official in the health department who did not wish to be identified. Under Covid protocol, the ambulances have to go through a fumigation process on the completion of each trip. Each ambulance has a driver and a paramedic staff. They operate on 12 hour shifts, dressed in full PPE kit throughout their shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-3-months-430-more-cats-ambulances-put-on-covid-duty-cuts-response-time/story-pS1YbzREX6FwsSGedJpFgL.html
22-08-2020||India||IB staffer murder: Court summons Tahir Hussain, nine others to stand trial||A Delhi court on Friday summoned former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and nine other people as accused in the murder of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma, who was killed on February 25 during the north-east Delhi riots. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purshottam Pathak took cognizance of the police chargesheet in the case and directed the accused to appear before him through video conferencing on August 28.The court said prima facie it shows that Hussain had provoked and instigated people to promote enmity between Hindus and Muslims, by claiming that Hindu people had killed a number of Muslims and that they should not let them go scot-free.“On his provocation/ instigation, the Muslims turned violent on February 24 and February 25 and started burning shops and pelting stones and petrol bombs houses belonging to Hindus situated in that locality.…The uncontrolled mob turned into rioters and in process of rioting caught hold of Ankit Sharma and dragged him to Chand Bagh Pulia and attacked him using sharp and blunt objects/ weapons in a brutal manner and threw his body in the drain,” the judge said.The judge said that the “circumstances indicated that the riot took place in a planned manner resulted from a well hatched conspiracy and it was abetted by the leader of the mob, accused Tahir Hussain.”The judge said Hussain had facilitated the rooptop of his house and provided logistical support to the rioters. The court also said Hussain was leading the mob and that there is sufficient evidence to take cognizance against Hussain and others. Police had charged Hussain and others on June 3 under sections of murder, rioting, robbery among other sections. But the court did not take cognizance under sections of 505 ( intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community), and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) because of lack of sanction from the competent authority.“Even though cognisance has been taken and the case has been committed to sessions court for trial, it does not mean that offence is committed by the accused. It shows that the evidence given in the chargesheet is sufficient to start the trial. Moreover, the prosecution has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt during the trial’” said advocate Javed Ali, who is represnting Hussain in the case.MM Pathak also took the cognizance of another charge sheet filed in the murder case of one Hashim Ali against nine persons. The judge said that the accused persons had lost their individuality and started working with the mob minds. Police had said that the accused person created a whatsapp group named - Kattar Hindut Ekta -- to mobilise rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-staffer-murder-court-summons-tahir-hussain-nine-others-to-stand-trial/story-YBzarK11qDXxtjEPNzsqfM.html
22-08-2020||India||Kerala moves High Court against govt decision to lease international airport||The Kerala government on Friday filed an application in the high court, seeking a stay on the Union government’s move to lease out Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises. In the plea, the government said the airport was handed over to a private entity while ignoring the state’s opposition and that a petition was already pending in the court questioning the 50-year lease. The state government filed the application a day after an all-party-meeting in Kerala demanded withdrawal of the Union government’s decision.Last year, the high court dismissed a petition challenging the decision, terming it as not maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution. The state government then filed an appeal before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The apex court set aside the judgement of the high court and the matter was remanded back to it for a decision on merit.Referring to the top court directive, the state government said: “All further proceedings in relation to grant of lease with regard to operation, management and development of Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd, is to be stayed pending disposal of the aforementioned writ petition.”The Adani Enterprises won the rights to run six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February, 2019. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had taken part in the bidding.Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted: “If Kerala Govt is against privatisation, then why did it participate in the bidding process? State Govt was given a fair chance & Right of First Refusal (RoFR) if their bid was within 10% below the range of highest bid. However, they bid 19.64 % below.”“Then they approached Hon’ble Kerala High Court which dismissed the petition in Dec 2019. Petitioners then filed a SLP in Hon’ble SC. Apex Court remitted the matter back to Hon’ble Kerala High Court. There is no stay in the case either by Hon’ble SC or Hon’ble Kerala High Court.“The Union Cabinet has given its go-ahead for awarding the airport to the private party subject to the outcome of Writ Petition & in accordance with provisions of undertaking given by the Concessionaire,” he added.Meanwhile, Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) decided to send 200,000 mails to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him not to lease out the airport to Adani Enterprises. “During pandemic times, the Centre is privatising all sectors, including civil aviation and railways. A selected group of businessmen are thriving under the present regime. We will not allow the transfer of the airport,” said party leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-moves-hc-against-govt-decision-to-lease-int-l-airport/story-bP3oxg1ZQ6IhbGII1pmGxO.html
22-08-2020||India||9 dead, 8 injured in fire at Telangana power plant||Nine people were killed and eight others injured after a fire broke out at an underground hydroelectric plant in Telangana, officials said on Friday. In a statement, the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) said there were 17 people present at the fire-hit unit of the Srisailam Left Bank Hydel Power Station (SLBHP) when the mishap occurred late on Thursday. “Eight of them managed to come out of the house with injuries, nine others remained trapped inside, as they were trying their best efforts to put out the fire and save the power plant from being burnt completely,” the statement said. Seven of the nine deceased were TSGenco employees. The SLBHP is a 900 MW hydel power plant, located on the Krishna river. It was constructed inside a two-km tunnel under the Nallamala hill range on the Telangana side of the Srisailam reservoir. The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained but Telangana power minister G Jagadeeshwar Reddy said that a short circuit in one of the electric panels of the power house might have caused it. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) were pressed into rescue operation immediately after the fire broke out, officials said. However, Reddy said that the “thick smoke that engulfed the tunnel” made it difficult for the rescuers to reach those trapped inside. “…Because of flames and heavy smoke, it was not possible to enter the tunnel. The rescue teams could enter the power house only by Friday afternoon. But by that time, all the nine employees were unfortunately found dead,” the TSGenco statement added. Out of the eight persons who managed to escape from the exit route in the initial hours, three were seriously injured and were being treated, the statement said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to express his condolences to the families of the deceased. “Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest,” he tweeted. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao ordered a probe by Crime Investigation Department (CID) into the tragedy. He appointed CID additional director general Govind Singh as inquiry officer to probe into the cause of the accident and submit a report to the government. Describing the accident as “most tragic”, the CM conveyed his condolences to the family members of the deceased and wished a speedy recovery to the injured, an official statement said. He also announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the family of deputy engineer Venkatesh Goud, who died in the fire and Rs 25 lakh each to the families of the eight other deceased. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-dead-8-injured-in-fire-at-t-gana-power-plant/story-J6jprV5lrcq9iaHDbOsysL.html
22-08-2020||India||Hyderabad company leads race for Zojila Tunnel project||A Hyderabad-based infrastructure firm is likely to be awarded the contract for the construction of the long-pending Zojila Tunnel in the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, after the Centre shortlisted three firms for the project, officials familiar with the matter said. The government’s nodal agency for the strategic project, National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd, had issued a tender in June and opened the bids on July 24. The NHIDCL shortlisted three firms -- L&T Construction, MEIL and railways’ PSU Ircon International Limited (IRCON) -- on Tuesday. Hindustan Times has reviewed a copy of the notification. “Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) has emerged as the lowest bidder and is likely to be awarded but no official award letter has been issued yet,” a senior official, said requesting anonymity. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 4429.83 crore. The project, which will be implemented in two sections, involves the construction of a connecting road from Z-Morh Tunnel to Zojila Tunnel and a 14.150 km long bi-directional tunnel across Zojila Pass on the Sonamarg-Kargil section of NH-01 on Engineering, Procurement, Construction mode. The first section of the project is expected to be completed in 2.5 years and the second part 6.5 years. The long-pending project has gone through many design changes. In its previous tender a ‘parallel escape (egress) tunnel’ was also included earlier but has been done away with to reduce the cost of the project, officials said. The project got further delayed after it was stranded by IL&FS Transportation Network amid financial crisis.“MEIL has become an L-1 in the most prestigious Zoji-la pass tunnel in Jammu Kashmir-Ladakh in Himalayan region. National Highways and Industrial Development Corporation (NHIDCL) has opened the bids on Friday, and MEIL topped the list by quoting less than other companies. MEIL topped as L-1 by quoting for a less amount than the other two companies. On 30th July, three companies submitted the bids to NHIDCL, and the finance bids opened on 21st August. The project to be constructed in 2 divisions in two sections of about 33 kilometres,” MEIL said in a statement on Friday.“The road from Srinagar to Leh in Ladakh is not suitable for vehicular traffic throughout the year. The Srinagar-Ladakh highway is completely closed for six months, especially during the winter season. Even the military vehicles are unable to move under these conditions. Travelling long distances on alternate routes has become a costly affair and a waste of time. Under these circumstances, the road tunnel was proposed between Sonamarg to Leh and Ladakh via Kargil long back,” it added.The tunnel, likely to be Asia’s longest 14.2 km long two-lane tunnel road, is expected to reduce travel time between Srinagar and Leh to just 15 minutes, from the current from three and a half hours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-company-leads-race-for-zojila-tunnel-project/story-jRQlbHm1wdj5eYRFALhXXL.html
22-08-2020||India||Lok Sabha officials to get new uniforms, yearly allowances||The Lok Sabha, home to many shades of politics, is likely to add a new dash of colours in the uniform of its officials soon, according to officials with knowledge of developments. Chamber attendants, who attend guests who come to meet the Speaker, will sport light blue safari suits instead of the current pale grey. Similarly, the Question branch and Table office—two key sets of back room staff of the Lower House -- will see a change in their uniform from cream to blue safari suits. It is a part of a big change in uniform policy initiated by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that will include senior House officials and those involved in public affairs receiving an annual allowance for uniform for the first time. Earlier, Lok Sabha officials were handed over cut pieces of cloth once in two years, which they would get stitched from any of the 4-5 Delhi tailors empaneled with the House. Now, women officers will get up to Rs 17,000 and men up Rs 16,000 depending on the nature of their jobs and ranks. Instead of every two years, House officials will sport a new uniform every year. Five key branches of the Parliament secretariat -- reporting, table office, security service, drivers and chamber attendants -- are eligible for the new uniform allowance and they will also sport new colours. The table office handles all paper work for the House, receiving notices for debates and introduction of bills, the question branch manages the background works for Question Hour. Parliament security is a special branch handling all security of the estate. The reporting branch takes verbatim notes of all discussions inside the House and parliamentary committees. Chamber attendants are in duty of the Speaker’s chamber handing VIP guests and the drivers run the ferry service for the lawmakers to shuttle them between their residence in Lutyens’ Delhi and the House. The new colour code may also make a distinction between senior and junior officers in the table office and question branch. While senior officers will wear blue safari suits, their juniors will sport either Prussian blue or charcoal-coloured uniform. “These branches deal with MPs and other visitors. They are the face of the Parliament secretariat in the public eyes and so, they have a set uniform that adds to the dignity and glamour of Indian Parliament,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity. The benefit of this allowance system, several officers pointed out, is that officials can buy their new uniform whenever they want, instead of getting it every two years. Also, they are free to buy clothes of better quality but which must adhere to the fixed colour patterns. The lady officers are to wear a fixed pattern saree, while men can choose between a range of safari suits—blue, fawn, Prussian blue, charcoal—depending on the section employing the person. In the winter, there are options of blazers and buttoned up coats for both men and women. Last year, the marshals of both Houses were relieved of their traditional attire but it stirred a controversy after the new uniform was found very similar to military uniforms. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu suspended the new uniform within a week and the marshals went back to wearing the Indian bandhgalas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-officials-to-get-new-uniforms-yearly-allowances/story-JaDRRemrvbiZ8TwZzfLKAI.html
22-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in central, western states this week: IMD||Two low pressure systems are likely to bring widespread, heavy rains in some central and western states in the coming week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low-pressure area over eastern Madhya Pradesh is likely to move westwards across the state in the next three-four days, an IMD official said on Friday. “During its transit, the system will bring extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Gujarat,” the official said, presenting the forecast for the next two weeks.The monsoon trough is active and south of its normal position (which is Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal), according to IMD.Under the influence of favourable conditions, widespread rain — with some very heavy spells — is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan in the next three-four days.Extremely heavy rain is also likely over eastern Rajasthan and the Gujarat region from August 21 to 23. Due to the low-pressure area, rainfall activity is likely to increase over eastern and adjoining areas in central India from August 23. Very heavy rain is likely over Odisha from August 23 to 24, over Gangetic West Bengal on August 24 and 25, and over Jharkhand on August 25.Around August 24, another low-pressure area is likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal. During the next one week, monsoon will remain extremely active in all parts of country, except Jammu and Kashmir and the southern Peninsula.Very active monsoon conditions in late August indicate that there may be an extended rainy season. “Normally, by August last week, rains start reducing very gradually. But this time, July was very weak. Monsoon picked up in August, and as of today, no monsoon model is showing any likelihood of reduction in rain...,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.According to an analysis of data from 1971-2019, monsoon starts withdrawing from northwest India around September 17, which is over two weeks later compared to the earlier normal date of September 1.Last year, IMD declared the beginning of monsoon retreat on October 9. And within a span of just five days, it withdrew from most parts of the country. The entire withdrawal process took just eight days. Previously, the process used to take about 45 days.“Modified onset and withdrawal dates have already been issued by IMD (in May). Our forecast also shows that we will record excess rains in September — about 106% of LPA (long period average) in August and September period. So, it’s very difficult to say when monsoon will retreat,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Till August 21, monsoon rain is 7% excess in India (6% excess over east and northeast India, 15% deficient over northwest India, 11% excess over central India, and 26% excess over southern Peninsula).The August 13-19 week recorded 42% excess rain compared to LPA for the week. This was the highest rainfall received in a week this monsoon season. LPA is the averages of monsoon rain recorded between 1951 and 2000.Five states — Delhi (143% excess), Gujarat (350% excess), Maharashtra (114% excess), Telangana (297%) and Chhattisgarh (62% excess) — recorded large excess rains during the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-central-western-states-this-week/story-PVD3F5I73ZxrjczYWKoltK.html
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects plea for inquiry into Gogoi’s conduct as top court judge||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition seeking an in-house inquiry against former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi over allegations of “misconduct” levelled by a 69-year-old man aggrieved by a 2016 order passed by the former judge. Gogoi demitted office in November 2019 and was recently nominated by the President to become a member of the Rajya Sabha.Arun Ramchandra Hublikar, a resident of Pune, had filed the petition against Gogoi in 2018. Appearing in person before a bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, Hublikar demanded that a three-judge committee should be constituted under the in-house procedure for remedial action against judges of the higher judiciary whose conduct does not follow the prescribed Restatement of Judicial Values adopted by the Supreme Court in 1999. Hublikar said he was an industrial workman and pleaded that he was aggrieved by an “ex-parte” order passed by Gogoi in July 2016. He said, “This is a matter of concern for the institution and must be investigated in depth”. After hearing the petitioner, the bench said, “He has demitted office. Your every prayer has become infructuous. No prayer can be allowed. We cannot consider anything because of efflux of time.” Hublikar said, “What is my fault? Since 2018, I have been writing dozens of letters to the Supreme Court registry to list my petition. In April 2019, I even met the secretary general in this regard.” He requested the bench to at least order an inquiry based on his petition. The bench said, “Not like this can we order at your will,” as it proceeded to dismiss the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-for-inquiry-into-gogoi-s-conduct-as-top-court-judge/story-bp841jQGHAwe3ZxPDQtqQJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court issues revised order with AG’s name in Prashant Bhushan case||The Supreme Court on Friday published a revised copy of its order passed on Thursday in the contempt-of-court case against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan to acknowledge the appearance of Attorney General KK Venugopal. The omission of Venugopal’s name in the order sheet published on Thursday had raised eyebrows in the legal fraternity. Venugopal appeared in the case in his personal capacity on August 5 when the matter was heard on merit, and on August 20 when the hearing on the sentencing took place.While the order sheet of August 5 contained Venugopal’s name, the one uploaded on August 20 did not. A revised copy was later published on Friday afternoon reflecting the AG’s name.“It is a minor error and not a big issue. These mistakes happen and nothing should be read into it. Moreover, the error has been rectified now,” senior counsel Arvind Datar said.Venugopal, 89 — whose consent, which is otherwise required, was not obtained before the matter was taken up by the Supreme Court and who was not heard by the court during the contempt hearings — appeared in his personal capacity before the bench on Thursday and argued the judges shouldn’t impose any punishment on Bhushan.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra held the activist lawyer guilty of contempt of court for two tweets on August 14.“The Attorney General (AG) is the pre-eminent member of the Bar and generations of judges have known and understood the high constitutional authority of that office. The manner in which he was ignored for four-and-a-half hours during the conviction hearing and then interrupted repeatedly today by the presiding judge is a slight against the entire Bar. Under the Constitution, the AG doesn’t need anybody’s permission to appear -- the fact that the present incumbent is a gentleman should not be taken as a sign of weakness,’’ said senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, who was following the proceedings of the court.The order sheet, a record of proceedings that transpire in court, contains names of all lawyers who appear in a case on the day of the hearing. The lawyers’ names are provided to the court staff on a form known as “appearance slip” by the advocate-on-record (i.e. the lawyer in whose name the petition and other documents are filed).The court staff then include those names in the order prepared by them, which is then published on the Supreme Court website. After hearings through video conference began before the Supreme Court on March 23, the appearance slip is submitted online.“Not including the Attorney General’s name in the order sheet is a serious issue and cannot be brushed aside as an inadvertent omission by the court staff. When the Attorney General for India appears and speaks in a case, it means his office is seized of the matter,” said Supreme Court lawyer and advocate-on-record Sriram Parakkat.“It does happen sometimes that names of junior lawyers who are part of a case are omitted by the court staff by mistake but such a mistake hardly happens when it comes to law officers, particularly the highest law officer of the country who is also a constitutional functionary.”In court on Thursday, the three-judge bench cut short the AG’s arguments and said its judgment of August 14 will not be reconsidered, and that the AG should not make arguments on the merits of the case. The bench later gave Bhushan 3-4 days to reconsider his stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-revised-order-with-ag-s-name-in-bhushan-case/story-TBe6vgHfO9V8eMPlKWA2JP.html
22-08-2020||India||We are transparent, non-partisan: Facebook||Facebook is a non-partisan platform that denounces hate and bigotry, the social media company’s India head said in a statement on Friday in an attempt to address allegations of political bias after a media report said its executives based in Delhi blocked action against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politician. Friday’s statement, uploaded on the website, was signed by Facebook India head Ajit Mohan, who did not go into the specific allegations against the company’s India policy head Ankhi Das. Das, according to an August 14 report by Wall Street Journal citing unnamed company insiders, opposed applying hate-speech rules to some members linked to BJP, including Telangana MLA T Raja Singh.“The decisions around content escalations are not made unilaterally by just one person ... the process comes with robust checks and balances,” Mohan, wrote in an online post titled “We are open, transparent and non-partisan”.Also read: ‘Facebook denounces hate and bigotry’, says its India chief amid content rowThe statement did not go into specific allegations that the company was giving BJP a preferential treatment. Mohan, who has previously defended Das in an internal memo, backed company employees on Friday without naming the policy executive. “This also reflects in our organizational set up - like a truly diverse organization, our employees represent a varied political spectrum who have either served in many administrations or have political experience and take immense pride in being active contributors to public service. Despite hailing from diverse political affiliations and backgrounds, they perform their respective duties and interpret our policies in a fair and non-partisan way,” the statement said.Facebook has been battling political fallout in recent days. The opposition Congress criticised the company while some ruling-party lawmakers have accused it of censoring right-wing voices to ostensibly pander to liberal sentiments.On Thursday, news agency Reuters reported that some Facebook employees in the United States and beyond had raised questions in internal forums about whether adequate content regulation practices were being followed by the India team. In an internal open letter to Facebook’s leadership, 11 employees demanded that company leaders acknowledge and denounce “anti-Muslim bigotry” and ensure more policy consistency. One source had said there was a debate happening internally at Facebook about content moderation processes.Also read: Why Facebook is wrong, yet again |OpinionA parliamentary standing committee on information and technology has summoned representatives of the social media company to appear before it on September 2 to present their views on the issue of safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social and online news media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-transparent-non-partisan-fb/story-wpbNY9Qgdkd8dYXthLeLDL.html
22-08-2020||India||3 Opposition parties back Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon FB officials||Members of at least three opposition parties are now backing Congress MP Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon officials from Facebook to answer a parliamentary panel over allegations that the social media company acted in a politically partisan manner to benefit the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Tharoor, who heads the 30-member panel on information and technology, till Thursday found support from Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra. The panel also has 14 MPs from BJP, which has opposed the committee’s decision to go into the matter. On Friday, the Hindustan Times reached out to at least one member of each party to see if they backed the senior Congress leader, and found that the DMK and TRS – in addition to TMC -- are in favour of the move. CPI(M) and Shiv Sena did not respond to repeated calls and texts to confirm their position, while YSRCP declined to comment. The lone LJP MP could not be reached since he was not fit to take a call, his aide told Hindustan Times. The Panel has 30 members and one vacant seat. Its Lok Sabha party representatives include two each from the Congress and TMC, 11 from BJP, and one each from DMK, CPI(M), Shiv Sena, TRS, LJP and YSRCP. The Rajya Sabha party members include two from Congress, three from BJP, one each from TMC and YSRCP and two nominated members. Of the 30, 15 are BJP and allies, while one seat is vacant. The controversy was spotlighted by the Wall Street Journal last week. The newspaper reported that Facebook India intervened in content moderation processes to ensure hate speeches by a BJP leader were not taken down – a claim the company has since denied. Facebook India on Friday evening reiterated it acts in an unbiased manner. “If Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg can appear in front of the US Congress to assuage their fears, then why a double standard when it comes to India,” said DMK MP Sumathy Thamizhachi Thangapandian. “The reports paint a grave picture and we would like to hear from Facebook about them.”She added that this was not only a point of concern for the parliamentary panel or the members of parliament, but also for the public at large. “They can’t selectively apply their rules or fulfil their obligations on the basis of which country is making the demand,” she added.TRS MP Gaddam Ranjith too said he would like to hear from Facebook on the matters. “If you ask me, yes I would like to hear an explanation from them,” Reddy told Hindustan Times. “I don’t find there is anything wrong with calling a meeting. It is well within the power of the chair.”Reddy also added that there was nothing wrong about seeking an explanation when Facebook was behaving in such a biased manner. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey objected on Thursday to Tharoor’s decision saying the chairperson does not have the power to summon anyone without the signature of the Secretary General. Dubey and BJP MP Rajyavardhan Rathore have also written to the Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking Tharoor be removed as chairperson for misusing his position for political purposes. “He (Tharoor) cannot use the panel to further his party’s interests. The Parliament is not an extension of the Congress,” Dubey had told Hindustan Times. TMC Mahua Moitra has also alleged that Facebook conducted a training in the Parliament annexe, where foreign entities are not supposed to be allowed. “They conducted the training last November or December,” she said. “When I asked officials in the Parliament about it, they said they didn’t know the training was being conducted by Facebook.”Hindustan Times reached out to Facebook for a comment about the panel invitation and Moitra’s allegations but did not receive a response. CPI(M) MP PR Natarajan, said that he would wait and watch how the proceedings go. “The Committee will meet on 1 September, let us see what grievances Dubey has,” Natarajan said. “We will raise and discuss the issue in the Committee.” Shiv Sena MP Dhairyasheel Mane too remained non-committal on the issue. PDT Achary, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, said the chairperson has a right to introduce a special subject during the proceedings and the members have to be informed about it, or a member can recommend a particular subject under Rule 276. In this case, he added, 276 need not be applied since the subject has already been selected. “Moreover, for selecting the witnesses, consent of the Committee is not required. It is the prerogative of the chair. The members are informed after that.” said Achary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-oppn-parties-back-tharoor-s-decision-to-summon-fb-officials/story-loRAFoXwIZ0iQDJ1u1UFwN.html
22-08-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah meets more National Conference leaders today||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah today held the second round of meeting with senior NC leaders at his residence in Srinagar in the backdrop of party’s allegations that several of its leaders were forcefully being kept under house arrest or detention.“The attendees included Mubarak Gul, Choudhary Ramzaan, Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi, Shameema Firdous, Basharat Bukhari. These members who were under detention/house arrest met Dr Farooq after over a year,” NC spokesman said, adding that party’s Provincial President Nasir Aslam Wani, Treasurer Shammi Oberoi, Political Advisor to Dr Farooq Mushtaq Guroo were also present.On Thursday too, Abdullah had met senior party leaders in the backdrop of the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s denial of NC’s contention in court that several party leaders were in illegal confinement at their homes.Yesterday’s meeting was the first at Abdullah’s Gupkar residence since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. He said it was called to find out whether his party colleagues could come out of their homes.NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and former ministers Mohammad Shafi Uri, Abdul Rahim Rather and Nasir Aslam Wani had attended the meeting yesterday.On July 13, Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah, filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court, contending that several NC leaders were being held in a “brazen violation” of constitutional guarantees of the right to liberty.The party decided to convene Thursday’s meeting after the administration told the court that none of the 16 leaders, who the party said were in illegal confinement, were detained.The government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, last August and also bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.In anticipation of protests erupting in the wake of the announcement, several political leaders and activists including former chief ministers were detained as a preventive measure. While prominent politicians such as ex-CMs Farooq and Omar Abdullah have been released, about 20 leaders, including Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti, are still in detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-meets-more-national-conference-leaders-today/story-wdLebvZgmNIS8LLGxlJk8H.html
22-08-2020||India||Haryana, Madhya Pradesh may face legal challenges over quota in jobs||Decisions by the Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments this week to push ahead for reservations in jobs for local residents has put the spotlight on the legal implications of the move with some experts saying such quotas may face a legal challenge. On Thursday, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said his government would bring a bill in the upcoming assembly session proposing reserving 75% of private sector jobs for locals. His announcement came a day after governor Satyadeo Narain Arya sought presidential approval for the state cabinet’s ordinance on the same issue. Arya decision was based Haryana’s law secretary’s view that the proposed law could be seen as violation of two articles of the Constitution --- Article 14 that allows equality before law and Article 16(1)(g) that allows freedom to practice any profession or trade. Haryana’s advocate general M B Mahajan said the proposed rule reserving jobs for locals did not violate any central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution, either,” Mahajan said. On Monday, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that all government jobs in the state would be reserved for students of the state, who have cleared class X and XII examinations from a school in the state. He said the regulations in this regard would be issued soon. Maharashtra (up to 80%), Andhra Pradesh (75%), and Karnataka (75%) already reserve private jobs for locals. Madhya Pradesh also provides 70% quota for locals in private jobs -- a decision taken during the previous Kamal Nath regime. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Ashok Arora said reservation for locals can be provided if the state can provide quantifiable reasons for the same to ensure equality. “The state governments will have to provide ‘reasonable’ ground for reserving jobs for locals which is quantifiable. And, this can be achieved only through a proper scientific study,” he said. In various judgments, the SC has said reservation can be given only after a detailed study providing evidence of socio-economic and educational backwardness. In the past, the SC struck down reservation in government jobs for castes such as Jats in Haryana and Marathas in Maharashtra in the absence of a detailed study.“The ground for giving reservation has to be socio-economic backwardness. Place of birth and residence cannot be a ground. This has been clearly stated by Supreme Court in at least 10 various judgments, if not more, since 1954. Providing reservation in any other form could be seen as contrary to the Constitutional norms,” said senior Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Vivek Tankha. Showing economic backwardness of local residents may not be easy. As per the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) of report of January 2020, Haryana’s per capita income was Rs 2,26,644 in 2018-19, sixth highest in the country after Goa, Delhi, Sikkim, Chandigarh and Puducherry. Maharashtra is ranked seventh, Andhra Pradesh 16th and Karnataka 17th in the per capita income index released by MOSPI.The Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act, 2020, that stipulates reservation for locals in private sector jobs, is under challenge in the state high court on the grounds that it violates Article 16(2) and (3) of the Constitution that prohibit discrimination in employment on the ground of place of residence. Neighbouring Telangana too has approved a policy giving tax concessions to industries that reserve jobs for locals in the state. “The cabinet felt that the locals should have more opportunities in the industries being set up in the state,” said an official statement.Written and spoken knowledge of Marathi in Maharashtra, Tamil in Tamil Nadu, Kannada in Karnataka and Bengali in West Bengal is mandatory to be eligible for a government job. “It is a dangerous trend,” said Supreme Court lawyer Sanjay Hegde. “When job market is turning international, some states are trying to make it purely local for political reasons. It will hurt talent and development. There is sufficient ground to challenge these regulations in the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hry-mp-may-face-legal-challenges-over-quota-in-jobs/story-rPpHh160qpDmPdH2iAGUDJ.html
22-08-2020||India||Sikkim health minister tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home isolation||Sikkim’s health minister M K Sharma has tested positive for Covid-19 and gone in for home isolation. In an official statement, Sharma said, “I would like to inform the Sikkimese people that I have developed symptoms of Covid-19 and got myself tested today and the result came positive. I’m under isolation and I’m fine. I appeal to everyone not to panic and request those who came in contact with me (primary) to self-isolate and get tested after seven days or if they develop symptoms.” Till Friday morning, Sikkim recorded 1,336 cases of Covid-19 while the death toll in the Himalayan state stood at three. In Sikkim, 834 people have been cured from the infectious disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-health-minster-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-home-isolation/story-vFDFUtbjgxG1BVGDLllPMN.html
22-08-2020||India||Show proof of Devangana Kalita ‘creating nuisance’: HC to cops||The Delhi high court on Friday, while reserving its order on the bail plea of Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, in connection with the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, asked the Delhi Police why they did not have any video of Kalita making instigating speeches. Justice Suresh Kait said that if Kalita had been “creating a nuisance since 2019”, the police should have collected some evidence against her. “Do you have anything to show that the speeches she made were troublesome? Don’t you think that you should have recorded or kept some evidence since she has been allegedly making a nuisance since 2019,” the court asked the police. Kait also remarked that during the riots, “the media was everywhere and had recorded everything”. “Show me any portion of the speech recorded by the media or anyone else which showed that Kalita instigated the mob to commit the crime...I want to know what she said that instigated the mob,” Kait said.The crime branch had arrested Kalita and another member of the group in May for their role in an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protest, which led to violent clashes in Jafrabad during the north-east Delhi riots. The two were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting, unlawful assembly and delivering inflammatory speeches. The investigating officer (IO) told the court that Kalita’s video could not be taken as she was about a kilometre away, behind the Jafrabad Metro station, while their camera person was positioned in the front. To this, the judge said, “Then how did you hear that she (Kalita) was making instigating speeches?” The IO responded that the station house officer had gone to the rear of the station when he heard her instigating the crowd. Appearing for Kalita, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told the court that she had been falsely implicated and had not made any instigating speech even though she had participated in the protest. He said there was no evidence proving her guilt, and that she had already been granted bail in two of the four FIRs. He played a video in the court to show that the police were recording the protest and said the officials were still not showing any videos to the court. He said the videos do not have any inflammatory speech. “Accused in not a politician. She is an academician and a research scholar. She has already been granted bail in two cases. Let the police show us the video and the hate speech,” Sibal submitted. Countering his submissions, additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju told the court that just because she had been granted bail did not mean that she was innocent. He said Kalita delivered speeches which led to widespread riots in the city and was also part of an unlawful assembly. Raju said there was no media on February 25 when the incident in question happened and the witness accounts showed Kalita’s role in instigating the mob. Kalita has been arrested in four cases related to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February and has been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for her alleged role in hatching a conspiracy along with other accused persons. The Delhi Police have said that the riots were planned by some anti-CAA protesters, who blocked the road and made inflammatory speeches to incite people. The arrested anti-CAA protesters, who are students, student activists, and local politicians, have denied the police’s allegations and said that the police have launched a witch-hunt against the Citizenship Law protesters. The violence claimed 53 lives and left several others injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-reserves-judgment-on-pinjra-tod-member-devangana-kalita-s-bail-plea/story-YB7Kl2UUd4CJLjRWeJerPL.html
22-08-2020||India||Front-line workers must be vaccinated first, says report||Workers essential to sustaining the ongoing response to coronavirus disease (Covid-19); people maintaining core societal functions; and those at greatest risk of severe illness and death and their caregivers should be vaccinated first whenever a vaccine is approved but is still in limited supply , according to a new report released in the US on Wednesday. The report, written by public health experts led by the Center for Health Security at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, proposes establishing tiers of high-priority candidates who will receiving a vaccine first. Also read: ICMR looks at private medical colleges to ramp up Covid-19 testing infraFirst responders and those at risk are in tier one, with tier two including those providing non-Covid healthcare, people supporting maintenance of important societal functions such as police and fire personnel, transportation and delivery workers, food system workers, teachers, and workers involved in the maintenance of electricity, water, information, finance and fuel infrastructure, among others, those who may not be able to access health care if they become ill, and those working in sectors that raises their risk of infection.Apart from health and frontline workers, people over the age of 65, and those with chronic diseases, the report recommends protecting workers needed to maintain public safety, such as police and fire personnel. It also recommends vaccinating those who can spread infection, such as workers in high public contact jobs like transportation, grocery shops workers, teachers, and childcare workers, school-going children and children living with high-risk adults.Also read: 68.7k fresh Covid-19 cases take tally near 3 millionThe report, the Interim Framework for Covid-19 Vaccine Allocation and Distribution in the United States, can be applied in every country.There are 29 candidate vaccines undergoing human clinical trials, with eight vaccines in late stages of clinical evaluation around the world, according to the latest World Health Organisation Draft Landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. Another 138 experimental vaccines are in preclinical evaluation -- all adding to hope that one or more of these candidates will be available at scale in 2021.“The purpose of this report is to offer an additional ethics framework for use in making decisions about allocation of Sars-CoV-2 vaccine during this initial period of scarcity in the United States and make related suggestions about vaccine distribution. Our approach takes into account considerations of medical risk, public health, ethics and equity, economic impact, and logistics,” said authors.Also read: Serum Institute registers its Covid-19 vaccine trialIndia has not placed global pre-orders for a Covid-19 vaccine yet, but has begun talks with made-in-India vaccine producers on production and procurement. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration will meet the country’s leading vaccine developers and producers for the second time this week for information on their production capacity and plans on pricing. “No vaccine will be 100% effective, but with scientists working on many experimental vaccines, more than one is likely to be available next year. To ensure their timely availability for our population, including priority populations such as our Covid warriors, the expert group has begun consultations with vaccine manufacturers to plan ahead for the production, pricing and distribution of the vaccine, whenever it is ready,” said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage There is a lag from the time of vaccine administration to the production of a robust immune response, and many vaccines may need more than one dose to offer protection, say experts. “Even with a highly effective vaccine, it will take at least two weeks after the first dose for some immunity to develop, with full protection appearing around two to four weeks after the second dose. This means it may take six to eight weeks to develop immunity after vaccination, which can be short-lived. We still don’t know,” said a scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/front-line-workers-must-be-vaccinated-first-says-report/story-kpeJGVOqMItk8P52hmbH8O.html
22-08-2020||India||India’s jewel says goodbye||New Delhi Nearly 400 days since he played his last match for India, Mahendra Singh Dhoni has retired from international cricket, putting to an end both a storied career and months of speculation on his future. The 39-year-old made this announcement via an Instagram post on Saturday. “Thanks a lot for ur love and support throughout from 1929 hrs consider me as Retired,” the caption of the post read, which also contained a slideshow of images from his dazzling decade-and-a-half spell with the Indian cricket team, which he championed in several roles—as India’s most illustrious captain, distinguished wicketkeeper and also as one of the most destructive batsmen the world has ever seen. The career, then, began and ended with a run out. On December 23, 2004, a 23-year-old boy with a bleached mane was run out first ball during his debut match in Chattogram against hosts Bangladesh, ostensibly desperate to score his first international run. And on July 9, 2019—a day after he turned 38—Dhoni fell short of the crease in Manchester while attempting to take a second run against New Zealand in the semifinal of the World Cup. His score of 50 was unable to take India over the line, and as he walked back to the pavilion—disappointment stretched over his grizzled face—the whispers about his impending retirement had turned into a raging national debate. In between that shaky start and end, Dhoni’s storyline had the mythical narrative of a Bollywood movie (and indeed, a movie had been made on his life). He had a cricket-crazy nation starved of consistent success eating out of his hands, first with the bat, then with his gloves and most definitively, with his leadership. He also transcended the game, becoming a cultural icon, an emblem of small-town India — he came from Ranchi — making it to the top of the world. A blazing 148 in Visakhapatnam against Pakistan in just his fifth ODI made him both a household name and the country’s first-choice wicketkeeper. That hundred was scored while batting at No 3, just as his second ton (which also happens to be his highest ODI score of 183*) scored a year later was. But very soon, Dhoni would establish himself as a middle-order batsman of such repute that he would be recognised as the greatest finisher in the game, so much so that India was never beyond posting a grand total or chasing down an impossible target until he had had his say. In 2007, Dhoni’s first leadership test was at the inaugural T20 World Cup in South Africa. With Indian cricket’s behemoths—Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and then-captain Rahul Dravid—sitting out of the team in an untested format, Dhoni led India’s next-gen to his first of three ICC majors with a win against Pakistan in the final at Johannesburg. This he did by tossing the ball towards Joginder Sharma—a small-time bowler from a small town that no one had heard of— against a raging Misbah ul Haq, and his captaincy skills were never questioned again. The timing of that trophy ensured that India was gripped with the fever of T20 cricket, serendipitously in time for the Indian Premier League in 2008. As the star-captain of Chennai Super Kings, Dhoni set the marker for franchise cricket greatness by leading his team to the IPL final in eight out of the 12 seasons so far. CSK won three times. By 2008, Dhoni was captain of all three formats with the Indian team. Under his stewardship, and with a little help from coach Gary Kirsten, Dhoni dragged India to No.1 in the world in Test cricket for the first ever time in their history. This ranking was achieved with a drawn series in South Africa in 2011, making Dhoni the only Indian captain to have not lost a series on those shores. While the Test match was symbolic of Dhoni’s influence on a side that was fractured into unhappy factions right through the first decade of this century, Dhoni’s finest hour as both captain and batsman, undoubtedly, came at the 50-over World Cup that the subcontinent hosted in 2011. In the final against Sri Lanka at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, Dhoni’s steely nerves burdened the weight of a tricky chase with 91 unbeaten runs, ending a 28-year wait for glory with a six that’ll perhaps always be entwined with his legacy. That legacy, however, was stained somewhat in the lead up to his sudden Test retirement in the middle of a Test series in Australia in 2014, possibly brought upon by several consecutive away series losses, including whitewashes in England and Australia, just after the World Cup win. Even after his Test retirement, Dhoni stayed on as India’s ODI captain until after the 2015 World Cup, completing his set of all ICC majors with a Champions Trophy victory in England (2013) along the way. Even as his fabled finishing touch abandoned him and his form in front of the stumps dipped drastically, Dhoni remained a constant in short-format cricket; partly due to his quick reflexes behind the stumps and mostly due to his ability to hand-hold new captain Virat Kohli. Dhoni was picked in Kohli’s 2019 World Cup squad, despite having scored his last international century in 2017. The debate over his presence raged on during the course of the World Cup, and for a few months after. The uncertainty over his future had all but hijacked his narrative. Until Saturday, that is, when he exited the global stage far more quietly than he had first exploded onto it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-jewel-says-goodbye/story-R4enx9ynaXafQp95fY7f1N.html
