23-08-2020||India||Jammu police nab two dealers illegally selling PDS ration, more arrests likely||Jammu police on Sunday seized 272 bags of flour meant to be distributed to the poor people through the public distribution system but being sold illegally by ration dealers in connivance with officials of food and supplies department in RS Pura area of Jammu district. A team led by station house officer RS Pura Jai Pal Sharma arrested two ration dealers Sourabh Gupta, resident of Dablehar and Krishan Lal, resident of Jinder Milu.Both were caught red handed while loading and disposing the ration bags which had the stamp mark of PDS on them.Search for one more ration dealer Rashpal Singh, a resident of Khour is underway, said the SHO. Some empty bags with CAPD stamp mark were also seized from the scene of crime.Subsequently, four vehicles were also seized. They were used by these ration dealers to transport the BPL ration to the chosen locations.An FIR no 175/2020 under section 409 IPC and 3/7 EC Act was registered at police station RS Pura and further investigation has been taken up. According to police some more arrests are likely in near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-police-nab-two-dealers-illegally-selling-pds-ration-more-arrests-likely/story-L5kgSTivRvKKVd9dLiYoaL.html
23-08-2020||India||IIT-B holds virtual convocation event||Mumbai: In a one-of-a-kind experience, three-dimensional avatars of graduating students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, received their degrees in a virtual convocation ceremony held on Sunday afternoon.“You are the first batch of graduates among those who are still in the pipeline, who had faced extreme hardship due to the spread of the pandemic. But despair no more, dear students, you are now proud graduates of IIT Bombay,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute, urging them to stand up to their true potential. Over 2,400 graduates from undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral programmes graduated from the institute this year. Of these, around 1,255 are likely to have used the ‘IIT Bombay Convocation 2020’ mobile application to take part in the ceremony from the comfort of their homes using a mobile application that the institute specially designed for the purpose. Apart from the ceremony, graduates could use the application to take a virtual tour of the campus and hang out with friends at their favourite joints. Once downloaded, the application does not require internet connectivity to run. For those who couldn’t use the app, the ceremony was telecast live on the social media channels of the institute as well as DD Sahyadri. It took the effort of 20 experts, most from the IDC School of Design, to plan, design and create this platform and mobile application. “It took more than 5000 person hours to build the whole thing,” added Sunthar.“I will definitely miss the feel and the atmosphere of the convocation in the institute I’ve been part of for four years. At the same time, I was excited to have been able to take part in the virtual convocation,” said a graduating student on the condition of anonymity.Chaudhuri told HT that the institute has received global praise for the virtual convocation ceremony. “(I am) glad that everyone liked the ceremony. We have received a lot of kudos from abroad as nobody has ever seen such a ceremony,” he said. The virtual avatars of students walked up to the stage to receive their degrees from 3-D avatars of the director and chief guest Duncan Haldane, a 2016 Nobel Laureate for Physics.“You are probably just as surprised as me over the profound changes that have taken place in academic life during the last four months, and the changed world,” said Haldane in his message. “There is a lesson for everyone involved in research. Even if you are involved in a very goal-driven project, try to find some small share of your time to investigate unexpected curiosities that sometimes show up along the way,” he advised the graduating students.Stephen A Schwarzman, chairperson and chief executive officer of global investment firm Blackstone, who delivered the commencement speech, said, “IIT engineers are defining the global technology landscape and the newest alumni will be the next generation of future global leaders who will advance that mission. You, IIT Bombay graduates, must seize the opportunity to be leaders of impact who are a force for change - and for good - in this world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-b-holds-virtual-convocation-event/story-SCls0kc9Xgd2C9Yt4uvogO.html
23-08-2020||India||UK long knew Dawood’s Pakistan address and more than two dozen aliases||While Pakistan has only now acknowledged Dawood’s residential addresses in Karachi, western agencies have long established his presence there, listing his addresses in official documents.The issue of Dawood Ibrahim—one of India’s most wanted terrorists--residing in Pakistan also figured in US documents in the recent extradition trial in the Westminster Magistrates Court of his aide, Jabir Motiwala, who is wanted in the US on charges of money laundering, among others.The British government has identified Ibrahim’s location in Pakistan since at least November 2003, when he was added to the ‘Consolidated list of financial sanctions targets in the UK’ issued by the Treasury department. The list, updated on August 13, mentions Dawood’s three addresses (earlier versions mentioned four addresses): “(1) House No 37, 30th Street - defence, Housing Authority, Karachi, Pakistan. (2) Noorabad, Karachi, Pakistan (Palatial bungalow in the hilly area). (3) White House, Near Saudi Mosque, Clifton, Karachi, Pakistan”.The list also mentions the many aliases the fugitive is known for: Abdul, Shaikh, Ismail; Abdul Aziz, Abdul Hamid; Abdul Rehman, Shaikh, Mohd, Ismail; Anis, Ibrahim, Shaikh, Mohd; Bhai, Bada; Bhai, Dawood; Bhai, Iqbal; Dilip, Aziz; Ebrahim, Dawood; Farooqi, Sheikh; Hasan, Kaskar, Dawood; Hassan, Dawood; Ibrahim, Anis; Ibrahim, Dowood, Hassan, Shaikh; Kaskar, Daud, Hasan, Shaikh, Ibrahim; Kaskar, Daud, Ibrahim, Memon; Kaskar, Dawood, Hasan, Ibrahim; Memon, Dawood, Ibrahim; Sabri, Dawood; Sahab, Haji; and Seth, Bada.“Father’s name is Sheikh Ibrahim Ali Kaskar, Mother’s name is Amina Bi, Wife’s name is Mehjabeen Shaikh. Also referred to as Hizrat and Mucchad”, the entry for Ibrahim says.Also Read: Pakistan tightens curbs on Dawood, Hafiz SaeedDetails of Indian and Pakistani passports held by Ibrahim and revoked by India are also mentioned in the list that targets individuals and groups that are subject to UK asset freeze, among other restrictions.A targeted asset freeze usually prohibits anyone from dealing with the funds or economic resources belonging to or owned, held or controlled by a designated person, such as Ibrahim.The rules also prohibit anyone from making funds or economic resources available, directly or indirectly, to, or for the benefit of, the designated person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-long-knew-dawood-s-pakistan-address-and-more-than-two-dozen-aliases/story-lwHLi0GVgWR4wvl1WkpFYK.html
23-08-2020||India||Bengal’s TMC govt under-reporting Covid-19 deaths, alleges Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government is systematically under-reporting Covid-19 deaths in West Bengal, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, alleged on Sunday. “I am not making an allegation. I take responsibility for what I am saying. The number of Covid-19 deaths is being under-reported in a planned way with active support of the state government. I said this earlier also,” said Chowdhury who represents the Berhampore Lok Sabha constituency in Bengal’s Murshidabad district. He also alleged that people of the state are not getting proper treatment because of lack of health infrastructure and health workers are being sent to remote areas without PPE kits. “I urge the state government not to cheat the common people. The government is making tall statements and declaring lockdowns but whatever claims and statements the government is making need to be crosschecked and verified,” Chowdhury said. The TMC condemned Chowdhury’s allegation. TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “He is making baseless allegations only to malign the state government. The reports being given by the state government goes to the Centre and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). There is no way the state government can send wrong figures, be it the number of cases or deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-tmc-govt-under-reporting-covid-19-deaths-alleges-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury/story-aeJwWdbCHU5SWspnnrNR4O.html
23-08-2020||India||As leadership debate rages in Congress, Goa leadership backs Gandhi family||The Goa unit of Congress party has firmly sided with the Gandhi family in the midst of a storm raging inside the grand old party over the question of leadership and restructuring of the organization.The Goa Congress on Sunday said that the party needed to unite behind the Gandhis to defeat the BJP, echoing a sentiment expressed by several party leaders, who expressed their disagreement with another group within the party that triggered the debate by seeking sweeping changes in the organization including devolution of centralized power through collective leadership. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted to say that it was important to unite behind the leadership. “The Nation looks at @INCIndia as peoples (sic) voice in critical times of Covid Pandemic. Mrs. Sonia Gandhi has led the Congress Party keeping everyone united during crisis. Lets (sic) us discuss how to strengthen her & @RahulGandhi ji’s hands to defeat the divisive @BJP4India,” Kamat said in a tweet. His tweet was retweeted by state Congress president Girish Chodankar while other party workers shared tweets with the hashtag #IstandwithRahulGandhi. Chodankar called the demand for a restructure “absurd”. Also Read: Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning as Congress president false: Randeep Surjewala“We should stand unitedly with our President & support #RahulGandhi who is exposing the misdeeds of this Govt becoming [a] common man’s voice. At a time when the Gandhis are fighting to help people facing the wrath of the Coronavirus on one hand and on the other fighting to save the Democracy of Our great Nation. A demand for a restructure at this point is absurd,” Chodankar said in a series of tweets. Also Read: Letter vs letter: After 23 Congress leaders question leadership, others come out in support of Sonia GandhiThe Goa leadership, despite being depleted by the exodus of more than two thirds of the MLAs, is gearing up to take on the BJP in the 2022 assembly polls that are little more than a year away. The party is expected to field a host of fresh faces to replace those who have since exited the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-leadership-debate-rages-in-congress-goa-leadership-backs-gandhi-family/story-pqpU1gox8hapZWNxmltKVK.html
23-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh Maoist with Rs 2 lakh reward on him surrenders before Odisha police||A Maoist carrying a cash reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, and involved in several incidents of violence, surrendered before the police in Malkangiri district of Odisha on Sunday.Mahadev Madkami, a resident of Kankerapra village of Dantewada in Chhattisgarh, and involved in many incidents of assault and killing of civilians, exchange of fire with security forces and destruction of government properties, surrendered before Malkangiri SP Khilari Rishikesh Dnyandeo. Madkami had joined the Maoists in 2015 and was in the protection team of Chaitu, who was in-charge of the Darva division of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee. Since December 2019, he was working in the Mahupadar local squad.The Malkangiri SP said Madkami was active in Malkangiri and nearby areas and had decided to give up the path of violence as he was disillusioned by Maoist leaders. “He saw various developmental activities being undertaken by the government in this area and realized the futility of the violent path before deciding to join the mainstream of society,” the SP said.With the surrender of Madkami, the number of surrenders in Odisha increased to 20 this year. Among the Maoists who surrendered this year were Kamlyu Beti alias Kamlu, the Kanger Ghati area committee secretary of Darva division under Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee in Chhattisgarh. Last year, nearly 13 Maoists had surrendered in Odisha state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-maoist-with-rs-2-lakh-reward-on-him-surrenders-before-odisha-police/story-O8JFNl555s2CwS4cmgAENK.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Come back, Rahulji…the country needs you’: Balasaheb Thorat||A day before the crucial Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting slated for Monday, Maharashtra Congress chief and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said former party chief Rahul Gandhi should lead the Congress.“Come back, Rahulji. Not only the Congress party but the entire country needs you,” the Maharashtra Congress chief tweeted on Sunday.Thorat also described Rahul Gandhi as a “courageous, sensitive and intellectually-committed leader”.ALSO READ | If Sonia Gandhi has made up her mind, then Rahul should step up and lead Cong: GehlotHe said until he takes over as full-time president, interim chief Sonia Gandhi should lead the Congress party.“With due respect to Rahulji’s sentiments, we would like to say, ‘Come Back, Rahulji’. Under your leadership, we will be the voice of millions of Indians; we are determined to make history. This is not only the need of the Congress party but the need of the entire country as well,” Thorat, who is a CWC member, said in a statement.“Under your able leadership and guidance, we would like to work for the poor and neglected in this country,” he said.ALSO READ | ‘Get together and find a new chief’: Sonia Gandhi in response to letter on leadershipThorat said Sonia Gandhi had over the years, looked after the large Congress family selflessly and had also made innumerable sacrifices for it.“Under Sonia Gandhi’s leadership and guidance during the UPA government revolutionary decisions were taken keeping the interest of the people supreme. Soniaji’s struggle and hard work is a source of inspiration for the members of the Congress family, like us,” Thorat said. On Sunday, Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar too expressed his support for Sonia Gandhi’s leadership. “The entire Congress in Karnataka stands by the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and the Gandhi family. She has led Congress during times of crisis and saved our party. Anything that has to be discussed must be done so at the party forum and not in the media,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-back-rahulji-the-country-needs-you-balasaheb-thorat/story-MpkHZLgOpLfTlgUyo9gZeI.html
23-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cong’s Randeep Surjewala denies reports of Sonia Gandhi’s resignation as party chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning as Congress president false’: Randeep SurjewalaCongress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala denied reports that Sonia Gandhi has resigned as party president. “Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning from the post of Congress interim president are false,” news agency ANI quoted Surjewala as saying on Sunday. Read moreAG KK Venugopal declines permission to prosecute Swara Bhasker for contempt of courtAttorney General of India (AG), KK Venugopal, on Sunday, declined to grant permission for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the Supreme Court and its judgment in the Ayodhya dispute. Read moreKarnataka phone tapping row: Cong MP vows to escalate fight to Centre, seeks probeTwo days after Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar accused the BS Yediyurappa led state government of tapping his phones, his brother and Congress MP from Bengaluru Rural, D K Suresh, on Sunday said that he would approach the Centre for an investigation into the matter if Karnataka government didn’t take the complaint seriously. Read moreMadhya Pradesh witnesses reduction in rainfall activityAfter receiving heavy rainfall over the past couple of days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Madhya Pradesh saw a reduction in rainfall activity on Sunday as the low pressure area moved towards Rajasthan. Read moreDelhi govt’s welfare fund for construction workers: All you need to knowDelhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said the government will set up camps for construction workers who wish to register for Aam Aadmi Party’s state-run welfare fund. These camps will be set up from August 24 to September 11 across 70 assembly constituencies and workers can get their registrations verified there also. Read moreIPL 2020 | ‘It all boils down to jealousy’: Sunil Gavaskar slams IPL criticsIndia batting legend Sunil Gavaskar slammed those who criticise the Indian Premier League and said that the negative remarks towards the tournament come out of jealousy. Gavaskar’s remarks came less than a month before the start of the 13th edition of IPL. Read moreAnand Mahindra’s latest post captures the power of unity in the most amazing way. WatchAnand Mahindra, the chairman of Mahindra Group, along with his excellent business acumen and social work, is also known for his Twitter presence. Netizens often find Mahindra’s tweets hilarious, intriguing, motivating, and relatable. Read moreShilpa Shetty, Shraddha Kapoor go for eco-friendly Ganpati visarjan at home, see picsShilpa Shetty and family took part in the Ganesh Visarjan celebration on Sunday. They immersed the idol of Lord Ganesha in a water-filled tub at home itself. The family had welcomed Lord Ganesha on Saturday. Shilpa, husband Raj Kundra, son Viaan and her mother-in-law were twinning in yellow on the occasion. Read moreSamsung finally brings last year’s iOS 13 feature to its Galaxy phones: Ability to find the handset even when offlineSamsung has finally added a feature for its Galaxy smartphone that Apple brought last year with iOS 13 – finding your lost handset even when its offline. This feature not available on every Galaxy smartphone yet but is coming as an update according to XDA’s Max Weinbach. Read moreLife Hacks by Charles Assisi: The sublime value of the daily ritualThe last two weeks felt like they would never end. And the week that preceded them passed by in a blur. Two things are common to both experiences. Read moreWatch| USA polls: PM Modi featured in Donald Trump ad to woo Indian-Americans||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cong-s-randeep-surjewala-denies-reports-of-sonia-gandhi-s-resignation-as-party-chief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cvV0LNvEFVuDFoL6Oee8LP.html
23-08-2020||India||AG KK Venugopal declines permission to prosecute Swara Bhasker for contempt of court||Attorney General of India (AG), KK Venugopal, on Sunday, declined to grant permission for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the Supreme Court and its judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.Bhasker’s statement that the Supreme Court acknowledged the illegality of demolition of the Babri Masjid in its November 2019 judgment and yet rewarded the perpetrators who brought down the mosque “appears to be a factual statement” and reflects Bhasker’s perception of the incident, Venugopal said in his letter to petitioner, Usha Shetty declining the request. “The statement appears to be a factual one and is a perception of the speaker. The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalize or lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt,” the AG’s letter stated.The plea against Bhasker, which was filed by Shetty on August 17, was placed before the AG for his consent to list the matter before the court.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of AG or the solicitor general is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to Ram Lalla Virajman, the child deity. The bench had also ordered that 5 acres of land at an alternative site should be granted to Muslims for construction of a new mosque.The top court had, interestingly, acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Bhasker had, on February 1, attended a panel discussion organized by NGO Mumbai Collective on the topic ‘Artists against Communalism’. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, made the following statement:“We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”Regarding Bhasker’s statement about courts not believing in the Constitution, the AG said that it is a vague and general statement not related to any particular court and cannot be taken seriously.Venugopal had on, August 20, asked the Supreme Court not to punish lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court in relation to his tweets against Supreme Court and current Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde.After AG declined permission, Shetty’ lawyers on Sunday wrote to solicitor general Tushar Mehta seeking his consent.Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhasker is derogatory and intended to scandalize the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity but a deliberate attempt to incite masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court,” she added.“The statement intends to incite feeling of no confidence amongst public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-kk-venugopal-declines-permission-to-prosecute-swara-bhasker-for-contempt-of-court/story-6iplNwxHsjgP3AcDZSVh4L.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning as Congress president false’: Randeep Surjewala||Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala denied reports that Sonia Gandhi has resigned as party president. “Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning from the post of Congress interim president are false,” news agency ANI quoted Surjewala as saying on Sunday.The Congress is facing a leadership crisis after a letter from 23 leaders of the party asked for a complete overhaul of the organisation. These leaders include former chief ministers, some Members of Parliament and members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body.In the letter written earlier this month, these leaders suggested changes from top to bottom; the most controversial has been the suggestion about leadership change. The leaders said the Congress has been on the decline for the last six years but has not learned its lesson.Responding to the letter, Sonia Gandhi said that all of them should get together and find a new chief as she does not want to carry out the responsibilities any further, people familiar with the development said.In her response, Gandhi has told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the CWC on August 10 requested her to assume the reins of the organisation again, a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.Sonia had assumed the charge of Congress president last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-of-sonia-gandhi-resigning-randeep-surjewala/story-sJsLnDpIjvCkTAjsYVG1rK.html
23-08-2020||India||Possible negligence in Uttarakhand pregnant woman’s death to be probed||A day after the death of a pregnant woman in Uttarakhand allegedly due to negligence, the district magistrate of Almora ordered a probe into the matter on Sunday and sought a report within two days while promising strict action against anyone found to be guilty. “I have ordered a magisterial inquiry into the death of a pregnant woman and appointed additional district magistrate BS Firmal as the investigating officer. Statements of the family of the woman and officials will be recorded and I have sought a report to be submitted by August 25. Whoever is found guilty, strict action will be taken against them,” said Nitin Bhadouriya, district magistrate of Almora.A five-month pregnant woman allegedly died due to lack of proper treatment and negligence of staff at the government hospital in Almora on August 20. The deceased Asha Devi’s family members have alleged that the woman had trouble breathing and the hospital staff did not treat her as they could not get her tested for Covid-19. However, the chief medical officer of Almora said that the lady was tested for Covid-19 in Base Hospital Almora where she tested negative. Also Read: Uttarakhand can have mohalla clinics too: Kejriwal on video of soldiers carrying woman to hospitalDr. Savita Hyanki, chief medical officer of Almora said, “The woman was already undergoing treatment for typhoid and she must have had breathing problems due to that. When she was first taken to a government hospital by her family, they could not do a Covid-19 test, but her test was done at Base Hospital in Almora where she tested negative.” Also Read: Covid-19 recoveries cross 10,000 mark in UttarakhandWhen asked why she was not given “proper treatment” after testing negative for Covid-19, the chief medical officer said, “We will be able to know what happened on the ground only after the inquiry. Till the investigation is completed, we cannot say anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-negligence-in-uttarakhand-pregnant-woman-s-death-to-be-probed/story-g7SAvzHbG48E8px5d8DcgN.html
23-08-2020||India||Letter vs letter: After 23 Congress leaders question leadership, others come out in support of Sonia Gandhi||The storm over leadership issue in the Congress seems to be taking a massive form. After a letter from 23 leaders of the party calling for sweeping changes in the organisation, another group has come out in support of current party president Sonia Gandhi.The 23 leaders, including former chief ministers, members of the party’s highest decision-making body the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and sitting Members of Parliament, have suggested far-reaching changes including dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC.The leaders said in the letter that over-centralisation of the organisation and micro-management has always proven to be counter-productive. They said that the party has witnessed a steady decline reflected in successive electoral verdicts in 2014 and 2019, noting that the reasons were manifold.The letter stated that even after 14 months of the 2019 verdict, the Congress party has not undertaken “honest introspection” to analyse the reasons for its continued decline.Sonia Gandhi responded to the suggestions in the letter, which was written early this month, saying that all of them should get together and find a new chief as she does not want to carry out the responsibilities any further, people familiar with the development said.In her response, Gandhi has told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the CWC on August 10 requested her to assume the reins of the organisation again, a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.Shortly after her response, the host of other leaders released statements and letters, supporting Sonia Gandhi and her leadership.Senior Congress leader and former law minister Ashwani Kumar said it is wrong to question her unifying leadership. “This is not the time for an electoral exercise which is potentially divisive. At this point of time and considering the extraordinary situation in the country, the need of the hour is to close ranks,” Kumar said.Other leaders like Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh opposed the bid by some Congress leaders to challenge the Gandhi family leadership of the party, saying this was not the time to raise such an issue, given the need for a strong Opposition against the BJP-led NDA that was out to destroy the country’s Constitutional ethos and democratic principles.Terming the demand for leadership change as untenable, the chief minister noted the immense contribution of the Gandhi family to the country’s progress. “What Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not just to a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large,” he said, adding that the Gandhis were the right fit for this role. The latest Congress leader to offer his unwavering support to Sonia Gandhi is Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the party in Lok Sabha. “We would like to convey to you that this belief in your leadership has the backing of millions of Congress workers and supporters across the country.”Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who recently wriggled out of a political crisis, also supported the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/letter-vs-letter-after-23-congress-leaders-question-leadership-others-come-out-in-support-of-sonia-gandhi/story-snhSZrr3z0o7DpDLGU5MjM.html
23-08-2020||India||If Sonia Gandhi has made up her mind, then Rahul should step up and lead Cong: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said that the news of 23 senior Congress leaders writing a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi was unbelievable and if it was true, then the leaders should have kept the information to themselves. He also added that he believed Sonia Gandhi, who is the interim party chief, should continue to lead the party at a juncture when it had hit its lowest ebb.Criticising the letter on leadership issues in the Congress, Gehlot who had been locked in a bitter power tussle with his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot for over a month said, that when it came to a fight to save the ethos of the Indian democracy, Gandhi had always taken challenges head on. He also emphasised that if she had indeed made up her mind then he thought Congress leader Rahul Gandhi should step forward and take up the reins of the party.ALSO READ | ‘Get together and find a new chief’: Sonia Gandhi in response to letter on leadership“News of 23 senior most Congress leaders writing a letter to Hon’ble CP is unbelievable and if it is true - it’s very unfortunate. There was no need to go to the media. I strongly believe that Hon’ble CP Smt Sonia Gandhi ji should continue to lead the party at this crucial juncture,” Gehlot said in a series of tweets on Sunday.The Rajasthan chief minister said that the Gandhi family had kept the Congress party united and the letter written by senior Congress leaders over party leadership was an unfortunate move.He also emphasised that leaders who had written the letter had worked with the party for long enough and should have known better than to question the leadership.Ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, different groups have emerged with a section of leaders comprising sitting MPs and former ministers demanding collective leadership, while another group has sought the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm.Last year, Sonia Gandhi had accepted the post of the interim party chief after a lot of persuasion by Congress party workers and leaders on condition that the party would find her replacement soon. After receiving the letter from Congress leaders on the leadership issue, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in her response, told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on August 10 had requested her to assume the reins of the organisation once more, according to a senior party official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-of-23-senior-congress-leaders-writing-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-is-unbelievable-says-ashok-gehlot/story-4t5O7mIPXAp2fPH3LXfmzK.html
23-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Opposition steps up pressure on Pinarayi Vijayan-led govt||With assembly elections eight months away in Kerala, the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have announced a series of protests seeking the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is on the back foot after the high-profile gold smuggling case. BJP state president K Surendran observed a one-day fast on Sunday and Congress-led UDF will bring a no-confidence motion against the government in the assembly on Monday. As the ruling front enjoys a majority (90 in the 138-member House) in the assembly it will not affect the stability of the government but the debate can embarrass the government further. “The CM’s private secretary was suspended and the key accused in the smuggling case had a good rapport with his office, all agencies say it but the CM says his office was in no way connected with the smuggling case. Nobody will believe it,” said former CM of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis inaugurating the day-long fast of Surendran online. Basking in the Covid-19 recovery rate glory, being the first state to report the virus but with the lowest mortality and high recovery rates, the gold smuggling case surfaced at a bad time for the government. A week after the seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment in the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital, the CM was forced to suspend his powerful private secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer. The Enforcement Directorate has also started investigation against another minister K T Jaleel, who reportedly accepted funds and 4000 kg ‘gift’ from the consulate in March. Though the minister pleaded that these consignments were holy books the opposition alleged that some of the packets contained smuggled gold. If the minister’s version is right, he can’t get away from the foreign exchange management act, experts say. “After the gold smuggling case came to light many other corruption cases also surfaced. The CM can’t run away from these correction charges. In the Life Mission project serious irregularities came to light,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala seeking a probe into the Life Mission project. While probing the smuggling case the Life Mission project commission came to light—the main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh said she accepted a hefty commission for the project. As the barrage of charges increased the ruling CPI (M) has asked party workers to inform people about what it called “a joint onslaught by Congress-BJP combine” and “highlight good works of the government.” On Sunday it organised a state wide sit-in against the Centre’s polices including privatisation of airports. The party had locked horns with the Centre over its move to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-opposition-steps-up-pressure-on-pinarayi-vijayan-led-govt/story-Up4yPkzwncKYUDzKWDvNQO.html
23-08-2020||India||Watch: Landslide hits Rishikesh-Badrinath highway, captured on camera||A landslide occurred on Rishikesh-Badrinath Highway near Bayasi in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district earlier on Sunday.In the video shared by ANI, a crowd is seen rushing towards safety as a patch of the mountain on a stretchy, narrow road comes crashing down. No casualties have been reported so far. #WATCH Uttarakhand: A landslide occurred on Rishikesh-Badrinath Highway near Bayasi in Tehri Garhwal district earlier today. No casualties reported. pic.twitter.com/goplofzfInNormal life in Uttarakhand has been affected due to heavy rainfall in different parts of the state. Several rescue operations are being carried out in rain-hit villages situated in remote areas. As per reports, the continuous rainfall has hit Uttarakhand’s highway connectivity. The road from Dehradun to Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri are blocked at several points with rocks and boulders tumbling down the hill slope following heavy rain. The Rishikesh-Badrinath highway was blocked in Totaghati in Chamoli, the road to Kedarnath at Jaleshwar Mahadev and the one to Yamunotri at Silai bend in Uttarkashi. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday asked the district magistrates to make a long-term plan to help disaster affected people be placed if required. The chief minister was on a video conference, reviewing the disaster managements works with the district magistrates at the secretariat when he directed the officials to make a plan for the “land bank”.CM Rawat said that a proposal will be sent to the Central Government for approval of forest land for displacing people of sensitive villages, according to a report in ANI.Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans on Saturday rescued an injured woman from a remote village in Uttarakhand. The jawans carried the woman on a stretcher for 15 hours through landslide prone zones, flooded areas, slippery slopes and covered a distance of 40 kilometres. The woman was then evacuated to a hospital.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-landslide-hits-rishikesh-badrinath-highway-captured-on-camera/story-uE9r8o4FuIlU5KcE4jmcPO.html
23-08-2020||India||BJP’s plan for Bihar assembly polls involves careful study of the voters list||With elections in Bihar likely to be announced anytime in September, the BJP state executive has chalked out a month-long programme to reach out to the people and to align its poll strategy with the social realities in the state. After party’s national president J P Nadda gave the mantra of ‘door to door’ campaigning, the BJP executive committee has chalked out a five-day programme beginning August 25 for assembly-segment-wise meetings. Twenty three groups have been formed for this purpose and they have been asked to contact important persons. That the party is leaving no stone unturned is apparent from the fact that it has set aside one full day for an analysis of the voters list based on social equations and factors that may impact Bihar polls.“On August 30, the team deputed for the purpose will analyze the social composition, age and classification of voters before identifying supporters, neutral voters and those opposed to the party,” said a BJP official. BJP state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, who coined the slogan, “BJP hai Tyar, Aatmnirbhar Bihar”, has also asked party’s state officials, MPs, MLAs and assembly in-charge to meet government officials, representatives of Panchayati Raj system, Tola Sewaks, Asha workers, Jeevika Didis, Anganwadi workers, Vikas Mitras and all those who have been doing exemplary work during the pandemic and felicitate them between September 1 and 6.Also Read: Will fight Bihar assembly polls under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership, says BJP chief JP Nadda It has also planned a meeting with all those who benefited from government schemes and the poor.Yesterday, the party had indicated that it wants to fight the assembly elections on the plank of development while highlighting the state government and the Central government’s achievements and contrasting it with the past ‘misrule’ of opposition parties that have formed a coalition only to protect ‘scam-tainted families’.Also Read: BJP banks on development and Nitish Kumar to win Bihar pollsParty election in charge for Bihar, Devendra Fadnavis had made it clear that the BJP will have to take the two governments’ work to the people and reach out to each household despite the limitations imposed by the Coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-plan-for-bihar-assembly-polls-involves-careful-study-of-the-voters-list/story-OO6v0brCOpeV20o4Z9zhNK.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Narendra Modi is scared of Rahul Gandhi only’: Assam Congress leader||Assam Congress president Ripun Bora said on Sunday that he had asked Sonia Gandhi to give party’s leadership to her son since Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scared of Rahul Gandhi only.“In an earlier video conference meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi & Rajya Sabha MPs, I categorically appealed to Sonia Gandhi to give the leadership of Congress party to Rahul Gandhi as Narendra Modi is scared of Rahul Gandhi only,” news agency ANI quoted Bora as saying.Rahul Gandhi had resigned as Congress president in July last year, taking responsibility for the party’s defeat in Lok Sabha elections.The leadership question has been creating ripples inside the party, with a section writing to Sonia Gandhi about complete overhaul of the organisation. Other leaders, however, say that Sonia Gandhi is the best choice for the party.A meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, is scheduled for Monday, news agency ANI reported.Senior Congress leader and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar questioned the timing of the letter, saying “there are some who have harmed the party repeatedly even after receiving more than their just dues”.Kumar said that the Congress will function best on the basis of broad political consensus “hammered through meaningful and wide consultations amongst the leadership.” “Sonia Gandhi’s judgement in the accommodation of competing claims to recognition has generally served the party well.”Another senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said that the party should give consensus a chance instead of elections which create divisiveness.Khurshid also said Rahul Gandhi enjoys the “full support” and “endorsement” of party leaders and workers, and it does not matter whether he wears the label of a president or not.A group of Congress leaders have raised questions and suggestions about the functioning of the party in their letter to Sonia Gandhi.In her response, Gandhi told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the CWC on August 10 requested her to assume the reins of the organisation again, a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-is-scared-of-rahul-gandhi-only-assam-congress-leader/story-QZNEH3ZIWrpRkqe39Nbu1L.html
23-08-2020||India||India can’t progress unless women are given equal opportunities, says VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday stressed on the fact that India needs to give equal opportunities to women in all spheres.“With women constituting about 50 per cent of India’s population, we cannot make progress unless they are given equal opportunities in all spheres, including the political arena,” the Vice President said.Through a Facebook post, Naidu had urged all political parties to arrive at a common agreement on the pending proposal for providing adequate reservation to women representatives in Parliament and state legislatures.Also read: Vice Prez Naidu pitches for adequate reservation of women in parliament and state legislaturesA bill to provide reservation to women in the Lok Sabha and various state assemblies was passed by the Upper House (Rajya Sabha) but got terminated after the dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha in 2014.The vice president noted that the country’s culture has always accorded respect to women and treated them as equals.“It is high time we give girls and women their due in society and leave no stone unturned to empower them,” he said.Naidu cited the accomplishments of outstanding women like Prabhavati, the daughter of Chandra Gupta II, who performed administrative duties in her kingdom and Razia Sultana, the only woman monarch to rule Delhi.He asserted that there should be zero tolerance towards any kind of discrimination or violence against females and there is a need to show in action and deeds that gender discrimination no longer exists in society.While addressing a virtual event on August 20, Naidu pushed for stricter implementation of laws to ban female foeticide and dowry and ensure free and compulsory education for the girl child.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-t-progress-unless-women-are-given-equal-opportunities-says-vp-naidu/story-wPmV4wDgKE948t6fy993TM.html
23-08-2020||India||Amaravati protests against 3 capitals complete 250 days, BJP remains nonchalant||Bharatiya Janata Party, which strongly resisted Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to form three capitals in the initial days, has now been keeping silent, even as all the other opposition parties have stepped up the agitation demanding that Amaravati be retained as the only capital city. On Sunday, farmers of Amaravati took up “Rana Bheri” programme against the state government’s move to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam to mark the completion of 250 days of their agitation. Thousands of farmers, including men, women and children beat drums, blew trumpets and played cymbals and plates to register their protest. All the opposition parties including the Telugu Desam Party, the Congress, CPI and CPI (M) extended their solidarity with the farmers with protest demonstrations in various villages. But the BJP leaders have stayed away from the agitation. In fact, when the Jagan government announced the formation of three capitals in December, the BJP leaders toured Amaravati villages and took part in the agitations. Then BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana even staged a day-long hunger strike at Uddandarayunipalem village, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the capital city of Amaravati on October 22, 2015. The BJP, in coordination with Jana Sena Party headed by popular hero Pawan Kalyan, even planned to take out a massive rally from Guntur to Vijayawada in support of Amaravati farmers on February 2. But the plan was abruptly dropped. Apparently, the Central government led by the BJP, has taken a clear stand not to interfere in the three capitals issue. During the ongoing legal battle between the Amaravati farmers’ Joint Action Committee and the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state high court, too, the Centre maintained a neutral stand. On August 6, additional solicitor general submitted an affidavit in the court stating that the Centre had no role in selecting the location of capital as it was the prerogative of the state government. “In the past, the TDP notified Amaravati as the capital city. Now, the present government has chosen three capitals. The Centre has no role in it,” he said. A similar affidavit was filed by a Union home ministry official in the high court last Wednesday. BJP national spokesman G V L Narasimha Rao, too, endorsed the same view saying the Centre had nothing to do with the capital controversy. Newly-appointed state BJP president Somu Veerraju said as a political party, the BJP wished that Amaravati continued as the state capital. “But the Centre has already made it clear it has nothing do with the capital location,” he told Hindustan Times. “We are sympathetic towards the agitating farmers of Amaravati and are demanding that the present YSR Congress government fulfill all promises made to them, like development of the plots allotted to them,” Veerraju said. Also Read: Andhra Pradesh irrigation minister reviews flood situation in state,directs officials to be alertAsked why the BJP was not actively participating in the agitations in support of farmers as it had done in the past, the state BJP chief said his party workers were asked to extend their support to the agitation. Senior TDP leader and former minister Nakka Anand Babu accused the BJP of adopting double standards. “It has not been consistent in its stand on Amaravati,” he alleged. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu has accused the Jagan government of going ahead with the three capitals plan without approval from the people of the state. “The chief minister has not accepted our challenge to dissolve the assembly and seek re-election on the plank of three capitals formation,” Naidu said, and called upon the people of all the 13 districts in the state to show total solidarity with the continuing agitation of Amaravati farmers. Also Read: After abandoning Amaravati for 14 months, Jagan decides to develop it againPradesh congress committee working president N Tulasi Reddy described the 250-day long agitation by Amaravati farmers as one of the longest and peaceful agitations, taken up purely on Gandhian lines. “When he was in opposition, Jagan had extended his support to Amaravati as the capital city. Now, he cannot go back on his stand,” Reddy said. The CPI activists staged a novel protest in Chittoor against the shifting of capital from Amaravati. The party workers blindfolded themselves and raised slogans at the Ambedkar statue. Ends//||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-protests-against-3-capitals-complete-250-days-bjp-remains-nonchalant/story-SIKlIcwn0w6SnNZOHFVt9N.html
23-08-2020||India||Cong orders probe after its top two leaders in Agra quit over video row||The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress has ordered a probe after its district president Manoj Dixit and district general secretary Shahid Ahmed resigned late Saturday night following two videos, including one of a purported extortion bid, that were widely shared on social media.In one of the videos Dixit is allegedly seen asking an unidentified person for an initial payment of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh monthly for not protesting further against Torrent Power Limited, a private corporation which is the franchisee of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) for power distribution in Agra. Congress chief in Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Kumar Lallu ordered a probe after the videos went viral.“It is an unfortunate matter and the party high command is taking action in this regard,” Shabana Khandelwal, the state general secretary of the Congress, said Sunday. While Dixit has rejected the allegation, Torrent Power Limited distanced itself from the controversy. “Torrent Power Limited has nothing to do with this video or contents therein. No one was asked to represent us, nor any one had discussed the matter on our behalf as shown in the video,” said Bhupinder Singh, the public relations officer for Torrent Power Limited. After submitting her resignation, Dixit said it was a conspiracy. “I have already resigned from the post of district president and will face the probe,” she said. “I have no connection with the video going viral nor have I demanded any money for not protesting against the power company. I had gone to Agra city on August 15 for the Independence Day function, visited party leader Shahid Ahmed’s house and discussed party matters. No such statements were made by me as alleged in the video,” said Dixit. She said the video was manipulated to frame her. “I have never betrayed my party. Rather, I enhanced its strength in the district. I had always worked to strengthen the hands of party leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Ajay Kumar Lallu, but I was framed as I had strengthened the Congress party in Agra,” Dixit said. In the second video, Shahid Ahmed was seen purportedly acknowledging that he had colluded with another partyman to trap Dixit. He repeated the same thing when asked on the phone.“I had received Rs 20,000 and was promised Rs 80,000 by Raghvendra Meenu for getting this video recorded so that district president of Congress Manoj Dixit could be removed from her post,” Ahmed said, adding that he was ashamed of betraying Dixit. But he also said that some parts of the video were edited. He was allegedly seen in the first video too but did not speak in it. Dixit had recently staged a big protest against Torrent Power Limited. The police had arrested her and released her the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-orders-probe-after-its-top-two-leaders-in-agra-quit-over-video-row/story-Oc9lUBhRI53hJG4aBFRPtM.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Wrong to question Sonia Gandhi’s unifying leadership’: Ashwani Kumar||Senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar has questioned the timing of a letter which has sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, saying the need of the hour is to stay united.“This is not the time for an electoral exercise which is potentially divisive. At this point of time and considering the extraordinary situation in the country, the need of the hour is to close ranks,” Kumar said.“Issues required to be addressed can be addressed under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi who has held the party together through difficult times. Only a year ago, party persons literally begged Sonia Gandhi to lead the party and she agreed as a call of duty. It is wrong to question her unifying leadership at this stage. I am of the view that under the present extraordinary circumstances political adventurism cannot be the way forward,” he further said in the statement.Kumar, who served as the Union law minister during Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime, said that the Congress will function best on the basis of broad political consensus “hammered through meaningful and wide consultations amongst the leadership.” “Sonia Gandhi’s judgement in the accommodation of competing claims to recognition has generally served the party well.”He also targeted the leaders who have signed the letter, saying “there are some who have harmed the party repeatedly even after receiving more than their just dues”.Kumar’s statement comes at a time when there is a churn in the Congress over the leadership issue. A group of party leaders had written to Sonia Gandhi seeking overhaul of the party. Responding to their letter, Gandhi said that all of them should get together and find a new chief as she does not want to carry out the responsibilities any further, people familiar with the development said.In her response, Gandhi has told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on August 10 requested her to assume the reins of the organisation again, a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.Kumar’s remarks assume significance as they come just ahead of the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision making body, on Monday, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrong-to-question-sonia-gandhi-s-unifying-leadership-ashwani-kumar/story-4TGhOu8QKKcswi1pQkzfaK.html
23-08-2020||India||Politics picks up pace in Assam ahead of next year’s assembly polls||The political temperatures in Assam, which is ravaged by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the annual flood fury, are gradually rising as the assembly polls are less than eight months away. New political outfits are being announced, old alliances are firming up and fresh alignments are taking shape with parties and politicians to woo the state’s 217,000 registered voters (going by the figure of last year’s parliamentary election). In April 2016, the state’s voters sprang a surprise by ousting the 15-year-old Congress regime and replacing it with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who formed the government with the support of the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF). Both the BJP are the AGP are likely to stick to the alliance in the next year’s assembly polls as well. But there’s no clarity yet from the BPF, a strong player in Bodo-populated four districts of lower Assam. The BPF is upset with BJP over the deferment of the election to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which was under the BPF rule, due to Covid-19, and also because of the imposition of Governor’s rule in the four districts administered by it. In the 2016 polls, the BJP had won 60 of the 126 assembly seats, while AGP and BPF had wrested 14 and 12 each, respectively. The Congress had secured 26 seats and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) got 13. “For 2021, we are looking at bagging 100 plus seats along with our alliance partners, which could be the AGP, the BPF or any other party. The decision of selecting alliance partners and seat-sharing arrangements with them will be taken by the party’s central leadership,” said Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass. While the BJP is aiming for another five-year term at power, the opposition Congress and the AIUDF sealed a grand alliance on Saturday for the next year’s assembly polls and hopes to bring the Left parties and others to unset the BJP-AGP-BPF coalition. “We have formally decided to form a grand alliance against the BJP for next year’s polls. The Congress will play the role of a big brother in the alliance. We welcome others to join us. Decisions on seat-sharing arrangements and other issues will be taken later,” Ripun Bora, president, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC), Assam and a Rajya Sabha (RS) member, told media persons on Sunday. In recent weeks, BJP leaders have been targeting the Congress over its bid to tie-up with the AIUDF that was formally announced on Saturday. State minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who holds multiple portfolios, stated the alliance would turn the grand old party’s office in Guwahati, Rajiv Bhawan, into Ajmal Bhawan—after AIUDF chief and perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal. “It’s an unholy alliance. AIUDF was formed with the intention of safeguarding the interests of suspected foreigners and the Congress has also been dependent on that section of voters. The coming together of these parties is a dangerous sign for all self-respecting Assamese and Indians at large,” BJP’s Dass said. AIUDF’s organising secretary Md. Aminul Islam said that contrary to BJP’s allegations, the party would not have a chief ministerial candidate of its own and would support the Congress candidate for the post. A common minimum programme (CMP) of the grand-alliance will be announced later, he said. Besides the BJP and its coalition partners and the Congress-AIUDF grand alliance, several other parties are also planning to make a debut this time to catch in on the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, sentiment that had resonated across most parts of the state last year. Also Read: ‘Narendra Modi is scared of Rahul Gandhi only’: Assam Congress leaderAll Assam Students Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) have constituted a 16-member advisory committee to recommend on the likely formation of a political outfit by the two influential organisations. Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), another outfit that spearheaded the anti-CAA stir, has announced its plan to launch a political party. The outfit’s leader Akhil Gogoi, who is lodged in Guwahati Central Jail since last December for his alleged role in the anti-CAA stir, is likely to be its CM face. Also Read: ‘Together, we shall overcome’: Assam Police tweets tribute video to celebrate brave corona warriorsJournalist-turned-politician Ajit Bhuyan, who became a RS member earlier this year with the combined support of the Congress and the AIUDF, has also floated an outfit called Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM). “The grand alliance and formation of new parties won’t affect our vote bank. We have 4.2 million dedicated workers in Assam. If each one of them is able to bring an additional vote, we will have 8.4 million votes, which would be sufficient to bring us back to power,” claimed Dass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-picks-up-pace-in-assam-ahead-of-next-year-s-assembly-polls/story-hk8ImmmpqbrKxQqVSPa1ZO.html
23-08-2020||India||BJP youth leader dies by suicide in Bengal village, party alleges foul play||The body of Soubhik Mukherjee, president of a local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) youth front in the Goghat area of Bengal’s Hooghly district was found hanging inside his house at Nabasan village on Sunday morning. Biman Ghosh, president of the BJP local unit, alleged that the Trinamool Congress had created circumstances that forced him to hang himself. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Several BJP workers were killed by the TMC during the panchayat polls and their bodies were hanged to portray the crimes as suicide. Debendra Nath Roy, our legislator from Hemtabad in North Dinajpur district, was also killed and hanged in early July.” TMC leaders dismissed the allegation, saying Mukherjee committed suicide at home and the ruling party had nothing to do with it. “The youth was a relative of mine. How can the BJP politicize every death like this? They should be sympathetic towards the family at least,” said TMC legislator from Goghat, Manas Majumdar. “He went to attend a birthday dinner on Saturday evening and went to bed after returning home. I talked to his family,” said Majumdar. “Local people told us that Mukherjee had a relationship with a class nine student but the minor girl’s family was opposed to the relationship,” an officer from the local police station said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-youth-leader-dies-by-suicide-in-bengal-village-party-alleges-foul-play/story-acIyhUGMj52LnIej24jrSM.html
23-08-2020||India||Homeopathic drug given to half of Gujarat’s population since March||The Gujarat health department has said it distributed homeopathic drug Arsenicum Album-30 to more than half of the state’s population as prophylaxis since March after the outbreak of Covid-19.In its presentation made before the World Health Organisation on August 20 on Gujarat’s Covid-19 prevention strategy, the health department said it distributed Arsenicum Album-30 to 3.48 crore people, which is more than half of the state’s population of 6.6 crore.There is no scientific evidence that the drug works against Covid-19, a fact stressed not only by medical scientists but by some homeopathic practitioners themselves.The state government also claimed that 99.6 per cent of people who availed AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) remedies as prophylaxis during their quarantine period tested negative for coronavirus.In its presentation, which was shared with the media, the health department said “AYUSH interventions have proven to be immunity boosters, and the AYUSH treatment protocol was developed and a research carried out for assessing efficacy of treatment.” “As many as 33,268 people benefited from AYUSH medicines in the quarantine period, half of whom availed homoeopathic medicines,” it said.The state government claimed that 99.69 per cent of people who availed AYUSH remedies as prophylaxis during their quarantine period tested negative for coronavirus.However, a clinical trial related to the prophylaxis nature of Arsenicum Album-30 for coronavirus in the state has not yet yielded any conclusive result, an official said.Gujarat Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi on Sunday said the government has some reason to believe about theefficacy of Arsenicum Album-30 medicine, as out of thousands of quarantined people who were given the dosage of Arsenicum Album-30, “99.69 per cent eventually tested negative for coronavirus”.“Even 0.3 per cent who tested positive had only mild symptoms. We have prima facie reason to believe in some effectiveness of Arsenicum Album-30 against coronavirus. But to actually establish this, we need more rigorous analysis,” Ravi said.The government has so far distributed 3.48 crore dosages of Arsenicum Album-30 starting March, including repeat dosages as the medicine remains effective for 1.5 to two months, she said.As per Bhavna Patel, director of state AYUSH department, the result of a clinical trial on Aresnicum Album-30 going on at a private clinic in Bhavnagar as prophylaxishas not yet shown any clear result.Patel said the homeopathic medicine has been distributed since March on the recommendation of an expert committee, including homeopathic doctors, and a repeat order has also been given by the state health department for people who used it over a month ago.“The AYUSH department used its channel of 272 dispensaries, and roped in officials of the local administration like TDOs (taluka development officers) and talatis (local revenue officers) to distribute the medicine.Health camps were organised with the help of NGOs to distribute this,” Patel said.“Arsenicum Album-30 boosts immunity, but our research is not yet complete on this. We have given approval for its private clinical trial as prophylaxisin Bhavnagar, but the result is not clear because it is not complete,” she said.Ahmedabad-based homeopathic doctor and member of national executive committee of the Homeopathic Medical Association of India, Shivang Swaminarayan, said the AYUSH Ministry recommended the use of the medicine as an immunity booster after finding that it benefited people.However, it is better to consult qualified homeopathic doctors before taking the medicine, he said.“It is always better to consult a qualified homeopathic doctor. Immunity is not everything in any disease.One should also look at one’s general health, age, profession, how much risk he/she is exposed to...this is after all a medicine, and how to take it, and when and in how much dose, one needs to know this from qualified government or private doctors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homeopathic-drug-given-to-half-of-gujarat-s-population-since-march/story-a4Y9Q9SudZ48VPYTGgAsKJ.html
23-08-2020||India||Diesel consumption in July fell 12.7% but shouldn’t ring alarm bells, say experts||Diesel consumption, a bellwether of economic health, saw a 12.7% decline in July this year compared to the preceding month mainly because of demand constraints, heavy rains in various parts of the country and weekend lockdowns still prevailing in several areas.While the consumption of diesel in July this year dropped to 5.5 million metric tonne (MMT) compared to 6.3 MMT in June 2020, overall consumption of petroleum products also saw a 3.7% drop at 15.7 MMT in July 2020 compared to 16.3 MMT in the previous month, according to oil ministry’s data keeper petroleum planning and analysis cell (PPAC). Consumption of diesel has witnessed an encouraging year-on-year ease in contraction from -55.5% in April to -29.3% in May and -15.4% in June after the lockdown was gradually relaxed from June 1. The trend, however, saw a reversal in July with a 19.3% contraction.Experts, however, said that the demand for diesel usually decreases in the monsoon months of July and August, hence the positive trend of economic recovery that continued after ‘Unlock 1.0’ will sustain in coming months with the resumption of more and more business activities . The country had been under a 68-day lockdown since March 25. It started opening up gradually from June 1, with ‘Unlock 1.0’. The Union government on June 29 issued guidelines for ‘Unlock 2.0’ to lift more restrictions, imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, effective for a month from July 1.Ram Singh, professor at the Delhi School of Economics said a drop in diesel demand in July 2020 compared to June 2020 does not indicate any major blip in the ongoing economic recovery, which will continue to improve in the coming months. “Diesel consumption saw a jump in June because of a pent-up demand after the lockdown... Besides, the onset of monsoon in July also reduced demand for diesel [for irrigation],” he said.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile planning commission, said, “High consumption of diesel in June occurs due to harvesting and to some extent due to DG [diesel generator] based electricity demand. However, as monsoon enters, the agriculture and power demand is largely met by monsoon water as also wind power and hydro power. Accordingly, diesel demand goes down by 15% to 20% during July, August every year.” According to the latest ‘Industry consumption Report’ published by PPAC, “certain restrictions at state and district levels coupled with a lower demand for products and services” moderated the speed of recovery of diesel consumption to the pre-Covid level. Diesel consumption in July 2019 was 6.8 MMT.The report pointed at key factors affecting diesel consumption in July. “Unlock 2.0 has carried forward the economic recovery but at a moderate pace. Most of the industries across states are operating at 70 to 80% capacity due to a subdued demand,” it said.Also Read: Weekend lockdown, odd-even restrictions will kill businesses:Shopkeepers in Ludhiana Weekend lockdowns and other restrictions imposed by state and district administrations to curtail the spread of Covid-19 have also affected the consumption of diesel, it said. While rural demand on account of agriculture related activities continues to drive consumption growth, floods in Bihar and certain north eastern states have also affected consumption, it added.Also Read: China investors brace for record defaults in risky end to 2020The report said diesel consumption in July 2020 was also affected by other factors such as slow growth in sales of commercial vehicles and a decline in port traffic. “Commercial vehicle sales as reported by individual companies are showing a slow pace to recovery. Major automobile companies have reported a fall in sale of M&HCV [medium and heavy commercial vehicle] by about -70% and of LCV [light commercial vehicle] by about -30%,” it said.According to the report, the traffic handled at major ports in India fell by 13.2% and collectively they handled 51.5 MMT of cargo during July 2020 as against 59.3 MMT handled during the corresponding period of the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-consumption-in-july-fell-12-7-but-shouldn-t-ring-alarm-bells-say-experts/story-ui0RXvH3Ytlprx455tWMkI.html
23-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Total 3.52 crore samples tested in India so far, says Centre||The Union health ministry on Sunday said that the total number of samples tested for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) has reached 3.52 crore after more than eight lakh samples were tested for six days in a row.The Covid-19 positivity rate dropped to 7.67 percent last week from 9.67 per cent from August 3- 9, the ministry added.As many as 8,01,147 samples were tested for coronavirus on Saturday which has pushed the total samples tested to 3,52,92,220.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe increase in testing has also ensured steady expansion of the laboratory network. The health ministry said that at present a total of 1,515 labs are providing comprehensive testing facilities which include 983 government labs and 532 private labs.The ministry attributed the steep rise in testing to effective implementation of the aggressive testing strategy of the Centre through a focused and graded approach.Also read| Covaxin gets nod for skin trial: Latest on India’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate“It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified, their contacts tracked in a timely manner and promptly isolated, as well as the severe and critical patients provided the needed clinical treatment,” it said. A consistently increasing number of recoveries has pushed India's Recovery Rate amongst the #COVID19 patients to nearly 75%. With the recoveries of 57,989 COVID patients in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries has reached 22,80,566 today: Ministry fo Health pic.twitter.com/T4lvzO2J3aIndia’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday surged over 3 million after 69,239 cases and 912 were logged in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The total cases include 707,668 active cases 22,80,566 recoveries and nearly 57,000 deaths. India is the only nation after Brazil and United States that has logged more than 3 million cases. (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-total-3-52-crore-samples-tested-in-india-so-far-says-centre/story-MNSDu6yZD4GRf91uwxM6jK.html
23-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi to set up camps, help construction workers register for welfare funds and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to set up camps, help construction workers register for welfare fundsDelhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that the government would set up camps in all 70 assembly segments in the national capital to help construction workers get registered for a state-run welfare fund. The facility would be available for 20 days, starting on Monday, he said. Read more.Serum Institute clarifies after reports claim free Covid-19 vaccine shots in 73 daysSerum Institute of India (SSI), which has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, has issued a clarification, denying reports that the shot may be launched in 73 days as “completely false and conjectural”. Read more.‘Get together and find a new chief’: Sonia Gandhi in response to letter on leadershipCongress president Sonia Gandhi has responded to a letter written by a group of party leaders, who sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, saying that all of them should get together and find a new chief as she does not want to carry out the responsibilities any further, people familiar with the development said. Read more.Pune Police shares a clip from The Office to convey this important messageAre you a fan of the sitcom The Office? If so, then this post by the Pune Police, which relays an important message about cyber safety, may evoke a special kind of appreciation in your comedy-loving soul. But if the answer to the previous inquiry is no, worry not, this advisory share, nonetheless, has a vital message which is beneficial for all. Read more.Ganesh Chaturthi 2020: Restaurateur shares video of chocolate Ganesh idols, wows peopleGanesh Chaturthi is being celebrated with gusto across the nation. The Internet is filled with all sorts of images and videos of Ganesh idols created using eco-friendly materials. From idols embedded with seeds to those designed using dry fruits, social media platforms are flooded with such content. Read more.Asus ROG Phone 3 review: Compromise? What’s that?In 2018 when Asus introduced its first ROG gaming smartphone, it did take everyone by surprise. The beastly handset (at its time) carried a really distinctive look, packed the best of specs that were out there and a bit more in terms of dual USB ports, air triggers and the massive battery. Read more. Dolly Parton’s mural, celebrating her position on Black Lives Matter, attracts tourists in NashvilleGeorge Floyd’s murder in police custody earlier this year had shaken America into a Black Lives Matter movement that not only trickled to other parts of the world, in the heart of an ongoing pandemic, but has also stabbed the conscience of the white including country singer Dolly Parton. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-to-set-up-camps-help-construction-workers-register-for-welfare-funds-and-all-the-latest-news/story-awMzTI0Uj1NvwVkngVhYRN.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Chetan Chauhan died due to carelessness’, alleges AAP’s Sanjay Singh; says will file FIR||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh on Sunday lashed out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for Covid-19 situation in the state and said that he will file an FIR over the death of minister Chetan Chauhan.“It is really sad that Yogi ji yesterday called the people of Uttar Pradesh ‘namoona’ and direspected them. He should apologise to the people. The entire state is facing the fury of coronavirus. I will file an FIR over the murder due to carelessness of late minister Chetan Chauhan at PGI,” Singh said on Twitter in Hindi. बेहद दुःख की बात है कि योगी जी ने कल उत्तर प्रदेश की जनता को "नमूना" कहा और जनता का अपमान किया। योगी जी को जनता से माफ़ी माँगनी चाहिए। आज पूरे उत्तर प्रदेश में करोना का क़हर है।PGI में सरकार के मंत्री स्व.चेतन चौहान की लापरवाहीपूर्ण हत्त्या हुई है इस मामले में FIR करूँगा। pic.twitter.com/BVlZ1KjWB3Chauhan (73), who was admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) after he tested positive for Covid-19, was shifted to the Medanta hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram when his condition deteriorated. The cricketer-turned-politician died last week due to Covid-related complications, after being put on life support for nearly 36 hours.Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Sunil Singh Sajan had raised the issue in the Upper House of the Uttar Pradesh Legislature, alleging that Chauhan received poor treatment at SGPGI. He also narrated an incident during the speech.The footage of Sajan’s speech in the Legislative Council went viral on social media platforms on Saturday.When contacted, SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman expressed surprise at Sajan’s statement.“During treatment, I had spoken to Chauhan a number of times, but he never brought up the incident. And he went to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram citing family reasons. If there were any complaints, it should have been conveyed. The incident will be probed,” he said.The AAP leader’s tweet came a day after Adityanath launched a scathing attack at him in his address in state Assembly. Without naming Singh, the chief minister said, “Some ‘namoonas’ come here and ask us what we have done for the people of the state? They want to talk about the situation in UP, but steer clear of talking about the condition of Delhi.”Adityanath also presented data to and compared the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh with that of Delhi. He highlighted that the fatality rate in Uttar Pradesh is much lower than Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chetan-chauhan-died-due-to-carelessness-alleges-aap-s-sanjay-singh-says-will-file-fir/story-MzRNqZxuQtyVqADAvWWtCI.html
23-08-2020||India||Receding glaciers in Nanda Devi region affecting lifestyle, agriculture||The changes in glaciers in the Nanda Devi region of Central Himalayas in Uttarakhand in the last three decades have majorly affected the lifestyle, culture and agricultural practices of people living in nearby villages, says a study carried out by experts from major institutes including IIT Kanpur, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) and HNB Garhwal Central University in Uttarakhand. The research conducted on the ‘changes in glaciers and associated drivers for the last three decades, Nanda Devi region, Central Himalayas’ was done by studying the state of glaciers from 1980 till 2017 through extensive ground surveys and satellite imagery. During the study, which started in 2002 and was completed in 2018 before getting published in a science journal last month, it was found that about 26 sq km of the glaciated area of the Nanda Devi region was lost in 37 years which affected the people living in nearby areas. MPS Bisht, director of USAC, who was among the researchers involved in the study said, “The changes in the glaciated areas had a major effect on various aspects of the life of people living in about 47 villages in the buffer zone of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve hosting the Nada Devi glaciers.” “It was found that the people in those villages who used to wear heavy winter clothing due to low temperatures, had stopped wearing them due to climatic changes in the last few decades which have caused the receding of glaciers there,” said Bisht. Agricultural practices and housing changed The locals in the region were now growing a wide variety of vegetation which points to a change in the agricultural practices as well.“Their agricultural practices have also changed as earlier they used to grow only buckwheat, potato and kidney beans. But now they have started growing green vegetables also due to the change in temperature and climate over the last three decades,” Bisht added. During the ground surveys for the study Bisht and other researchers also found that food habits and housing designs have also changed. “First they used to build houses with logs and grass on the roofs to bear the snowfall. But now, due to the climatic changes, the snowfall has stopped but rains have started due to which they are now using tiles on the roofs which used to be unthinkable a few decades ago,” he said. Also Read: Report urges action on tidal flooding, beach erosion due to environmental damageOn the food habits, he said the locals used to have ghee-mixed tea to keep warm earlier but now that has been replaced by normal tea.Major effect on the cultivation of apples Bisht informed that one of the major effects has been on the cultivation of apples in the area and livelihood of the people in the villages. “Earlier the chilled variety of apples like Golden delicious was cultivated in those areas but it has now stopped because of rise in temperatures due to which those apples could not grow. Similarly, the locals in those villages used to collect medicinal herbs from the jungles and sell for their livelihood. That has been also affected as those herbs are now growing less due to climatic changes,” said Bisht. The areas vacated by the glaciers are now occupied by vegetation which used to grow in lower regions.During the study, the team of researchers examined eight glaciers in the Upper Rishi Ganga catchment in Nanda Devi region. “In 1980, the Upper Rishi Ganga catchment which covers an area of 690 sq km had a glaciated area of about 243 sq km, about 35% of the total area. In 2017, it reduced to 217 sq km, a loss of 26 sq km. Now the total glaciated area is only 26% of the total area,” Bisht said on the receding snowline. Srikrishna Nautiyal, another researcher involved in the study, said, “The study also suggested that the glaciers in the region have responded to deprived precipitation conditions since 1980, overlapping our understanding of glacier retreat due to temperature increase in the context of global warming scenario.” Also Read: Why climate scientists believe natural gas won’t avert environment disasterHe informed that it was found that the largest glacier of the region, UND glacier covered an area of 71.42 sq km in 1980 which was reduced to 63.72 sq km in 2017. “Similarly, the smallest one, Changbang which occupied 7.85 sq km in 1989, had shrunk to 5.95 sq km in 2017. It was also found that the north-facing glaciers such as Trishul, DRB and Raunthi lost the minimum percentage area compared to south-facing ones like Changbang and Ramni,” said Nautiyal. “This shows that the slope and aspect play a very important role in glacier change variability,” Nautiyal added. Non-climatic factors also play a role in variable loss of glaciers Nautiyal also informed that the study also suggested that “The dynamic response of glaciers to climate is strongly dependent on glacier size and geometry.” “It can be suggested that besides global warming, the local climatic and non-climatic factors like aspect and slope, play an important role in variable loss and dynamics of glacier snouts even in the same valley,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/receding-glaciers-in-nanda-devi-region-affecting-lifestyle-agriculture/story-YFrtdfy32boPQrIMyA7RCJ.html
23-08-2020||India||Explosives recovered from ISIS suspect’s house in Uttar Pradesh: Police||Over 20 kilograms (kg) of explosives concealed in jackets, belts and polythene covers, three lithium batteries and a flag of the Islamic State (ISIS) terror group were among the items recovered from the Uttar Pradesh home of Mohd Mustakim Khan (36), the terror suspect who was arrested by the Delhi Police after a brief exchange of fire near the national capital’s Dhaula Kuan on Friday night, the police said on Sunday. Khan, who has been sent to police custody for eight days, is from Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Balrampur district.Khan, a former cosmetics shop owner, who goes by his alias Abu Yusuf Khan acording to police, was allegedly riding a motorcycle from Dhaula Kuan towards Karol Bagh on Friday night, when he was arrested from the Ridge area. Police said two “pressure cooker-based improvised explosive devices (IEDs)” were seized from him. The IEDs were loaded with around 12 kg of explosives. A pistol and a few bullets were also recovered from Khan. Pramod Kushwah, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police, had said on Saturday that Khan was acting at the behest of his ISIS handlers, who are based abroad, to carry out “lone wolf attacks” at places with a high footfall in the national capital. Also read: ‘I asked him to stop’ - Wife of alleged ISIS operative held in DelhiOn Sunday, the DCP said that a host of explosives and devices meant to be used for detonation have been recovered from Khan’s home in UP. “We found a brown and a blue-coloured jackets containing seven explosive packets. Each of these seven packets was wrapped with transparent tape and contained explosives and cardboard sheets pasted with ball bearings. Electric wires were jutting out of these packets,” said Kushwah. The police claimed to have recovered cylindrical metal boxes containing explosives and electric wires wrapped with transparent tape, two more cylindrical boxes with ball bearings pasted over them and a broken wooden box that Khan would allegedly use for “target practice”.A dozen boxes containing ball bearings, three lithium batteries, a table alarm watch, an ampere, wires and other smaller subversive items were also seized from his home, said DCP Kushwah. “An IS flag was another incriminating piece of evidence recovered from his home,” the DCP said. Khan was trained in making IEDs with timer mechanism, suicide vests and suicide belts, Kushwah said. “Earlier, he had tested an IED at a graveyard near his home,” the DCP said. Khan is accused of being a member of the IS sleeper cell for the past five years. The police are on the lookout for accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosives-recovered-from-is-suspect-s-home-in-uttar-pradesh-police/story-tY3iY3XQlHq7HZHPq7SMOK.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Get together and find a new chief’: Sonia Gandhi in response to letter on leadership||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has responded to a letter written by a group of party leaders, who sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, saying that all of them should get together and find a new chief as she does not want to carry out the responsibilities any further, people familiar with the development said. In her response, Gandhi has told them that she was not interested in leading the party once again when the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on August 10 requested her to assume the reins of the organisation again, a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity. Sonia Gandhi accepted the post of the interim chief after much persuasion only on one condition that the party will find her replacement soon. The leaders made desperate pleas to her after Rahul Gandhi rejected their calls to withdraw his resignation that he had put in on May 25 in the wake of party’s rout in the national elections. At that time too, Sonia Gandhi mentioned in her response that she had insisted that the new president should be someone from outside the Gandhi family, the functionary quoted from the letter. For his part, Rahul Gandhi while resigning from the top post had told the CWC in its meeting on May 25, that the party should elect a non-Gandhi as its new president. HT has learnt that the letter has been in the works for at least the past month. Several leaders that HT spoke to confirmed that Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal, both Rajya Sabha MPs have taken the main initiative in drafting the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-together-and-find-a-new-chief-sonia-gandhi-in-response-to-letter-on-leadership/story-ARVkXIpV9GTNF7ZbX7ibeP.html
23-08-2020||India||Congress must give consensus a chance instead of elections for leadership: Salman Khurshid||Amid calls from within the Congress to hold polls for presidency, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said the party should give consensus a chance instead of elections which create divisiveness.Khurshid also said Rahul Gandhi enjoys the “full support” and “endorsement” of party leaders and workers, and it does not matter whether he wears the label of a president or not.Also read: Demanding change in leadership and complete rehaul, top Congress leaders write to Sonia Gandhi “I have said very clearly that the Gandhis are leaders of the Congress. Nobody can deny this, even the opposition cannot deny this. I am quite happy having a leader, I don’t worry about whether or not we have a president, we have a leader (in Rahul Gandhi) and that is comforting for me,” the former Union minister told PTI in an interview.His remarks assume significance as they come just ahead of the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision making body, which is likely to deliberate on the leadership issue that is in the spotlight with Sonia Gandhi completing a year as interim chief. Also, 23 Congress leaders, including some ex-ministers have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for the overhaul of the organisational structure.Asked about the section of party leaders calling for elections to the CWC and presidency, Khurshid hit out at those asking for internal polls, saying why are people so anxious to make these demands in the Congress when they are not made in any other party.Also read: CWC crucial meet tomorrow, convincing Rahul Gandhi to return as party president on agenda “I am very surprised. I have not heard a single demand being made in the Communist party or in the regional parties or in the BJP. I have not heard about demand for elections in any of those parties,” Khurshid said. “Elections are important, but the historical context in which elections have to be held, circumstances, have to be taken into account. Consensus has been an important part of the political process in the Congress,” he said. Giving up consensus and opting for elections, without reflecting upon the implications and consequences might be running into “unknown, unchartered territory”, he said. Khurshid also said that such issues should be discussed within the party and not outside it.His comments come days after Shashi Tharoor had said that he has been advocating elections to the CWC and for the post of the president as it would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party. Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit had also said recently that it is “high time” that the Congress appoints a full-time president by “selection or election”. Asked if consensus was the way forward instead of internal polls, Khurshid said, “My instinct says this. My understanding of the Congress says that consensus is extremely important.” “People react to that by saying that you are being anti-democratic. I don’t know if consensus is in some way an undemocratic thing to happen. It should be a genuine consensus. Of course it should not be a forced consensus. I think we should give consensus a chance,” he said.Also read: Agree with Rahul that non-Gandhi should be Congress president, Priyanka in new book On whether polls can lead to divisiveness in the party, Khurshid said elections do divide. Elections, in the right spirit, should not divide, but the ground reality is that elections do divide, he said. “So, let us just hope we gradually mature to a stage where elections will not divide,” he said. Asked if Rahul Gandhi should come back as party chief, Khurshid said it was up to him to make his decision and leaders should allow him to take a call. “When you give someone your allegiance as a leader then you have to listen to the leader and whatever the leader wants to do. There is a view in a large number of people that he should not stay away from presidentship of the party,” he said. Noting that Gandhi has his own reasons to keep himself away from the presidentship, Khurshid said party leaders should respect his decision and not in any way create a situation that becomes difficult for him.“Let us wait for him to take a call, I think he understands what people’s expectations and hopes are and I think he will respond to those hopes,” he said. Asked about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s remarks carried in a book endorsing Rahul Gandhi’s views that the party should have a non-Gandhi president and whether that person would be under pressure of the Gandhis, Khurshid said where is the question of pressure as there “may be a president who is a non-Gandhi, but there will also be a leader who is a Gandhi”.“Even the president will have to accept ‘the leader’ Gandhi. You cannot choose a leader who is already chosen. People have given full support and have given their endorsement to Mr Rahul Gandhi and that will remain a fact,” he said. “Whether he (Rahul) wears the label of a president or he doesn’t wear the label of a president, he remains a leader,” Khurshid said.If Rahul Gandhi is a leader, surely, he should also be respected for his views on what the presidential structure or what the organisational structure should be in the future, he said. Khurshid said if Rahul Gandhi is the leader and he gives respect to a president, everybody will give respect to the president, he said. The party should not be breast-beating about the leadership issue and it will get resolved, Khurshid said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-must-give-consensus-a-chance-instead-of-elections-for-leadership-salman-khurshid/story-e4JuSaVus3AlLxAoZpTUJO.html
23-08-2020||India||Workers rise above political affiliation, unite in agitation at Bengal’s biggest tea garden||Rising above their affiliation to rival trade unions and political parties, workers in West Bengal’s largest tea garden, located in the hills of Darjeeling, have unitedly started a hunger strike after the management declared suspension of work on Friday.Longview Tea Estate in Kurseong sub-division employs 1,252 permanent workers and is spread across 506 hectares. The average annual production of organic and inorganic Darjeeling tea at the estate is 5,00,000 kilograms.The suspension of work was declared days after the workers started an agitation, demanding payment of arrear wages, provident fund and festive bonus. The management could not make the payments and said it was facing a financial crisis. “Though the management earlier agreed to pay the remaining part of the 2019 Durga puja bonus and some pending wages, it failed to do so and cited financial duress,” said Nima Lama, a senior leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front, the second-largest political party in the hills which is opposed to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Also read: Ranjan Gogoi as CM face? Assam BJP rejects Congress claimNabin Bomzan, the Darjeeling district president of the tea garden workers’ union, which is directly affiliated to the TMC, said, “The workers have set aside their political differences and staging a hunger strike.” Santosh Golay, the local unit president of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union, affiliated to the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), said, “This is the first time in many years that all trade unions of the opposition and ruling parties have joined hands.” The GJM (Binay Tamang faction) is the ruling party in the hills and an ally of the TMC. For the state government, the suspension of work at Longview Tea Estate has become a cause for concern. Uden Lepcha, assistant labour commissioner in Kurseong said, “We are trying our best to reopen the garden.”AP Singh Dahiyal, senior manager of the tea estate, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Rahengra Lama, head clerk at the tea estate, said, “Though the management was regularly paying current wages, the arrears towards old wages, festive bonus, provident fund and gratuity are huge and run into a few crores of rupees.”The agitation at Longview Tea Estate has inspired workers at some tea gardens in the Dooars region such as Kohinoor, Rahimabad and Naya Sailee. Workers in these tea gardens have been staging protests for the last couple of days, demanding payment of arrear bonus and other benefits. Workers owing allegiance to the TMC, Congress, CPI (M) and BJP have united in these tea gardens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/workers-affiliated-to-all-parties-unite-in-agitation-at-bengal-s-biggest-tea-garden/story-EdKk9l7FSLRxVB2oxOp2eM.html
23-08-2020||India||Five members of family found dead in their house in MP||Bodies of five members of a family including a 62-year-old man and a 4-year-old child were found in their house in Madhya Pradesh’s Tikamgarh district, 343 km north of capital Bhopal, on Sunday morning, said police.The deceased were identified as Dharmdas Soni, 62, a resident of Khargapur town of Tikamgarh district, his wife Pooni Soni, 55, his son Manohar Soni 27, his daughter-in-law Sonam Soni, 25 and grandson Sanidhya, 4.Tikamgarh superintendent of police Prashant Khare said, “A milkman informed neighbours in the morning that family members of Dharmdas, who was a retired government employee, were not opening the door of the house. The neighbours informed the police.”“Police broke the door to get into the house and found Manohar hanging from a ceiling in a room. Later, the police team found Dharmdas and his wife Pooni Soni dead in another room along with Sonam and his son Sandhiya. No suicide note has been recovered from the house as yet,” said the SP. Odisha woman strangles infant daughter, attempts suicideThe bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. Police are not sure whether it is a case of death by suicide or murder. “Some relatives claimed the family had a property dispute with some relatives. Police are investigating the matter,” said Khare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-members-of-family-found-dead-in-their-house-in-mp/story-Uv51LdRRy6LhV37qyMWwKK.html
23-08-2020||India||Aspirants of JEE, NEET under tremendous mental pressure, Congress leader writes to PM Modi||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for deferment of the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exams as a caution against the Covid-19 outbreak.“I am constrained to flag your attention into a subject which involves lacs of students of our country who are poised to appear for JEE & NEET examination, you must appreciate the fact, that there is no respite of corona pandemic in our country and more so infection is surging ahead day by day much to the worry of us,” Adhir Ranjan Chodhury wrote in his letter to PM Modi.“The aspirants of national examination are under tremendous mental pressure as to how they could be remained immune to the infection while attending the examination physically. Right at this pandemic situation their concerns should be given due consideration,” he wrote.Several politicians have requested the prime minister to take up the JEE and NEET matter in his hands and postpone the exams after the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting these exams, had announced that the JEE-Main will be held from September 1 to 6 and NEET for undergraduate courses on September 13.A petition was filed on August 7 by 11 JEE/NEET aspirants seeking postponement of the exams to be held in September 2020. However, the Supreme Court on August 17 dismissed the plea.The National Testing Agency (NTA) has refused to defer JeEE & NEET exams further saying it will affect next year’s academic calendar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aspirants-jee-neet-under-tremendous-mental-pressure-congress-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-for-deferment-of-exams/story-Cy9E1kjrb0MHgjoApsAIeP.html
23-08-2020||India||Teen takes his life after killing sibling over petty issue||A teenager first allegedly killed his elder brother in a scuffle over egg consumption and then took his life by jumping before a running train in Pantarwa village under Dhumanganj area of Prayagraj. The incident took place late on Saturday night, the police said. Confirming the incident, Superintendent of Police (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said other villagers told them that the two brothers used to quarrel over petty issues quite often. Reports said one Ramesh Chand’s sons Chhotu, 18, and Jitendra, 25, worked as labourers. The duo returned from work late in the night in an inebriated state and argued against having egg for dinner. Also read: Family quarrel turns tragic in Odisha, three die after taking pesticideIn a fit of rage, Chhotu attacked Jitendra with a heavy object on his head. Chhotu got frightened when Jitendra started bleeding profusely and collapsed. He rushed towards the railway tracks in the village and jumped before an approaching train. Meanwhile, Jitendra also succumbed to his injuries.Villagers rushed to the scene on hearing cries of the other members of the family and informed the police. A case was registered under relevant sections, SP (city) said, adding that the post-mortem reports were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-takes-his-life-after-killing-sibling-over-petty-issue/story-klYfYudG0NQfYqhc9mshsO.html
23-08-2020||India||Learn from Mumbai landslides, avoid homes on Kharghar and Parsik hills, say green activists||Environmentalists have urged the Maharashtra government to stop City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) from developing real estate on Kharghar hills and along the quarried Parsik Hills in the Mumbai metropolitan region, saying that the landslides during the recent rains in Mumbai were a warning not to play with nature.On July 28, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had launched a CIDCO project to develop 250 acres into a real estate property including villa plots in Khargar hills.In a letter to Thackeray, environment NGO NatConnect Foundation pointed out that the hills, extending from quarried Parsik Hills could be prone to landslides and the soil could have become loose due to continuous blasts used for mining. Moreover, Kharghar node itself has been witnessing relentless quarrying, the petition said.“It is prudent to avoid the development of Kharghar hills into real estate projects and instead conserve it as a Nature Project,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.“The urban planners must learn lessons from the landslides at Kandivali and Malabar Hill and abort the Kharghar Heaven Hills plan,” he said, calling for a thorough Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) before urban planners venture into such projects.Environmentalists also vehemently opposed CIDCO plan to develop an affordable housing project along the quarried Parsik Hills under the PM Awaas Yojana. “These houses in the vicinity of the Parsik Hills could face landslides,” Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said. “This is forest land and must be preserved and conserved as one,” he said and cautioned CIDCO against playing with bio-diversity.“CIDCO seems to be only commercially minded, ignoring and destroying nature be it at Belapur, Uran or Kharghar,” he said.Kumar pointed out that the land below the Parsik Hills is also being dug up now for real estate projects. In fact a big private hospital has come up cutting into Parsik Hills in Belapur, he said and wondered as to how these will be safe from possible landslides or mud-floods. “We do not seem to learn any lessons from Kerala and Mumbai floods despite the environmentalists’ warnings.” he lamented.Activist Jyoti Nadkarni pointed out that residents of Kharghar have been trying their best to save the hills by planting trees and educating the people about the importance of the hills. “The government must take ownership of the hill conservation and develop it as a nature project for education and botanical research with limited hours of eco-tourism,” she said.The hills will be ruined once a real estate development starts, she argued.Another activist Chaya Taralekar said the government could develop organic farming and rainforest on the hills rather than promoting concrete jungles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learn-from-mumbai-landslides-avoid-homes-on-kharghar-and-parsik-hills-say-green-activists/story-u8FtsdOUB4rDTShcbWBwCL.html
23-08-2020||India||Thunderstorm, moderate rain in Rajasthan, Gujarat to receive heavy rainfall: IMD||Several districts of Rajasthan will likely receive light to moderate rain with thunderstorm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain likely to occur at isolated places in Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur, Sawai Madhopur, Baran, Kota, Jaipur, Tonk, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Bundi districts and adjoining areas, in Rajasthan,” the IMD said.Apart from Rajasthan, Bengaluru will also witness moderate rain with cloudy sky till August 26, according to IMD predictions. Whereas the South Bengal will receive heavy to very heavy rain from Monday due to the possible formation of a low pressure area in north Bay of Bengal.The weather department, in its forecast, said the districts of South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura are likely to receive heavy rainfall, the intensity of which will increase from Tuesday. It also predicted widespread rainfall in Gujarat till Monday, with heavy to very heavy rain in some districts. Gujarat has already received over 90 per cent of the average annual rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-moderate-rain-in-rajasthan-gujarat-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-imd/story-0lgn3tXIkwVwM0dWim1KlJ.html
23-08-2020||India||BSF to undergo tech upgradation, to get 436 drones and new anti-drone systems||With Rakesh Asthana taking over as full-time Director General of the Border Security Force (BSF), technological upgradation of the force has started with approval for 436 small and micro drones for border surveillance and anti-drone system being currently tested on India-Pakistan border to shoot down any drone carrying weapon-load for terrorists in Punjab, and Jammu and Kashmir.Under the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management (CIBM) plan, all 1923 border outposts manned by BSF on Pakistan and Bangladesh border will be equipped with sensors, CCTV and drone feeds from the sector headquarters with as many as 1,500 posts (as rest are in remote locations) being able to fly drone to recce the border and use anti-drone system to shoot any weapon pay-load transportation from across.According to senior Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) officials, while the cost of small and micro drone will come around Rs 88 crore, the BSF with the help of security agencies is currently testing an indigenous anti-drone system on the sensitive Punjab border with Pakistan. In the past one year, Pakistani deep state is using Chinese commercial drones to transport assault rifles, pistols and grenades to the Khalistani terrorists in Punjab as well as jihadis in Jammu and Kashmir.By killing five Pakistani intruders carrying assault rifles and Afghan heroin on Friday morning, the new DG has made his intentions clear that the BSF will be pro-active on both the borders and will not allow any anti-India activity. It is understood that the BSF chief personally spoke to the company commander who carried out the successful operation in Taran Taran sector.As Rakesh Asthana also holds the charge of DG, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the G Branch or the intelligence branch of the BSF is also being revived so that Afghan drugs do not make their way across the Pakistan border or the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. In this context, a common strategy will be adopted between the BSF and NCB to bring big cross border drug kingpins to book as the narcotic trade funds the cross border weapons smuggling and terrorism both in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. In the past decade, India has not only become the hub of drug transhipment but also a major consumer of narcotics like heroin and cocaine from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-to-undergo-tech-upgradation-to-get-436-drones-and-anti-drone-systems/story-ozQo4aTjYtBQkJXnBRLM8J.html
23-08-2020||India||PM Modi shares his precious moments. It features a peacock||Prime Minister Narendra Modi posted a video on Instagram on Sunday where he can be seen feeding several peacocks inside his official residence and garden.The video shows the Prime Minister feeding the peacocks, who frequent the gardens in his house, with his hands. He can also be seen passing by a dancing peacock while walking in the gardens.  भोर भयो, बिन शोर, मन मोर, भयो विभोर, रग-रग है रंगा, नीला भूरा श्याम सुहाना, मनमोहक, मोर निराला। रंग है, पर राग नहीं, विराग का विश्वास यही, न चाह, न वाह, न आह, गूँजे घर-घर आज भी गान, जिये तो मुरली के साथ जाये तो मुरलीधर के ताज। जीवात्मा ही शिवात्मा, अंतर्मन की अनंत धारा मन मंदिर में उजियारा सारा, बिन वाद-विवाद, संवाद बिन सुर-स्वर, संदेश मोर चहकता मौन महकता।A post shared by  Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) on Aug 22, 2020 at 11:37pm PDTHe also shared a Hindi poem where he describes the beauty of a peacock and its tranquil nature. In the poem, the Prime Minister reflects on how peacocks without making any noise use their feathers to indicate that it is going to rain.He also refers to the relationship the national bird has with Lord Krishna and Lord Shiva in the poem. Certain areas of New Delhi are known for their biodiversity and one can often spot peacocks, blue bulls and migratory birds in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-shares-his-precious-moments-it-features-a-peacock/story-kJUCdFXxK2FO1kbP33o0ZP.html
23-08-2020||India||‘I asked him to stop’: Wife of alleged ISIS operative held in Delhi||The wife of a suspected ISIS operative, who was arrested from Delhi on Friday night, said her husband had stored gunpowder and other explosive materials at their house in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur. She said she had warned Mohd Mustakeem Khan, alias Abu Yusuf, against doing so but he told her not to stop him, news agency ANI cited her as saying.According to ANI, the woman said she wished her husband, who according to police had planned to carry out terror strikes in Delhi’s crowded areas on the instruction of his handlers in Afghanistan, could be forgiven. “I have four kids. Where will I go?” she said.The 36-year-old Khan’s father Kafeel Ahmed told a news channel that his son was a “very good person” who never fought with anyone and that he never imagined he would take to terrorism. When asked if he knew about his son’s Khan’s terror plot, Ahmed said, “I have not heard anything about explosive material. If I had any idea that he was collecting explosive material, I would not have allowed Abu Yusuf to stay in my house,” according to news agency PTI. Also read: UP man, father of 4 and cosmetic shop owner, was in touch with ISIS for years, say police“Only after the police came in the evening and found the material, I realised what it is,” he said.A Special Cell team of Delhi Police on Saturday took Khan to his village, Badhya Bhaksai in Balrampur district, to verify the claims he had made, a top UP police officer said, according to news agency PTI.Khan, who was arrested after a shootout from the section of the Ridge Road between Dhaula Kuan and Karol Bagh, was going to install the two pressure-cooker Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) at “heavy footfall area” in Delhi, police have said. The IEDs recovered from him were defused later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-asked-him-to-stop-wife-of-alleged-isis-operative-held-in-delhi/story-S8eE7njcBm41lv74xm2hoN.html
23-08-2020||India||Family quarrel turns tragic in Odisha, three die after taking pesticide||Hours before Odisha’s Nuakhai festival, three members of a family in the state’s western district of Bargarh died after taking poison over a family quarrel.Police said a farmer of Beniachal village under Bijepur block of Bargarh district consumed some pesticide and fed his wife and 12-year-old daughter late Saturday evening after a dispute with the in-laws of his eldest daughter.Bargarh police station inspector Rajendra Sial said while the 12-year-old died soon after taking the pesticide, the farmer and his wife died in hospital late in the night.Police said on Saturday, the farmer’s son-in-law had come to Beniachal village to take his pregnant wife back to his home so that she could celebrate Nuakhai at her in-law’s place. She was staying at her father’s place following a dispute with her in-laws. The farmer reportedly rebuffed his son-in-law and refused to send his daughter back to her in-law’s place. The son-in-law returned later and a quarrel seems to have ensued in the family following which the farmer took the poison and also gave it to his wife and youngest daughter.The Bijepur police have registered a case and have started a probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-quarrel-turns-tragic-in-odisha-three-die-after-taking-pesticide/story-qG5YujJtGo3FxePYxa7R1J.html
23-08-2020||India||Bombay HC rejects anticipatory bail plea of RTI activist, accomplice in extortion case||The Bombay high court on Friday rejected anticipatory bail applications of two Pune residents, including RTI activist Ravindra Barahate, accused of conniving with a dancer to extort money from a 64-year-old builder. Barahate and his alleged accomplice Amol Chavan had moved HC after being booked by Kothrud police in Pune, on the basis of a complaint lodged by the builder Sudhir Karnataki. Karnataki in his complaint alleged that he was introduced to the dancer, 34-year-old Dipti Aher in 2007 during the wedding reception of his nephew. A friendship developed between them and he started attending her dance programmes in Pune. In November 2013, on the dancer’s request, Karnataki arranged a three-bedroom flat at Bavdhan for her family on rent and two years later purchased it showing Aher a co-owner. However, from last year Dipti started threatening the builder Karnataki alleged that from 2019, the dancer started threatening to implicate him in a false rape case and started extorting money from him. He said in November 2019 she visited his office and demanded Rs. 6 lakh and also full ownership of the flat at Bavdhan. The builder also alleged that he was coerced into transferring full ownership of the flat to the dancer and also pay her primarily because of her accomplices - RTI activist Ravindra Barahate, extortionist Amol Chavan, a director of a well-known newspaper from western Maharashtra, and a suspended policeman. He alleged Barahate was the brain behind the extortion. Karnataki alleged that on December 26, 2019, when he was about to leave a mall after shopping, Aher and Chavan accosted him and demanded an additional sum of Rs 2 crore and the transfer of a plot that he owned in Pune in the dancer’s name. He was, thereafter, made to call different people, who too terrorised him and asked him to fulfil Aher’s demands. The builder eventually approached police and lodged a complaint after he had been booked on the basis of complaint of rape lodged by the dancer. Apprehending arrest in connection with the crime, Barahate and Chavan had moved HC, primarily on the ground that the FIR did not attribute any active role to the applicants. Barahate also claimed that he was falsely implicated, as being a RTI activist he had exposed many wrongdoings. Additional public prosecutor Mankuwar Deshmukh opposed the plea and pointed out to the court that Barahate has amassed illegal wealth to the tune of Rs. 2,760 crore. “The nature and the gravity of the accusation, as can be seen, is quite serious,” said justice Prithviraj Chavan while rejecting both applications for pre-arrest bail.According to the prosecution, Barahte runs a ‘land mafia’ and is the prime accused in many of the cases registered against him in Pune. “Prima facie, it is demonstrated that he (Barahate) has been the brain behind drafting a false complaint of rape against Sudhir,” said justice Chavan after perusing statements of several witnesses in the case. “The said report, it seems, is nothing but a calumny,” the judge said. The judge said antecedents of the applicants speak for themselves and need no further elaboration. “Although nothing is placed on record as to whether the applicant had suffered any conviction or imprisonment, yet the material on record is quite sufficient to refuse the pre-arrest bail to the applicants. From the entire material on record, it is difficult to infer that false accusations have been made against the applicants with an object of injuring or humiliating them,” said HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-rti-activist-accomplice-in-extortion-case/story-j9YMmHJnXHooymORN5E5uO.html
23-08-2020||India||Centre raises concerns over slow pace of housing scheme for poor||The Union rural development ministry has raised concerns over the “drastic slowdown” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s flagship housing scheme for the rural poor and has recommended that an “intense follow-up” is required by states/Union Territories (UTs). The ministry has pointed out several factors behind the delay in meeting targets. An agenda paper of the ministry for an annual review of its schemes has cited that the gap between number of houses sanctioned and those that have been completed stands at 3.12 million in the second phase of the rural housing programme in 2019-20. Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), which is an upgraded version of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA)-era Indira Awas Yojna, 17.2 million houses have been completed since 2014, after Modi came to power at the Centre. The scheme not only helps the rural homeless population get pucca houses, it also generates work, as up to 90 days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, is required to build one house. Also read: Javadekar announces SOPs for resuming film, TV shootingHowever, this year, the programme got off to a tepid start. The government’s agenda paper attributed the delay to factors such as “inactivity during the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions, saturation of eligible beneficiaries from the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) category, tardy pace of work and lack of timely allocation of targets to districts”. Bihar tops the list of states lagging behind, as it has 988,000 incomplete houses. Other states that have failed to implement the scheme on time include West Bengal, which has 573,000 incomplete dwelling units, Madhya Pradesh (300,000), Odisha (240,000 ) and Rajasthan (223,000). Rahul Ranjan Mahiwal, special secretary in Bihar’s rural development department, said the shortfall in meeting the target was because of several factors, including last year’s floods and the Covid-19 lockdown that led to shortage of labourers. He said authorities will expedite work and set a target of completing 300,000 units in the next three months from October to December.“Last year, the floods in north Bihar disrupted work...Besides, the lockdown (that began in March-end) also disrupted construction activity for several months,” he said.West Bengal’s panchayat and rural development minister, Subrata Mukherjee, said, “This calculation should be done at the end of the year. West Bengal has not lagged behind in social welfare schemes ever since the Trinamool Congress came to power (in 2011). Our state was awarded by the Centre last year for completing projects under PMAY on time. The certificate is displayed in my office.”The Union rural development ministry has a target to construct 6.1 million houses in this financial year. It has also asked states that are facing shortage of land to consider building multi-storeyed structures. “Considerable progress in terms of allocation of land and further completion of their house is required,” the agenda note stated. The note prepared for a review meeting, to be held in August-end, stated: “Some states such as Maharashtra and Bihar have their own schemes for allotment of land and the same may be replicated by the other states. The states that cannot proceed with allotment of land from their schemes must actively explore the option of construction of multi-storey houses on government land.” Land acquisition for the scheme is a state subject. The Centre has pointed out that Aadhaar seeding of beneficiaries is a pending issue and 63% of the unique identification number has been updated in the scheme’s central database to date. The ministry has directed states that seeding should be done “on utmost priority”. The note pointed out “in respect of some states, saturation of eligible beneficiaries from the SC/ST category is one of the reasons behind the slow allocation of houses and their completion. State governments are expected to start the process of allocation of houses to the newly added eligible beneficiaries after their Aadhaar seeding is done.” The ministry has also warned that “no deletion of (Aadhaar) entries can be done by the states/UTs”. (With inputs from HTC in Patna and Kolkata)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-raises-concerns-over-slow-pace-of-housing-scheme-for-poor/story-FSUp4m2TRFLZbIZoX2LKpJ.html
23-08-2020||India||JEE, NEET controversy: All you need to know||Students across the country have requested the government to postpone the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), scheduled to be held in September, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The students even approached the Supreme Court, but it refused to interfere in the exam schedule. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting these exams, has refused to defer them further saying it will affect next year’s academic calendar.Politicians are now joining the cause, urging the government to listen to students’ demands.Here is everything you need to know about the JEE and NEET postponement issue:What are JEE and NEET?These are the two national-level entrance exams for professional courses. Around 16 lakh students have registered for NEET-UG this year, while close to 9.3 lakh students had registered for JEE-Mains (Paper I) that was conducted in January. An equal number of students were expected to appear for the second phase of the exam, which are scheduled for April-May each year.This year however, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the National Testing Agency (NTA) kept postponing the exam dates. When are these exams going to be held?While the JEE is scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6, the NEET will be held on September 13.Also Watch | JEE, NEET update: What students feel about exams not getting postponed What are students’ contention?Several students and parents around the country have shared their concerns over conducting exams as Covid-19 cases are on a rise. However, an equal number of parents of students are also hoping that the exams are held as per the schedule so that the delay in the postponement of exams comes to an end.“Medical admissions are time bound, and therefore, it makes no sense to further delay NEET, which will eventually delay the admissions process as well. Leaving an entire batch of medical seats vacant will be unfair because next year, the intake capacity of medical institutes will remain the same but the applicants will double in number, which will lead to more chaos,” said activist Sudha Shenoy, who is the parent of an aspirant.How are the students fighting for their cause?Students from 11 states across the country filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking the postponement of these two exams.The court, however, rejected the plea on Monday. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the NTA to hold the examinations in September.The political reactionsThe Congress has jumped on this opportunity to attack on the government. Several party leaders, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, asked the government to listen to students’ demands.“Today lakhs of students are saying something. The GOI must listen to the Students Ke Mann Ki Baat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution,” Gandhi said in a tweet.Congress leader Kapil Sibal called it an “injustice”, and suggested that the only just, fair and sensible solution is to postpone JEE and NEET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-postponement-all-you-need-to-know/story-eyMlyXSS7IeRji5icIoT0H.html
23-08-2020||India||Two Maoists carrying cash rewards surrender in Chhattisgarh||Two Maoists carrying cash rewards on their heads have surrendered in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency- hit Narayanpur district, a police official said on Sunday.The cadres, Akhilesh Hurra alias Baldev (23) and Jairam Markam (28), turned themselves in before police on Saturday, citing disappointment with the “hollow” ideology of Maoists and increasing pressure of the anti-Naxal operations, Narayanpur Superintendent of Police Mohit Garg told PTI.Hurra, who was active as a member of Kiskodo LOS (local organisation squad) of the outlawed outfit, had been involved in three Naxal attacks on security forces between 2013 and 2018 in Narayanpur and neighbouring Kanker district, while Markam was working as a jan-militia commander, he said.They were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, the official said.The two ultras were given an encouragement amount of Rs 10,000 each and will be further provided assistance as per the surrender-cum-rehabilitation policy, Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-maoists-carrying-cash-rewards-surrender-in-chhattisgarh/story-QXoIkm4toDZLtp9QR41I7J.html
23-08-2020||India||Ranjan Gogoi as CM face? Assam BJP rejects Congress claim||The Assam unit of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has rubbished veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi’s claim that the former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi could be the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate for next year’s assembly polls. “People utter lot of meaningless stuff, when they grow very old, and we would like to put Gogoi’s statement in that category. I have met many former CMs, but no one makes such baseless assertions such as Tarun Gogoi. There is not one iota of truth in what he had said,” Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass told HT. On Saturday, Tarun Gogoi (85), who was Assam CM from 2001 to 2016, told mediapersons in Guwahati that the former CJI, who took oath as a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha (RS) in March, could be the BJP’s CM face in the assembly polls. “I have heard from my sources that Ranjan Gogoi’s name is in the list of BJP’s probable CM candidates. I suspect he might be projected as the CM by the party in the next assembly polls,” Tarun Gogoi said. Also read: Will fight Bihar polls under Nitish Kumar’s leadership - BJP chief JP Nadda“The BJP is happy with Ranjan Gogoi for the Ram Mandir verdict and, as a result, he was nominated as a RS MP after his retirement as the CJI. (Ranjan) Gogoi could have refused to be a RS MP, but his acceptance shows he is interested in active politics,” he added. Ranjan Gogoi was the CJI when the Supreme Court, last November, awarded the disputed land in Ayodhya to Hindu parties, clearing the decks for a Ram Temple there and settling a 135-year-old legal dispute.Tarun Gogoi, who represents the Titabar seat in Assam assembly, said that he would contest next year’s elections, but would not be the Congress’s prospective CM candidate. On Saturday, the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) came together to form an alliance against the ruling BJP for the 2021 polls. “There’s nothing to comment on Tarun Gogoi’s utterances. He seems to know more about our party than those who are in it,” said Rupam Goswami, chief spokesperson, BJP’s Assam unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranjan-gogoi-as-cm-face-assam-bjp-rejects-claim/story-NKcy9gqPmcXweZempCHcdM.html
23-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Explosives seized from suspected ISIS operative’s house in UP, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Explosives seized from suspected ISIS operative’s house in UP: ReportA huge amount of explosives, including a jacket, has been recovered from the house of the suspected ISIS operative in a village of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, after he was arrested in Delhi, news agency ANI reported. Read more.‘4 more years’: Trump campaign woos Indian Americans with ‘Howdy Modi’, ‘Namaste Trump’The race for Indian American votes is well underway. The Trump campaign on Saturday released a video that seeks to rally Indian American voters for “4 More Years” for President Donald Trump using clips from the “Howdy Modi” and “Namaste Trump” events that he addressed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read more.Demanding change in leadership and complete rehaul, top Congress leaders write to Sonia GandhiAt least 23 senior leaders wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a complete rehaul of the organisation, The Indian Express reported on Sunday. It said the writers of the letter include former chief ministers such as Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan, former ministers Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, and younger leaders such as Milind Deora and Jitin Prasada. Read more.Happy Onam 2020: All you need to know about the 10 days of celebrationOne of the most popular festival in Kerala, Onam is celebrated with great enthusiasm and joy, in the months of August and September. Onam, also referred to as Thiru-Onam or Thiruvonam, falls in the first month of the Malayalam calendar, Chingam. The festivities go on for a period of 10 days and this year, the celebration starts on August 22 and continue till September 2. Read more.An unforgettable dinner with MS DhoniI have an utterly lopsided but not-entirely-unheard-of way of judging people: What is their relationship to animals? How do they get along with dogs? Or cats (or birds or bears or rabbits)? When I recently and reluctantly made my Twitter debut, the first handles I began to follow, in order, were: @WeRateDogs (where all doggies are good doggies), @A_Single_Bear (and lonely to boot), @MrAndrewCotter (the adventures of two wonderful dogs as narrated by their sport-commentator daddy) and @FtbllrsWAnimals (footballers with animals, self-explanatory). Read more.MP rain: Rescue operations in Indore; woman killed in wall collapse; IMD alertHeavy rains lashed parts of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday. State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) personnel were deployed for rescue operations in Indore. People were rescued after rain inundated low-lying areas. Sehore received 316 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Watch here.Kokilaben ‘rap’ video sparks meme fest, #rashi trends on Twitter. Seen the posts yet?If you’re a regular user of Twitter, chances are that you’ve seen the mention of the word “rashi” on your timeline at least once. In case you’ve already started giggling, then you know what we’re talking about. However, if you’re still trying to understand what we mean then allow us to explain. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-explosives-seized-from-suspected-isis-operative-s-house-in-up-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6KdRpZO8ymsjuIPld9ZRuL.html
23-08-2020||India||Four densely populated pockets in Dharavi continue on BMC’s Covid-19 watchlist||Four most densely populated pockets of slum inside Dharavi - the Matunga Labour Camp, Kumbharwada, Kala Killa, and Koliwada - continue to be on Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s watchlist (BMC), even though Dharavi flattened the Covid-19 curve in mid-June. For the past few days, Covid-19 cases in Dharavi are emerging in single digits daily, with a few exceptions. On Saturday, five new cases were detected in Dharavi while on Friday, three fresh cases were reported.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi said, “The BMC is watching these four slum pockets because they are very densely populated. We have very few cases from random areas now. Mostly migrated labour who have returned or medical staff that are turning positive now. But these four localities could spiral out of control very easily so our interventions continue.”These four slum pockets are among 13 high-risk zones that were identified by the civic body for focused interventions in April and May when the number of cases in Dharavi peaked.Also read: BMC advises home immersion of Ganesh idols, processions bannedInterventions in these high-risk zones have included door-to-door surveys and screening of a maximum number of residents to identify those at high risk if exposed to the virus (such as people with co-morbidity, senior citizens, and those with low oxygen saturation in their bodies), and early detection of Covid-19 positive patients to isolate them from the community. So far, Dharavi’s average doubling rate has touched 406 days, as opposed to 300 days in July, 108 days in June, 43 days in May, and 18 days in April. The average growth rate of cases in Dharavi is 0.24 percent, as opposed to 0.39 percent in July, 0.83 percent in June, and 4.3 percent in May, and 12 percent in April. Till August 19, a total of 116 new cases were reported in Dharavi as opposed to 358 cases in July. Its peak was in May when a total of 1,216 cases were reported which dropped to 480 cases in June. The recovery rate in Dharavi at present is 87 percent, higher than Mumbai’s recovery rate of 80.79 percent.On Thursday, Dharavi witnessed a sudden spike in its trend of reporting single-digit cases when 17 new cases were reported in a single day. Kiran Dighavkar said, “A few nurses from Dharavi working at KEM and Sion hospital tested positive. The hospital organised tests for their family members some of whom tested positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-four-densely-populated-pockets-in-dharavi-continue-on-bmc-watchlist/story-crFpRZVMveJbHuNcv9SxBK.html
23-08-2020||India||Will fight Bihar assembly polls under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership, says BJP chief JP Nadda||The Bharatiya Janata Party, Janata Dal(United) and Lok Janshakti Party will fight elections together in Bihar under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Sunday amid speculations over the fate of the NDA alliance in the eastern state.While addressing the party’s Bihar working committee via video conferencing, Nadda expressed confidence in the BJP, JD(U) and LJP alliance in the state. “We will fight Bihar polls together and emerge victorious,” he said about the Bihar assembly polls due in October-November this year.Nadda’s comments come at a time when the JD(U) and LJP have been training guns at each other with the Kumar-led party even saying their alliance in the state is only with the BJP, even as the Ram Vilas Paswan’s outfit has been questioning the chief minister’s leadership.“People of Bihar look at the BJP and the NDA with the expectation that we will change the fate and picture of the state. You all (BJP workers) are going to be an ambassador of change. For this we have to contest at each and every booth to win and add value not only for BJP contestants but also for alliance partners,” the BJP president told party workers during the virtual meeting.Pointing towards the challenges due to the coronavirus pandemic, Nadda asked party workers to take all precautions of physical and social distancing and resort to small door to door campaigning, which he said was the best form given the trying times.“Touch all sections of the society, all age groups of people and tell them about the work done by the Centre and state,” he added.The senior leader also slammed the opposition in Bihar as well as other states saying, “they have become a spent force.”He also renewed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch for self-reliance. “In Bihar, we have to take forward the Makhana industry, Madhubani painting, and Bhagalpur’s Silk industry in a push for PM Modi’s local for vocal initiative,” he said.“Litchi of Muzaffarpur, honey of Madhubani, we all have to pursue a self-reliant India,” he added.Nadda also lauded Bihar’s Covid-19 recovery rate that stands at 73.48% and congratulated the state government for conducting one lakh tests and 10 crore door to door screenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-jd-u-and-ljp-to-fight-bihar-polls-together-says-jp-nadda/story-OygVIs85lXCS1MDpzSffNN.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Govt should listen to students’ Mann ki Baat’: Rahul Gandhi on postponement of JEE, NEET||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday urged the government to take into account concerns of students who have been demanding postponement of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).“Today lakhs of students are saying something. The GOI must listen to the Students Ke Mann Ki Baat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution,” Gandhi said in a tweet. आज हमारे लाखों छात्र सरकार से कुछ कह रहे हैं। NEET, JEE परीक्षा के बारे में उनकी बात सुनी जानी चाहिए और सरकार को एक सार्थक हल निकालना चाहिए।GOI must listen to the #StudentsKeMannKiBaat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution.His tweet comes a day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi’s Education Minister Manish Sisodia requested the Centre to cancel the JEE and NEET.“The Central government is playing with the lives of millions of students in the name of JEE-NEET. My request to the Centre is to cancel both these exams immediately and make an alternative arrangement for admission this year. In this time of unprecedented crisis, an unprecedented step will lead to a solution,” Sisodia tweeted.The National Testing Agency (NTA) has announced that JEE-Main will be held from September 1 to 6 and NEET for undergraduate courses on September 13.There has been no official word from the education ministry on postponement of these exams. A person aware of the developments, however, said there was no such decision at the moment. The reluctance to defer the exam is centered around the government’s view that it would be difficult to get the 2020-21 academic year moving without the exam.On August 17, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking the postponement of the NEET and JEE scheduled to be held in September 2020. The decision came on a petition filed on August 7 by 11 JEE/NEET aspirants seeking postponement of the exams in view of Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the NTA to hold the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-listen-to-students-mann-ki-baat-rahul-gandhi-on-postponement-of-jee-neet/story-o1Z4OEsyASIvVB6WhMwevM.html
23-08-2020||India||CBI begins recording statement of Sushant Singh Rajput’s housemate and cook||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which is probing the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput began recording the statements of his housemate Siddharth Pithani and cook Neeraj Singh in Mumbai’s Santacruz (East) on Sunday morning. Pithani and Singh are the main witnesses who were present in the house at the time of the actor’s death.Forensic experts and a Mumbai police team also reached the DRDO guest house around 11.15am where statements of the two men are being recorded. One team of the CBI had already questioned the two men while two other teams left around 11am from DRDO guest house. Investigators will also question the key maker who opened Rajput’s room. “Both Pithani and Singh were inside the house and only they can reveal the entire sequence of events necessary to find out what happened between June 13 and June 14 when Sushant was found dead,” said a person familiar with the probe.The CBI is also likely to question former employees of Rajput later Sunday. On Saturday, forensic experts and CBI officials visited Sushant’s residence and recreated the crime scene in the presence of Pithani and Singh. CBI officials had also visited Cooper Hospital to meet the doctors who conducted Rajput’s autopsy. The actor was found dead at his Bandra residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-begins-recording-statement-of-sushsnat-singh-rajput-s-housemate-and-cook/story-O4LThApxQJ7Gi6c1nt113L.html
23-08-2020||India||Explosives seized from suspected ISIS operative’s house in UP: Report||A huge amount of explosives, including a jacket, has been recovered from the house of the suspected ISIS operative in a village of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, after he was arrested in Delhi, news agency ANI reported.ANI, citing sources, said the jacket was allegedly prepared for a fidayeen attack.The Delhi Police had said on Saturday that they have arrested Mohammed Mushtaqeem Khan, a 36-year-old suspected operative of the Islamic State. Police said Khan had planned a “lone wolf” terror strike in a high footfall area in the Capital “using a high-intensity pressure cooker-based improvised explosive device (IED)”.The police team had reached Balrampur on Saturday with Khan, who was arrested from Ridge Road area in central Delhi following a brief exchange of fire on Friday night. Police said they had recovered two pressure cooker IEDs weighing around 15kg, a.30 bore pistol and four cartridges that Khan was carrying in a bag. Khan was on a white TVS Apache motorcycle at the time of his arrest.Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (Special Cell), said that they had been tracking the contacts of the IS operative for the past one year. Kushwaha said Khan was in direct touch with the commanders of Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in Afghanistan through social media platforms.“He was connected with ISIS for the last many years and was directly in touch with ISIS commanders. He was handled by Yusuf Alhindi, who was killed in Syria later. After that, Abu Huzafa, a Pakistani, was handling him,” he said during a press briefing. His next handler instructed him to operate as a lone wolf operative from India,” the senior official had said.In a press statement, police said Khan’s interrogation has revealed that his original plan was to carry out the IED blasts during the Independence Day celebrations on August 15. “However, because of the heavy security arrangements, Khan could not enter the city and had to drop the terror strike plan, Kushwaha said.He said Khan confessed to the police that he tested the explosive device at his village a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosives-seized-from-suspected-isis-operative-s-house-in-up-report/story-2wdZgwemtthqfMXDCRttaJ.html
23-08-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter wants her mother’s name changed in passport||The younger daughter of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has sought to change her mother’s name in her passport to Mehbooba Syed.A notice stating this was published in a local newspaper by Irtiqa Javed.“I, Irtiqa Javed, daughter of Javed Iqbal Shah Resident of Fairview House Gupkar Road, Srinagar, Kashmir 190001 want to change the name of my mother in my passport from Mehbooba Mufti to Mehbooba Syed.“If anybody has any objection regarding the same may please contact the concerned authorities within the period of seven days after that no objections will be entertained,” the notice read.Mehbooba Mufti and her husband are not living together.The couple have two daughters -- Iltija and Irtiqa. While the elder daughter has followed in the footsteps of her mother and taken on the Mufti surname, the younger one appears to be closer to her father.Mehbooba is under detention at her official residence here that has been declared a subsidiary jail.She was among hundreds of people who were taken into preventive custody hours ahead of the Centre revoking the special status of the Jammu and Kashmir and breaking the state into two union territories on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-s-daughter-wants-her-mother-s-name-changed-in-passport/story-AZ5EDoeF1hh3RaO88AiJFK.html
23-08-2020||India||Delhi air quality to be ‘satisfactory’ this week due to showers: Officials||Light rainfall and thundershowers expected over the week are likely to keep air quality in ‘satisfactory’ category, said officials in the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Delhi received a spell of ‘heavy’ to ‘very heavy’ rainfall on August 20-21. “As per the forecast received from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the week, it is expected that air quality will remain in the ‘satisfactory’ category and may even improve to ‘good’. The continuous spell of showers has washed out the pollutants in the air. Since August 20, the air quality index (AQI) has been below 60 in the ‘satisfactory’ zone, which is a good sign,” said a senior CPCB official. At 8 am on Sunday, Delhi’s AQI was 51, as per CPCB data. On Saturday, the 24-hour average AQI was 56, while on Friday it was 57. On Thursday (August 20), the city experienced a ‘Good’ air day with an AQI reading of 50. This was the second ‘good’ air day in the month of August and third for this year so far. Also read: Cong opposes South Delhi civic body’s tax movePreviously, on August 13, after heavy rainfall, Delhi’s AQI was recorded ‘50’, in the ‘good’ zone. The city experienced a ‘good’ air day on August 20 after ‘very heavy’ rainfall. August this year has seen two ‘good’ air days because of good rainfall. The first was recorded on March 28 with an AQI reading of 45, during the first week of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’ with no health impact. A reading of ‘51-100’ is considered ‘satisfactory’, which means it may have a minimal impact on health of sensitive people such as those having chronic breathing difficulties. Scientists at the IMD said that with another week of rain forecast, this August is likely to become among the wettest compared to at least the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-quality-to-be-satisfactory-this-week-due-to-showers-officials/story-LhuNpiCUay1OUWy987yg4O.html
23-08-2020||India||Villagers dependent on Loktak Lake narrate woes owing to Covid-19, seek govt help||The coronavirus pandemic and the ensuing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the virus have shown the devastating impact on the locals of Champu Khangpok village who are dependent on fishing from the famous Loktak Lake for their livelihood.Loktak in Manipur is the largest freshwater lake in the north-eastern region of the country and is famed for its ‘phumdis’ or floating islands. The lake provides the livelihood for close to 30,000 people, and these floating islands are permanent homes of several fishing communities who have been conserving this unique wetland ecosystem.The floating islands are a thick heterogeneous mass of vegetation, soil, and organic matter that looks like small lush green islands. On the Phumdis, the fishing community builds small thatched huts to live in.About 240 fishing families from the Champu Khangpok village too are amongst those who were dependent on the lake. However, the lockdown affected them greatly since they were stuck inside the lake on the floating islands and could neither sell their catch nor buy essentials as they used to do earlier due to the closing down of the nearby markets.To ensure their survival during the scarcity of essentials like rice and pulses, some of the villagers had started depending on available vegetables alone for their daily meals. The fishing families, who have no other source of livelihood, have now made an appeal to the government to pave a way to designate the opening of two docks at Ningthoukhong and Yangoi Karang, twice a week so that they can sell their catch and procure their daily needs from the markets.Nabachandra Oinam, a villager told ANI, “Most of us are fishermen and we are not able to sell fish in neighbouring markets due to restrictions. We are facing a lot of trouble due to this. The government should pay heed to our woes.”The woes, however, do not end here as the education of children has also been impacted in this phase, due to the lack of smartphones to access the online classes. The first floating school in the north-east has however filled that gap to some extent as it continues to provide education to the children of the community even during the crisis phase.Ningthoujam Ongbi Thasana Devi, another local, however, said that the government should pay heed to these difficulties, as buying a smartphone for education would be the last thought on mind of those who have been struggling to survive each day.Meanwhile, the villagers also raised the issue of rising pollution in the Loktak lake. Several small rivers and streams of the valley and hills in the state find their way into the lake which is spread over an area of 26,000 hectares.This leads to waste materials from all areas pouring into the lake thereby posing a threat to the ecosystem of the freshwater lake. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-dependent-on-loktak-lake-narrate-woes-owing-to-covid-19-seek-govt-help/story-GgN7M7QXLPrKvARLwjIkWM.html
23-08-2020||India||Delhi jeweller fakes robbery to escape repaying bank loans||To escape paying the EMIs on loans he had taken for his gold jewellery business, a man got his friend to wear a burqa and use a toy gun to carry out a fake robbery of gold worth Rs 61 lakh from his shop in Central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal on Friday night, the police said on Sunday. While the “robbery” itself was carried out convincingly -- the jeweller got himself thrashed and bound up with rope -- the police scrutinized CCTV footage to determine that he had allowed a friendly entry to the robber and that it was eventually a fake robbery, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central district). The police have arrested three men -- the jeweller Abhijeet Samanta, and his friends property dealer Farhan and mechanic Munna. While Farhan allegedly arranged the burqa and the toy gun, Munna was the man who carried out the fake robbery. The DCP said that 40-year-old Samanta had a jewellery making shop and he would supply readymade gold jewellery to showrooms in Central Delhi. “Between 2017 and 2018, he had taken loans of a total of Rs 61 lakh from three banks to enhance his business. But his business never took off the way he had hoped,” said the DCP. It turned worse during the lockdown as he got no business and the banks were pressuring him to pay the equated monthly installments (EMIs) for the loans. “Samanta thought that if he could show that his gold stock was robbed, he could avoid having to pay the loan. So, he roped in his two friends,” said the DCP. While he asked Farhan to arrange the toy gun and a burqa, he tasked Munna with the fake robbery, the officer said. As per the plan, Samanta had returned to his shop after collecting a payment of Rs 50,000 from a jeweller around 8.30 pm on Friday. “Soon after he entered his shop, Munna wearing a burqa followed him, placed the gun on his forehead, beat him up and robbed the cash from him. Samanta then allowed himself to be tied up with a rope and then pretended that he was forced to hand over the keys to the lockers. Munna picked up a 1.6 kilo of gold and another one kilo gold brick and fled,” said the DCP. On receiving a call soon after the fake robbery, the police began checking the CCTV footage inside and outside the shop. “Samanta and Munna had done well to make it appear like a real robbery, but the shopkeeper leaving the door open behind him aroused our suspicion. So, we began observing the footage more keenly and found Samanta’s overall behavior during the robbery quite fishy,” said the DCP. Police said that they questioned Samanta for six hours on Saturday following which he broke down and revealed his plan.The police have recovered all the gold, the burqa and the toy pistol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-jeweller-fakes-robbery-to-escape-repaying-bank-loans/story-Mta3aQR1TGzoZiir8Iaq4I.html
23-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee still in deep coma, no change in medical condition: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition remained unchanged on Sunday morning, Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said. Mukherjee, 84, underwent a critical brain surgery at the hospital to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He is on ventilator support since then.On August 21, Sharmistha Mukherjee, the former President’s daughter, tweeted her gratitude for everyone’s good wished and prayers for her father’s quick recovery. Singer Lata Mangeshkar’s call inquiring about her father’s health was ‘heartwarming’, she said in her tweet. “So many good wishes and calls of concern for Baba pouring in from across the world have touched my core. A call today from Bharat Ratna @mangeshkarlata ji enquiring and praying for him was truly heart-warming. She knew my Ma well. May God bless her,” her tweet read.Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-still-in-deep-coma-no-change-in-medical-condition-hospital/story-EzfVPzvSAjujfKbvWO3TDI.html
23-08-2020||India||Bengal govt fixes bed charge for Covid patients, seeks 10% discount on medicines||Flooded by complaints of exorbitant rates being charged from Covid-19 patients by private hospitals, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Saturday issued an advisory, saying bed charges have to be kept at what they used to be on March 1. The commission also said that hospitals have to offer a 10 per cent discount on the price of medicines or else allow the patients’ families to provide it. A three-member committee would review the need for pathological tests, the 12-member commission said after a meeting. The commission further said that no Covid-19 patient can be denied admission. This is the 11th advisory to private hospitals, amid allegations of inflated billing and unnecessary pathological tests.“I have been assured cooperation by the highest quarters of the state government in this exercise,” the commission’s chairman and retired Calcutta high court judge Ashim Kumar Bandopadhyay told a television channel on Saturday evening. The private hospitals said on Saturday night bed charges were not increased after the pandemic began. Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and group CEO of Kolkata-based AMRI Hospitals said, “Private hospitals review their rates at the end of every financial year and, after factoring in inflation, rates are revised by an average of no more than 5-10%. This comes into effect from April 1 every year. The same was done this year too and bed rates were not increased for Covid treatment.” “In regard to the other advisories, we have requested the commission for some time to discuss internally and also to share some more clarity. As for incidents of over-billing are concerned, those should be treated as stray incidents and not standard practice. We have let the government know that private hospitals are there to support the state’s fight against the pandemic and we are always at the service of the people,” said Barua. On August 8, the commission said in an advisory that no hospital can charge more than Rs 50,000 as advance deposit during admission and patients’ families have to be given 12 hours to get the money. The commission said that sanction from patients’ families have to be taken for pathological tests if these cost more than Rs 2000 and necessity of the tests have to be explained to the families in advance. The commission, however, added that if a test is considered urgent then it could be conducted but the attending doctor would bear the responsibility. On August 2, the commission said that most hospitals were charging patients for the most expensive antibiotics, antifungals, analgesics and other drugs although these are available in different price ranges. The commission said, “Patients’ relatives shall be offered to choose which brand they would like to purchase.” The commission said that high-end antibiotics such as “Meropenem” used in critical care management are available under different brands with different prices and hospitals must keep adequate stock of at least three or four brands. Unless a doctor specifically prescribes a particular brand the pharmacy must supply “Meropenem” having the lowest price tag, the commission had said on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-fixes-bed-charge-for-covid-patients-seeks-10-discount-on-medicines/story-8FQkZjZYB8EMQajRTVfm2O.html
23-08-2020||India||CBI records Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend Siddharth Pithani, cook’s statements||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) ) officials probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death recorded the statements of his friend Siddharth Pithani and his cook Neeraj Singh on Sunday. Singh was questioned for the third time this morning. The CBI will also question the key maker who opened Rajput’s room on June 14 when he was found dead. Pithani and Singh’s questioning comes a day after a team of CBI officials and forensic experts visited Rajput’s Bandra home and reconstructed the sequence of events before he was found dead.Pithani and Singh, who were present at the flat when Rajput was found dead, had also accompanied the CBI team that spent over five hours at the actor’s residence, people familiar with the development said.The officials first went to the building’s terrace and then to the flat. They shot pictures and videos of the bedroom. An official quoted above said that the CBI was investigating whether suicide was possible at the spot.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s housekeeper reveals what happened on night Rhea Chakraborty left actor’s homeEarlier in the day, CBI officials also met doctors at the Cooper Hospital who conducted Rajput’s autopsy.Meanwhile, Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, a BJP legislator and Rajput’s cousin, said Pithani and the actor’s colleague Sandeep should “definitely” be arrested and interrogated by the CBI.“CBI investigation is going in the right direction. We are hopeful that the guilty will be caught. Sidharth Pithani should be definitely arrested. When we went for the last rites of Sushant, we saw that there was no sadness apparent on Pithani’s face. I am suspicious of his activities. He used to be a colleague of Sushant,” Bablu said.“Another colleague of Sushant, Sandeep also started giving clean chits to people on the media just ten days after my cousin’s death. He was acting like a gangster. I have confidence that CBI will investigate and come to a result in this case. My belief is that third degree is important to get the truth out in this case,” he added.The central agency that took over the probe into the high-profile case on orders of the Supreme Court has so far recorded statements of Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda apart from his roommate and cook.They have also collected documents from Mumbai police including forensic report, post mortem report, statements of more than 60 people that Mumbai police has recorded in the case, and other material evidence, a police official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-calls-sushant-singh-rajput-s-friend-siddharth-pithani-cook-for-questioning/story-2sNqwKq5D3sCbnhLyQeUNK.html
23-08-2020||India||SpiceJet starts long-haul, non-stop cargo flight from Europe to India||Budget carrier SpiceJet became the first Indian airline to operate the long-haul, non-stop cargo flight from Amsterdam to Mumbai using its wide-body aircraft - Airbus A340 on Saturday. The same aircraft will operate from Mumbai to Khartoum in Sudan on Sunday.With this, the airline also becomes the first to operate non-stop cargo services from Europe on a dedicated freighter.Adding the Netherlands to its international cargo network, SpiceJet carried 13 tonnes of cargo supplies to Mumbai on Saturday. The flight departed from the Dutch capital at 10.50 pm (local time) on Friday, August 21, and landed in Mumbai at 10.54 AM (local time) on Saturday. Also read: China successfully launches new optical remote-sensing satelliteAn airline official said that the A340 freighter that is set to take off from Mumbai to Khartoum will be carrying 40 tonnes of cargo. This will be SpiceJet’s first non-stop flight to Africa as the low-cost carrier has earlier flown to Sudan via Ras Al-Khaimah.Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director of SpiceJet said, “We successfully operated our first wide-body long-haul flight from Europe. The induction of our first Airbus A340 cargo aircraft has significantly enhanced our operational capability and will allow us to operate non-stop cargo services across the globe to destinations in Europe, Africa and CIS countries.”The airline has operated over 5764 cargo flights and transported over 31,800 tonnes of cargo, which according to the airline, is more than double of all domestic airlines combined. These flights carried medicines, medical equipment, fruits and vegetables across India and the world since March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-starts-long-haul-non-stop-cargo-flight-from-europe-to-india/story-IzW5lGUi2GQn0zFC3GQTkN.html
23-08-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries cross 10,000 mark in Uttarakhand||With 345 fresh Covid-19 recoveries on Saturday, the recovery mark crossed 10,000 in Uttarakhand with total 10,021 people recovering from the disease in the state. The recovery rate now stands at 68.80% in Uttarakhand. Of the total number of recoveries, maximum 120 patients recovered from Haridwar district on Saturday. The state also reported 483 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Three Covid-19 positive patients died on Saturday of which one died due to coronavirus and others died due to co-morbidities. A total of 195 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now, according to the health officials. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, maximum 133 fresh cases were reported from Haridwar district followed by Nainital (97), Dehradun (82), US Nagar (81), Uttarkashi (41), Almora (19), Rudraprayag (12), Pithoragarh (5), Chamoli (4), Pauri (3), Tehri (3), Bageshwar (2) and Champawat (1).Also read: Uttarakhand increases honorarium of ex-servicemen in govt deptsHaridwar district has reported the maximum, 3,555 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Dehradun (2,919), US Nagar (2,706) and Nainital (2,136). The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 26.67 days, while the infection rate is 5.18%. The state has so far tested over 3.01 lakh samples of which results of over 13,000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 340 containment zones in eight districts including maximum, 280, in Haridwar district. In a bid to fight the pandemic, the state government has operationalised 17 dedicated Covid Hospitals and 381 Covid Care Centres (CCC) across the state.The state government has also started home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients recently. The Uttarakhand government on Saturday released guidelines for private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients.Amit Singh Negi, secretary for health in the state said, “Earlier we had allowed private hospitals to treat those patients who were already admitted for other procedures and tested positive for Covid-19 during the treatment process in the hospital. This was done to ensure that patients who are in critical condition do not lose their life due to shifting to a government hospital for treatment of Covid-19.”“Now, we have allowed all private hospital, accredited from the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH), to admit Covid-19 patients and treat them. The patients need not necessarily be the ones who were already undergoing treatment in the hospital,” added the health secretary.As per the guidelines, the hospitals should be registered under the Clinical Establishment Act 2010, have a separate Covid-19 ward with separate entry and exit doors, 24x7 emergency and ICU facilities with specialists on-call. The hospitals should have a 24x7 pharmacy facility and oxygen supply with every bed at the isolation ward.There should be a dedicated Covid-19 ambulance with the hospital and the authorities should ensure proper protective equipment (PPE) for all doctors treating the Covid-19 patients. The hospital should also follow all the norms of Biomedical Waste Management-2016 and should have all the required permits from the pollution control board and dispose of waste as per the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-cross-10-000-mark-in-uttarakhand/story-Gs7XeCYIf2dQTR1feAJ9BJ.html
23-08-2020||India||BMC advises home immersion of Ganesh idols, processions banned||As Mumbai braces for the first day of immersion of Ganesh idols on Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has advised citizens celebrating in home to carry out immersion at their homes in buckets or drums.The BMC has also banned processions for immersion and has given the option to conduct immersion at 70 natural and 170 artificial spots in the city by following social distancing and hygiene norms. Every year on the first day, over 35,000 idols are immersed in the city. In 2019, over 46,000 idols were immersed on the first day.The BMC has uploaded a list of natural and artificial ponds on its website http://stopcoronavirus.mcgm.gov.in/ganesh-visarjan-locations. In case of 70 natural immersion spots that also includes sea, only those citizens or devotees residing within 2 km radius of these spots are allowed to immerse their idols there by handing them over to the BMC. The citizens or devotees shall not be allowed to enter the sea water or water of natural spots to immerse the idols themselves under any circumstances, the BMC said in an advisory.“Devotees who are celebrating Ganesh festival in their homes are advised to carry out idol immersion of the Ganesh idols at their homes in a bucket or a drum as their first preference,” the advisory also said.The BMC has also asked mandals and those celebrating from home and residing in containment zones or sealed buildings to either defer immersion for next year or make arrangements on their own using buckets or drums.The advisory issued by BMC in this context reads, “The Ganeshotsav Mandals as well as citizens situated in Containment Zones shall immerse their Ganesh idols by creating necessary arrangements in the mandap /pandal and their homes itself . Alternatively they can defer the immersion of the idols to the next year. Devotees who are staying in sealed buildings shall mandatorily immerse their Ganesh idols in their homes itself (in bucket/ small drums) or postpone the immersion to the next year.”Further, the BMC has said that devotees shall perform pooja and aarti in their homes itself and then hand over the idols to the BMC because these will not be permitted at the immersion spots. Those taking part in immersion will have to use masks, sanitizers and follow necessary social distancing, added the BMC.Meanwhile, as a special arrangement, BMC this year has created the mobile immersion spots on wheels by making necessary arrangements by fitting suitable water tanks in trucks. Devotees are also requested to take advantage of these mobile immersion spots after taking information from the official website of BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-advises-home-immersion-of-ganesh-idols-processions-banned/story-UdsRsmRvmVfpnFT61fzYFN.html
23-08-2020||India||UP BJP focuses on women power, balance in new team||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced its new team on Saturday for Uttar Pradesh (UP) comprising 16 vice-presidents, seven general secretaries, 16 secretaries and two treasurers in view of the next assembly polls to be held in 2022.The team is dominated by members from two numerically dominant caste groups in the state — other backward class (OBCs) (12) and Dalits (8)— who make up around half of the new 42-member UP BJP panel. There are also eight Brahmin members, Thakurs (7), Vaishyas (5) and Bhumihars (2).The team, headed by an OBC chief, Swatantra Dev Singh Patel (56), has a relatively younger look, as the majority of the members are under 55.Also read: Will fight Bihar polls under Nitish Kumar’s leadership - BJP chief JP NaddaHalf of the team comprises new faces but there are no big surprises, as some of those, who were left out of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s government, have been accommodated.Women’s representation has gone up because of 10 new faces, as compared to four in earlier UP BJP chief Mahendra Nath Pandey’s team.Priyanka Singh Rawat, the former Member of Parliament (MP) from Barabanki, has been named general secretary of UP BJP. Poonam Bajaj, an advocate and social activist from Aligarh, is another woman panel member along with Anamika Choudhary, the former deputy mayor of Prayagraj.Shakuntala Chauhan, the secretary of Gorakhpur region, has been included in the new team along with Meena Chaubey, a member of the women’s commission from Varanasi district.Neelam Sonker, a Dalit from Azamgarh district, has also been inducted along with Sunita Dayal from Ghaziabad district. Meerut’s veteran leader Kanta Kardam is a part in the team along with former Agra mayor Anjula Singh Mahor.“I think this could well be the biggest representation of women in any UP BJP panel. This is an encouraging development and shows the party’s focus on women,” said Darshana Singh, who heads the women’s panel in the BJP’s state unit.There has been a rejig in the roles of Pankaj Singh and Vijay Bahadur Pathak, both general secretaries in the outgoing team. They have been named vice-presidents in the new panel.Subhash Yaduvansh, who was heading the party’s youth wing, has been included in the panel. While Chandramohan Singh, a spokesman in the outgoing team, has been elevated to the post of a secretary.JPS Rathore, vice-president in Pandey’s team, has been made general secretary.Laxman Acharya, a key party functionary, has been named vice-president, while Daya Shankar Singh, who was previously sacked for his remarks against Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, has been brought back as a vice-president.Govind Narayan Shukla from Amethi district has been made general secretary. “It’s a perfectly balanced team,” said Manish Dixit, spokesperson, BJP’s UP unit. CM Adityanath congratulated the new UP BJP office-bearers. “You all have an important role to play in helping realise the dream of new India. May you succeed in discharging your designated responsibilities in your new roles. My congratulations ...” he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bjp-focuses-on-women-power-balance-in-new-team/story-vPYV6gsC250H1IxuoLfcHP.html
23-08-2020||India||‘PM imposed lockdown to protect people, Kamal Nath imposed it on common man’s entry to secretariat’: Scindia||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed lockdown restrictions on the country to save lives of people from coronavirus but then Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath imposed the lockdown on common man’s entry to the state secretariat. Scindia was addressing a gathering at Phoolbagh Maidan in Gwalior, his home turf, on the occasion of the launch of the party’s 3-day membership campaign in Gwalior-Chambal region on Saturday.The state is supposed to witness the bypolls by mid-October to 27 assembly constituencies 16 of which lie in Gwalior-Chambal region. As the BJP leaders claimed on Saturday, as many as 5,000 Congress workers and office-bearers joined the BJP in presence of Scindia, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, state BJP president VD Sharma and state home minister Narottam Mishra.Scindia said, “Kamal Nath ji was ahead of Modi ji in imposing lockdown restrictions that he did 15 months prior to what Modi ji did. But whereas Modi ji imposed the lockdown restrictions on the country to save lives of people from coronavirus, Kamal Nath ji imposed it on common man’s entry to the state secretariat Vallabh Bhavan.”He said people had voted the Congress to power in 2018 assembly elections with a lot of expectations that they would see an honest and transparent government and that it would fulfil their aspirations but there was rampant corruption in the government. Public couldn’t have access to Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat) but industrialists and businessmen were seen inside it, he added.Also read: Heavy rainfall lashes parts of western Madhya Pradesh, low-lying areas floodedScindia said Congress, for the first time, won as many as 26 seats out of 34 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region in the 2018 assembly elections. However, then Congress government didn’t fulfil the expectations and aspirations of people. Instead, it hurt the sentiments of people, he stated. Scindia said, “I raised my voice for public and withdrew my support to the government to serve people of the state.” Addressing the gathering, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “When Scindia ji raised his voice for people, then chief minister Kamal Nath asked him to take to streets. However, Scindia ji brought down the Congress government itself on the road. We will work together for the progress and development of Gwalior-Chambal region,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-imposed-lockdown-to-protect-people-kamal-nath-imposed-it-on-common-man-s-entry-to-secretariat-scindia/story-4ldaj84oDVERUF3alOwiUP.html
23-08-2020||India||IMD issues heavy rain forecast for Rajasthan, Gujarat||Monsoon rains have intensified over central and western regions because of the formation of low-pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal. India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities have forecast extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), in parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat on Sunday and Monday. There is a well-marked low-pressure area lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh (MP). It is very likely to move westwards across Rajasthan during the next 24 hours, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin. Central Water Commission (CWC) has warned that there is a high risk of flash floods in some areas of western MP, parts of eastern and western Rajasthan and Gujarat on Sunday. The monsoon trough is active and south of its normal position (from Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal). It is likely to remain active during the next two-three days. Due to these favourable conditions, IMD is expecting extremely heavy rain over Rajasthan and Gujarat; heavy to very heavy rain over ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan during the next two-three days. Another low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal on Monday; rainfall activity is likely to increase over east and adjoining central India from Monday again. Also read: Delhi air quality to be ‘satisfactory’ this week due to showersLow-pressure areas are the main rain-bearing systems during monsoon months in the core monsoon zone that includes large parts of central and eastern India. Heavy to extremely heavy rain is very likely over Odisha between Monday and Wednesday, and very heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal on Tuesday and Wednesday and over Jharkhand on Wednesday. IMD has also forecast moderate thunderstorms with lightning in some places over southern Rajasthan, Bihar, Gujarat, Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. Until Saturday, central, western and some regions of the southern peninsula have recorded excess and large excess (over 60%) rains. For example, Saurashtra and Kutch have recorded 197% excess rain; Gujarat 90% excess; MP 29% excess; Konkan and Goa 98% excess. Overall monsoon rain over the country since June 1 has been 7% excess. There has been a 6% excess monsoon rainfall in eastern and north-eastern India; 14% deficient over northwest India; 13% excess over central India and 26% excess over the southern peninsula. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-heavy-rain-forecast-for-rajasthan-gujarat/story-NAv0IqFzl4TjISONZF7hEL.html
23-08-2020||India||Rain to keep Delhi’s air quality in check in wettest August in 5 years||Light rain and thundershowers expected over the next week are likely to keep air quality in ‘satisfactory’ category, officials in the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said Sunday.Delhi received a spell of ‘heavy’ to very heavy’ rainfall on August 20-21. “As per the forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the week, it is expected that air quality will remain in the ‘satisfactory’ category and may even improve to ‘good’. The continuous spell of showers has washed out the pollutants in the air. Since August 20, the air quality index (AQI) has been below 60 in the ‘satisfactory’ zone, which is a good sign,” said a senior CPCB official. At 8 am on Sunday, Delhi’s AQI was 51, as per CPCB data. On Saturday, the 24-hour average AQI was 56 while on Friday it was 57. On Thursday (August 20), the city experienced a ‘Good’ air day with an AQI reading of 50. This was the second ‘good’ air day in the month of August and third for this year so far. Previously, on August 13, Delhi’s AQI was recorded ‘50’ in the ‘good’ zone after heavy rainfall. The first ‘Good’ air day was recorded on March 28 with an AQI reading of 45, during the first week of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. An AQI reading between 0-50 is considered ‘good’ with no health impact. On a scale of 51-100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, which means it may have a minimal impact on the health of sensitive people such as those having chronic breathing difficulties. Scientists at the IMD said that with another week of rain forecast, this August is likely to become among the wettest in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-to-keep-delhi-s-air-quality-in-check-in-wettest-august-in-5-years/story-EdyqwcyQnJF7siP91Ki5TM.html
23-08-2020||India||PM Modi extends greeting to farmers on ‘Nuakhai Juhar’||On the occasion ‘Nuakhai Juhar’, which is one of the most ancient festivals celebrated in Odisha, Chhattisgarh and areas of neighbouring states to welcome the new crop of the season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his good wishes to the farmers and wished for their prosperity and good health.“The special occasion of Nuakhai is about celebrating the hardwork of our farmers. It is due to their efforts that our nation is fed. May this auspicious day bring prosperity and good health for everyone. Nuakhai Juhar!” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. Nuakhai Juhar is the agricultural festival is also called Nuakhai Parab or Nuakahi Bhetghat.Nuakhai is a combination of two words signifies eating of new rice as ‘nua’ means new and ‘khai’ means eat.On this day, people worship food grain and prepare special meals. Farmers offer the first produce from their lands to Goddess Samaleswari, the famous ‘Mother Goddess’ of Sambalpur district of Odisha.Moreover, locals also organise several cultural programmes - folk songs and dances in their respective districts on this day to display the state’s local culture and tradition. However, this year, people will celebrate the festival while staying indoors due to Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greeting-to-farmers-on-nuakhai-juhar/story-4l9IcrPrkOJkhpfCMxEaML.html
23-08-2020||India||A day after million mark, India performs 800k Covid-19 tests||The number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests slumped by about 200,000 on Saturday after crossing the record one million mark a day before. The data released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showed that the country performed 8,01,147 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours. The overall tally stood at 3,52,92,220. On Friday, 10, 23, 836 tests were conducted.“At times, this (low-test count) happens on weekends. There is a drop in the number of swab samples tested. However, it doesn’t mean that there is a decline in our testing capacity. We are capable of performing more than one million tests in a day,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR.Also read: India added over 397,000 Covid-19 cases in a week; tally surges past 3 millionThe country had conducted the first Covid-19 test on January 23. The maiden case of the pathogen was detected on January 30 in Kerala after a medical student, who had returned from Wuhan in central China --- the epicentre of the viral outbreak in the initial stages --- was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.Initially, ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune was the only laboratory that was equipped to conduct Covid-19 tests, which have now grown to a nationwide network of 1,511 labs, including many run by private healthcare facilities. The recovery of Covid-19 patients is also growing progressively, according to the data released by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on Sunday.The single-day Covid-19 recoveries have risen from 13,000 to 63,000 in the past two months.On July 1, India had reported 13,157 per day Covid-19 recoveries that rose to 23, 672 on July 19; 46, 121 on August 6; and 63,631 on Saturday.“The gap between Covid-19 recoveries and active cases is also growing by the day. This speaks volumes about how the country has managed to curb the infection rate. Our death rate is among the lowest in the world. Less than 1% of Covid-19 patients are on ventillator support at any given point of time. The epidemic is being managed effectively with our three-pronged strategy of test, track and treat ,” said a ministry official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-million-mark-india-performs-800k-covid-19-tests/story-Hf2Pwq4bbYYAbaPK09cppK.html
23-08-2020||India||Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh tests Covid-19 positive||Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh has tested positive for Covid-19.The minister himself confirmed the news from his official account on Twitter on Sunday and urged all his close contacts to get themselves tested for the virus.“I got tested for coronavirus yesterday and my report came last night. I request all those who came into close contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested for the virus. You are requested to stay safe at home,” Patralekh tweeted.On Saturday, he wished a speedy recovery to the former chief minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) founder Shibu Soren and his wife as they have also tested positive for coronavirus.The information regarding the senior leader and his wife’s testing positive was shared by their son and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren through Twitter.Shibu Soren is credited with the founding of JMM and for spearheading the movement for the separation of Jharkhand from Bihar. He has also served as a Cabinet Minister in the Centre during the UPA-I rule.Earlier in July, Hemant and wife Kalpana Soren had got themselves tested for the infection after one of the ministers in his Cabinet and another JMM lawmaker, whom he had been in contact with tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-agriculture-minister-badal-patralekh-tests-covid-19-positive/story-ustjjvHuKycm5J5BPcQGjO.html
23-08-2020||India||India added over 397,000 Covid-19 cases in a week; tally surges past 3 million||India added 397,277 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including more than 5,700 deaths, in a week, taking the country’s infection tally to over 3 million, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday.There were 69,239 Covid-19 cases and 912 deaths between Saturday and Sunday morning, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The country’s infection tally was at 2,647,663, including 50,921 deaths, at the beginning of the week on August 17.According to the health ministry, the number of active cases stands at 707,668, up from 575,900 on Monday, on Sunday morning. The death toll stands at 56,706 after 912 fatalities were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours. There had been 50,921 deaths on Monday.The recovery rate climbed to 74.89% as 57,989 patients of the viral disease were discharged from hospitals. There have been 2,280,566 recoveries in the country till date and 360,724 in a week. India’s recoveries now exceed active cases by more than 1.5 million.“The record high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country viz. the active cases, has reduced and currently comprises only 23.43% of the total positive cases,” the health ministry said on Saturday.“Early identification through aggressive TESTING, comprehensive surveillance & contact TRACING along with focus on timely and efficient clinical TREATMENT of patients have ensured speedy recovery. Higher number of recoveries and declining fatality have shown that India’s graded and pro-active strategy is delivering results on the field,” it added.The government has said the country now has the capacity of carrying out over million tests for Covid-19 every day.India is only the third country, behind Brazil and the United States, to record more than 3 million infections. The US has 5,667,179 Covid-19 cases and Brazil has 3,582,362, according to the coronavirus tracker of Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins University.Globally, the number of infections has climbed to over 26 million and 803,499 deaths have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-over-397-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-tally-surges-past-3-million/story-KG7xiIeZcEYN0ShpVtabbP.html
23-08-2020||India||Bihar govt in overdrive to implement statute change for appointment of asst professors||With the Election Commission likely to announce the Bihar assembly election early September, the state government has moved fast to carry out changes in the statute for appointment of assistant professors in universities through the Bihar state university service commission (BSUSC) before the model code of conduct for polls come into force.The action comes after chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Independence Day address in which he specifically mentioned that the statute would be modified to bolster prospects of candidates from Bihar.Kumar had referred to the government’s move to amend the statute, which was notified by the Raj Bhawan on August 10, following concerns expressed by academicians that certain clauses in it would work against the interest of candidates from Bihar.The very next day after the CM’s statement, the statute was referred to the BSUSC to work out the changes and after that it was sent to the department of education. It has now reached the Raj Bhawan for its final approval and fresh notification.A vice chancellor, who did not want to be quoted, said the Raj Bhawan has sent the revised draft statute to all the VCs for their opinion. “Once that is received within a few days, a fresh notification will be issued. With the commission and the state government having already incorporated the required changes, then the same line will be adopted,” he added.According to highly places sources in the BSUSC, the doctorates from the Bihar universities would no more be rendered ineligible for not conforming to the 2009 Ph.D regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC), as it would now be made effective from the date of notification in the concerned universities. Earlier, it was from the date of UGC notification.The commission took into cognisance the fact that while the 2009 UGC regulations was notified in Bihar in 2012, it could only be effectively implemented in the Bihar universities 2014 onwards. “Now, the doctorates from Bihar universities will get exemption from the National Eligibility Test (NET) or state-level eligibility test (SLET) up to 2016 depending on the date of implementation of UGC regulation. Some other states also did the same to ensure that the candidates did not have to suffer due to delay in implementation,” said BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad.Even for those having done Ph.D from Bihar universities prior to the 2009 UGC notification, the commission has adopted flexibility to give them some exemption if they conformed to six of the 11 points laid down by the UGC for institutions awarding Ph.D.Another change incorporated in the statute is that seven point weightage to M.Phil has been done away with, as none of the Bihar universities award M.Phil. Some more changes have been introduced on the requirement of certain levels of research papers published in international journals.In the statute, the marking scheme in career had omitted Matric and Intermediate marks which were included in the criteria till last appointment in 2017 in line with the UGC requirement of “good Academic Record”. Some experts also suggested that the bracketing of marks obtained by candidates be done on a smaller scale for awarding additional marks. At present, 60-80 % has been kept in one bracket. Some groups of students have also written to the CM and the Raj Bhawan for more weightage to NET scholars as just 5 marks to them will deny young NET qualified genuine candidates.Over 5,000 vacancies for assistant professors are likely to be advertised In the state, which has its universities functioning at less than 40% of the sanctioned strength. The universities will furnish the vacancy details to the commission in accordance with the reservation roster.Before this, it was on March 19, 2013 that the state cabinet had cleared the proposal for recruitment of 3,364 assistant professors through the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) in the seriously understaffed state universities. The target was to complete the process before the start of the 2014-15 academic session but it stretched till 2020. Before that the appointments were made in 2003 on the basis of a 1997 advertisement in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-in-overdrive-to-implement-statute-change-for-appointment-of-asst-professors/story-ak6v8wC2VAB4EbbacpQOIM.html
23-08-2020||India||First-year junior college aspirants in Maharashtra get concession in admission process||After several students and colleges reported that the process for quota admissions under first-year junior college (FYJC) had become time-consuming, the state education department has now given some concessions in this regard. In a circular issued on Saturday, the education department stated that students who have registered on the portal and applied for FYJC admissions but failed to validate the one-time password (OTP) to confirm their seat will be given time until August 25 to update their status. As per the schedule, the entire process for quota admissions was supposed to end by August 22. “If a student does not get an OTP due to a technical reason, he/she should not be denied admission solely for this. Time will be given until August 25 to update it,” the circular stated. Also read: BMC advises home immersion for Ganesh idols in Mumbai, bans gatheringsThis year, the entire admission process for FYJC is following a zero contact mode. While admissions to various quotas like minority, management and in-house, have to be done at the college level, the education department has been facilitating them and helping to make them zero-contact. As part of this, students get an OTP on their registered mobile numbers which colleges have feed in the online database to confirm a seat. With the OTP being time-bound, it was a struggle for colleges and students to complete the process. The department, however, said that the time limit on entering the OTP has been removed. While colleges said that they have managed to complete most quota admissions that were allotted to them, some seats are not confirmed due to the OTP trouble. “Students had not received OTPs in time and in some cases they couldn’t be contacted easily. We hope we can complete the process for them now with this new concession,” said an official handling admissions at a college in the western suburbs.The office of the deputy director will release the first general merit list of all students for them to be able to verify and rectify any errors if needed. Until Saturday, 2.25 lakh students had filled their college preferences. The first general merit list will be declared on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-year-junior-college-aspirants-in-maharashtra-get-concession-in-admission-process/story-24NN9FhvS71Q4w5BRZkePN.html
23-08-2020||India||BMC advises home immersion for Ganesh idols in Mumbai, bans gatherings||As the city braces up for the first day of immersion for Ganeshotsav on Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has advised citizens celebrating at home to carry out immersion at their homes in a bucket or drums.The BMC has also banned any type of procession for immersion and has given an option to conduct immersion at 70 natural and 170 artificial spots in the city by following social distancing and hygiene norms. Every year, on the first day of the celebrations, over 35,000 idol immersions are conducted in the city. In 2019, more than 46,000 idols were immersed on the first day.The BMC has uploaded the list of natural and artificial ponds on its website for the purpose of immersion.In case of 70 natural immersion spots, that also includes the sea, citizens or devotees residing within 2-kilometre radius of these spots will be allowed to immerse their idols by handing them over to the BMC. The citizens or devotees shall not be allowed to enter the water under any circumstances, the BMC said in its advisory.Also read: At Sushant’s Mumbai residence, CBI recreates sequence of eventsThe advisory states, “Devotees who are celebrating Ganesh Festival in their homes are advised to carry out idol immersion of the Ganesh idols at their homes in a bucket or a drum as their first preference.”The BMC has also asked mandals and those celebrating from home and residing in containment zone or sealed buildings to either defer immersion for next year or make arrangements on their own using buckets or drums.The advisory issued by the BMC in this context reads, “The Ganeshotsav Mandals, as well as citizens situated in Containment Zones, shall immerse their Ganesh idols by creating necessary arrangement in the mandap/pandol and their homes itself. Alternatively, they can defer the immersion of the idols to the next year. Devotees who are staying in Sealed Buildings shall mandatorily immerse their Ganesh idols in their homes itself (in bucket/ small drums) or postpone the immersion to the next year.”Further, the BMC has said that devotees shall perform “Pooja” and “Aarti” at their homes itself and then hand over the idols to the BMC. Under no circumstances will anyone be allowed to perform pooja or aarti at the immersion spots, it added. Those taking part in the immersion ritual will need to make use of mask, sanitizers and follow necessary social distancing norms, the BMC added.Meanwhile, as a special arrangement, the BMC has created Mobile Immersion Spots on Wheels this year by fitting suitable water tanks in trucks. Devotees are also requested to take advantage of these Mobile Immersion Spots after taking information from the official BMC website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-advises-home-immersion-for-ganesh-idols-in-mumbai-bans-gatherings/story-IZ5dtV5mQ6M2ahjgVpaJoI.html
23-08-2020||India||Odisha woman strangles infant daughter, attempts suicide||A woman attempted suicide in Odisha’s Ganjam district after killing her 19-month-old daughter because her husband rejected her suggestion to stay separately from her in-laws, police said.Police said the Sabitri Gouda, wife of Kulamani Gouda from Bhiwanipur village in Ganjam district used to have frequent fights with her husband as she insisted on living away from her in-laws.Sadar police station inspector Santoshini Oram said the couple had been married for two and a half years. But just weeks after her marriage, Sabitri started pestering Kulamani for staying away from the family. Kulamani, who worked as a mason, ignored her demand. After the birth of their daughter last year, Sabitri kept on pressuring her husband to take up separate accommodation for them which led to frequent quarrels.On Friday morning, when Kulamani and other family members had gone to their farmland Sabitri allegedly strangled her daughter.“When Kulamani and others returned home at noon only they found Sabitri sobbing with her daughter lying close to her. She confessed to her crime. When she attempted to end her life by slitting her wrist, the family members rescued her and informed the police. A case of murder case has been registered against Sabitri,” said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-strangles-infant-daughter-attempts-suicide/story-QRFEcF9G9xWRRoHkvd4x3O.html
23-08-2020||India||Covaxin gets nod for skin trial: Latest on India’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate||Covaxin, one of the three vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being developed in India, has been approved for skin trials by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).The vaccine made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited is currently being tested through an intramuscular route, where it is injected directly into the muscle. A separate clinical trial of the potential Covid-19 vaccine will now be conducted alongside through the intradermal route, that is just under the skin, the pharmaceutical regulatory body said on Saturday.Covaxin, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), has received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for Phase I and II human clinical trials and the trials commenced across India from July.The Phase I trials are conducted on a small group of volunteers to determine safety, dosage and learn about the immune response it generates while the next stage, Phase II trials, involves a larger number of healthy volunteers typically in the 100s or less to learn more about safety and effectiveness of the vaccine, said Dr Priya Sampathkumar, an infectious diseases specialist with US’ Mayo Clinic.Human trials of Covaxin started about two weeks ago and it may be available by the end of the year, Union minister of health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan has said. The trial is being conducted on 1,125 patients at 12 hospitals across the country including All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Also read: Want to enrol in a vaccine trial? Know your eligibilityMeanwhile, Serum Institute of India which is producing the Oxford vaccine said it is ready to begin human trials in India this month and is hoping to have the AstraZeneca shot available by the year-end. The third vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D from Zydus Cadila, has begun clinical trials with the first human dosing and is likely to complete clinical trials in a few months, the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-gets-nod-for-skin-trial-latest-on-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate/story-ySvLrrFKzQceF6CTdOLuVK.html
23-08-2020||India||Demanding change in leadership and complete rehaul, top Congress leaders write to Sonia Gandhi||At least 23 senior leaders wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a complete rehaul of the organisation, The Indian Express reported on Sunday. It said the writers of the letter include former chief ministers such as Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan, former ministers Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor, and younger leaders such as Milind Deora and Jitin Prasada.HT had earlier reported that the letter was delivered to Gandhi on the Independence Day. The Express reported that the letter called for a “full time and effective leadership’’ which is both “visible’’ and “active’’. It said that the leaders, in the letter, pressed for an “urgent establishment of an institutional leadership mechanism” to “collectively guide the party’s revival’’.Former Rajya Sabha leader PJ Kurien confirmed the letter to HT. “I can’t tell you the details but I can only tell you that I signed it. The letter will be made available after the CWC meeting tomorrow,” he told HT. Also read: CWC crucial meet tomorrow, convincing Rahul Gandhi to return as party president on agendaThe letter now sets the stage for a stormy session of the Congress Working Committee on Monday. When former party spokesperson Sanjay Jha spoke of such a letter recently, the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, took to Twitter to rebut Jha, whose claim created a buzz in the Congress circles. He called it a ploy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divert attention from other issues.“Special Misinformation Group on Media-TV Debate Guidance in its Whatsapp of today directed to run the story of a non-existent letter of Congress leaders to divert attention from Facebook-BJP links. Of course, BJP stooges have started acting upon it,” Surjewala had tweeted.The letter, Express reported, didn’t name former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi but said that the uncertainty over the leadership demoralises the workers and has weakened the party.  Around 300 Congress leaders from all over the country, representing all regions and states are signatories to the letter, over and above the 23 seniors already in the public domain. Their names remain undisclosed as that would distract from the core message of the letter itself.“It is estimated that around 100 Congress leaders (including MP’s), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for a change in political leadership and transparent elections in the CWC. Watch this space,” Jha had tweeted.Senior Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor took to Twitter on Sunday and posted a cryptic tweet on loss of hope and lack of “passion and urge”. Tharoor posted a quote by former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru.  'Without passion and urge, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality, a settling down on lower levels of existence, a slow merging into non-existence. We have become prisoners of the past and some part of its immobility sticks to us'. ~ Jawaharlal Nehru“Without passion and urge, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality, a settling down on lower levels of existence, a slow merging into non-existence. We have become prisoners of the past and some part of its immobility sticks to us’. ~ Jawaharlal Nehru,” Tharoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demanding-change-in-leadership-and-complete-rehaul-top-congress-leaders-write-to-sonia-gandhi/story-6yfqM8tHiX6KmRblDjlVGO.html
23-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Digitisation of healthcare sector first step towards optimizing delivery and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus crisis: Digitising sector a step towards universal careWith Covid-19 cases in India crossing the 3 million mark on Saturday, scaling up the digital health ecosystem to improve access and quality of care is as critical as strengthening systems to optimize healthcare delivery. Read more here. What WHO says regarding children wearing masks against coronavirusThe World Health Organization (WHO) has updated its mask-wearing guidelines for children as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid19) continue to rise across the world. Read more here. IPL 2020: What’s happening inside T20 cricket’s confinement zone“Uncomfortable would be an understatement. It was very, very uncomfortable.” Robin Uthappa’s annoyance is clear as he links up on a video calling app from his room in Dubai’s One&Only Mirage Resort. Read more here. Look out for these toxic traits that can spoil a relationship’s happy endingFeel drained or unhappy after spending time with your partner? Look out for these red flags to see if you are in a toxic relationshipGreen glow around Mars to summertime on Saturn: 5 intriguing posts by NASAThe National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shared images and videos of our neighbouring planets and several galaxies which are millions of light years. Check out these breathtaking images. Gurugram: Section of under-construction flyover collapses, two injuredPart of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Gurugram on Saturday night. At least two people were injured in the accident which occurred at Sohna Road near Subhash Chowk. Watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-digitising-of-healthcare-sector-first-step-towards-optimizing-delivery-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ycCK52WSD1pVZwJ7HsHuzH.html
23-08-2020||India||Middlemen make money as workers from Bihar return to other states||Earlier this week, Dharmanand Das, 45, resident of Jokihat in Bihar’s Araria left for Punjab with a resolve to earn enough for his daughter’s marriage.“Here you can’t get a job, only assurances,” he said. “Even though we pay twice the fare to transporters carrying us to Punjab and Rajasthan, we are hopeful that we will earn more there.”Afroz Alam (40), of Kamaldaha village in Araria has a similar story. He too plans to get his daughter married with the money he would earn in Rajasthan. “I waited here for over two months but was unable to get any meaningful employment so I decided to leave for Rajasthan,” he said.Over 100 buses, each carrying 50-60 migrant labourers, have left from Araria for Punjab and Rajasthan in the last month.But the promised job and transportation comes with a price. “We have to give a fixed share of our daily income to the contractor (middleman) who is arranging jobs for us. Earlier also we used to pay a part of our income,” said Das.However, what is new this time is that during the initial days of lockdown, when employers from different states were providing free tickets to migrants, now those willing to go back have to cough extra money for tickets to these middlemen.Most of the people, who left from Araria, alleged that they have to pay Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 for a seat in the bus while earlier it was just Rs 1,500. “Earlier the bus charged a maximum of Rs 1,500 but after lockdown the same bus charges Rs 3,000 for a seat), Narayan Sada, of Dabhrha village under Araria sadar block said.“After lockdown we are charged by two agents - one transporters’ agent for a seat and the other by contractors of labourers for a job” Mangan Rishi, 40, of Palasi lamented.Reports from various corners of Seemanchal comprising four districts -Purnia, Kishanganj, Katihar and Araria - suggest that over 10,000 to 12,000 labourers have already left for Punjab and Rajasthan. A bus charges Rs 1, 50,000 for a trip and about 2 lakh is collected from migrant labourers.“contractors of the labourers pay for those who can’t pay, and later the money was collected from them in their work place,” Das alleged.Labourers also alleged that the work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme has sunk into corruption depriving them of their wages. “Everybody knows about the corruption but nobody comes forward to check it,” they said alleging “The work is done by JCB machines and wages sent to accounts of the labourers having labour cards and later they have to return the money to the contractors.”Kursakanta block development officer (BDO) Madhu Kumari denied there was corruption in providing jobs to labourers.“We are providing jobs to workers under various schemes under PM Garib Kalyan Yojna,” she said.She, however, added that the administration couldn’t stop anyone from going to other provinces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/middlemen-make-money-as-workers-from-bihar-return-to-other-states/story-ec7mIfteBIfB9vE5mjoxWJ.html
23-08-2020||India||Mask it: Makeup junkies say it with a trend||Makeup has almost always been a trendsetting artistic expression for many social causes. From the rainbow hued eyeshadows that support the Pride of LGBTQI+ to the animal prints that have many a times helped raise awareness against animal cruelty, there are examples aplenty to prove how crucial makeup artistry has been, since forever! And the newest trend is mask makeup, wherein makeup artists are drawing masks on their faces to encourage the masses to wear face masks in the Covid-19 era. “I was the first makeup artist to kick-start this trend of mask makeup in India,” claims Manjeet Khehra, a Bengaluru-based makeup artist and beauty expert. She adds that the reason behind her painting her face with a mask was to “salute everyone across the world, who have had to choicelessly wear masks to help fight this horrible virus, and to encourage more and more people to wear face masks, to respect the efforts of Covid-19 warriors.”Talking about how a makeup trend can act as a useful means to raise awareness, Khehra says, “The mask makeup trend is definitely one that can make an uncomfortable mask look trendy, and hence encourage people to wear it. Masks are in, masks are cool!” Among those who have taken a liking to this trend, since it has gone viral, is Divya Sharma. A Chhattisgarh-based makeup artist and vlogger, Sharma says, “I like this trend because it motivates people to wear masks, which is anyway a plus point. And not only that, mask is soon becoming a fashion statement, and it’s fun recreating and designing new mask patterns on the face!”And to add to this, “many youngsters take to social media to check out online tutorials and seek their next inspiration for #igotuplikethis look,” says Shivani Mehra, a makeup artists and beauty blogger, adding, “As a content creator, I feel like it’s our responsibility to stimulate good habits like wearing masks in public places! Taking up mask makeup challenge was fun, and I felt I’m able to help raise awareness for what the world is fighting. I believe I made a positive difference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mask-it-makeup-junkies-say-it-with-a-trend/story-98XRSpHwlFaPR090GULEpM.html
23-08-2020||India||With more than 900 deaths daily, India reports over 5,800 Covid-19 fatalities in a week||India’s death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surpassed 55,000 on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry’s data, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Delhi leading the rise in fatalities across the country.The country reported 5,814 deaths in a week from August 16 to August 22, with more than 900 people dying every 24 hours on average, according to the health ministry’s coronavirus tracker. There were 1,092 deaths on August 19.Covid-19 deaths in India, the third worst-hit nation in the world, topped 50,000 on August 17, five months after the country reported its first coronavirus fatality.Maharashtra has seen the most number of deaths due to the coronavirus disease as 21,698 people have died so far in the western state. While Tamil Nadu is next in the tally and has reported 6,340 deaths, Karnataka is the third state which has added to the country’s toll with 4,522 fatalities. In Delhi, there have been 4,270 deaths.The global death toll from the coronavirus disease surpassed 800,000 on Saturday, according to a Reuters tally, with the United States, Brazil and India leading the rise in fatalities. According to Reuters calculations based on data from the past two weeks that ended on Friday, nearly 5,900 people are dying every 24 hours from Covid-19 on average. That equates to 246 people per hour, or one person every 15 seconds, the agency said.The US death toll surpassed 170,000 on Sunday, the highest in the world. While the number of new cases is down from a peak in July, the country is still seeing over 360,000 new cases a week.India is only the third country, behind Brazil and the United States, to record more than 2 million infections. There were 2.97 million infections until Saturday morning, health ministry data showed. It has a relatively low case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.9%, compared to the world average of 3.5%, but that may be due to underreporting. CFR is the proportion of incident patients dying because of the disease or injury in a certain time window, which in India is lower than in several western countries. Case fatality rates are about 3% in the US and Brazil.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-more-than-900-deaths-daily-india-reports-over-5-800-covid-19-deaths-in-a-week/story-20r9ry2v9RdvMZgzxuocwI.html
23-08-2020||India||Dog who helped in Kerala landslide rescue ops finds new home||A dog, who helped in rescue operations at the landslide site in Kerala’s Idukki, has found a new home after the family that raised him died in the disaster earlier this month.A civil police officer Ajith Madhavan, who is also a trainer of police dog squad, has adopted Koovi. The dog had assisted the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) team deployed at the Rajamala landslide site in recovering the body of a two-year-old. The landslides triggered by heavy rainfall on August 7 have claimed at least 65 lives so far, according to news agency ANI. Three bodies were recovered on Thursday during a search operation using a radar system.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has assured help to the next of kin of the landslide victims. “We will build houses for them. The Kannan Devan Hill Plantation Limited, where they are working, has also promised to help,” said the CM adding the government will improve infrastructure in the area.Apart from the landslide in the southern state, heavy rains led to floods in a number of regions including Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and parts of Meghalaya in July; Mumbai, Konkan and Karnataka in the first week of August; and flash floods in parts of Rajasthan on August 15.According to a flood situation report dated August 12 by the ministry of home affairs’ disaster management division, 868 people have lost their lives to floods in 11 states, compared with 908 deaths in the same period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dog-who-helped-in-kerala-landslide-rescue-ops-finds-new-home/story-CEgJLhzkQW77i6IrD6ityH.html
23-08-2020||India||Will changing age of marriage help women?||In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about a committee deliberating on the minimum age of marriage for women. “We have formed a committee to ensure that the daughters are no longer suffering from malnutrition and they are married off at the right age. As soon as the report is submitted, appropriate decisions will be taken about the age of marriage of daughters,” he said.The PM was likely referring to a task force set up by a central government notification issued on June 4. The terms of reference of the task force require it to examine the correlation of health indicators such as infant and maternal mortality rates and nutrition with the age of marriage and motherhood. It has also been asked to suggest measures for promoting higher education among women. An HT analysis shows that motherhood increases the chances of nutrition-related deficiencies. However, marriage also has a deeper cultural and economic impact on the lives of women. The norms of marriage seem to matter more than the legal age of marriage for these effects. Marriage restricts women from seeking skilled employment and education way beyond the minimum age of marriage, and also affects their mobility. The minimum age of marriage for men and women in India is 21 and 18 years, respectively. According to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS) conducted in 2015-16, 58.8% of 20-49-year-old women were married by the age of 20, below the minimum age of marriage for men. The survey also shows that motherhood has an impact on the nutritional status of women. Fifty-eight percent breastfeeding women and 50% pregnant women were anaemic compared to 52% women who were neither pregnant nor breastfeeding. This suggests that while nutritional status improves slightly during pregnancy, it actually becomes worse during childcare. Also read: ‘1 in every 5 girls in UP is a child bride’However, malnutrition among Indian women is generally high. In the reproductive age group (15-49 years), 22.9% of Indian women are underweight (those with body mass index less than 18.5) compared to 20.2% men; and 53.1% women are anaemic compared to 22.7% men. Indian women are also worse off than their peers globally. According to the 2020 ‘The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World’ report of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) released earlier this year, the share of reproductive age women in India who were anaemic was 51.4% in 2016. The share was 39.9% for Bangladesh, 48.7% for Southern Asia (including India), and 43% for lower-middle-income countries (including India). According to the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) conducted in countries across the world, the share of women who are underweight is also higher in India and decreasing slowly. In 1998-99, the share of such women was 36.3% in India, much lower than in Bangladesh at the time (45.4%). This share dropped to 18.6% in Bangladesh in 2014, but was at 22.9% in India in 2015-16.These statistics highlight the urgent need for addressing women’s nutrition in India. The focus of such an effort has to be on younger women, as they suffer more from malnutrition. The share of anaemic women was 54.1% among 15-19 year old women and about a percentage point lower in each subsequent 10-year age group, according to the latest NFHS. The share of underweight women was 41.9% in the 15-19 age group and 25% or lower in the subsequent 10-year age groups. Addressing malnutrition among women will need the government to spend money, as it is the poorest women who suffer the most from malnutrition. Women from the bottom 20% households were three times as likely to be underweight as those from the top 20% and 1.2 times more likely to be anaemic, according to the latest NFHS. However, budgetary allocation under the biggest nutrition scheme of the government – the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) – whose beneficiaries are children in the 0-6 age group, pregnant, and lactating women has been falling as a share of total budget expenditure. The amount of expenditure under the Anganwadi Scheme (or core ICDS) has also declined in real terms compared to 2014-15. In 2019-20; the real expenditure under the scheme was 86% of the amount in 2014-15. Some of this gap has been filled by more money being pumped into a maternity benefit programme from 2017-18. However, accounting for this too only brings the 2019-20 real expenditure under nutrition-related schemes of the umbrella ICDS to the 2014-15 levels. The real expenditure under these schemes for 2020-21 cannot be calculated because annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) figures for this fiscal year will be available only at the end of it.   The minimum age of marriage may have an impact on women to the extent that motherhood affects their nutritional status. The task force’s findings on this aspect will be useful. However, marriage also has an adverse cultural and economic impact on the lives of women that has little to do with the minimum age of marriage. For instance, contrary to popular belief, in the 15-17 and 18-20 age groups, married women are more likely to participate in the labour force -- number of people who are either working or looking for work -- than unmarried women, according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted in 2018-19. It is in the older age groups that unmarried women are more likely than married women to participate in the labour force. To be sure, this doesn’t mean that it is good for younger women to be married just because marriage is positively correlated with labour force participation in those age groups. Experts say that participating in the labour force at an early age implies that the work is going to be of unskilled or semi-skilled nature. It is possibly because married women primarily do unskilled and semi-skilled work that the labour force participation rate (LFPR) is higher among married women in younger age groups. These statistics, therefore, highlight a more urgent need to address the norms surrounding marriage than the minimum age for marriage.  “The real question is about decoupling marriage norms from entering the labour force,” said Neelanjan Sircar, assistant professor, Ashoka University, and visiting senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research. “What we do know is that as women get married, there is a consequence in terms of what is expected of them at home. So, the big challenge that we have is women are restricted in how far they are able to go from their home and the hours for which they are able stay out of home. So agricultural labour is fine, but being in a full-time job an hour away is difficult,” he added.In an article published in this newspaper in September 2018, Jayati Ghosh, professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University had highlighted one of these aspects. The article argued that if a women’s unpaid domestic work is recognized, the share of workers among women is higher than among men. The PLFS data shows that marriage is to blame for pushing women into domestic work. Marriage doesn’t prevent younger women from seeking unskilled work, but it does affect their prospects of pursuing education. Ninety-five percent married women (including those who were widowed, separated or divorced at the time of the survey) in the 18-20 age group, for instance, were engaged in some kind of domestic work if they were not looking for work, according to the PLFS conducted in 2018-19. In the same age group, only a third of those who were never married were engaged in domestic work if not looking for work. The remaining two-thirds women were studying. To be sure, even among unmarried women, the share of those doing domestic work increases with age. This comes closer to the share among married women in higher age groups.  The 2015-16 NFHS report further shows that trends in education and employment are influenced by cultural norms around marriage. A quarter of men, for instance, said decisions about visits to wife’s family or relatives are made mainly by the husband, compared to 7% who said the decision is mainly made by the wife. 16% men similarly said husbands are justified in beating their wife if they go out without telling him. This sentiment was also shared by 26% women respondents. Ghosh said the government’s move addresses a side issue rather than the actual needs of women. “It just involves another law and creating a criminality where there is none. What we need to do for women is very well known. We need to make sure they get adequate nutrition; we need to make sure they get through the 12 years of schooling; and we need to make sure that marriage is not made the only important thing in a woman’s life. This, of course, would involve much more work on the part of the government,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-changing-age-of-marriage-help-women/story-HjwRZpu30ESfYlu7SybGtO.html
23-08-2020||India||At Sushant’s Mumbai residence, CBI recreates sequence of events||A team of Central Bureau of Investigation officials, along with forensic experts, visited the house of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Bandra on Saturday to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead on June 14, people familiar with the developments said. The team, which was accompanies by Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh and roommate Siddharth Pithani, spent more than five hours in the actor’s flat, the people added. The three were present in the flat when Rajput was found hanging in his room. The team first went to the building’s terrace and then entered the flat. From outside, they were seen clicking pictures of the bedroom and shooting video. The CBI team was investigating whether suicide was possible at the spot, said the official quoted above. Earlier in the day, CBI officials visited Cooper Hospital at 11 am to meet the doctors who conducted the autopsy. On Friday, investigators hadquestioned Neeraj Singh, the actor’s cook at the DRDO’s guest house in Mumbai. Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda was questioned in the guest house of a private company at Marol in Andheri. The CBI team also collected documents from Mumbai police including forensic report, post mortem report, statements of more than 60 people that Mumbai police has recorded in the case, and other material evidence, a police official said. The team als o collected the three mobile phones that Rajput used, his laptop, clothes, blanket, bedsheets, a green kurta, a glass used to drink juice and CCTV footage of his house and building. On Wednesday, the SC allowed the CBI to continue with its probe into the case filed against actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-sushant-s-mumbai-residence-cbi-recreates-sequence-of-events/story-RKZLmMfuQSgH4DiVLAgPaI.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Not just my father, he was India’s son’, writes Sonali Jaitley||On the morning of 15th August, I watched as the Prime Minister spoke of the government’s efforts to provide affordable sanitary napkins, emphasising the importance of women’s health in his Independence Day speech. It was inspiring to see our country’s top leader speak freely about these issues, and attempt to make them mainstream in public discussion.I continued to ponder over progressive thinking, and it struck me — it’s been almost a year since we lost dad. Whether it was his lifelong support for implementation of a Uniform Civil Code, staunch opposition to regressive personal laws or exemplary foresight of the importance of skilling youth — he was undoubtedly the most visionary figure I knew. You see, the world already knows of Arun Jaitley’s professional prowess. We know how he spoke, we know how he acted. I thus do not wish to eulogise him today, but to simply remember what made him, him. And as the memories begin to flow, I write not of the astute politician or lawyer — I write of the man who was my father… He was forged in fire as a young man, imprisoned in 1975 as an ABVP karyakarta for protesting against the Emergency imposed by Indira Gandhi. This stint in prison stayed with him forever, permanently impacting his health. However, it never dented his spirit — instead giving him a steely resolve and an iron will. Many friends he made in jail remained close to him till the end.Also read: In Arun Jaitley’s death, nation loses a brilliant strategist in public lifeWhen I was young, he attended every annual day and parent-teacher interaction at school. This was all the more special because he was at the time a party worker, lawyer as well as India’s ASG (also tasked with investigating the Bofors scam). Though the country always came first, he never neglected his family. Festivals, birthdays, other essential engagements — he was there every time. Though at the time a senior minister in the Modi government, he made time to personally make all the arrangements for my wedding! A firm believer in family values, he talked of how elders had made us what we were. As a society, it was thus our duty to be there for them and give them their due. True to this ethos, he introduced several benefits in the 2018 budget such as hiking the exemption limit on income from interest for senior citizens by five times. He made it a point to never miss important occasions such as weddings or funerals of friends and associates, no matter how busy he was. This was true to the extent that even if there was something going on at our home, he’d still go for a bit.One of dad’s interesting qualities was that he never forgot a face. He’d remember everything about you, whether you met him the next day or 20 years later! Also read: Arun Jaitley’s death marks end of an era of a reporter’s politicianHe cared deeply for his employees, holding their dedicated service equally responsible for his success. As a senior advocate, he created the Arun Jaitley Clerkage Account to cater to their needs. Through this, he paid for the education of their children, which he undoubtedly regarded as crucial to success. Some of his staff members’ children went to school with me, and many are today successful professionals — having studied in reputed institutions such as New York University and Newcastle University. With great delight, dad would often speak of their success — he even checked up on these young men and women whenever he travelled to their cities. By the way, this clerkage account’s role didn’t end here. It also paid for his staff’s houses and children’s weddings (Now don’t ask if dad attended, you know the answer!). All my life, he made sure I took whatever I got without expecting favours. When I began travelling for basketball tournaments, he instilled in me the value of team spirit. Whether it was travelling by second-class trains or eating bad food — I was told to stick with my team without complaining! These values were instilled in me for every activity I did, and they guide me well today. And when it came down to it, dad practised what he preached. At every party working committee meet over the years, he always stayed in the accommodation given by the party, though he could’ve easily afforded a five-star hotel. This was despite the health issues he faced later in his life. However, he certainly preferred good old Indian food and always tried to have some wherever he travelled — be it France, America or Mexico. When I opened my law firm, he could have gotten me many clients. But Arun Jaitley did not disappoint! He said: ‘I helped you with an office, but don’t expect anything else from me… including clients! If you depend on me, what will happen when I’m not around?’ However, I must add that dad showed us both sides of the world — the fancy and the simple. We’ve eaten at the best restaurants, but the meals I’ve loved most were those of roti sabzi, sitting at home as a family. He gave us all the luxuries he could. Our family went on some amazing holidays. I’ve watched Wimbledon live, including a heated Federer-Nadal encounter at Centre Court! I’ve also witnessed some memorable cricket matches at stadiums. But honestly, nothing beat sitting on our living room sofa and fervently cheering for Sachin during India-Pakistan matches! One might inquire: ‘Sonali, everyone thinks their father is amazing. What made yours so unique?’ My answer: It’s not what he did, it’s how he did it. Dad went about tasks in a way that often left newcomers in disbelief. He could literally do 10 things at the same time! Example? His evening routine: Dinner, phone calls, replying to messages, watching the news, having his secretary tell him the next day’s schedule… all at the same time. I’d say his top three TV preferences were cricket, news and old Bollywood songs.I’ve seen dad churn out some of his best articles while in boisterous conversation with guests and clients. If I pointed them out to you today and told you the environment in which they were written, you probably wouldn’t believe me. Such was the agility of his mind! Dad was not a career politician — he was first a brilliant lawyer. His secretary once asked him why he entered politics when he could’ve raked in millions through his practice. He just smiled and said: ‘Law is my profession, Politics is my passion!’ It was this passion that gave my father the rare ability to be equally comfortable with both prominent public figures, as well as ordinary people in remote villages of India. Political differences never came in the way, for him friendship was paramount, and cut sharply across ideological lines. He was often known as the ‘Spirit of the Central Hall of Parliament’ — for there, he used to sit and eloquently regale everyone (regardless of party) with interesting observations and anecdotes. This camaraderie combined with keen negotiation skills (honed through his years of legal practice) enabled him to unite opposing blocs — aptly earning him the sobriquet ‘Troubleshooter of the Party’.A great instance of this troubleshooting was the passage of the GST Bill, which took all his consensus-building talents to ensure full acceptance by all the parties involved.Though in my eyes, an event 17 years ago really tested dad’s diplomatic skills and brought them to the forefront — the WTO Cancún Ministerial Conference, 2003. An incident during this conference was quite unforgettable: Around 100 countries had formed a coalition for some issues at Cancún. However, word soon spread that a key country was planning to opt out of this coalition. Then, dad got into action and quickly called a press conference — where he ensured that this country’s delegate was put in the media spotlight. Thoroughly basking in the attention, the delegate quickly dropped the idea of leaving. This was not the only tour de force he pulled off at Cancún. As minister of commerce and industries, he took on developed countries with determination to protect India’s interests. Soon after, developing countries in WTO started to grow increasingly influential on matters of trade, agriculture and investment! Dad believed in giving back & helping others, no matter when or where. One of his most powerful quotes is still with me — ‘It is easy to be a politician, but a leader is one who nurtures talent and creates future leaders’. Many astute politicians today regard him as an inspiration and guru-like figure. This makes me proud, as he succeeded in doing what he always believed in. As a three-time MP from Gujarat, dad was always concerned for the state’s wellbeing. In 2014, he adopted the villages of Karnali, Pipaliya, Vadiya and Baglipura under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna. Over time, he worked to understand the issues faced by these villages, and subsequently transformed them. He built a bridge, a four-lane ring road, toilets in every household, installed solar lights and made a science lab for rural students — among many other reforms he introduced there. Apart from these, he brought about significant changes in the fields closest to his heart: health, education and cleanliness. But as I remember all he did, I must mention a regret dad had. He always wanted to hold the portfolio of health minister — and contribute to making healthcare affordable and accessible (Though I’m certain he’d be proud of all that Ayushman Bharat has achieved in that regard). Lifelong, he held that our country’s doctors and nurses were the best. When advised to travel to Singapore for a kidney transplant, he didn’t — trusting Indian doctors more. Dad’s admiration for medical staff and health workers was tremendous, strengthened by his personal interactions. He often said doctors must be respected outright, for they gave it their all to save us. While in the hospital, he expressed sadness at how doctors were treated — as he often came across newspaper reports on violence against medical professionals. He told me that when better, he’d surely pursue legal measures to ensure their safety. Sadly, that did not come to pass. In April ’20, PM Shri Narendra Modi ji’s government approved an ordinance to ensure stricter punishment for violence against health workers. This would certainly have made dad very, very happy! The Kashmir issue too was close to his heart, especially since he shared a deep and personal connection to the land. Article 370, he believed, was an impediment to progress. In his last months, he regularly studied J&K’s constitution to figure out the perfect legal strategy to deal with Article 370. And along with Narendra Modi ji & Amit Shah ji, history was made with its abrogation in August ’19! The region is now steadily on its way to becoming an education and investment hub, and I’m sure this is just the beginning! Dad had a truly outstanding vision for this country, and though he will not be there to witness its fruition, I hope to be there to witness it for him. He wanted India to be equitable and just, with opportunities in health, service and education for all. He wanted the youth to stand up and get involved, just like he did almost half a century ago. Let us aspire to take his vision forward, and never stop trying to bring about change. As I end, saying that only I miss him would be wrong — there are many across this great nation who do... For Arun Jaitley wasn’t just my father, he was India’s son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arun-jaitley-death-anniversary-not-just-my-father-he-was-india-s-son-writes-sonali-jaitley/story-m2kPfiAg5q2yrNRbEqFXFP.html
23-08-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Digitising sector a step towards universal care||With Covid-19 cases in India crossing the 3 million mark on Saturday, scaling up the digital health ecosystem to improve access and quality of care is as critical as strengthening systems to optimize healthcare delivery.“India’s response strategy remains the same. Our focus is on trying to bring down mortality to less than 1%. To do that, we will continue with... the test, trace, track and treat strategy and an aggressive vaccination strategy to prevent infection...,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.Experts agree that India’s case count is bound to increase over the next few months, given its 1.3 billion population, and the way forward remains diagnosis, containment, and treatment. “No new response is needed beyond trace, test, isolate and treat [strategy],” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.Also read | Covid-19: A testing primerThe health system strengthening as part of India’s Covid-19 response will be further boosted by the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day. Pilots have rolled out in the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. “The NDHM aims to create a digital health ecosystem that encompasses private and public health systems to deliver improved healthcare services across the country in a highly inclusive, equitable, and secure manner. The systems built are completely digital, patient-friendly, and totally interoperable,” said Vardhan.The four key components of NDHM are national health identity, personal health records, Digi-Doctor, and health facility registry. “Every Indian who wishes to participate has to create a unique Health ID, which will be valid across states, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories, and pharmacies, and will be linked for seamless flow of health information. All digital health records issued will be automatically-linked to the respective Health IDs,” he said.Health records, both legacy and new, will be accessible electronically only with the consent of the patient. This framework will create a longitudinal health track of every patient to assist the clinician in decision-making and give patients access and control of their health data.Also read: Want to enrol in a vaccine trial? Know your eligibilityIn a move to increase access, transparency, and accountability, the system has the Digi-Doctor option. The option allows doctors from modern and AYUSH systems of medicine from across the country to register, get authenticated, share data on a web portal, and to write prescriptions with digital signatures.NDHM will next be scaled up to take e-pharmacy and telemedicine services to all states.The health facility registry component in NDHM will be a certified and standardised repository of all health facilities in the country, including hospitals, medical colleges, diagnostic labs, pharmacies, and health and wellness centres to ensure the quality of care through regular audits, tracking outcomes and collecting feedback.“The registry will be centrally maintained, and will store and facilitate the exchange of standardized data of both public and private health facilities in the country,” said Vardhan.“All products have been built with the highest standards of security checks. The applications are hosted on a highly secure Government Community Cloud. Access to the cloud is restricted with permissions, and an advanced level of security is implemented. All applications, as well as infrastructure, go through rigorous security audit before utilization over the public domain,” said Vardhan. Additionally, individuals can choose where to keep their data. “There is no mandate to keep data on Government servers only,” said Vardhan. Patients also have the option of choosing the time period for which they want to grant consent.NDHM will take India another step closer to universal health care. India’s public health expenditure is 1.28% of its GDP, with per capita public health expenditure being ~1,657 in 2017-18. For people living in rural areas completely dependent on government hospitals and clinics, the government allopathic doctor-patient ratio is 1:10,926, according to the National Health Profile 2019, leading to inequities in access.Mainstreaming digital health and telemedicine is the most transformative in healthcare delivery post-Covid-19, but it cannot replace a strong primary health system and connectivity. For that, we need motivated healthcare workers and an enabling infrastructure, which must be equally high on the government’s priority list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-crisis-digitising-sector-a-step-towards-universal-care/story-Wyw4vNMxYp0C8tJ1WtPeZP.html
23-08-2020||India||Want to enrol in a vaccine trial? Know your eligibility||A televised advertisement led to about 1,000 people volunteering at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to participate in human trials of the first vaccine being indigenously developed, signifying the beginning of a careful process to handpick participants for such studies that are pivotal in the future of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.There are currently three Covid-19 vaccines at various stages of development in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on August 15 that along with a plan for mass production, the road map for distribution of vaccines to every Indian was in place.The three vaccine candidates approved for conducting various stages of human trials by the central drugs controller are Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s vaccine. Also read | Covid-19: A testing primer“We needed 100 volunteers but the phone number that we had advertised would not stop ringing. People were even sending requests through WhatsApp texts, which was apart from hundreds of emails that the hospital received from volunteers who wanted to participate in the trial. But we had to stop after a while because even after keeping extra numbers as buffer, the applications overshot the requirement,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, AIIMS, Delhi. He is one of the principal investigators of the human trial of one of the vaccines.Any healthy Indian adult can apply to participate in a Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial provided certain conditions are met. “The age group of the study participants is what is looked at first; the participants need to be ideally between 18 and 55 years of age. The next important criterion is that the prospective participants should not be suffering from any medical condition such as high blood pressure, diabetes, etc. They have to be absolutely healthy volunteers,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). ICMR is also supporting the Covid-19 vaccine projects.There are many ways that can be used to publicise the enrolment process for trials, including advertising through print and electronic media, institutional or other websites, etc. Institutes that participate in the trials usually take a call on which medium to pick. “How these centres that are chosen to conduct the study select their study participants is purely their call to take. Normally, contact details are advertised through newspapers, television, websites, etc, but is decided locally,” said Dr Srivastava.There is a window for the volunteers to apply. “Among the applications received, the selection is usually on first-come-first-served basis; like first 100 applications that fulfil the basic criteria will be short-listed, and invited, for the initial screening process. And if any of those fail, then others in the list are invited,” said Dr Rai.Normally, about 25-30% applications are kept aside as buffer. Once basic screening is done, the participants are made to undergo a battery of tests that first begin with checking their Covid-19 status.“A swab sample is taken to run a real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) which is important to know whether they are infected or not. We have to look for participants who are neither currently infected nor have been infected in the past,” said Dr Rai.Apart from nasopharyngeal swabs to run the rRT-PCR test, blood samples are also collected to check for possibly existing antibodies and other health statistics of trial participants.“The blood test is to confirm whether the participant has antibodies against the virus in question as it would tell whether the volunteer has been infected at any point in the past without knowing it. For the trials, they need a participant who is not exposed to the virus in the first place, apart from them having to be free of any other disease. The tests are done for viral markers and blood parameters,” said Dr Navin Dang, owner, Dr Dangs Lab. His lab has been selected to conduct a part of the testing for one of the three vaccine trials.The panel of blood tests for screening is to determine blood sugar levels, liver and kidney functions, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C, HIV, blood count, etc. If any volunteer shows past infection or any other infection or unsatisfactory blood parameters, then they are not involved in the trial. “The panel of tests is done on Day 1 and then repeated periodically, say on Day 15, Day 28, etc, to check the changes that may develop as an after-effect of vaccine administration. The candidates are tracked not just till the trial period, but for a few months after the trial gets over,” said Dr Dang.Those who are not eligible include people with acute illnesses with or without fever at the time of experimental vaccine administration, history of laboratory-confirmed Covid-19, history of severe allergic reactions after previous vaccinations or hypersensitivity to any component of study vaccines, any confirmed or suspected condition with impaired/altered function of immune system, and pregnant women.No money is given to participants except for compensation in case of an injury or adverse reaction with the vaccine candidate. “The volunteers are not paid but there is a provision for providing compensation based on the damage or injury,” said Dr Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-enrol-in-a-vaccine-trial-know-your-eligibility/story-b947WXXQZ0qtPYDGby2E8M.html
23-08-2020||India||Fire in polymer unit warehouse in Telangana, no injuries||A major fire broke out at a polymer unit in Bonthapally Industrial area of neighbouring Sangareddy district on Saturday night, Fire Department officials said. No casualty was reported in the incident. As per the available information, it is suspected that the fire started in godown of the unit and the drums containing solvents started exploding one after another and the fire spread rapidly, they said. Seven fire tenders, including two from the Dundigal Airforce Academy, were pressed into service to extinguish the flames, a Fire Department official told PTI, adding the blaze has been brought under control. Thick black smoke emanated from the area, he said. “The intensity of the fire has been reduced... there is no human loss or injury to anyone. No one was there in the unit at the time of the incident,” the official said. The shed collapsed after the drums exploded, the official added. On August 21, a major fire broke out in the Srisailam hydroelectric power plant located on the Telangana side of the border with Andhra Pradesh leaving nine people dead, most of them engineers, and three seriously injured. PTI VVK CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-in-polymer-unit-warehouse-in-telangana-no-injuries/story-0PZxTv4yCj1kdeqYaQtl2L.html
23-08-2020||India||Where does Dawood Ibrahim live in Karachi? Pakistan has three addresses||Three addresses in Pakistan’s Karachi city are in focus following Islamabad’s tacit acknowledgement that the United Nations designated global terrorist and the main accused in 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts, Dawood Ibrahim, could be having multiple residences in the Pakistani port city apart from being in possession of at least one Pakistani passport.The admission by Pakistan has come after years in denial of India’s assertion that it was actively involved in sheltering one of the most wanted fugitives from Indian justice system. The implicit admission has now come in the form of an official order that sanctions 88 individuals and several organizations in Pakistan involved in terrorism and terror financing ahead of a review of Pakistan’s compliance with international rules against money laundering and terror financing networks by FATF, the international watchdog.The Pakistan government document lists White House, Karachi as one of Dawood’s three addresses in the city of Karachi, long suspected to be Dawood’s base. The document also lists the other two addresses- House Number 37 - 30th Street - defence, Housing Authority Karachi, Pakistan and a “Palatial bungalow” in the hilly area of Noorbad, Karachi.It is for the first time that Pakistan has admitted the presence of the underworld don in the country. In 2003, the US declared Ibrahim as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. The UN and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the US treasury department have listed Karachi as Dawood’s residence for years and dossiers have been given to Pakistan in the past requesting action against his interests and network, but without luck.In March 2010, the 1267 Committee (the al Qaeda Sanctions Committee) listed four addresses for Ibrahim in a statement: “a) Karachi/Pakistan, White House, Near Saudi Mosque, Clifton b) House Nu 37 - 30th Street - defence, Housing Authority Karachi Pakistan c) Palatial bungalow in the hilly area of Noorabad in Karachi d) Property at Margalla Raod F 6/2 Street no. 22, House number 29 in Karachi.”According to counter terror operatives based in New Delhi and Mumbai, who were quoted in a Hindustan Times report earlier this year, Dawood has been living in Karachi under the protection of the state. Not just that, he also has three-bullet proof cars in his convoy and often travels to Islamabad.Also Read: Pakistan mentions Dawood Ibrahim’s Karachi addresses in sanctions documentThe UN statement also lists his latest passport as being issued in Rwalpindi, the twin city of Islamabad where the army headquarters are based. He used to carry Indian and UAE passports in the 1980s and early 1990s. The UN documents are in the public domain. The Pakistan government document reportedly also refers to the passports issued to Dawood from Rawalpindi and Karachi offices.Bharatiya Janata Party national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain on Saturday said that Pakistan should hand over Dawood Ibrahim to India.Speaking to ANI, Hussain said, “Pakistan knew that it had given shelter to Dawood Ibrahim. His children were married to a famous Pakistani cricketer. Every person in Pakistan knew that he lives in Karachi. However, till date Pakistan did not accept it. Now Pakistan should immediately hand over Dawood Ibrahim to India. Because he is the most wanted in India.”He said that he is still involved in crime in India and even today many crimes are done in India through Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-does-dawood-ibrahim-live-in-karachi-pakistan-has-three-addresses/story-yQQycwMwEOePyQSc6PluZI.html
23-08-2020||India||Private school ousts 120 students over fee||Around 120 students of KR Mangalam World School in Greater Kailash II have been served with termination notices over “deliberate and persistent non-payment of fee and arrears of fee”, school officials said. While the school maintains that around 120 students have been served with the termination notices, the school’s parents’ association said the number is 137. A group of parents and the school have been involved in a court case over increased fee since May 2019. As per a Delhi high court order dated July 21 in the matter, parents were directed to deposit the fee and arrears within 28 days, the school said. In a copy of the termination notice sent to the parents, the school said, “Almost six months have passed since the date of the first order dated February 19 whereby you were directed to pay the fees as per the current rates, but you have not cared to clear the same. It is a classic example of your seeking to misuse the present pandemic situation, wherein you deserve none of its benefits and have not been affected by it at all.” A parent, whose children’s names have been struck off from the school rolls, said, “Parents are willing to pay the fee (old) but they have missed the deadline due to various reasons and they can be given a grace period of a few days instead of just striking off their child’s name.” “The school has only allowed payment through demand drafts or cheques which further limits the option for parents. We were allowed to pay through PayTM but that shows the hiked fee and not the old fee,” he added The outstanding arrears for last year were submitted to the school but they didn’t encash it as they wanted the hiked fee,” claimed the parent.School principal Sangeeta Arora said, “Names of defaulters, who have been avoiding payment of school fee despite the honourable high court’s directions in February 2020, March 2020 (twice) and July 2020, have been struck off in accordance with the Delhi School Education Rules.”In an email to the Directorate of Education on Saturday, the parents’ association said many students had their examinations from Monday and requested that the termination notices be withdrawn.“We are examining the matter and have asked the school not to expel the students and postpone the exams for at least 15 days. Within a day or two, we will come out with a solution to the matter,” said director, education, Udit Prakash Rai.Kamal Gupta, counsel for the school in the matter, said, “A small group of parents, despite repeated requests and reminders and court orders, did not pay the school fee for the entire last year 2019-20 and did not pay towards even tuition for the last five months from April 2020 till date. This is in defiance and non-compliance of the orders passed by the high court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-school-ousts-120-students-over-fee/story-yIOjAw9VcJ5P02oD1g7TXI.html
23-08-2020||India||Testing times ahead as NTA gears up to hold key entrance exams amid Covid||New Delhi: The National Testing Agency has geared up to hold key examinations in September amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic even as clamour grows for the deferment of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Main).The agency, which is responsible for conducting entrance examinations for higher educational institutions, is slated to hold the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) from September 6 to 11. The test is for candidates seeking admissions to undergraduate, post-graduate, MPhil and PhD courses offered by the University of Delhi. The NTA also plans to hold entrance exams to undergraduate programme of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) from September 7 and 8.From September 16 to 18 and again from September 21 to 25, the agency is scheduled to oversee the UGC-NET examination, which is a national-level exam conducted to select candidates for the post of assistant professor or/and both junior research fellowship in universities and colleges. While the NEET and JEE register at least 2.5 million candidates on an average, the other tests the NTA is scheduled to hold in the coming months also see participation from hundreds of thousands of candidates. Meanwhile, political leaders continued to express concern over holding exams during the pandemic. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday sought cancellation of the NEET and JEE on account of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The government is playing with lives of lakhs of students in name of JEE and NEET. I appeal Centre govt to immediately cancel both exams and adopt an alternative admission process,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-times-ahead-as-nta-gears-up-to-hold-key-entrance-exams-amid-covid/story-TpoFlfvbQXfmDVGkaPWOtK.html
23-08-2020||India||India rejects reference to J&K in China-Pak joint statement||New Delhi India rejected on Saturday a reference to Jammu and Kashmir in a joint statement issued by China and Pakistan, saying it was tantamount to interference in the country’s internal affairs. After Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi briefed his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi of Islamabad’s views on the situation in the Union territory of India during talks on Friday, the joint statement said China opposes any “unilateral” actions that complicate the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the joint statement, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “As in the past, we categorically reject the reference to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the joint press release of the 2nd round of China-Pakistan foreign ministers’ strategic dialogue. “The Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India and we expect the parties concerned to not to interfere in matters that are internal affairs of India.” Srivastava also reiterated India’s opposition to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which is a key component of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). “At the same time we also reiterate our consistent position on the so-called ‘China-Pakistan Economic Corridor’. India has repeatedly conveyed its concerns to both China and to Pakistan on the projects in [the] so-called China Pakistan Economic Corridor, which are in the territory of India that has been illegally occupied by Pakistan,” he said. “We resolutely oppose actions by other countries that change the status quo in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir and call on the parties concerned to cease such actions,” he added. The Kashmir issue figured in the second strategic dialogue of the Chinese and Pakistani foreign ministers in the southern province of Hainan on Friday. Qureshi arrived in China on Thursday for the talks against the backdrop of the dragging India-China border standoff. “The Pakistani side briefed the Chinese side on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues,” said the joint statement issued at the end of the two-day strategic dialogue. “The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation,” the joint statement added. China and Pakistan backed a “peaceful, stable, cooperative and prosperous South Asia” and the joint statement further said: “Parties need to settle disputes and issues in the region through dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect.” Beijing had adopted issued a similar position immediately after New Delhi scrapped Kashmir’s special status in August last year. Since then, China has also sought to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council on Pakistan’s behalf several times, but without much success. In a recorded message addressed to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi, Chinese President Xi Jinping had on Friday described CPEC as “a landmark project” under BRI, and said it is of “great importance to promoting in-depth development of the China-Pakistan all-weather strategic cooperative partnership”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-reference-to-j-k-in-china-pak-joint-statement/story-wFD2QSy9weCZ3seNd4PsuJ.html
23-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh, Ajit Doval and military top brass security meet focuses on LAC situation||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval and the military’s top brass on Saturday met for a security review during which they also deliberated on the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese forces have been locked in a standoff for more than three months and the disengagement process has hit a roadblock, people familiar with the developments said. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, air force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh attended the meeting that took place two days after diplomatic talks between the two nuclear-armed countries on the border issue, the officials said, asking not to be named. Details of the discussions were not immediately known. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks on Thursday, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. The top-level security review also came a day after the army’s top commanders discussed the security situation at the northern and western borders.“A meeting of the Army Commanders was conducted on 20-21 August 2020 to review the security situation and operational preparedness on both the Northern and Western Fronts,” the army tweeted on Saturday. The army is preparing for a long haul in the Ladakh sector, stretching through the harsh winters. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock, the officials said. The August 20 WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. This was the body’s fifth virtual meeting since the Ladakh standoff emerged in the open in May. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-meet-focuses-on-lac-situation/story-SGZLVHCMRZgwm5hEAyRyoL.html
23-08-2020||India||BSF shoots downfive Pak intruders||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead five Pakistani intruders in self defence after the infiltrators opened fire on the Indian troopers along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early on Saturday morning, senior officials of the force said. Ammunition and drugs were recovered during a search operation at the site, which falls under the Dal border outpost in the district. One AK-47 assault rifle with two magazines and 27 live rounds, four .9mm Berretta pistols with seven magazines and 109 live rounds, 9kg heroin, two mobile phones and Rs 610 in Pakistani currency were recovered from the infiltrators, a BSF spokesperson said. According to senior officials aware of the developments, troopers of BSF’s 103rd battalion first noticed the movement of two infiltrators who were trying to take cover under paddy crop near the border around 11:30pm on Friday night. “When the troops checked the suspected movement in the cameras installed at the border, they found that there were five suspects,” said BSF’s inspector general (IG), Punjab Frontier, Mahipal Yadav. Following this, a surveillance operation was launched around 5am and the area was cordoned off. The “Pakistani armed” intruders were then asked to stop and surrender, but instead they opened fire at the BSF personnel, he said, adding that Indian troops retaliated in “self defence” Punjab shares a 553km frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat -- which together constitute the remaining part of the International Border. According to the IG, prima facie, it appears the five men were trying to infiltrate as they were carrying arms and drugs, but their exact motive will be ascertained by the Punjab Police during their investigation. The mobile phones recovered by the intruders could contain vital information, Yadav said. Yadav added that the BSF is likely to lodge a “strong protest” with Pakistan Rangers – deployed along the other side of the border -- and ask them to keep vigil. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruman H Nimbale said a case has been registered against the five unidentified intruders under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act , Indian Passport Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS Act at the Khalra police station in the district. The Dal outpost is located in the Khalra border region in the district. The bodies of the five men have been handed over to district police officials for identification and further investigation. No documents were recovered from their possession. Protocol states that after getting the post-mortem of the suspects, Tarn Taran police will hand over the bodies back to the BSF, which will then ask Pakistani Rangers to claim them. The paramilitary force seized over 356kg heroin and 25 illegal weapons so far this year, officials said.  Punjab Police had said in October last year that some Pakistani miscreants had attempted to use drones to smuggle weapons into India along the Khalra border. This was disclosed by the police after they busted a Pakistan-backed Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terrorist module in October 2019 with the arrest of four persons from Tarn Taran’s Chohla Sahib village. The police recovered two drones from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-shoots-downfive-pak-intruders/story-ZQIwpEi8jvruNfDrla4v3K.html
23-08-2020||India||50kg ovarian tumour removed from woman’s body at Delhi hospital||A 52-year-old woman from Delhi who had an unexplained gain in weight over the past few months was found to have a 50kg ovarian tumour, which accounted for close to half her body weight of 106kg. The tumour was surgically removed at a leading private hospital in Delhi. Post-surgery, the woman’s weight has dropped to 56kg. She has recovered from the complicated surgery and is set to be discharged from hospital on August 22. The woman, who prefers to remain unnamed in this report, had the tumour removed in a three-and-a-half-hour surgery at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. The team of surgeons said it was the largest ovarian tumour ever to be operated in the world, with the previous biggest reported from Coimbatore where a woman was operated for a 34kg tumour in her ovary in 2017. The Delhi patient began gaining weight rapidly over the past few months, which led to her experiencing breathlessness and acute pain in her lower abdomen that caused difficulties in walking and sleeping. When the rapid weight gain didn’t stop and the associated complications increased, she consulted a neighbourhood physician, who referred her to Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. Diagnostic investigations revealed she had a large, progressively expanding tumour in her ovary, which was putting pressure on her intestine (intestinal adhesions), leading to acute stomach aches and inability to digest food. As a result, she had developed acute anaemia, with her haemoglobin count dropping to 6 gm/dl, against a normal of 12-15.5 gm/dl. “The size of the tumour and the patient’s exceptionally low haemoglobin made the extract a challenge, and she had to undergo six units of blood transfusion before, during and after the procedure. That apart, there was no space in the abdomen for insertion of equipment via laparoscopy or robot-assisted methods, so we performed traditional surgery with a multidisciplinary team from the gastroenterology, gynaecology and anaesthesiology teams,” said lead surgeon Dr Arun Prasad, senior consultant, surgical gastroenterology and bariatric surgery. “The patient was admitted with complaints of stomach ache, breathing stress and weight gain. She was advised immediate surgery as further growth would have up put pressure on other organs, leading to possible organ failure. Fortunately, the tumour was benign and the patient had no co-morbidities, which enabled a faster recovery,” said Dr Abhishek Tiwari, consultant, surgical gastroenterology, part of the team that performed the surgery. Experts say the fear of getting infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is keeping patients away from hospitals, where they are increasingly seeking treatment in advanced stages of disease, which require more complex surgeries. “Many procedures that can be done using minimally invasive technique now need open surgery. The complications also lead to a longer hospital and ICU stay,” said Dr Vinod Bindal, vice-chairman of minimally invasive surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50kg-ovarian-tumour-removed-from-woman-s-body-at-delhi-hospital/story-0b75yKv8I1FZX3NEz4d1kI.html
23-08-2020||India||Covid-effect: Before taking flight, a three-hour deep clean||Every commercial aircraft that flies into Delhi from an overseas or domestic airport, or even if it is just in transit, is being rigorously cleaned for 3-4 hours by a team supervised by the airline’s engineering services staff before it is reused. That’s one of the precautions put in place by airlines to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).From the lavatories to windows and from baggage cabins to the cockpit, every fixture in the aircraft, including the seats, foldable tables and hand rests, are being cleaned with disinfecting chemicals so that passengers can rest assured on the flight that their chances of being infected by the virus are minimal .Covered in personal protective equipment from head to toe, these cleaners enter an aircraft when all the passengers have disembarked and all the luggage has been taken out.The process starts with spraying disinfectants on every surface inside the aircraft, said YS Rao, general manager, engineering, Air India. “The wet surface is then left to be disinfected for 25-30 minutes and only after that the cleaning crew enters again, this time to deep-clean every corner of the plane,” he said.Rao said using strong disinfectants, every surface is thoroughly wiped, be it the doors, windows, seats, foldable tables, baggage cabins, or the seat hand rests. “Even the cockpit is cleaned ,but under the strict supervision of our engineering staff so that safety of the passengers and aircraft is not compromised at any level,” Rao said.Rao also added that while travelling, especially during long flights, a flyer may unintentionally touch a window or the arm-rest or may want to use the lavatory often. “We want to assure our passengers that their flight would be clean and safe for travel. There are also sanitizers kept inside the lavatories, which can be used by the passengers. Our airline crew onboard takes care of hygiene when airborne. A cleaned surface gets infected only when an infected person touches it,” Rao said.Rao said the entire cleaning exercise lasts for about a couple of hours, depending on the size of the aircraft. “An Airbus can be deep-cleaned in less than two hours, but a Boeing 777 may take up to four hours. It depends on the capacity and how big an aircraft is,” the GM added.The number of staff used also varies from aircraft to aircraft. “While an Airbus A320 can easily be managed by 8-10 cleaners, for Boeing 777, which is the biggest aircraft being used in Vande Bharat Missions, we might need at least 15 cleaners at a time,” he said. Vande Bharat is the government initiative to bring back Indians stranded overseas In India, the national carrier Air India is the only airline operating international flights during the pandemic.Another official from Air India said that the airline has outsourced the deep-cleaning task to AI-SATS, a joint venture between Air India and Singapore Airport Terminal Services.“We pay SATS the service charges. Roughly, for deep-cleaning of an Airbus A320, we pay around Rs 6,000 as service charges. For an ATR aircraft, it is Rs 4,500 to 5,000 and for a Boeing 777, service charges may go up to as high as Rs 14,000. Logistics are all of SATS but at times we also provide with chemicals used in cleaning,” the official said, wishing not to be named.A spokesperson from AISATS said its staff follows industry standards for all aircraft cleaning processes, customising the process based on an airline’s guidelines. “Stringent set of measures are in place to ensure we are delivering the best aircraft cleaning service. Our team ensures cleaning at key touchpoints throughout the day with disinfectants and cleaning agents. From interior services including cleaning of the aircraft cabin, galleys, flight deck and toilets, dressing of seats and seat pockets, crew bunks and toilets, to changing and replenishment of blankets carpet and leather cleaning solutions, we are adhering to standard operating procedures issued by important authorities,” the spokesperson said.While focusing on an aircraft’s cleaning, AISATS also follows safety protocols for its own staff by providing them with optimal safety and sanitation equipment. “Our teams are following measures aligned with the guidelines issued by IATA {International Air Transport Association} , the government, DGCA, {Directorate General of Civil Aviation} and other important organizations. Our team is deployed round the clock and is working behind the scenes with airport and airline staff to help support and execute the cleaning process,” the spokesperson said.Private airlines operating domestically are being as careful. SpiceJet is carrying out “best-in-class” cleaning procedures on all its aircraft in addition to disinfecting customer touch points and surfaces before every flight, a spokesperson said. “The cleaning procedure for flights includes a thorough wipe-down using an effective, high-grade, Boeing-approved disinfectant across aircraft interiors including the places customers touch most – the tray tables, seat covers, armrests, seatbelts, window shades and lavatories and their knobs,” the spokesperson said. SpiceJet said all its aircraft now have synthetic leather seats. “These non-porous seats don’t allow the Covid-19 virus to penetrate inside them and can be easily wiped off compared to standard fabric seats,” the spokesperson said. IndiGo, in addition to disinfecting aircraft, is also carrying out fumigation. “All common surfaces such as the baggage drop counters, boarding gates, coaches, ramps, wheelchairs, crew vehicles and of course, the aircraft itself, are being thoroughly disinfected using approved cleaning agents. The tray tables, armrests, overhead nozzles, lavatories and galleys are receiving special attention, given the frequency of contact,” a spokesperson said. Om Dinekar, a student who returned to India in a Vande Bharat flight from France, said because he was sitting on the middle seat, he was made to wear a PPE suit. “I therefore didn’t move at all in my 8-hour-flight and didn’t use the lavatory either. The aircraft looked clean, but how does one know if its disinfected. Only the airline would know how clean it was. I hope they maintain the best of standards,” Dinekar said.Another passenger, Vijay Kale, who travelled to Delhi from Bangkok, said the cabin crew gave passengers five sachets of sanitizers. “The plane looked clean, but we do not know what cleaning agents were used and how effective are they. Crew were also ensuring minimum touch policy. Food was already placed on our seats and face shields were also provided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-effect-before-taking-flight-a-three-hour-deep-clean/story-hjzldaWvC6QH65jxWdEiMM.html
23-08-2020||India||Pakistan tightens curbs on Dawood, Hafiz Saeed||Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of its counter terror-financing actions, Pakistan has tightened curbs on eight Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) leaders, including the organisation’s founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim by taking steps to enforce UN sanctions against them. Pakistan’s foreign ministry quietly issued two statutory regulatory orders on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against hundreds of terrorists, including operatives of LeT, JeM, al-Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani Network and Islamic State, and 93 terrorist groups and entities. The action appears to have clearly been taken with an eye on the upcoming assessment of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing and anti-money laundering regimes by the Financial Action Task Force, which is expected to take place by October. FATF was scheduled to review Pakistan’s actions in June but the Paris-based watchdog pushed back the deadline by four months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In some cases, Pakistan hadn’t acted on UN sanctions imposed more than a decade ago despite growing pressure from Western countries, including the US. It also repeatedly failed to meet FATF’s deadlines to implement a 27-point action plan, and the watchdog has warned of harsher measures since Pakistan has addressed only 14 of the 27 points in the action plan. The first statutory regulatory order issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office listed 88 entities, including terror groups, front organisations such as Al Rashid Trust that has been linked to al-Qaeda, and money exchange firms involved in terror financing, and hundreds of terrorists. Besides Hafiz Saeed, the seven other LeT operatives named in the notification are Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the chief of operations and one of the main accused in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Haji Muhammad Ashraf, the chief of finance, Mahmoud Mohammad Ahmed Bahaziq, a Saudi national and leader of LeT in Saudi Arabia, Hafiz Abdul Salam Bhuttavi, a founding member and deputy to Saeed, Zafar Iqbal, co-founder of the group who has held senior positions in its front organisation Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), Mohammed Yahya Mujahid, a former spokesperson, and Arif Qasmani, who was associated with al-Qaeda. The first notification also listed JeM chief Masood Azhar, and Abdur Rehman, who has provided facilitation and financial services to al-Qaeda and was associated with Harakat-ul-Jihad Islami (HuJI) and JeM. It also lists Dawood Ibrahim, wanted by India for the 1993 Mumbai bombings, and gives three different addresses in Karachi given for him by the UN Security Council. This is possibly the first Pakistani document that lists addresses for Ibrahim in the country. In the past, Pakistan has always dismissed assertions by India and other countries that Ibrahim is based in Karachi. The second notification listed prominent Taliban and Haqqani Network leaders such as Abdul Ghani Baradar alias Mullah Baradar, Siraj Haqqani, Bakht Gul and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai. Baradar and Stanekzai are key members of the Taliban team that is currently negotiating with the US. The two notifications ratified the UN Security’s Council’s call for freezing the assets of the terrorist individuals and terror entities, banning the travel of the terrorist individuals and ensuring that they cannot access any weapons, ammunition and military equipment. The notifications ordered the seizure of all movable and immovable properties of these groups and individuals, and freezing of bank accounts. They were also barred from transferring money through financial institutions. Saeed was convicted by a court in Lahore and given a five-and-a-half-year prison term in two terror financing cases in February. Lakhvi, one of the seven men arrested by Pakistani authorities for the Mumbai attacks, was granted bail in April 2015 and his current whereabouts aren’t known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-tightens-curbs-on-dawood-hafiz-saeed/story-CaZsxBfnI0TzQKArEL90RK.html
23-08-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: India tests a million samples in one day||India tested more than 1 million samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a day, official data showed on Saturday, achieving a target that could be instrumental in controlling the pandemic even as infections of the viral disease continue to mount steadily and spread to emerging hot spots in the country.On Friday, 1,023,836 tests to detect Covid-19 were conducted across the country, the Union health ministry said.India conducted an average 889,935 tests in the previous five days, testing around 74.7 people per 100,000 population, much higher than the World Health Organization’s guidelines of testing 14 people per 100,000 population, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).While reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests remain the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19, rapid antigen testing has also played a key role in scaling up diagnoses of the disease at a larger scale. According to an ICMR official who spoke on condition of anonymity, since rapid antigen testing was approved for diagnosis in India on June 14, about 40% of the overall tests were done using this method.In total, India has performed 34.4 million (34,491,073) tests since January 22 when Covid-19 testing started with one lab at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune. As of Saturday, testing was being done at 1,511 labs across the country. Of them, 983 labs are in the government sector and 528 are private labs.The data from states such as Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh showed the percentage of antigen tests was lower than the national average.Experts say that to control the outbreak, aggressive testing is crucial. In this case, the number of Covid-19 cases diagnosed in the country is likely to see an increase before it starts seeing a dip, indicating that the spread is slowing. Until Saturday, India recorded 3,041,463 cases and 56,837 deaths.“To curtail an infectious disease from spreading, one must be able to identify, through testing, as many infected individuals as possible in time so that they are isolated and put on treatment,” T Jacob John, former head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, had said.A July 7 column in this newspaper suggested a target of a million tests a day.Much of the recent increase in testing can be attributed to the growing role of antigen tests in the states. Antigen, or rapid, tests usually provide results within hours and are relatively cheap. These kits are designed to detect antigens (substances in our bodies that stimulate an immune response) and can be performed in mobile stations and don’t necessarily need labs. The downside is that they have a far higher chance of returning false negatives (showing infected people as uninfected), and thus can let cases slide under the radar.The real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, on the other hand, is the gold-standard for Covid-19 testing and is the most definitive test available. It is used for the detection of nucleic acid from Sars-CoV-2 and is based on PCR, a process that duplicates and amplifies genetic fragments of the virus, so that it becomes easily detectable. The downside is that the process, from samples collection to results, for these can generally take 24-48 hours and needs dedicated machines.HT has repeatedly pointed out that antigen tests are best used when time is a constraint and results are needed quickly – in a containment zone or a hot spot, for instance.In terms of states, the wide disparity in testing rates remains as higher-than-average testing states have continued to fuel the nationwide boost to testing numbers in the past weeks. While Delhi has tested 70,300 people per million of its population, Madhya Pradesh has tested 13,788. All Indian states are testing above the 140-per-million daily benchmark recommended by the World Health Organization, but this is an inadequate number. The national average of tests is currently 580 per day per million population. “Through our ardent efforts, it was ensured that specific testing platforms are made available addressing general testing (RT-PCR), High-throughput testing (COBAS), testing at remotest places and Primary Health Centres (TrueNAT, CBNAAT), in containment areas (rapid antigen testing) and for large number & migrant population testing (pooled sample testing)… The ultimate goal is that testing should be available to everyone in need and no one should be left behind,” ICMR said in a statement. The Union health ministry tweeted on Saturday: “Early identification through testing, prompt and effective treatment through supervised home isolation and quality medical care, and innovative graded policy measures have resulted in almost 100% increase in recovered cases in the last 21 days.”In an interview with Hindustan Times, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan underscored how the government was aggressively pursuing its targets. “We have met our goal of doing one million Covid-19 tests a day at least six weeks ahead of target – just as we have done in the past for other goals. When we promised to take testing up to 100,000 a day by May 31, we achieved that target by May 10. A few weeks ago, I had promised to reach the one million a day mark in 12 weeks. And now look at our progress,” he said.ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, in a recent briefing, said the research body adopted an intelligent and calibrated approach to meet the testing requirement based on requirements on ground, with greater focus on regions where there was lack of testing facilities. “In a diverse country like India, for equitable access to testing, optimization of resources based on the evolving epidemic was an essential part of the sustainable scaling up. Due to the concerted, focused and collaborative efforts of the Centre, State/UT government along with dedicated support of lakhs of front-line workers we have ensured the successful implementation of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently which has enabled us to rapidly increase the number of tests done per day,” he said on meeting the one-million target.Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said: “To be able to do one million tests in a day is a big achievement not just for a developing country like India but also by the standards of a developed country. Since I was actively involved in the field and know how difficult it is to set up infrastructure for this scale of testing, including adequately trained manpower. Before the H1N1 pandemic hit us in 2009, hardly five labs were doing RT-PCR testing, and we began ramping up since then but one-million tests in over 1,500 labs capable of RT-PCR is indeed a great achievement, and is going to hold us in good stead in dealing with such outbreaks in future also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-a-million-samples-in-one-day/story-acqhK7fBFKRqSt0AjK30FL.html
23-08-2020||India||Gandhi’s glasses sell for £260,000 in auction||A pair of gold-plated circular glasses worn by Mahatma Gandhi during his time in South Africa was on Friday sold for £260,000, surprising the owner who did not realise its value and left it in an envelope for the local auctioneer in Bristol three weeks ago.The rare item was bought by an unnamed collector from the United States, auctioneer Andy Stowe said, adding that the initial reserve price was set for £15,000 but it attracted much interest from various countries, including India.Stowe said on Saturday: “It’s a phenomenal result! These glasses have been lying in a drawer for the best part of 50 years. The vendor literally told me to throw them away if they were ‘no good’. Now he gets a life-changing sum of money”.“It’s the ‘good news’ story that we all want – as an elderly gentleman, our vendor has probably had a rough time in recent months and to be able to change his life is just incredible. The price is outstanding, but it’s not about the money.”“We had interest from all over the world – bids came from India, Qatar, American, Russia, Canada. It’s completely spellbinding, and a wonderful thing to be a part of. It’s been a complete honour to handle these spectacles and find them a new home.”The glasses were in the vendor’s family for nearly a century, given to his uncle by Gandhi between 1920 and 1930. The uncle was working with British Petroleum in South Africa, where Gandhi spent years before returning to India to launch the freedom struggle.“It can be presumed that these (glasses) were gifted by way of thanks from Gandhi for some good deed. A note from the vendor is included,” the auctioneer said.The glasses were described by the auctioneer as being “of usual form, with sprung gold plated arms and prescription lenses. Jointed by a gold plated nose bar. The spectacles formed an important and somewhat iconic part of Gandhi’s overall appearance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-s-glasses-sell-for-260-000-in-auction/story-JirhEa1ket5n83A3iKdcML.html
23-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh passes bill to recover damage costs||The Uttar Pradesh state assembly on Saturday passed several important bills, including the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill 2020 which empowers the state to put up hoardings/posters of the protestors at public places and recover from them the cost of damages to property. The House passed the key bill amid protests by Opposition members who entered the Well with banners and raised slogans against the state of law and order, handling of the coronavirus pandemic and floods in Uttar Pradesh. Once the bills were passed, the Monsoon Session, which was scheduled to continue till Monday, was adjourned sine die after Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna abruptly moved a proposal for it.“In all, 27 bills were tabled in the assembly and passed by the House. The average attendance of MLAs was above 300,” news agency PTI quoted Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit as saying. “It took 60 to 90 minutes,” he added.All of these bills will now be sent to governor Anandiben Patel for final approval.The Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill 2020 will replace the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Ordinance 2020 that was promulgated earlier this year in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. As per the statement of object and reasons, the bill aims at dealing with “all acts of violence at public places and to control its persistence and escalation, and to provide for the recovery of damage to public or private property during hartal, bandh, riots, public commotion or protests”.Hitting out at the government, senior Samajwadi Party MLA Mehboob Ali (from Amroha Assembly constituency) told PTI, “Never in the past it has happened that all the rules of democracy have been openly flouted, and the bills have been passed on Saturday. You can check the previous records.” UP Congress chief and MLA from Tamukhiraj Assembly constituency Ajay Kumar Lallu also attacked the state government. “The intention of the government was to not run the House, and it was only indulging in allegation and counter-allegation. Democracy and the constitutional values were murdered. Imagine 27 bills were passed in a single day. What does this mean? Discussion on 27 bills would have needed 12 days for detailed discussions to find shortcomings,” Lallu told PTI.Among the bills which were passed were the Uttar Pradesh Public Health and Epidemic Disease Control Bill, 2020 and Cow-Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Uttar Pradesh Public Health and Epidemic Disease Control Bill 2020 aims at ensuring stricter punishment for those harassing coronavirus frontline workers, which includes doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and sanitation personnel. Spitting on any worker is also considered an offence under this. The Cow Slaughter Prevention (Amendment) Bill 2020 provides for stricter punishment for violators and permits the prosecution of the driver and owner of the vehicle used to carry a cow for the purpose of slaughter. It penalises cow slaughter with jail terms ranging from a minimum of one year to a maximum of 10 years and imposes monetary fine between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-passes-bill-to-recover-damage-costs/story-m2SQoi1QDXDIrgqkjl1YiO.html
23-08-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir leaders to strive for special status, statehood||Top Kashmiri leaders, who signed the Gupkar declaration last year, have decided to strive for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A, the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and its statehood, six political parties said in a joint statement on Saturday.National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, Congress state president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, CPI (M) general secretary MY Tarigami, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone and Awami National Conference vice president Muzuffar Shah issued the first such statement by mainstream parties after the nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.“We all reiterate that we are bound, wholly, by the contents of the Gupkar declaration and will unwaveringly adhere to it. We are committed to strive for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A, the Constitution of J&K and the restoration of the State and any division of the State is unacceptable to us. We unanimously reiterate that there can be ‘nothing about us without us’”, the joint statement said.The statement said the signatories to the Gupkar declaration of August 4, 2019, have barely managed to establish a basic level of communication with each other in the face of a series of “prohibitive and punitive” curbs imposed by the government, aimed at “impeding” all social and political interactions.The central government nullified Articles 370 and 35A, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir and gave its residents certain privileges, last August and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.As protests erupted, several political leaders and activists including former chief ministers were detained as a preventive measure, and curbs on movement and communication imposed.While most of the curbs have been lifted in a phased manner and prominent politicians such as ex-CMs Farooq and Omar Abdullah released, about 20 leaders, including PDP’s Mufti, are still in detentionLast year, the Gupkar declaration was signed in a meeting of the political leadership of Kashmir at NC chief Farooq Abdullah’s residence at Srinagar’s Gupkar Road (that’s how the declaration got its name). It stressed that “all the parts would be united in their resolve to protect and defend identity, autonomy and special special status of the J&K against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. Laying stress on a collective political fight, Saturday’s statement said: “The limited confabulations held within the constraints imposed have resulted in this unanimous resolution that the unfortunate events of 5th August 2019 have unrecognizably changed the relationship between J&K and New Delhi. In a spitefully shortsighted and unconstitutional move, Articles 370 and 35A were abrogated and the State was bifurcated and relegated to the status of two Union Territories and its Constitution tried to be made unenforceable.”“The measures attempt to redefine who we are. These changes were accompanied by repressive measures meant to silence people and coerce them into submission, and continue unabated,” it added.The statement also expressed gratitude towards people, political parties, the intelligentsia and other civil society groups for opposing the Centre’s August 5 move.PDP president Mufti could not attend the meeting since she continues to be in detention. However, her daughter tweeted to express her support for the principle of a ‘joint struggle’ as expressed in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-leaders-to-strive-for-special-status-statehood/story-kH7oCnPBoaHfvUBHulA8gN.html
23-08-2020||India||Kerala minister: Ready to face any probe over holy book consignment||Kerala high education minister KT Jaleel said he is ready for a probe, amid reports that the Union finance ministry directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to probe the alleged import of holy books and acceptance of contribution from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate. While investigating the Kerala gold smuggling case, in which 30 kilograms (kg) of gold was seized by the customs on July 5 from a diplomatic consignment, investigating agencies in March had stumbled upon another consignment, weighing more than 4,000 kg, at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Later, the minister had admitted that these were 31 consignments of Quran, meant for distribution in his constituency. He also said the consular office provided money for food kits to be distributed in his constituency. “Let any agency probe it. I am least worried because I did not do anything wrong. Among 31 bags arrived, only one bag was opened. Anybody can examine them. I think distributing Quran is not a big crime either,” Jaleel said. However, members of the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that some of the boxes carried gold. They alleged that the minister was using religion to camouflage his alleged wrongdoings. Diplomatic experts said religious books can’t be imported in this manner and the minister can be charged under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, for receiving funds from a foreign country without the permission of the ministry of external affairs. Jaleel came under the scanner after his name figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling racket. But he insisted he interacted with Suresh as a diplomatic official and he did not know of her background or other dealings. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency, which is heading the multi-agency probe in the gold smuggling case, told a special court in Kochi that blue corner notices will be issued to four more persons staying abroad to unearth larger conspiracy in the case. It also said during investigation it found that a well-organised racket was functioning in the state, wielding influence in the higher echelons of power. The NIA has arrested 20 persons in connection with the case so far. It told the court that the accused had conspired to damage the monetary stability of the country and destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantities of gold from abroad, and it is suspected that they had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-ready-to-face-any-probe-over-holy-book-consignment/story-VIhqnUgQcVWwIMD0foF8dP.html
23-08-2020||India||Foundation takes up land for mosque||Members of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) on Saturday officially took possession of the five-acre land allotted to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village for construction of a mosque in compliance with the Supreme Court verdict of November 9 last year. IICF members said they also took measurements at the site. Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation is the trust formed by the board to look after the development of the five-acre plot. Besides a mosque, a hospital, community kitchen, research centre and a library are likely to come up on the land. “We visited the site today and took measurements of the land for a topography plan of IICF. On the visit to Dhannipur, I was accompanied by Imran Ahmad, a trustee,” said Athar Hussain, secretary and spokesperson for IICF. Hussian said after the demarcation work, which was completed by the local Sohawal tehsil, it was necessary to have exact dimensions of the five-acre plot in order to prepare an architectural plan for the complex. IICF had recently said the mosque on the land is likely to be known as ‘Masjid Dhannipur’. Many suggestions had come and the name ‘Masjid Dhannipur’ topped the list, it had said. IICF has also invited applications from architects across the country to help with the design of the mosque that would be built on the Indo-Islamic theme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foundation-takes-up-land-for-mosque/story-0L9KaH1qsxxclAOZPu5JGO.html
23-08-2020||India||Supreme Court sets Sept 30 deadline to complete Babri trial||The Supreme Court has set a new deadline of September 30 for completing trial and pronouncing the verdict in the criminal case against BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti for the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992.The apex court had in May asked the special judge, Surendra Kumar Yadav, to complete the trial and deliver its judgment by August 31. A three-judge bench headed by justice Rohinton Nariman extended the deadline by one more month after taking into account a report by Yadav stating that the trial was at its fag end.“Having read the report of Mr. Surendra Kumar Yadav, learned Special Judge, and considering that the proceedings are at the fag end, we grant one month’s time, i.e., till September 30, 2020, to complete the proceedings including delivery of judgment,” the bench which also comprised justices Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said in its order passed on August 19.This would be the fourth instance of the top court setting a deadline for completion of trial in the case. The BJP leaders are on trial for the 1992 demolition of the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. They have been charged for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including promoting enmity between religious groups (section 153A), making statements affecting national integration (section 153B) or which are likely to cause public mischief (section 505).In April 2017, the Supreme Court ordered that an additional charge of criminal conspiracy under section 120B of the IPC should be framed against the accused BJP leaders. The apex court had also ordered the special court to complete the trial within two years.Subsequently, the court had taken up the matter in July 2019 and extended the deadline for completion of trial and delivering the verdict by nine months.That deadline expired on April 19 and special judge Yadav wrote to the apex court on May 6 this year seeking a further extension. The court then took up the matter on May 8 and set a deadline of August 31 while also asking Yadav to make use of video-conferencing facilities to ensure that recording of evidence is complete and there is no inordinate delay in concluding the trial.Meanwhile, the top court on November 9 last year decided the title suit to the disputed site at Ayodhya in favour of Hindu parties while also acknowledging that the demolition of the Babri Masjid which stood at the site was a “calculated act”.“During the pendency of the suits, the entire structure of the mosque was brought down in a calculated act of destroying a place of public worship. The Muslims have been wrongly deprived of a mosque which had been constructed well over 450 years ago,” the November 9 judgment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sets-sept-30-deadline-to-complete-babri-trial/story-6yF9uhvUwKPluIkNJvYAAO.html
23-08-2020||India||India records highest 1-day spike in recoveries at 63,631||The country on Saturday recorded the highest ever single day spike in recoveries with 63,631 coronavirus disease patients recovering from the viral infection. This has to led a further decline in the case fatality rate, or deaths among people diagnosed with Covid-19, which stands at a new low of 1.87%.The development came on a day the total Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 3 million mark. On Saturday, the total recoveries crossed 2.2 million, with recoveries exceeding the active cases by at least 1.5 million cases, according to ministry of health data. Active cases comprise 23.43% of the Covid-19 cases in the country.The recovery rate is 74.69%, with a high number of hospitalised Covid-19 patients being discharged from the hospitals and those with mild and moderate disease under home isolation being declared free from Covid-19.An improved understanding of the disease and evolved treatment protocols have helped to reduce the number of critical patients in need of ventilator support, said clinicians.“At the start of the pandemic in March and April, ventilation was the global standard of care given to Covid-19 patients, but over the months, we learned we could delay intubation by using new drugs and other treatment methods, such as awake-proning, where a patient is asked to lie on the stomach without ventilation. The fatality rate of Covid-19 patients on ventilation globally is 40%-70%, so treating them without ventilation helped recovery,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of anaesthesiology and critical care, Medanta-The Medicity, who has been treating Covid-19 patients since the first week of March.Under the health ministry’s standardised clinical management protocol, mild and moderate cases are treated under supervised home isolation, while critical and severe patients are hospitalized in isolation wards and ICUs, depending on severity of disease.“Non-invasive oxygen, better skilled doctors in the ICUs and hospitals, improved ambulance services and streamlining of treatment protocols have led to deaths rates falling. As more new drugs and treatments get approved, we aim to bring the case fatality rate to under 1%,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity. The ramping up of health infrastructure across states has also helped in better management of Covid-19 cases, doctors on the frontline said. “In the first two months of the pandemic, treatment was available only in a few tertiary care hospitals, but now standardised treatment is available in isolation at secondary hospitals that now have the required infrastructure, including isolation wards ICU beds, oxygen supply, ventilators, medicines, and ambulances, among other essentials needed in every hospital,” said Dr Mehta. “States have been asked to address the issues of low lab utilization of less than 100 tests per day for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and 10 for others; low tests per million population; decrease in absolute tests from last week; delay in test results; availability of ambulances; high infection among healthcare workers; and timely referral and hospitalization to prevent deaths,” said the ministry official.“There is need to closely monitor asymptomatic cases under home isolation through physical visits/phone consultation as some states reported high death rates within 48 hours of hospital admission because people were beginning treatment when the disease has progressed and the patient is already critical,” said the ministry official.The Centre is continuing to handhold states and districts that need support. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, holds virtual sessions on Tuesdays and Fridays, where a team of specialists provides guidance on effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in the ICUs through tele/video consultation.Strict surveillance of pregnant women, older adults, and people with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease, cardiovascular disease and obesity, has also helped in the early identification of high-risk populations for timely assessment and preparedness. “Clinicians do the best they can and science can only do so much, and we have to make protective behavior a part of our everyday lives as mild and asymptomatic people can also spread infection. Population behavior has a huge role to play in infection control and people must wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands frequently to protect themselves and others and contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Dr Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-1-day-spike-in-recoveries-at-63-631/story-gp1CLAGLVr0hXfbvHWBm5O.html
23-08-2020||India||No restrictions on interstate and intrastate movement: MHA order||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday asked all the states to make sure that there are no restrictions on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods during the ongoing unlocking process. The home secretary cited Unlock-3 guidelines dated July 29 while asking the state governments and administrations of Union territories not to stop people at borders. This includes movement of persons and goods for land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) was forced to intervene as there were reports that local-level restrictions on movement were being imposed by various districts and states. Bhalla said in his letter reviewed by HT: “Such restrictions are creating problems in interstate movement of goods and services and are impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption in economic activities and employment.” The unlock guidelines clearly state that there shall be no restrictions on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods, he said in the letter. The guidelines also stated that no separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for movement of persons and goods for crossing state borders. Bhalla said that restrictions amount to the violation of guidelines issued by the MHA (ministry of home affairs) under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The home ministry didn’t specify on Saturday which states were violating the guidelines. The Unlock-3 is currently in force till August 31. The unlock process began on June 1 with the opening of industrial activities and offices across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-restrictions-on-movement-mha/story-iylqwo4s7PG37TywDfXFvL.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Priority to compelling cases in distress’: Centre issues SOPs for international travellers||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued a standard operating protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under the Vande Bharat scheme and the air transport bubble arrangement. The SOP, reviewed by HT, states that people desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded/residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). On the other hand, people coming to India on flights operating under air bubble arrangement will not need to register themselves with the Indian missions. India so far has bilateral air travel arrangements or ‘air bubbles’ with the US, the UK, Germany, France, Qatar, Maldives and the UAE while negotiations are going on with 13 more countries. The Vande Bharat flights have been operating since May 6 and currently the scheme is in its fifth phase. The SOP issued on Saturday said that priority will be given to compelling cases in distress, including workers who have been laid off, short-term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly people or those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students. For inbound passengers, the MEA (ministry of external affairs) will prepare flight/ship wise database of all travellers, including details such as name, age, gender, mobile number, place of residence, place final destination, and information on RT-PCR test taken and its result. “This database will be shared by MEA with the respective state/UT in advance (where the passenger is heading),” the SOP reads. It said that “in case of people travelling to India under the air bubble arrangement, passenger manifest containing the same details as above for Vande Bharat flights or in a revised format as may be finalised by the MEA with the country concerned, will be submitted by the airlines to the Indian mission in the country concerned before operation of each flight with a copy to the state/UT government of the destination port in India”. All travellers coming to India will have to give an undertaking that they are making the journey at their own risk, according to the SOP. In case of people desirous to travel out of India under these two programmes, they will have to apply to the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) or to an agency designated by it for this purpose, along with necessary details, including the place of departure and arrival, the SOP issued on Saturday said. It said that Indian seafarers seeking to accept contracts to serve on vessels abroad can travel on non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the civil aviation ministry or flights arranged by their employers subject to clearance given by the ministry of shipping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-sops-for-international-travellers/story-s16PBGXSfgvUMPG9KcfKEP.html
23-08-2020||India||With over 70k cases, India’s tally crosses 3 million mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crossed the 3 million mark on Saturday, with the country reporting 70,182 fresh infections as the pathogen finds news hot spots across the country amid efforts by the Centre to stop the situation from spiralling out of control.India became the third country in the world, after the US and Brazil, to report more than three million Covid-19 cases — the third million coming in a little over two weeks. With 914 new deaths on Saturday, the total number of patients who succumbed to Covid-19 in India reached 56,837. The total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 3,041,463India’s case fatality rate, which is the total number of deaths among the laboratory-confirmed cases, however, has been steadily declining to become one of the lowest in the world.Also read | ‘Confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be developed by end of 2020’: Health minister Harsh VardhanExperts maintain the focus of the battle against the infectious disease needs to shift to the hinterland and the peninsula, both high population density regions with, in the case of the former, significant rural populations and relatively inadequate health care systems.“As a result of various measures taken by the government, the outbreak situation in India is very much under control. The health care infrastructure is not overwhelmed, the testing capacity is more than enough to meet the demand and even the percentage of Cocvid-19 patients on ventilator is very minuscule,” said a senior official of the Union health ministry, asking not to be named.Previously, India’s journey to two million cases took 158 days, with at least 90% of these cases coming after the lifting of the nationwide lockdown that was announced at the end of March.India’s current case positivity rate, which gives the number of cases that return positive out of all the samples that are tested, is about 8%. Many states have positivity rates lower than the national average.Dr Gagandeep Kang, clinician scientist, formerly with the Translational Health Science And Technology Institute, said: “The numbers we are seeing (in India) are expected given our population and this rate of cases is likely to continue because there are many parts of the country where the epidemic is just starting, though there are some cities where the first peak is over.”Experts in epidemiology said increased testing had a role to play but also that the number of positive cases were directly linked to the number of tests that were being done. “The number of cases reported ultimately is a function of the number of tests that we do,” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, senior epidemiologist, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology.Also read | Anti-fibrotic drugs effective in Covid-19 patients: ArmyDr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said: “For a country like India to have just about 3 million positive cases in an outbreak of this nature means we have done very well. Aggressive testing clearly has a role to play in keeping the numbers low as detecting and isolating cases early, and successful contact tracing is what is important in effectively controlling outbreaks in the long run.”However, experts also warn that it is too early to say categorically whether India was on the path to controlling the epidemic. “It is so far so good but we will have to wait and watch how this pandemic pans out in the long run,” said Dr Broor. Dr Bhatnagar said: “We are doing wonderfully well if we look at from where we started and where we are standing now, but we will be always catching up because of our huge population density. It is not feasible to test everyone and it is not required also; what is required is for people to make Covid-19 appropriate behavioral changes that will eventually change the course of the epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-70k-cases-india-s-tally-crosses-3-million-mark/story-InmGaAOMezFC3ImKOWL46M.html
23-08-2020||India||PM Modi holds meet to boost Indian toys’ manufacturing||In line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign launched by him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting with top functionaries of his government aiming to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys.India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys which not only have cultural connect but also helps in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children at an early age, Modi said at the meeting according to an official statement. He said such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods, it added.Significantly, the toy market is one of several where Chinese products have to come in huge numbers.According to the official statement, the Indian toy market has huge potential and can bring a transformative change in the industry by promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ under AatmaNirbhar Bharat campaign. PM Modi said the focus should be on use of technology and innovation and also towards manufacturing quality products that meet global standard.Highlighting importance of toys in moulding a child’s mind, Prime Minister said toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all Anganwadi Centres and Schools for all-round development of children. He even suggested that youth should be engaged to come up with innovative designs and toys that can instill a sense of pride towards National goals and achievements.Modi noted that toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ and exhorted that toys should reflect India’s value system and culturally established environment-friendly approach. He further suggested using tourism as a tool to promote India’s culture especially in regions which are renowned for handcrafted toys. The prime minister emphasized the need to organize hackathons for youth and students for innovations in toy technology and design, including online games, to reflect Indian ethos and values.Laying emphasis on fast growing digital gaming arena, Modi said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-holds-meet-to-boost-indian-toys-manufacturing/story-qqDkmrXPgTROepWGx2gfCL.html
23-08-2020||India||Kamal Nath imposed curbs at secretariat: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide lockdown during Covid-19 pandemic to save lives, but former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath imposed a lockdown on common man’s entry into the state secretariat. “Kamal Nath ji was ahead of Modi ji in imposing lockdown restrictions that he did 15 months prior to what Modi ji did. But whereas Modi ji imposed the lockdown restrictions on the country to save the lives of people from Coronavirus, Kamal Nath ji imposed it on common man’s entry to the state secretariat Vallabh Bhavan,” said Scindia while addressing the BJP’s 3-day membership campaign in Gwalior, his home turf.The state is likely to witness bypolls to 27 assembly constituencies by mid-October. He said people had voted the Congress to power in 2018 assembly elections with a lot of expectations that they would see an honest and transparent government which would fulfil their aspirations but there was rampant corruption in the government. Public couldn’t get access to Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat), while industrialists and businessmen were seen inside it. “I raised my voice for public and withdrew my support to the government to serve people of the state,” he added. Addressing the gathering chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “When Scindia ji raised his voice for people then the then chief minister Kamal Nath asked him to take to streets. However, Scindia ji brought down the Congress government itself on road. We will work together for progress and development of Gwalior-Chambal region,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nath-imposed-curbs-at-secretariat-scindia/story-GcXfxS0r7QqALnPNP2nasK.html
23-08-2020||India||CWC crucial meet tomorrow, convincing Rahul Gandhi to return as party president on agenda||The Congress has called a meeting of its working committee on Monday following calls within the party to conduct internal elections and convince Rahul Gandhi to return as the party president, Congress functionaries familiar with the matter said.The lease of 24, Akbar Road where the party headquarters is situation is also likely to be on the agenda. The lease is set to expire on November 30.“There have been repeated attempts by leaders, young and old, to convince Rahul Gandhi to return at the helm,” said a Congress functionary. The meeting comes in the backdrop of various leaders seeking ‘transparent elections’ for the top post and the party’s top decision-making body. Rahul Gandhi had resigned from the post of the party chief following the party’s loss in the Lok Sabha elections last year – the party won only 52 seats. Sonia Gandhi was then appointed the interim chief. The secretary (organisation) has asked that all members, permanent invitees and special invitees to be present for the meeting, Congress functionaries said. The party is facing an imminent leadership crisis with many Congress leaders such as Sanjay Jha, who was expelled from the party, questioning the functioning of the top leadership. Jha, on August 17 tweeted, that a “100 Congress leaders (including MP’s), distressed at the state of affairs within the party, have written a letter to Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Congress President, asking for change in political leadership and transparent elections in CWC”. The party had dismissed the statement saying that Jha was spreading canards at the behest of the BJP Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor has also repeatedly said that the party should hold elections to the CWC and the post of president. “We also need to arrest the growing public perception, fuelled by a dismissive media, that the Congress is adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition,” the former Union minister had told PTI on August 9.Tharoor added that the Congress needs to ‘urgently address’ the issue by ‘expediting the process of finding a full-term president, through a participatory and democratic process that will offer the winning candidate a legitimate mandate and the credibility that will be indispensable in ushering in much needed organisational and structural revival of the party’.Most Congress leaders, however, were unaware of the points for discussion for the meeting till late Saturday evening. “We found out from KC Venugopal’s tweet that the meeting is happening on Monday,” said a Congress functionary who did not wish to be named. Venugopal, general secretary (organisation), tweeted “A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on Monday, the 24th August, 2020 at 11.00 AM via video conferencing.”A second Congress leader said that he had not received a call for the meeting until late Saturday evening as well. A test run, however, was conducted for the meeting on Saturday to ensure that the leaders who are not familiar with the video conferencing application WebX can familiarise themselves. Congress had until now conducted their virtual meetings over Zoom. Nearly 35 leaders attended the test run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-to-hold-crucial-meeting-tomorrow/story-gBzj7yOziY0jCZJAisJyjP.html
23-08-2020||India||IMD issues red alert for central, western regions||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red category warning about heavy rain in parts of central and western India over the weekend and Monday as the monsoon is likely to be active in these regions.The warning has been issued for eastern Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh on Saturday; Saurashtra and Kutch regions in Gujarat, and eastern and western Rajasthan on Sunday; and Saurashtra and Kutch regions on Monday.A red category warning implies that disaster management authorities should take action to prevent any rain-related or flooding disaster.“Central India has got extremely heavy rain. It may record heavy to very heavy rains for another day. But now the monsoon rains will be concentrated in south Rajasthan and Gujarat. There can be extensive urban flooding. Meanwhile another low-pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal which may not be as intense as this one. There may be some rain in Delhi NCR around August 25 or 26,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Till Saturday, many parts of Madhya Pradesh had recorded extreme rain, including Sehore 32 cm; Dewas 27 cm; Indore and Raisen 26 cm each; Ujjain 24 cm; Dhar 23 cm; Banswara, Shajapur 21 cm and Hoshangabad 20 cm.The Central Water Commission in its flood situation report on Saturday warned that there is a high risk of flash floods in parts of eastern Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, eastern Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. There is a moderate risk of flash floods in the Konkan region and Goa also, the report added.There is a well-marked low-pressure area lying over central parts of Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to move nearly westwards across western Madhya Pradesh during the next two to three days. The monsoon trough is active and south of its normal position (Ganganagar to the Bay of Bengal.)An east-west shear zone (a zone of change in wind direction and velocity) is running across central India, according to IMD’s Saturday morning bulletin.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread to very heavy rain is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan in the next two to three days. Extremely heavy rain is likely over eastern Rajasthan and Gujarat during August 22 and 23, and in western Madhya Pradesh, and north, Madhya Maharashtra on August 22, and Saurashtra and Kutch from August 22 to 23.“Under the influence of likely formation of a low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, rainfall activity is likely to increase over east and adjoining central India from August 23. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha from August 23 to 25, over Gangetic West Bengal on August 24 and 25 and over Jharkhand on August 25,” said IMD.Meanwhile, in Delhi the sky remained clear and blue. The air quality index was 53, in satisfactory category bordering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-red-alert-for-central-western-regions/story-g76yKJj1OVCcjHs1x4ZeFP.html
23-08-2020||India||‘Scapegoat’: Court’s biting remarks on FIRs against Tablighi Jamaat members||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench on Friday struck down criminal cases registered against 34 people, including 28 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district, saying foreign nationals were virtually persecuted.“A political Government tries to find scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity, and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats,” said a bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar. “The material of the present matter shows that the propaganda against the so-called religious activity was unwarranted.”The Jamaat hit the headlines in March when authorities blamed a congregation at its headquarters in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area for a jump in Covid-19 infections. The headquarters was sealed and thousands of attendees, including foreigners from countries like Indonesia, Malaysia, and the US, were quarantined. Police initially filed a case against Jamaat chief Maulana Saad for violating a ban on big gatherings. He was later booked for culpable homicide, which carries a maximum punishment of 10-year imprisonment.The Jamaat, which has followers in over 80 countries, maintained many visitors at its headquarters were stranded after the government declared a lockdown to check the pandemic spread. The Centre blacklisted around 1,500 foreign Tablighi members for violating their visa norms and multiple cases were registered against them across the country, including in Maharashtra.The high court said foreigners having valid visas to enter India cannot be prevented from visiting mosques if they go there to observe religious practices.“It is true that in view of wording of Article 19 [the right to freedom of speech and expression] of the Constitution of India, the freedoms given under this Article are not available to foreigners, a person who is not the citizen of India,” it said. “However, it needs to be kept in mind that when permission is given to the foreigners to come to India under visa, Article 25 [freedom of professing religion] comes in to play. Then Articles 20 and 21 [that relate to fundamental rights] are also available to the foreigners.”All the foreigners, who petitioned the high court, had participated in the Nizamuddin congregation and thereafter gave religious lectures at mosques in Ahmednagar district allegedly in violation of lockdown norms in the last week of March. Initially, cases were registered against the trustees of mosques where the foreigners had stayed.All the 34 accused, including the foreigners, moved the high court seeking quashing of the criminal cases registered against them. The foreigners contended they came to India on valid visas and argued they were here mainly to experience Indian culture, tradition, hospitality and food. They said on their arrival at airports, they were screened for Covid-19.The foreigners argued they were struck in Ahmednagar after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown because of the suspension of the transportation services. They said that is why they stayed at mosques.Ahmednagar police maintained the Jamaat members were found preaching and so cases were registered against them. They added the foreigners were arrested after institutional quarantine and subsequently five of them were found to be infected.The police insisted there was sufficient material to indicate the accused had breached lockdown norms and visa conditions.The court cited guidelines and added foreigners visiting India on tourist visas are prevented from engaging in preaching activity. But it noted under the recently updated visa manual, there is no restriction on foreigners for visiting religious places and attending normal religious activities like attending discourses although tourist visas limit the purposes of a visit to recreation and site seeing.“Social and religious tolerance is a practical necessity for unity and integrity in India and that is also made compulsory by our Constitution. By hard work over the past years after independence, we have reconciled religion and modernity to a great extent. This approach helps participation of most in a developing process. We have been respecting both religious and secular sensibilities since independence and by this approach, we have kept India as united,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bombay-hc-strikes-down-cases-against-28-foreign-tablighi-members/story-Ux4qS1ouqyGS7JZNjOjqiJ.html
