24-08-2020||India||Heavy rain lashes Bihar, flood situation remains grim||Heavy showers at a few places in the already flooded North Bihar districts are set to complicate the sufferings of marooned people with rivers originating from Nepal likely to swell further and pose threat to their safety embankments. As monsoon became active again in Bihar, Sursand, a township of Sitamahri that borders Nepal, received 189.50 mm rain by Monday afternoon. Very heavy rain also lashed Madhwapur in Madhubani, while moderate to heavy rain occurred at many places in north-central parts of Bihar during the past 24 hours, said officials at Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday. The embankment of Gandak caved in at many places in Gopalganj and East Champaran on July 24 following heavy discharge from Nepal via Valmikinagar barrage and about 200 mm rain in its catchment areas of the two districts. A Met department official, Shatrughan Kumar Mandal, said, “A monsoon trough crossing Jharkhand and West Bengal is shifting towards the Bay of Bengal. Besides, a low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify. Under the influence, south districts of Bihar are likely to experience enhanced rain activity for next two days.” According to the water resources department (WRD) release, many rivers including Ganga and Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati and Kosi continued to flow above the danger level (DL) at various points along their course, thus exerting tremendous pressure on their embankments at different locations. “Our engineers are maintaining round the clock vigil to carry out flood protection work and avert the disaster,” said a senior officer of WRD. The increase in flow of water in Gandak and Sone from Valmikinagar and Indrapuri barrages respectively has posed threat of fresh flooding in areas of Gopalganj, Saran, East Champaran and Bhojpur districts. As the embankments on Gandak could not be repaired and the river flowing above the danger limit at Dumariaghat, the floodwater from the river has engulfed dozens of new villages on Monday. The discharge from Indrapuri barrage in Sone has crossed 1.27 lakh cusec on Monday again. Flood situation in the state remains grim as majority of rivers including Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Khiroi and Ghaghra continue flowing above the danger limit in Gopalganj, Sitamahri, Muzaffapur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Khagaria and Siwan. The Ganga was flowing about 18cm above the normal level at Gandhi Ghat in Patna, 35cm at Hatidah and 36cm above the danger limit at Kahalgaon. The current spell of floods has so far affected a population of more than 83.62 lakh of 1333 panchayats of 130 blocks of 16 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-lashes-bihar-flood-situation-remains-grim/story-PUKWFkgtvaOFWuGer00tOP.html
24-08-2020||India||Sikkim reports 43 new Covid-19 cases||Sikkim on Monday reported 43 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state’s tally to 1,446, an official said.Of the fresh cases, 42 were reported from East Sikkim, while one was detected in the West district, said Information, Education and Communication (IEC) officer Sonam Bhutia.He briefed the media as Health Secretary Pempa T Bhutia went on quarantine after a person he came in contact with tested positive for Covid-19.There are 509 active cases in the state at present, while 934 patients have been cured of the disease, he said.Three persons have so far died, he added.Sikkim has tested 37,798 samples for Covid-19 so far, he said.Meanwhile, the Sikkim Legislative Assembly premises and the office of the East Sikkim’s Superintendent of Police have been declared containment zones for 72 hours.Sanitisation will be carried out as a staffer each tested positive in these two places, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-reports-43-new-covid-19-cases/story-XHQQMS14crYuEeScgk195K.html
24-08-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Telangana continues to attract investments in key sectors||Despite the Telangana government struggling to tackle the growing intensity of Covid-19, the state continues to attract huge investments in various industrial, infrastructure and information technology sectors amid the health crisis. State industry department’s official figures indicate that in the last month alone, projects worth around Rs 4,500 crore were grounded in Telangana, particularly in and around Hyderabad. “We continue to receive investment proposals worth hundreds of crores of rupees, which is a good sign for the state’s economy in the post-Covid-19 scenario,” a senior official in the department familiar with the development said. The Telangana government is holding a two-day virtual conference “Make in Telangana” on August 27 and 28 with the theme “Invest in Telangana: Opportunities in Post Covid-19,” with an objective to explore investment opportunities and new partnerships. The conference will be addressed by CEOs of leading Indian and global companies including IT, pharma, textiles, electric vehicles, food processing, aerospace and defence, retail and infrastructure, the official said. On August 11, Medtronic, an Ireland-based medical equipment giant, announced its plan to scale up and expanding its Medtronic Engineering & Innovation Centre (MEIC) in Hyderabad at a cost of Rs 1200 crore. “It is going to be the largest global R&D centre outside of the United States for Medtronic generating over 1000 jobs,” state industries minister K T Rama Rao said. “It will be a big boost to Telangana and it will cement Hyderabad’s position as the medical devices hub in India,” he said. On August 13, Telangana received yet another major investment proposal from Medha Servo Drives Pvt. Ltd to set up Medha Rail Coach Factory, India’s largest private sector rail coach factory at an investment of Rs 1000 crore with an employment potential of 2,200 (1000 direct and 1200 indirect) in the state. KTR took part in the ground-breaking ceremony of Medha Rail Coach Factory in Kondakal village of Shankarpally, Ranga Reddy district in the presence of his cabinet colleagues T Harish Rao and P Sabitha Indra Reddy. “The facility will have a capacity of manufacturing coaches, locomotives, intercity trainsets, metro trains, monorail, etc. Production capacity is planned for 500 coaches (of various types) and 50 locomotives per year,” the industries minister said. Similarly, on August 17, KTR laid the foundation stone for an advanced polyester film manufacturing facility at Shahabad in Ranga Reddy district, to be set up by Ester Industries Ltd, a leading manufacturer of Polyester Films at an investment of Rs 1,350 crore. It will provide jobs to about 800 people. The minister also laid the foundation for two other projects in the last one month: Rs 500 crore smart data centre of the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), an umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India at Nanakramguda and a new Research and Technology Centre of Sai Lifesciences Limited, a growing contract research organisation, at an investment of Rs 400 crore at Genome Valley. The industries minister said post-Covid-19, there is immense opportunity for the state to attract investments from other parts of the world, and the infrastructure development and construction sector would play a major role in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-telangana-continues-to-attract-investments-in-key-sectors/story-gE6vxODcFNkDegTuuQYSuI.html
24-08-2020||India||Did he say it or did he not?: Rahul’s remarks on letter writers create flutter||Did Rahul Gandhi say it or did he not? This was the question on everyone’s mind after his purported remarks on a letter written by over 20 party leaders seeking urgent organisational reforms created a flutter. High drama played out at the nearly seven-hour Congress Working Committee meeting with sources saying that Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the letter writers and some leaders found it to be insinuating that it was written in cahoots with the BJP. However, the Congress promptly denied this and said “not a word of this nature” was said by the former party chief. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, one of the 23 signatories to the letter addressed to Sonia Gandhi seeking an immediate organisational overhaul and a collective leadership, hit out at Rahul Gandhi in a tweet, saying, “Rahul says ‘we are colluding with BJP’. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government.” “Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet ‘we are colluding with the BJP’!” But Sibal posted another tweet a little later, saying he was withdrawing his earlier tweet after being “informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him”. Tagging Sibal’s earlier tweet, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said that Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. “Please don’t be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting & hurting each other and the Congress,” Surjewala tweeted. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad was also at the centre of the controversy with a section of the media reporting that he offered to resign over Rahul Gandhi’s remarks. Seeking to set the record straight, the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha said a section of the media was “wrongly attributing that, in CWC I told Shri Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP”. “Let me make it very clear that Shri Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP. What I said was, yesterday some Congress person had said that we did it at behest of BJP & in that context I said ‘It is most unfortunate that some colleagues (outside CWC) have accused us of collusion with BJP, and if those people can prove this allegation, I will resign’“. Congress MP Manickram Tagore also tagged Sibal’s earlier tweet and said, “Kapil Sibal ji We all have great respect for you. @INCIndia made you cabinet minister and gives a lot of importance. you are NOT inside the CWC. You are reacting to a leak that is false. It does not reflect well on a leader as senior as you are, to react to hearsay.” He later posted another tweet to thank Sibal after the former cabinet minister clarified his remarks and withdrew his earlier post. Some BJP leaders also hit out at Rahul Gandhi over his purported remarks that the letter by over 20 Congress leaders seeking changes in the organisation will help the ruling party. They said Gandhi was “obsessed” with the saffron party and that “one’s destruction is near when one stops using his own mind”. “So obsessed is Rahul Gandhi with the BJP that he is beginning to see Congress’ veteran leaders as those working in ‘collusion’ with BJP. Someone rightly said when one’s destruction is near, one stops using his own mind,” BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. BJP’s Tom Vadakkan, who was in the Congress for decades and was considered close to the Gandhi family before he joined the saffron party last year, said the opposition party’s internal politics is being played out as a result of their “misdeeds”. “Mirror has cracked. When a mirror cracks, there is no way to put it together. You have to throw it out,” he said in a swipe at the Congress leadership over the letter. Vadakkan also said the commitment of the leaders, who are signatories to the letter and include veterans like Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Ghulam Nabi Azad, to the Congress is “definitely much more” than Rahul Gandhi. “They are not born in the party. They have lived in the party. They have only suggested a course correction and free and fair elections and a leader who is available to lead the party round the clock,” he said. Vadakkan claimed that the denial by the Congress that Rahul Gandhi made any statement linking the letter’s signatories to the BJP was an “afterthought”. “He (Rahul) believes if you are not with him, then you are with the BJP, not even the Trinamool Congress or any other party,” the BJP leader said. PTI ASK BJ BJ BJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-he-say-it-or-did-he-not-rahul-s-remarks-on-letter-writers-create-flutter/story-pSFycqTWv3lrVACQl6BTxI.html
24-08-2020||India||Trial run on Indo-Bangladesh inland waterway route starts in September||The trial run in the Sonamura-Daudkandi inland waterways protocol route is scheduled for the first week of September, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb informed on Monday. The Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority has given permission for the trial run of the voyage from Daundkandi (Cumilla) to Sonamura via river Gomti. The river was chosen for having sufficient water for movement of boats and small ships.“Historical moment of Tripura! Trial Run of Ship is to be conducted in first week of September. Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority has given permission for trial run of voyage from Daundkandi (Cumilla) to Sonamura via river Gomti,” tweeted the chief minister.During the trial run, 50 MT cement will be transported in a barge from Dhaka to Sonamura. This is the first time any kind of goods will be reaching Tripura by ship, said the CM. He also expressed his gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi, shipping minister Mansukh Mandavia and Bangladesh government for their cooperation. The Sonamura-Daudkandi route was included in the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) routes that was signed by both High Commissioner of India in Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das and shipping secretary of Bangladesh Mohammad Mezbah Uddin Chowdhury at Dhaka this May. According to a survey conducted by the Bangladesh authorities, 89.5 kilometres out of 90 kms of the Sonamura-Daudkandi protocol route falls in Bangladesh and 500 metres in India. Earlier last month, a floating jetty on Gomati river was launched as part of the Indo-Bangladesh international inland waterways project. According to the plan, small boats having capacity to carry 50 tonne of goods would start moving through this route to Bangladesh with the setting up of a temporary jetty soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trial-run-on-indo-bangladesh-inland-waterway-route-starts-in-september/story-z0FmqXH7WL9oX2KewPNL3M.html
24-08-2020||India||JP Nadda hits out at DMK, says BJP’s footprint increasing in Tamil Nadu||BJP president JP Nadda on Monday hit out at DMK and said that the party’s footprint was increasing in Tamil Nadu and it will have a substantial share in municipal and assembly elections.Addressing a meeting of state BJP executive meeting through video conferencing, he appealed the party workers to work hard as the party needs to increase its vote share in the state.“In the near future, the party will have a good share in local body elections as well as in assembly elections. We have to increase our vote share,” he said.Targeting DMK, he alleged that it has been “inciting feelings against the national spirit”.“They have been on a lookout to see to it that the assimilation into national mainstream is always disrupted. They have been anti-development,” he said.“We can say that in Tamil Nadu, DMK has become a sheltering ground for people who are not working in interests of the nation. We have to be alert, active and see to it that we are able to give a befitting reply to such people,” he added.Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi he said the Prime Minister led from the front in the fight against Covid-19.“He took a very bold decision to prepare the county to fight the pandemic and make the health system robust. There was no dedicated Covid-19 facility when the lockdown began but now there are more than 1500 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the country,” he said.Nadda said the last National Education Policy came in 1986.“It was just a change in figures and no change in policies and spirit. Under PM Modi, we have got an independent education policy, which is Bharat education policy. Under the New Education Policy, rich and poor are both going to get a qualitative and affordable education. Acceptability has also been improved as local languages are set to be used as a mode of education till class VIII,” he said.Nadda also lauded BJP workers their effort in the party’s `Feed the Needy’ programme.He said that teams of state unit should be strong and use should be made of social media to strengthen the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-hits-out-at-dmk-says-bjp-s-footprint-increasing-in-tamil-nadu/story-3WTfVu9MDTnQpNZcJD46YM.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Must finish in time’: Rajnath Singh reviews defence corridor project||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday instructed Uttar Pradesh government officials to complete the defence corridor work within the stipulated time. Singh gave the instruction while reviewing, via video conference, progress of the MoUs signed with Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor project. Chief secretary RK Tewari, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development department Alok Kumar and senior officials of the defence ministry were also present on the occasion.“All proposed work of the defence corridor must be completed within the stipulated time,” Singh said. The defence minister also pointed out that a cabinet note on the new policy of the defence production department was ready and would be released next month. He asserted that the state government must maintain regular contact with investors and take prompt action on their issues. He also stressed on expediting land acquisition work in Lucknow and Agra. Giving details of defence corridor progress, chief secretary Tiwari said: “Six nodes have been developed in Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. The state government has assigned 1461.0579 hectares of land for the project out of which 1310.2532 hectares have been acquired. This is over 90 per cent of the assigned land.” Tiwari said: “In Jhansi 1025.4672 hectares of land have been acquired, 95.9340 hectares in Chitrakoot, 47.8440 hectares in Aligarh and 141.0080 hectares in Kanpur.” “In Agra, land outside th eTaj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) was being explored and in Lucknow land around the Ring Road is being considered,” said the chief secretary. The chief secretary also told Rajnath that so far investments worth Rs 3,732 crore have been announced in the defence corridor project. “Ordnance factories will invest Rs 1,077 crore, HAL Rs 1,200 crore, BEL Rs 240 crore, PTC industries Rs 115 crore, Bharat Forge Rs 200 crore and MKU Rs 900 crore. Work on these MOUs has already begun,” said Tewari. He said under the Aligarh node, complete planning of detailed project report, town planning and power station, among others, has been done. Additional chief secretary Awasthi said, “Work has been done in the state at a rapid pace. The Defence and Aerospace Manufacturing Employment Promotion Policy, 2018 has been promulgated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-finish-in-time-rajnath-singh-reviews-defence-corridor-project/story-VRbsPqVLliBaTmTd3WpjLO.html
24-08-2020||India||BJP undecided on naming CM candidate for Assam polls: Himanta Biswa Sarma||The BJP has not decided whether it will announce a chief ministerial candidate for the Assam elections, state minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday, accusing Congress leader Tarun Gogoi of creating a controversy by stating that the ruling party may nominate former chief justice Ranjan Gogoi for the top job.The former chief justice is not even a member of the BJP and was nominated by the President to the Rajya Sabha, Sarma said on the sidelines of a plasma donation camp by journalists at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.“The former chief minister has a habit of naming people out of context and creating unnecessary controversies,” said Sarma, the convenor of the BJP-led North-East Democratic Alliance.The veteran Congress leader has claimed that he has heard that the former chief justice may be the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate for the Assam elections due early next year.The BJP has not even decided whether the party will announce the chief ministerial candidate prior to the assembly elections, Sarma said.“Tarun Gogoi has a grudge against me but drags in Ranjan Gogoi’s name,” he added.Sarma further alleged that the former chief minister wants to secure his son and Kaliabor MP Gaurav Gogoi’s seat and therefore encouraged the Congress to form an alliance with the AIUDF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-undecided-on-naming-cm-candidate-for-assam-polls-himanta-biswa-sarma/story-zo7eL91RaQC7EXGaaJW7fK.html
24-08-2020||India||No confidence motion against Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan-led govt defeated in assembly||The Kerala legislative assembly on Monday defeated the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) against the Pinarayi Vijayan government brought in the backdrop of the sensational gold smuggling case. This is the first no-trust motion against the government which has completed four years and four months in office.The motion moved by senior Congress leader V D Satheesan was defeated by 47 votes, while 87 legislators opposed it 40 supported it. The house witnessed turbulent scenes during the day-long discussion and the CM took three and a half hours to reply to the barrage of charges. While the UDF listed a number of allegations including the recent gold smuggling case, the alleged commission in the Life Mission project and the ‘gift’ higher education minister KT Jaleel received from the consulate of the United Arab Emirates, the LDF denied all charges saying the opposition was worried over the growing popularity of the government. The debate turned noisy at regular intervals as members of both camps traded charges against each other. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said never in the history of the state had three central agencies frequented the state secretariat and there are reports more agencies will be roped in to probe the gold smuggling case.A week after the seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment in the UAE consulate in the state capital, the CM was forced to suspend his powerful private secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer. But the opposition said the CM was trying to get away by sacrificing his secretary and he knew about main accused Swapna Suresh and her alleged deals. Besides smuggling, during investigation, many alleged irregularities also cropped up. The Enforcement Directorate found that Suresh had accepted Rs four crore commission in the Life Mission project. It is a Rs 20 crore project intended to build free apartments for the flood-affected with the help of the UAE-based charity organization Red Crescent. The ED and NIA had also started an investigation against minister KT Jaleel who reportedly accepted some fund and 4000 kg ‘gift’ from the consulate in March. Though the minister pleaded that these consignments were holy books the opposition alleged that some of the packets contained smuggled gold. Even if the minister’s version was right, he can’t get away from the foreign exchange management act, experts said.But the CM said central agencies were deployed after he wrote to the Prime Minister and the government was not worried over the probe. He asked the opposition to wait till the probe was over. He also took a dig at the principal opposition party Congress saying most of its leaders are in a race to join the BJP. He said with mere allegations nobody can browbeat his government which has managed the Covid-19 pandemic successfully and brought in many new programs for the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confidence-motion-against-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-led-govt-defeated-in-assembly/story-2dpJQo8wgrnbOnKcRjkQvJ.html
24-08-2020||India||JSW group to invest Rs 1 lakh crore in Odisha over 10 years||The Sajjan Jindal-owned JSW group today said it will invest over Rs 1 lakh crore through several projects in Odisha, including a 13.2 million tonne per annum steel complex in Jagatsinghpur district of the state.JSW Group’s managing director Sajjan Jindal, who held a meeting through a video link with chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday, said the integrated steel project of JSW with a capacity of 13.2 MTPA at Jatadhar in Jagatsinghpur district will come up soon. Jindal assured CM Patnaik that the JSW is fully committed to all its projects in the state.The JSW Steel has proposed to build the plant at the same site in Jagatsinghpur that was once allocated to Korean steelmaker Posco for its steel project. In 2017, Posco had to abandon the project, 13 years after it signed an MoU to build a steel plant, due to lack of dedicated iron ore mines and popular resistance at the project site.Jindal said that the JSW is tying up with IIM Sambalpur to create the “JSW Centre for Development Studies for Odisha.” The JSW Steel will also establish a 100-bed hospital and a school at Koida in Sundargarh district in PPP mode with an objective to develop mining areas for the benefits of the local people.During the discussion, Patnaik stressed on maximum value addition of state resources within the state for accelerating job creation and revenue generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jsw-group-to-invest-rs-1-lakh-crore-in-odisha-over-10-years/story-lFhe65tKs00XHrOgD155sK.html
24-08-2020||India||Goa Congress welcomes CWC decision of Sonia Gandhi as interim party chief||The Goa unit of the Congress party unanimously welcomed the decision of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) to continue with cas the interim president saying that she alone had the capacity to unite party workers. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said that the party would emerge stronger under her leadership. “Welcome decision by [the] CWC to authorize @INCIndia President Smt. Sonia Gandhiji to affect necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to tackle all challenges faced by the party. I am confident that [the] Congress Party will emerge stronger and victorious in days ahead,” Kamat tweeted. Kamat was among the first local leaders on Sunday night to throw his weight behind the Gandhi family saying that they alone would be the right people to take the party forward. On Sunday evening, Kamat had said that Sonia Gandhi had led the Congress party keeping everyone united during the crisis and the only question was how to strengthen her and Rahul Gandhi to defeat the divisive BJP. Similarly, state Congress president Girish Chodankar called for greater unity in the party. “@INCGoa welcomes CWC decision urging @INCIndia Chief Sonia Gandhi to continue guiding & keeping the party united. V urge all #Congress to unitedly support @RahulGandhi as he single handedly leads India against attack on the Constitution, our Democracy, the mismanagement of the economy & Covid-19,” Chodankar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-congress-welcomes-cwc-decision-of-sonia-gandhi-as-interim-party-chief/story-w27VTrnlsXdaH00kuTaJhL.html
24-08-2020||India||Army Chief honours 51 SAG of the National Security Guard||Indian Army Chief General MM Naravane on Monday honoured the 51 Special Action Group (SAG) of the National Security Guard in recognising its achievements in combating terrorism across the country. The ‘COAS (Chief of Army Staff) Unit Appreciation’ was conferred on the elite group for its “outstanding achievements” in anti-terror operations, the Indian Army tweeted .The 51 SAG since its raising in December 1984 has been tasked to carry out counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations. Members of this group are entirely drawn from the Indian Army. 51 SAG of the NSG, a Counter Terrorist Unit was today conferred with the "Chief of Army Staff Unit Appreciation" by Gen M M Naravane, #COAS #IndianArmy, in recognition of its noteworthy achievements in combating terrorism since its raising in December 1984. pic.twitter.com/PDPybMeyXhThe group, which has established itself as an elite counter-terrorism unit played a crucial rule in carrying out several operations in the country, most notably being the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. The SAG has earned several gallantry awards including three Ashok Chakra- which is India’s highest peacetime gallantry honour. Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan and Havildar Gajender Singh Bisht, both members of the SAG were martyred in action during the 26/11 attacks and were awarded the Ashok Chakra posthumously. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-honours-51-sag-of-the-national-security-guard/story-zIP0HgQLebTtPOxVxJzBoI.html
24-08-2020||India||In Unlock-4, metro services likely to resume; schools to remain shut: Officials||After months of deliberations, the Centre is finally likely to allow resumption of metro services from September 1, when the fourth phase of unlocking economic activities will begin, people familiar with the development said. Bars, which were also closed since lockdown came into effect on March 25, might also be allowed to sell liquor over the counter for takeaway services, the officials said. Schools and colleges, however, will continue to remain closed but the government is considering reopening institutes like IITs and IIMs. According to deliberations in the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and other concerned departments, cinema halls and auditoriums will also continue to remain closed for another month. There is a view in the government that even if cinema halls are allowed right now, it won’t be financially viable for them to run shows with only 25-30% capacity due to physical distancing norms. On metro services, officials said that modifications are still being worked out in consultation with ministry of housing and urban affairs, local governments, metro rail corporations and security agencies. “The new norms being drafted by the MHA on resumption of metro rail are likely to include contact-less ticketing through metro cards, increase in the average stoppage time at each station, markings for queues across all stations to control crowds and maintaining social distancing and an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. This officer said that the metro rail across the country, which has been shut since March 22, is likely to begin in a calibrated manner, similar to how railways and flight services were resumed with limited frequency and capacity. The Unlock-4 guidelines for the same will be issued later this week and once the MHA gives the nod, respective state government can further decide how to run the metro trains and their timings, another officer said. Passengers travelling in metro trains may not be allowed to use tokens anymore as Centre plans to implement a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards once restrictions on public transport are lifted, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30. “We are ready to resume services in a few days’ notice but are awaiting the formal nod from the MHA. Across states’, preparations have been made to ensure marking across all stations. Delhi has the highest volume of metro users. Arrangements have been made at the stations and inside the trains for social distancing. We will need to manage crowds and the frequency of trains depending on the crowd,” a second officer cited above said. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to the metro, is also ready and has already conducted drills on how passengers will queue up at entry points, platforms, among other things like use of Aarogya Setu app for all, said an officer in the paramilitary force. Officials said Unlock-4 guidelines will only mention the activities which will be prohibited while the rest can resume. The containment zones will continue to be under strict lockdown and monitoring. They added that social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are also likely to remain prohibited next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-unlock-4-metro-services-likely-to-resume-schools-to-remain-shut-officials/story-ODYEBuXxUHc9BtwtFCoNXK.html
24-08-2020||India||Corneal transplants, donations hit hard in Odisha over Covid concerns||Corneal transplants in Odisha have been adversely affected by Covid-19 with several hospitals stopping all such procedures while others reducing such operations over fears of infection.Cornea is the clear, dome-shaped surface covering iris that helps protect the eyes from dust, germs, and foreign particles. A corneal transplant, or keratoplasty, is a surgical procedure that replaces a damaged or diseased cornea with healthy tissue from a donor. After cataract, corneal blindness is the most common form of blindness in the country.Though Odisha sees around 1800-2000 corneal donations a year, the Covid-19 pandemic has brought down the numbers to less than 25 per cent as hospitals either completely stopped corneal retrieval and transplantation or reduced the number of such procedures over fears of infection.“Since there is a risk of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 through conjunctiva of the eye, most hospitals have stopped doing corneal transplants. As it is not possible to do RT-PCR test on a dead body and get the result within six hours of death, the transplantation procedures have been devastatingly affected. As with most solid-organ transplants, the risk of transmitting infectious diseases and viruses is an important aspect of corneal transplantation that can affect recipients or those handling donor tissue,” said Dr Sujata Das, medical director of Drushti Daan Eye Bank in Bhubaneswar which does a bulk of the corneal transplantation in Odisha.“From 100-150 corneal donations at Drusti Daan Eye Bank every month, the numbers are now down to 18-20 a month. As we can’t do RT-PCR test, we are screening out several possible donors to avoid infections. We are mostly taking cornea of those who died in accidents or those who committed suicide. The harvested cornea is also being kept for two days before it is grafted,” said Das.In Cuttack’s SCB Medical College and Hospital and JPM Eye Hospital and Berhampur’s MKCG Medical College and Hospital, the corneal transplants have totally stopped after the pandemic started. Dr Santosh Mohapatra of JPM Eye Hospital said unless the hospital is sure about Covid status of the dead, there would be no harvesting of the cornea. “In our hospital, we were doing 60-70 corneal retrievals and a similar number of transplants, but the number is now zero since the last 5-6 months. If the pandemic continues like this, we have to see how to screen out patients who could be possibly infected by Covid as there might be a subclinical infection or undiagnosed cases of fever and pneumonia,” said Mohapatra.Similarly, in Cuttack’s SCB Medical College and Hospital, the corneal retrieval and transplantation have totally stopped after pandemic. “We can’t harvest cornea from anyone dying of encephalitis, jaundice or rabies. As Covid is a fairly new disease and not much is known about it, we can’t take a risk of harvesting cornea,” said Prof Prashant K Nanda, head of the department of ophthalmology of SCB Medical College.In MKCG Medical College and Hospital, before the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the ophthalmology department used to conduct an average of seven cornea transplants every month. However, the operations have stopped since March following the outbreak of the Covid-19, said Suchitra Dash, head of the department.“Around 150 patients were in queue for the transplantation till the end of March, the number has now gone up to over 250 by now. The eye bank of the medical college which harvest on an average of 10 corneas every month is not harvesting anything for the last few months. We can’t take the risk of collecting cornea of the deceased without knowing their Covid status,” said Dash.Pravas Acharya, who runs an organ donation NGO called Body and Organ Donation Initiative, said many of the patients who were in queue to get cornea transplanted have little option but to wait till the pandemic curve flattens. “Family members of several deceased persons have wished to donate the eyes of the dead persons, but it could not be harvested, as the hospitals are discouraging it. The pandemic has not only affected corneal donation, but also harvesting of other organs,” said Acharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corneal-transplants-donations-hit-hard-in-odisha-over-covid-concerns/story-9phSvziDslxOlL77BEtFcK.html
24-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid Covid crisis, Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to postpone NEET, JEE and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to postpone NEET, JEE to keep students safe amid Covid-19West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) due to be held in September. Read more93 detonators, bullets recovered from Maoist dump in Odisha’s MalkangiriA joint team of the Odisha police and the BSF claims to have busted an ammunition dump suspected to have been used by the Maoists for illegal manufacturing and repairing weapons in the Malkangiri district. Read more‘What Delhi did yesterday, US does today’: Kejriwal on Trump’s plasma therapy announcementDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal used the announcement by US President Donald Trump of using the plasma therapy against Covid-19, saying what Delhi did yesterday, America does today. Read moreBengal Assembly session to be held in September with Covid-19 norms in placeAmid the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak , a session of the West Bengal Assembly will be held in September with all safety protocols in place, officials and sources from the assembly told news agency PTI. Read moreAmid concerns over Kim Jong Un’s health, expert claims North Korean leader is deadThe updates about the health of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are being keenly tracked across the world. The 36-year-old, who took over the reins in 2011 has skipped several public appearances in the last few months, giving rise to speculation that something is not right. Read moreDid a lot of hard work for 13 years: Ishant Sharma reacts after getting Arjuna AwardReacting for the first after getting the prestigious Arjuna Award, India fast bowler Ishant Sharma on Monday said it’s a proud moment for him and his family. Read moreCovid-19: Anxiety and depression in teenagers on the downfall during pandemic, studies showThe ongoing coronavirus pandemic is not particularly beneficial to health, body and mind, to say the least. Even those who are not susceptible to getting infected like children and young adults, are caught up in the whirlwind of unprecedented changes. Read moreEuropeans groove to Diljit Dosanjh’s G.O.A.T. in Switzerland. Video will make you want to danceIf you love Diljit Dosanjh’s track G.O.A.T. and have grooved to it at least a few times, then this video is sure to make you get up and dance all over again. Read moreJio’s Cricket Plans to get you all IPL matches live this seasonThese special Jio Cricket Plans come with a year’s subscription to Disney+ Hotstar VIP worth ₹399 free.Indian Premier League (IPL) season is just around the corner and like last year, official streaming partner Hotstar has put the live matches behind a paywall. Read moreWatch| ‘Muslims leaders in Congress should…’: Asaduddin Owaisi on leadership row||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-covid-crisis-mamata-banerjee-urges-pm-modi-to-postpone-neet-jee-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Fh1HVGasXeAdCs1ZAyJoLN.html
24-08-2020||India||Only Gandhi family can keep Congress together say Karnataka Congress leaders||All the top Congress leaders in Karnataka including KPCC chief DK Shivakumar, Working Presidents of the state unit Eshwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed, senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge, leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah and various other leaders from the state have come out in support of the Gandhi family leading the Congress party.Even as the CWC deliberations were going on today, Siddaramiah wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi on the issue. Stating that this is not the first time that the Congress was facing difficulties, he said that only the Gandhi family had held the party together during tough times.Claiming that the country was in an undeclared emergency with democratic pillars under attack from the BJP, and that only Congress could protect principles enshrined in the Constitution, Siddaramiah said, “We as a party should be united to be effective in our relentless fight to make our country better. This is possible only if the Gandhi family leads the party and that is the opinion of all leaders, supporters, and workers.”He also requested her to “convince Shri Rahul Gandhi to take up the position (of party president”. KPCC president DK Shivakumar released a video as a follow up to his letter to Sonia Gandhi in which he said that only the Gandhi family could keep the party together. Asserting that all matters should be discussed within party fora and not on public platforms, Shivakumar appealed to her to continue as Congress chief.Several other leaders including working presidents of the state unit Eshwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed, former KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao as well as several others requested the Gandhi family to continue leading the party.Senior leader and RS MP Mallikarjuna Kharge in a series of tweets said, “The party should not forget the sacrifices and contributions made by the Nehru-Gandhi family for over a century. They have stood like a rock for the idea of India and ensured we have built an equitable society and strong democracy.”He also said, “During this time of crisis, all leaders and workers of INC India should stand by Smt Gandhi and strengthen the party. If for any reason, she herself is unwilling to continue, I believe that Sri Rahul Gandhi should take over as President immediately and put all uncertainties to rest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-gandhi-family-can-keep-congress-together-say-karnataka-congress-leaders/story-Gb4RDGNUuHCV6vEG4vaMlL.html
24-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh awaits bypolls to 8 assembly seats||Uttar Pradesh may witness a mini-assembly election of sorts in the coming months if the Election Commission decides to hold bypolls to eight seats in the state assembly along with the Bihar polls. Five of these eight seats fell vacant after the death of sitting members.“The Election Commission of India has to take a call about holding bypolls to the eight assembly seats. As of now, we have no information about the possible timing of the bypolls,” said a senior officer. Election rules mandate that the bypolls shall be conducted within six months of the assembly seats falling vacant. However, the EC has not yet given any indication about holding these bypolls. “For seats, where the six month time period is complete, the EC has given a certificate, saying a decision about holding the bypoll there will be taken later,” said the officer. Legal expert CB Pandey, a former advisor to the governor, said, “Yes, the EC should ideally hold an election to a vacant seat in six months. The poll panel can defer the elections in special circumstances like Covid-19 or any other reasons. These vacancies have no impact on the state assembly.” Uttar Pradesh assembly has a sanctioned strength of 403 members. There were two ministers among the five who died recently - Kamal Rani Varun, who held the Ghatampur seat in Kanpur Nagar district, and Chetan Chauhan, who represented Amroha’s Naugawan Sadat assembly constituency.Both ministers died of Covid-19 complications. BJP’s Janmejaya Singh (Deoria Sadar) died on August 21 and Veerendra Singh Sirohi (Bulandshahr) passed away on March 2. Samajwadi Party’s Paras Nath Yadav, who represented Malhani in Jaunpur, died on June 12. The other seats declared vacant include the one that had been held by BJP member Kuldeep Singh Sengar (Bangarmau, Unnao) who was disqualified following the life sentence awarded to him in a rape case. His seat has been declared vacant with effect from December 20 last year. The Swar seat was declared vacant with effect from December 16, 2019 after the Allahabad high court declared the election of Samajwadi Party’s Mohammad Abdullah Azam invalid. Earlier, the Tundla assembly seat of Firozabad was declared vacant on June 4 following the resignation of former UP minister SP Singh Baghel when he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Agra. The poll body will also have to take a call about holding the biennial election to 11 seats of the Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Parishad. The term of 11 MLCs from the graduate and teachers constituency of the state legislative council ended on May 6. Another seat has fallen vacant in the council following disqualification of former Bahujan Samaj Party leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui, who had switched loyalties to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-awaits-bypolls-to-8-assembly-seats/story-PoeJUqtbwgHL3XZoKm5ITK.html
24-08-2020||India||93 detonators, bullets recovered from Maoist dump in Odisha’s Malkangiri||A joint team of the Odisha police and the BSF claims to have busted an ammunition dump suspected to have been used by the Maoists for illegal manufacturing and repairing weapons in the Malkangiri district.Malkangiri SP Rishikesh Khilari said a joint team of Malkangiri District Voluntary Force and BSF’s 76th battalion had conducted an operation in the forest area of Kurub, Sudhakonda and Elkanur villages under Kalimela police station area two days ago. During the search, the personnel recovered a huge cache of ammunition. They found forty-eight 12-Bore empty cartridge cases with caps, two 12 Bore live ammunition, 93 detonators, two gas cylinders, lathe machine, carbide gas welding cylinder, lathe accessories, iron scrap material and Maoist literature.“It is suspected that these articles might have been used for illegal manufacture and repair of arms and ammunition to be used for anti-national, subversive activities,” Khilari said.Khilari also said that from the preliminary investigation it has been ascertained that the Maoists were planning to construct an illegal arms manufacturing factory in the forest to manufacture guns and repair the weapons in order to launch a future attack on the police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93-detonators-bullets-recovered-from-maoist-dump-in-odisha-s-malkangiri/story-FRX6MScL1zN7uHVijSYzjP.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Don’t hold anything against anyone’, says Sonia Gandhi after CWC asks her to continue as party chief||Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said that she doesn’t hold anything against anyone, as the working committee of the party urged her to continue as party chief.“Congress is one big family and I don’t hold anything against anyone. But all, especially senior leaders should raise concerns at the party forum only,” Gandhi said after a seven-hour-long meeting of the CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body.Also read: CWC meeting ends, Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress president for nowThe CWC meeting was called to find a way out of the internal crisis triggered by a letter from 23 Congress leaders seeking overhaul of the organisation. Some of the demands of these leaders included choosing an active, full-time and visible president.A large section of the leaders backed Sonia Gandhi at the virtual meeting. Led by former prime minister Manmohan Singh and AK Antony, these leaders attacked the group which wrote the letter. Antony dubbed the letter as “unfortunate and cruel”.One of the senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal, who is also among the signatories of the letter, created a flutter when he tweeted against Rahul Gandhi over purported remark linking them to the Bharatiya Jahata Party (BJP). He withdrew his tweet after a clarification from Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet,” he said on Twitter.Also read| Ghulam Nabi Azad’s offer to resign from Congress as ‘poetic justice’: OwaisiGhulam Nabi Azad, one of the dissenters, too attempted to set the record straight.The leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha said, ‘A section of media is wrongly attributing that in CWC I told Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP. Let me make it very clear that Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-hold-anything-against-anyone-says-sonia-gandhi-after-cwc-asks-her-to-continue-as-party-chief/story-dN9hW1LatvQaYcnWKhUq0O.html
24-08-2020||India||Former Jharkhand chief minister Shibu Soren in hospital after testing Covid-19 positive||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) supremo and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren was admitted to Ranchi’s Medanta hospital on Monday. His condition is stable, hospital authorities said. Shibu Soren and his wife Roopi Soren had recently tested positive for Covid-19 and they had been in home isolation. “He was admitted to the hospital as a precautionary measure. Everything is normal,” said JMM general secretary-cum-spokesperson, Vinod Pandey. “Guruji (as Soren is popularly known) undergoes a routine check-up every three-four months at Medanta in Delhi. So, we consulted the doctors there regarding his health issues. They suggested admitting him in hospital as he is Covid-19 positive. Based on the suggestions, we admitted him at Medanta, Ranchi.” Samples of the former Jharkhand chief minister and his wife were collected on Friday and their test reports came late in the evening. Earlier on August 7, 12 security guards posted at Shibu Soren’s official residence in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground tested positive for the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-jharkhand-chief-minister-shibu-soren-in-hospital-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-4u9lBVgCfleqgPXWehcLSO.html
24-08-2020||India||Facing BJP fire, Mamata Banerjee’s veiled attack on PM Cares Fund||Under fire from the opposition over allegations of corruption in purchase of medical equipment to fight coronavirus in Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in a counter attack, sought to know how much money has been deposited with the ‘Take Care Fund’, an indirect reference to the PM Cares Fund. The BJP and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had alleged that there has been a multi-crore scam in the purchase of medical equipment to fight the pandemic in Bengal. “Some people are questioning the money spent over purchasing masks. I would ask them to first come clean and let me know how much money has been deposited with the ‘Take Care Fund’ before questioning others,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat during a virtual administrative meeting with district officials. The PM Cares Fund was set up by the Centre on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking note of the allegations, the West Bengal government had set up a three-member committee last week to look into the matter.“We enquire whenever we get an allegation of corruption from any citizen be it against any minister or any officer. The state’s top bureaucrats, including the chief secretary, home secretary and finance secretary were handling the process of purchasing medical equipment. There was no political interference,” said Banerjee. Dhankhar, however, had alleged that that the probe panel set up by the Mamata Banerjee-administration was an attempt to cover up the truth. Leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit echoed the sentiment. “Multi Crore Scam-Pandemic Purchase @MamataOfficial. Cover Up Probe-Lacks credibility. Decision Makers (-one) probing to shield culpability #MAP. Post facto saviour mechanism! Independent Probe can alone fasten culpability. Need Probe to track money trail and ill-gotten gain,” Dhankhar had tweeted on Friday. Banerjee, however, reminded how the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had to withdraw swab testing kits after they were found defective. “Even the ICMR had to recall the kits after they were found defective. This means something (some scam) was behind it. Before questioning the West Bengal government, one should first ask from where the ICMR purchased the defective kits,” she said. Mamata lashed out at the ruling BJP government at the Centre, claiming that it owes more than Rs 53,000 crore to the West Bengal government. “The state hasn’t received a penny from the Centre to fight the pandemic. Have you ever found out from where the state is arranging the funds to purchase medical equipment? We had set up a Covid-19 fund and have received more than Rs 150 crore which we utilised. But we never come to know how much money other such funds have received till date,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facing-bjp-fire-mamata-banerjee-s-veiled-attack-on-pm-cares-fund/story-JbHweDaJ3gyGCKTn3sCaUP.html
24-08-2020||India||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has requested his close contacts to immediately go into isolation. “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately,” the chief minister wrote on Twitter. Earlier today, Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta and two other BJP MLAs had tested positive for coronavirus. In two days, the monsoon session is set to begin in Haryana. Gupta represents the Panchkula seat, while Goel and Kumar are legislators from Ambala City and Indri, respectively.Six assembly staffers have also tested positive for the disease.“The assembly speaker and MLAs Aseem Goel and Ram Kumar have tested positive for coronavirus,” Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who is also the state’s home minister, told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-3hhgh6R3Ph2eRSHJ48Y1XN.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC passes resolution after 7-hour-long meeting. Read full statement here||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) held a seven-hour-long virtual meeting on Monday amid a controversy over a letter written by 23 party leaders calling for sweeping reforms in the organisation. It was decided in the meeting that Sonia Gandhi will continue to lead the party.The members of the CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body, also decided to form a committee to help Gandhi in day-to-day functioning of the organisation.The meeting was held in the context of two emerging views in the party, one of the 23 Congress leaders seeking dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC, and another of the group that has come out in support of party president Sonia Gandhi.Read full statement here:“The Congress Working Committee [‘CWC’] takes note of the letter of Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi addressed to General Secretary (Organisation) as also a letter written earlier by certain Congress leaders to the Congress President.The CWC has extensively deliberated on the letters and, after detailed discussion, places on record the following:First, the last six months have seen the nation in the throes of multiple crises. We have been beset by (i) the Corona pandemic that continues to claim thousands of lives, (ii) downward-spiraling economy, (iii) massive job losses and growing poverty, and (iv) brazen aggression into and occupation of Indian territory by the Chinese. CWC Meeting: Track Live UpdatesSecond, the two voices that have been at the forefront of exposing the Government’s inadequate responses, divisive politics and audacious propaganda are of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Shri. Rahul Gandhi. Smt. Sonia Gandhi’s hard questions on the handling of the migrants’ crisis put this Government to shame. She ensured that Congress-ruled states tackled the pandemic effectively and provided access to healthcare and treatment to all sections of the people. Her leadership has rankled and embarrassed those occupying the highest offices in this Government. Shri. Rahul Gandhi has resolutely led the fight against the government from the front. The CWC, reflecting the overwhelming view and desire of the rank and file of the Congress, unanimously resolved to strengthen the hands of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Shri. Rahul Gandhi in every possible way. The CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture. The responsibility of every Congress worker and leader today is to fight the pernicious assault on India’s democracy, pluralism and diversity by the Modi Government.Third, and most importantly, the voices of our two leaders have inspired a generation of Indians, both within and outside of the Indian National Congress, to rise and demand answers from this Government which seeks to desperately distract the people through shallow and manufactured issues. It is under their leadership that crores of Congress workers and supporters have reached out to fill the large, callous gaps in governance left by this Government as a result of which millions belonging to the poor and middle classes have been unjustly deprived of their rights and their livelihoods. Fourthly, the CWC notes that inner-party issues can not be deliberated through the media or in public fora. The CWC urges and advises all concerned to raise such issues only in party fora in the interest of propriety and discipline. Fifthly, the CWC authorises the Congress President to affect necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to take on the challenges listed above.In the light of the above deliberations and conclusions, the CWC unanimously requests Smt. Sonia Gandhi to continue to lead the Indian National Congress until such time as circumstances will permit an AICC session to be convened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-passes-resolution-after-7-hour-long-meeting-read-full-statement-here/story-zfNEKTnrSi3CTf9ZREyVDJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Congress: 5 chiefs from Nehru-Gandhi family, 13 from outside since independence||As a leadership crisis grips the Congress, experts having chronicled the country’s oldest political party said on Monday that it may be theoretically possible for the party to have a president outside the Nehru-Gandhi family, but not practically. The party’s history shows that it has had at least 13 presidents from outside the Nehru-Gandhi clan since independence as against five from its first family. However, the family members have been at the helm for a much longer period of time as against the others. Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have headed the party for the majority of the period since independence. Sonia Gandhi, who has been its longest-serving president, offered to quit at a stormy CWC meeting on Monday after a letter from more than 20 party leaders sought organisational reforms and a collective leadership, but she was urged to stay on as the interim chief till a full-time president is appointed. Among the leaders outside the Nehru-Gandhi family, J B Kripalani, B. Pattabhi Sitaramayya, Purushottam Das Tandon, U N Dhebar, N Sanjiva Reddy, K Kamaraj, S. Nijalingappa, Jagjivan Ram, Shankar Dayal Sharma, D.K. Barooah, K B Reddy, P V Narasimha Rao and Sitaram Kesri have headed the party. The debate over whether a person from outside the Gandhi family was re-ignited last week when Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a year-old but recently published interview, endorsed her brother Rahul Gandhi’s stand on a non-Gandhi president for the Congress, saying there are plenty of people capable of leading the party. Rasheed Kidwai, senior journalist and writer of the book “24 Akbar Road”, said the key issue before the party today is about the political leadership which has always been with the Nehru-Gandhi family. “In the first general election, the slogan was ‘A vote for Nehru is a vote for the Congress’. Even 2004 onwards, Sonia Gandhi wielded the political leadership that now resides with Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka. So the political leadership of the Congress has by and large always been with the Gandhis and even non-Gandhi presidents have owed allegiance to them,” he told PTI. Asked if a non-Gandhi can run the party with the Gandhi family retaining the overall leadership, he said, “Theoretically yes, practically no.” Sanjay Kumar, Director at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said the tenure of Gandhi family presidents cannot be compared with non-Gandhi family presidents as there would be stark difference in the quantum of tenures. “A person from the Gandhi family is both an asset and a liability for the party.  The person would be an asset as he/she acts as a glue for the party which keeps the party together. They are also a liability and that liability is coming to the fore more prominently now as the Gandhi family has not been able to inspire voters and leaders of the party,” Kumar told PTI. He opined that it is going to be very difficult for a non-Gandhi president to function in the prevailing situation as various factions could emerge and the pulls and pressures would be very high. Sanjay K Pandey, a political commentator and a professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), echoed similar views, saying it will be very difficult for a non-Gandhi president to work with the family having a dominant imprint on the party. “Unless the Congress devises a mechanism to deal with such a scenario, the future of the party is not very bright,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-5-chiefs-from-nehru-gandhi-family-13-from-outside-since-independence/story-E83sjr5DyIwmWs4Efz3gzN.html
24-08-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to postpone NEET, JEE to keep students safe amid Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) due to be held in September. “In our last video conference with Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji, I had been vocal against the UGC guidelines mandating completion of terminal examinations in Universities/Colleges by the end of September 2020, which had a huge potential to put student lives at risk,” tweeted Banerjee. “Now with the directive of @EduMinOfIndia to conduct NEET, JEE 2020 in September, I would again appeal to the Centre to assess the risk and postpone these examinations until the situation is conducive again. It is our duty to ensure a safe environment for all our students,” she said in a second tweet. Adhir Ranjan Chowdury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also wrote to the Prime Minster on Sunday urging him to postpone NEET and JEE. Students in West Bengal and several other states have been demanding postponement of these examinations over the past few days. The All India Students Association (AISA), a Left organisation, has planned protests in Kolkata and other cities. On Monday afternoon, the West Bengal education department held a meeting in Kolkata, where officials discussed the pros and cons of postponing the academic year in secondary and higher secondary schools under state boards instead of curtailing the syllabus as earlier proposed by some people to help students cope with the syllabus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-urges-pm-modi-to-postpone-neet-jee-to-keep-students-safe-amid-covid-19/story-og27BN5Ig22RfmmCiKjOJP.html
24-08-2020||India||Pakistan’s follow-up action on terror tag for Taliban leader is an invite for talks||Less than a week after taking steps to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against hundreds of terrorists, Pakistan on Monday invited a Taliban delegation led by one of the UN-designated leaders for talks on Afghanistan’s troubled peace process.Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a co-founder of the Taliban and deputy political chief of the group, was among the scores of Taliban and Haqqani Network operatives named in a statutory regulatory order issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office on August 18 to enforce the UN sanctions, which include a freeze on assets, a travel ban and ensuring they cannot access weapons.Baradar and the delegation of senior Taliban leaders arrived in Islamabad from Doha in Qatar on Monday, and are expected to hold talks with Pakistan’s civilian and military leadership.Pakistan’s recent move to enforce the UN sanctions, which also apply to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and hundreds of terrorists, was widely perceived as having been taken with an eye on an upcoming assessment of the country’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The assessment is expected in October. People familiar with developments said the invitation to the sanctioned Taliban leader underlined Pakistan’s reluctance to sincerely take action against terrorist individuals and entities. “How can one take the notification they issued on August 18 seriously when this is the next step taken by them?” said one of the people cited above.Baradar, currently one of the Taliban’s main negotiators, had signed the peace deal with the US in February. He was arrested in the Pakistani port city of Karachi in 2010 and was released from prison in 2018 as part of Islamabad’s efforts to wield greater influence in the Afghan peace process.Pakistan’s statutory regulatory order of August 18 states that a request to extradite Baradar to Afghanistan is pending in the Lahore high court, and that he was a member of the Taliban’s Quetta Shura (council). Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted on Monday that Baradar and his delegation were visiting Islamabad at the “invitation of Pakistan’s foreign ministry” for talks on developments in the Afghan peace process, and “relaxation and facilitation of peoples’ movement” and trade between the two countries. Taliban officials visit other countries to further “positive relations” and convey the group’s stance on the peace process. “These visits were postponed due to the spread of Covid-19 but the series has been resumed now,” he said.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi told a news conference on Monday the talks with the Taliban were aimed at bringing peace and stability to Afghanistan. “I invited them and will have a detailed meeting with them tomorrow (Tuesday),” he said.Qureshi also said the Taliban leaders were visiting Pakistan at Islamabad’s invitation and the process wouldn’t be hampered by the UN sanctions. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said Pakistan was more intent on protecting its political interests than cracking down on terror.“FATF began increasing the pressure on Pakistan after several attacks by anti-India terrorist groups based in Pakistan. Since then, Pakistan has taken some steps to show it is acting on FATF’s action plan. But it will keep on protecting its political interests, over and above what it does for FATF,” he said. “This invitation to Mullah Baradar shows it is doing exactly that. Once global pressure eases, there is no guarantee that Pakistan will continue with even these token restrictions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-s-follow-up-action-on-terror-tag-for-taliban-leader-is-an-invite-for-talks/story-K1kLaZAoEfbs4kYqpe0YnJ.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Won’t let you move around in state’: Congress minister warns dissenters||The party workers won’t allow them to move freely in the state if they do not apologise to the Gandhi family, Maharashtra Congress minister Sunil Kedar on Monday warned dissenters from the state - Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan and Milind Deora - who questioned the Congress’ top leadership in a letter that has caused an upheaval within the party.Kedar’s outburst is in response to a letter signed by 23 leaders in which they have suggested far-reaching changes, including dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committe (CWC).The letter stated that even after 14 months of the 2019 verdict, the Congress party has not undertaken “honest introspection” to analyse the reasons for its continued decline.“I wholeheartedly support Hon. Sonia Gandhi ji as president. Its shameful on Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavhan and Milind Deora to raise questions on leadership of Gandhi family. These leaders must apologise for their act immediately. Otherwise Congress workers will see how they move in the state freely,” he said in a series of tweets.“Congress can give fight to BJP govt only when party has Gandhi as its head. This is high time to stand firmly behind Sonia ji’s leadership,” he added.The three leaders are yet to respond to the criticism made by Kedar, MLA from Nagpur district. He currently holds animal husbandry and dairy development portfolio in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in which Congress is an ally along with Shiv Sena and NCP.Meanwhile, Yashomati Thakur, another minister in the state government and one of the state working presidents of the party, said that Rahul Gandhi should again lead the party. “Gandhi is not a ‘Family’ it’s ‘DNA of India’. If Soniyaji has made up her mind then Rahulji should lead the party. India Needs Rahul ji,” she said in a tweet on Monday.Vijay Wadettiwar, another minister in the state government, said they would quit state government the moment Rahul Gandhi will order them for the same. “The government wouldn’t have formed if Rahul ji didn’t approve of the coalition. Even today if he takes up the party chief position and decides to quit the government, then we will move out the very next moment. There is no question of staying in the state government if leadership takes a call,” he told reporters.The 23 leaders, including former chief ministers, members of the party’s highest decision-making body, Congress Working Committee (CWC), and sitting members of Parliament, in the letter also said that over-centralisation of the organisation and micro-management has always proven to be counter-productive. They said that the party has witnessed a steady decline reflected in successive electoral verdicts in 2014 and 2019, noting that the reasons were manifold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-let-you-move-around-in-state-congress-minister-warns-dissenters/story-1FFmuix7OInEb3m2TD0CkK.html
24-08-2020||India||Delhi Metro services likely to resume in Unlock-4: MHA||The Delhi Metro services, which have been closed since March 22 this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, are likely to be allowed from September 1 during Unlock-4, according to ministry of home affairs officials familiar with the development. Bars could also be allowed by the MHA for over the counter takeaway sale of liquor in the Unlock-4 phase, they said. Schools and colleges, however, will remain closed, according to the officials.Officials cited above said that the modalities for opening metro services are still being worked out and detailed SOP (standard operating protocol) will be issued for the same but there is high possibility that Metro will resume services finally after more than five months. The Unlock-4 guidelines will be issued sometime this week, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-services-likely-to-resume-in-unlock-4-mha/story-Akm3aH1kIysh7K3bFYlfmM.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC meeting ends, Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress president for now||The meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) ended on Monday, after deliberating on the turmoil within the party for seven hours, with a resolution that Sonia Gandhi will continue to lead the party.The members of the CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body, also decided to form a committee to help Gandhi in day-to-day functioning of the organisation.CWC Meeting: Track Live UpdatesA session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) will be called within six months where future course of action will be decided.Sonia Gandhi, who was adamant on quitting the post of party president, agreed to continue. She said after the marathon meeting, “Congress is one big family and I don’t hold anything against anyone. But all, especially senior leaders should raise concerns at the party forum only.” The crisis was triggered by a letter written earlier this month by a group of Congress leaders - 23 of them - who suggested complete overhaul of the party, including full-time president, a parliamentary board if a non-Gandhi become the party chief and collective leadership.In her response, Gandhi asked the CWC members to begin the process of electing the next party president. She also presented a statement which was read out by KC Venugopal. Many leaders, including former prime ministr Manmohan Singh, urged Gandhi to continue.Three of the 23 dissenters - Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik - also lauded her contribution to the party and insisted that their letter was not intended to question the leadership of the Gandhi family. Explaining the reasons for writing the letter to the Congress president, Azad made it amply that it was not directed against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi as “misconstrued” and alleged by some people.Party general secretary Ambika Soni, meanwhile, demanded action against the dissenters, saying rules are equal for both seniors and juniors in the party.Former union minister RPN Singh praised Sonia Gandhi for being available 24x7 to guide the party during Jharkhand elections. “We won the elections. Secondly, I want to tell all CWC members that we should all learn from Sonia Gandhi,” he told the CWC. Singh also wanted Sonia Gandhi to continue on the post till a new president is elected. Sonia Gandhi completed one year as the party’s interim chief on August 10. She was a full-fledged party president for over 19 years from May 1998 to December 2017 when Rahul Gandhi took over the reins from her and resigned in May 2019 owning moral responsibility for the party’s rout in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meeting-ends-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-congress-president-for-now/story-Jnnrzk7lrw1xjQ94muqmDM.html
24-08-2020||India||Validity of motor vehicle documents extended till Dec 31 amid Covid-19 pandemic||Central government on Monday extended the validity of expiring driving licenses and motor vehicle documents till December 31 in the wake of coronavirus crisis. This is the third such extension after the earlier advisories on March 30 and June 9.“Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has decided to extend the validity of Fitness, Permits, Licenses, Registration or other documents under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 till the 31st of December 2020,” a release from the ministry said.“The Ministry had earlier issued advisories on 30th March and 9th June this year regarding extension of validity of the documents related to Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. It was advised that the validity of Fitness, Permit (all types), License, Registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till 30th of September 2020,” the statement added.Considering the situation in country due to Covid-19 outbreak, the ministry said that if documents mentioned in the list reached their date of expiration on or after February 1, 2020, and fresh documents in their place could not be granted due to the nationwide lockdown imposed by the government, they would be considered valid till December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-extended-till-dec-31-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-Rcy3Qh498RrApRC4BXpgWJ.html
24-08-2020||India||‘This isn’t practical, postpone exams’: Aaditya Thackeray to PM Modi||Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to postpone all academic activities. He further urged the PM to consider starting the new academic year from January 2021 instead of June-July 2021 so that students do not lose a year.Thackeray said that various institutions and universities are scheduling examinations, which isn’t a “practical” and “feasible” idea considering the rising cases of Covid-19 in the country.In his letter, he said that he wished to draw the PM’s attention to the plight of the students.“While most of our country is still working from home due to increasing Covid numbers, various institutions and universities for professional and non-professional courses have been trying to schedule examinations. This isn’t a practical and feasible option sir, as most states are facing increasing numbers of Covid, along with red zones still in place and transport yet to resume,” the chief of Shiv Sena’s youth wing said.Last week, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the state education department to consider the idea of changing the academic year to January from June in the light of the delay in kicking off the academic year.“We may also think of starting our academic year from January 2021 instead of June/July 2020 so that no student loses the academic year. Sir I’m sure that with this intervention, we would be able to prevent a larger spike in infection and contribute to our fight in keeping our citizens safe,” said Aaditya Thackeray.The Shiv Sena and the Sena-led Maharashtra government have opposed the Centre’s decision to hold final-year examination citing risk to students, teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic. He added that wherever schools and colleges were reopened, a large number of people were infected with Covid.“In our country, most students live with their parents and grandparents and the Infection, if at all, can be fatal. The system for even a single paper would include not just students, but teachers, non-teaching staff and much more of the state apparatus, most of whom are in the high-risk groups. Sir, I humbly request you to intervene and postpone all academic activity to do with physical or online examinations across the country, for all professional courses, including entrance exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-isn-t-practical-postpone-exams-aaditya-thackeray-to-pm-modi/story-ppysbOB2MAcWn6QyE2GsYI.html
24-08-2020||India||DRDO sets an ambitious 2021 target for 108 defence items at meeting with Rajnath Singh||Days after the government announced a policy change to encourage self-reliance in the defence sector, a Defence Research and Development Organisation team on Monday told the government that 108 systems and subsystems would be delivered by the Indian industry within the next 18 months. The list of 108 items that the industry would design, develop and manufacture was handed over to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh by DRDO secretary Dr G Satheesh Reddy.“This initiative will pave the way for Indian Defence industry to develop many technologies towards building an AtmaNirbhar Bharat,” defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted after the meeting with the DRDO delegation.Singh said he had been apprised about the systems and subsystems that had been identified for development by Indian industry. The list, reviewed by HT, includes mini and micro UAVs, mine laying and marking equipment, armoured engineering reconnaissance vehicle and fuel system components for aircrafts.“The DRDO will provide its support to industries in this development process,” the minister said.Of the 108 items, 68 items would be developed before the end of this year. The remaining 40 items are targeted to be manufactured by the end of 2021.The government had earlier this month gone public with plans to restrict imports in the defence sector over the next five years, putting out a list of 101 items that would to be produced within the country by 2024. Singh had then made it clear that the embargo on imports would kick in between 2020 and 2024. The decision was taken in consultation with the defence industry. The list of weapons and systems to be placed on the restricted import list includes artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles and long-range land attack cruise missiles.`||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-sets-an-ambitious-2021-target-for-108-defence-items-at-meeting-with-rajnath-singh/story-mbq2pdS5yivyQv3aLeoXuM.html
24-08-2020||India||China dumps large-scale optic fibre cables from India, tariff wars expected||India has found a large-scale dumping of optic fibre cables from China, days after Beijing extended anti-dumping duty for five years on import of fibre optic product made in India, which could trigger a similar tariff measure to check influx of the Chinese product in the Indian market, two officials aware of development said.The government is considering imposing remedial duty on the import of ‘single mode optical fibre’ as an investigation by the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has confirmed its dumping mainly from China, the officials said requesting anonymity. The DGTR is a single-window agency for administering all trade remedial measures including anti-dumping, countervailing duties and safeguard measures.After a detailed investigation, the DGTR on Friday concluded that import of single mode optical fibre at dumped rates is threatening to cause “serious injury” to Indian manufacturers and recommended imposition of a 10% safeguard duty on its import from all countries except for developing nations barring China, the officials said. The government had already raised basic customs duty (BCD) on it by 5% in July 2019.The finance ministry is expected to take a final decision on this matter soon, they said. Single mode optical fibres are used as a medium for telecommunication operations such as community access televisions (CATV), fibre to the home (FTH) and computer networking because it is flexible and can be bundled as cables.“Effectively, the measure is against Chinese firms as combined import from all other developing countries is less than 9%. China alone has a share of over 84% in its import,” one of the officials said.The DGTR’s recommendation came close on the heels of Chinese commerce ministry’s punitive tariff on the same product imported from India for five years, effective from August 14. According to officials, China is resorting to tariff barriers as its companies are suffering from overcapacity, and also diverting its exports to the Indian market after global boycott of the Chinese products. “Based on complaints by the domestic optic fibre industry, the DGTR had initiated the investigation on Chinese dumping on September 23 last year. It had issued a primary finding on November 6 last year, but its recommendations could not be implemented at that time,” the first official said. A second official said India is very cautious about Chinese unfair trade practices especially after June 15. Sino-Indian tensions have shot up after a violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian army personnel and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP, said, “The precursor for this issue has been laid much before the border issue with China. However, the timing of the notification of the findings and recommendations indicate towards China considering the fact that in November the same was not notified.”Dumping is an unfair trade practice that entails the export of a product at a price lower than its value and is countered by punitive actions, which are acceptable measure under multilateral trade agreements, the officials said. Remedial actions include imposition of anti-dumping duty (against under-priced imports), safeguard measures (imposition of a duty, a quota, or both against unexpected import surge) and countervailing duty (against export subsidies) to protect domestic units.India has taken a tough position against unfair Chinese trade practices as it is committed to protecting domestic industry under the government’s Make in India campaign, the officials said. India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.“Given the domestic economic scenario, the finance ministry is expected to accept this,” Vijayasarathy said adding that the move cannot be linked to China alone as the government has been indicating its intentions of protecting the domestic industry.“In the budget, customs duty was increased for more than 10 products. Since China is a major supplier for India with huge trade surplus, any action on imports across the board would impact China. Atmanirbhar Bharat itself is to restrict the influence of China on Indian markets and with relationships soaring, indirect economic sanctions will help both in hurting China and giving a boost to the fortunes of the domestic industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-dumps-large-scale-optic-fibre-cables-from-india-tariff-wars-expected/story-7KoR9raunhmoWvhh7Vh25J.html
24-08-2020||India||Kerala assembly passes resolution against awarding airport contract to Adani Group||The Kerala assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution urging the Centre not to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises. The lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member O Rajagopal walked out of the house after he was denied permission to speak in the assembly. Later, police arrested BJP state president K Surendran and many party leaders for staging a dharna outside the assembly seeking the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Moving the resolution the CM said the Centre should re-examine its decision and allow it to run the airport as a special purpose vehicle in which the state government has a majority stake. “For the last two years the state has been opposing the move. I have written twice to Prime Minister Modi. Still it was handed over to a private entity ignoring the state’s protest. The Kerala assembly unanimously urges the Centre to reconsider its decision,” the CM said introducing the resolution. Last week the Kerala government had moved the High Court to stay the decision and it is expected come up before the court in a couple of days. It also called an all-party meet to oppose the decision. But Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor had supported the Union government’s decision saying the private participation will help usher in much-needed development. While supporting the resolution opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said there was a “criminal conspiracy” to hand over the airport to the Adani group after the government appointed a legal agency to manage the bidding which was represented by the same industrial group. On Sunday, state industry minister EP Jayarajan said the government was not aware of the legal agency’s background. “We want the government to examine this serious lapse. It is strange while the government opposed Adani group’s takeover, one of the sister companies of the same group was engaged for bidding for the airport. It is a serious conflict of interest,” said Chennithala. The state government has been opposing the privatization of the airport vehemently and fought many legal battles but the court refused to interfere in it saying it was part of a policy decision. In February 2019, the government-owned Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) had participated in the open bidding for the airport but Adani Enterprises quoted the highest and won it. Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had criticized the state’s move saying it was not right to oppose the move after losing the bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-against-awarding-airport-contract-to-adani-group/story-uHKYRaYTj3vm6QQgQD7b0N.html
24-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Adityanath orders increase in number of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Adityanath orders increase in number of hospital beds for Covid-19 patientsChief minister Adityanath on Monday directed officers concerned to increase the number of beds in Covid-19 hospitals in Uttar Pradesh in such a manner that there would always be a surplus of beds at these facilities, the chief minister’s office said in a statement. Read more.CWC meet: Sibal backtracks after reacting to ‘colluding with BJP’ remarkAmid the fireworks in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), a friction between the veterans and Team Rahul played out publicly on Twitter for a few minutes on Monday when party’s communication chief RS Surjewala rejected old warhorse Kapil Sibal’s allegations that Rahul Gandhi accused some seniors of colluding with the BJP during the high-voltage CWC discussions. Read more.Salman Khan performs Ganpati visarjan with family members, distributes sweets to everyone. Watch videoSalman Khan and his entire family and a few industry friends came together at Sohail Khan’s house on Sunday for the Ganpati visarjan. While Salman’s younger sister Arpita Khan led the ritual of Ganpati visarjan, the Khan brothers came together to lend a hand in immersing the Ganesha idol in a tub filled with water. Read more.Netflix India’s Bollywood cast for Lucifer is something you can’t missIf you’re an avid audience of fantasy sitcoms, you may have come across the popular Netflix show Lucifer. Starring Tom Ellis as the charismatic Devil, the show has created a buzz among netizens. The first part of season 5 dropped on August 21, and people are already swooning over it. Read more.‘Turned down Deputy CM post offered by Congress’: Jyotiraditya ScindiaBJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia has lashed out at the Congress party. While addressing party workers in Gwalior, Scindia revealed that he had been offered the Deputy Chief Minister’s post by the Congress party but he did not accept it since he wanted to work for the people. Read more.Bipasha Basu shares perfect Monday workout motivation as she misses ‘the energy of a gym’Procrastinating workouts have been a constant, courtesy endless weeks of staying at home during COVID-19 lockdown but Bollywood diva Bipasha Basu feels excuses are easy to create but won’t help. As she misses “the energy of a gym”, the Dangerous star gave fans a glimpse of her high-intensity exercise session at home. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-adityanath-orders-increase-in-number-of-hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dKavNIiP8Bk9Y78lHc8EUK.html
24-08-2020||India||Kashmir panchayat member untraceable, terrorists claim they killed him||Police have not been able to trace panchayat member Nisar Ahmad Bhat who went missing from Shopian in south Kashmir on August 19.Meanwhile, in an audio message, terrorists have claimed to have killed Bhat, police said. A senior police officer said that according to Bhat’s family, he had gone to Shopian on Wednesday. “He has been missing since. He (Bhat) was booked under PSA in 1995. There are 12 FIR against him and efforts are on to trace him,” the officer said.Also read: Don’t delay development projects, Jammu and Kashmir L-G tells officersThe officer also said that the audio clip seems fake. “We are investigating every aspect of this case.” The 2.56-minute message, purportedly released by terrorists, claimed that Bhat had been killed and buried at an unidentified place.In the clip, an unidentified person can be heard saying that Bhat was involved in “anti-movement activities” and had met his fate. “We have been after him for a long time and finally got him,” the person said in the clip.The message claimed that the body hadn’t been handed over to his family because of Covid-19. “We understand the pain of the family. To avoid the spread of Covid-19, the body wasn’t given to his family. Just as the Indian forces, after killing our comrades, bury them in unmarked graves at unidentified locations,” the message said.Earlier, on August 2, Shakir Manzoor, who was working with 162 Territorial Army battalion in south Kashmir, was abducted from Kulgam district. His burnt vehicle was found later. The jawan could not be traced despite a search operation by army and the police in Shopian and Kulgam areas. A similar message was released later, claiming that Manzoor was killed and buried at an undisclosed location.In the last two months, five BJP leaders, including two sarpanches, have been killed in different parts of Kashmir. Earlier in July, Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita was killed in Anantnag district which forced many panchayat members to resign from their parties.The government also shifted dozens of panchayat members and block development council (BDC) members, majority of them from the BJP, to safer places after an evaluation of threats from terrorists.Soon after taking charge, Jammu and Kashmir’s new Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had said adequate security would be provided to panchayat members and political workers in Kashmir.Sinha was speaking at a function in Srinagar in which a large number of panchayat workers participated and demanded security in the backdrop of attacks on BJP workers in different parts of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-panchayat-member-untraceable-terrorists-claim-they-killed-him/story-dQ1RgAkgUPxHh1XJCfPaRN.html
24-08-2020||India||Longest river ropeway, across Brahmaputra, opens in Guwahati||India’s longest river crossing ropeway — across river Brahmaputra — was opened to the public on Monday, nearly 11 years after work on it was started.The 1.8-kilometre-long ropeway, built at a cost of Rs 56 crore, extending from central to northern Guwahati, will reduce travel time between both banks to just eight minutes.The ropeway was inaugurated by finance, PWD, education and health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma. Development minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya and member of Parliament Queen Ojah were also present.“It is a matter of pride and satisfaction that we now have the longest river crossing ropeway in India in our state. This is also the first ropeway in the state,” said Sarma after the inauguration.Every day, hundreds of people cross the Brahmaputra using ferries, but the service gets discontinued for several days during peak monsoon, when the water level in the river crosses the danger mark. Inauguration of the ropeway will address that problem.Each cabin on the ropeway will be able to ferry 30 passengers at a go and nearly 250 persons would be able to cross the river every hour. However, due to Covid-19 protocols in place, only 15 passengers would be allowed per commute for the time being.The ropeway will have two terminals — one near Nehru Park at Panbazar in Guwahati and the other across the river at Rajadwar village, behind the Dolgobinda Temple.The ropeway, which operates on a twin-track, single-haul, bi-cable double reversible jig back system, was constructed by Kolkata-based Samir Damodar Ropeways, with technical and logistical support from Swiss firms.The project was cleared by the state government in March 2006 at a cost of Rs28 crore and work on it started in December 2009. However, the work came to a halt in 2011 as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) objected to it, saying it posed threat to Urvashi island on the Brahmaputra.After obtaining necessary clearances in 2015, work on the project restarted in 2017. A trial run of the ropeway was conducted in March before the Covid-19 restrictions came into place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-river-ropeway-across-brahmaputra-opens-in-guwahati/story-lstT4tANbLmmEku1Wzx8MO.html
24-08-2020||India||Adityanath orders increase in number of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients||Chief minister Adityanath on Monday directed officers concerned to increase the number of beds in Covid-19 hospitals in Uttar Pradesh in such a manner that there would always be a surplus of beds at these facilities, the chief minister’s office said in a statement.The state government was committed to providing the best treatment to all Covid-19 patients, Adityanath reiterated at a meeting in his residence to review the pandemic and the unlock situation.“For providing the best treatment to Covid patients, ensure that the hospitals are well equipped. The patients must get quality treatment facilities,” he said according to the statement.“But do not merely increase the beds. The increase in beds should be supplemented with arrangement of all necessary medical equipment and human resources,” he said.He reiterated that all districts must keep their integrated command and control centres in the utmost active mode and make them function efficiently for coordinated Covid-19 management.“Through these integrated control and command centres, keep in touch on a regular basis with the patients who are in home isolation. Monitor their health status regularly, using the system. At the same time, keep all ambulances fully active for transporting Covid patients. Pay special attention to Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar districts vis-a-vis Covid-19 management,” he said.The chief minister observed: “Contact tracing is helping keep Covid-19 spread under control. So, do more and better contact tracing. Speed up door-to-door survey to detect anyone with Covid symptoms. If need be, create more door-to-door survey teams and set targets for them.”He also asked officials to invoke the National Security Act (NSA) against those who resort to black-marketeering of fertilizer and said all farmers must get the required quantity of fertilizer, the statement added. “Invoke NSA against those who put fertilizer in the black market,” he said.Touching upon investments to shore up the economy amid the pandemic, the chief minister asked the officers and departments concerned to keep in touch with investors, sort out their problems and issues.Talking about waterlogging in Noida and Greater Noida following heavy rain, Adityanath asked the officers concerned to evolve a system to prevent such situations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-orders-increase-in-number-of-hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-r1c5WG8gbB3h1FVBH3bqJI.html
24-08-2020||India||BJP refrains from commenting on CWC meet, calls it Congress’ internal matter||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)  on Monday refrained to comment on the developments during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, where differences among senior leaders emerged after one group wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party. Several BJP leaders however said that the sparring at the CWC showed the lack of internal democracy within the country’s oldest party. “Whatever is happening is an internal matter of the Congress party and the BJP would not like to comment on it; however, the statements that are emerging from the CWC prove the pseudo internal democracy in the party,” said BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh. At the meeting, which was called to discuss the churning that is taking place with a section of leaders seeking a change in leadership, differences came to fore with a section of leaders who support Sonia Gandhi training their guns on the leaders who wrote to her, seeking a complete overhaul of the party. Wayanad MP and former party chief Rahul Gandhi called the letter ill-timed. Also Read: CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back footAnother BJP spokesperson, Tom Vadakkan, who joined the party after quitting the Congress and was considered close to the Gandhi family, said the developments at the CWC indicated that internal strife is now in the public domain. “As a member of the BJP, I would not want to comment about the internal affairs of the Congress party. However, as a former Congressperson, I can say that the mirror has cracked, and it is all out in the public domain.” A controversy erupted after senior leader Kapil Sibal lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for alleging that some leaders who wrote the letter were acting at the behest of the BJP. Sibal later deleted the tweet and said he was incorrectly informed of the statement. Vadakkan however said the back and forth was “scripted”. Also Read: Sibal backtracks after reacting to ‘colluding with BJP’ remark“These people who were trying to add value to the construction of the party were slandered. What he (Gandhi) basically said was that if you’re not with me, you are with my enemy. However, an attempt is now being made to save face. It could have been handled better; they (Gandhis) could have taken the constructive advice well and thanked them for the honest assessment,” he said. Vadakkan also said that though the Congress party refers to internal democracy and speaks about holding elections, it is only a ruse. “They talk about elections but they are never fair, there is always backdoor management. Even in the CWC, there are selective appointments. So essentially, it is not an election but a nomination and it is a family enterprise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-refrains-from-commenting-on-cwc-meet-calls-it-congress-internal-matter/story-jfNm2I9aTIlP8fdWZQV8eJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad’s offer to resign from Congress as ‘poetic justice’: Owaisi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday called senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad’s offer to resign from the grand old party over Rahul Gandhi’s reported remarks about “collusion with the BJP” as “poetic justice”.Azad was among the 23 leaders to write a letter to the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, seeking a complete overhaul of the Congress. The senior leader had said he was ready to quit if Rahul Gandhi’s remark about “colluding with the BJP” were proven to be true.“Poetic Justice: GHULAM NABI sb u’d accused me of exactly this. Now you’re accused of the same. 45 years of ghulami for this? Now it’s proven that anyone opposing Janeudhari leadership will be branded B-Team. I hope Muslims now know the high cost of loyalty to Congress,” Owaisi tweeted.Also read: CWC meet: Sibal backtracks after reacting to ‘colluding with BJP’ remarkReports claimed that Rahul Gandhi said during the fiery meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) that the letter written by the 23 leaders was done at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s behest. However, party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala denied the reports, saying that the former Congress president had neither said a word about it nor alluded to it.Azad, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, also clarified later Rahul Gandhi had never said that those who wrote the letter were colluding with or doing so at the BJP’s behest.“Rahul Gandhi at no point of time inside the Congress Working Committee (CWC) or outside it has said that the signatories to the letter were doing it at the behest of the BJP. This is a totally wrong thing which has been attributed to Rahul Gandhi,” Azad told HT.Also read| Congress chief should be from Gandhi family, no outsiders: Party workersRahul Gandhi had questioned the timing of the letter by saying it was sent to Sonia Gandhi at a time when she was not keeping well and when the Congress was fighting a battle with the BJP in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.Sonia Gandhi has been firm on quitting as the party chief and urged the CWC to relieve her of her duties. Many senior leaders such as AK Antony and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh persuaded her to continue and criticised the letter.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-s-offer-to-resign-from-congress-as-poetic-justice-owaisi/story-uX6MVQASa9ZLAnFmuiTNBJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Woman, 30, allegedly gang-raped in Bengal, asked to pay fine; 5 arrested||A 30-year-old tribal woman has alleged that she was gang-raped in the early hours of August 19 in the Mohammad Bazar area of West Bengal’s Birbhum district because she defied people in her village and had a relationship with a youth from a non-tribal community. Five people named have been arrested in the case. Hours after she was tortured, the woman and the youth were allegedly made to face trial at a kangaroo court. The woman and the youth were asked to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 and Rs 50,000, respectively, local people said. Instead of paying the money, the woman went to the police and lodged a complaint two days later. “All five men named in the FIR have been arrested for rape. We are conducting an investigation into the alleged kangaroo court as well,” Subimal Paul, additional superintendent of police (headquarters) Birbhum district, told HT on Monday afternoon. In her complaint, the woman, a widow and mother of two children, said that there was a community puja in her village on August 18. That very afternoon, she and the youth were locked up inside a community club and beaten when they were caught together on the road, the woman claimed. In the early hours of the next day, five men took her to a desolate place and took turns to rape her, the victim alleged. She and her partner were released on the morning of August 19. In her complaint, the woman, however, did not mention the kangaroo court. Police arrested all the five accused between Friday and Sunday. One of them is an elderly leader of the local tribal community. The Suri court on Sunday remanded them in police custody for a week. The BJP hit out at the ruling Trinamool, claiming the incident has once again exposed how unsafe women are in West Bengal. “There are numerous incidents that the media never gets to know. In many cases, the rape victims are too scared to file a complaint. Also, kangaroo courts are quite common in rural Bengal because the ruling Trinamool Congress encourages its workers to take law in their hands,” said Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. In 2018, West Bengal earned the dubious distinction of being the state with the most number of recorded incidents of acid attacks, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. Fifty acid attacks were reported from Bengal in 2018, while Uttar Pradesh and Odisha recorded 40 and 13, respectively. The NCRB report for 2016 showed that while Kolkata was one of the safest cities for women in the country the state recorded the highest number of cases of domestic violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-30-allegedly-gang-raped-in-bengal-made-to-pay-fine-5-arrested/story-0CiGzhQrU2eMUOcN00SM7L.html
24-08-2020||India||26/11 Mumbai attack witness moves HC, seeks compensation||Devika Rotawan (21), the youngest survivor and an eye-witness to the November 26, 2008 terrorist attacks on Mumbai, has moved the Bombay high court (HC),seeking direction to Maharashtra government to allot residential premises for her impoverished family and also to make provision for her undergraduate education.Also read: Pakistan bans 88 new terrorists in bid to slip out of FATF’s grey listRotawan has filed a petition through advocate Utsav Bains in high court. The petition has expressed apprehension that her family would have to face homelessness because they had not been able to pay monthly rent for their room in a chawl (tenement) at Subhash Nagar in Mumbai’s Bandra (East) owing to acute financial constraints.She said because of several morbidities, it was not possible for her father and brother to earn a livelihood and they have defaulted in making their monthly rental payments.Rotawan, who has recently taken admission to an undergraduate course in humanities at Chetana College in Bandra and plans to pursue a career in civil services, was nine years old at the time of the 2008 Mumbai carnage.A bullet had pierced her right thigh, as two outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants from Pakistan had fired indiscriminately on passengers at the crowded Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and also hurled grenades at them.Rotawan, who was to travel with her parents to Pune by a train, fell unconscious shortly after she was hit by a stray bullet.Police took her to the adjoining Saint George’s Hospital, where she underwent six surgeries within a month and a half and was bed-ridden for another six months due to post-operative care.  Rotawan has pleaded before HC that following the Mumbai carnage, several representatives of the Central and state government visited their room in the chawl and assured to provide them accommodation under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota because of their acute poverty.The officials, she claimed, also assured to make adequate arrangements for her education, and monetary assistance over and above what was required for her medical treatment.However, the petition cited that all the government assistance received by her was required to be spent on her treatment and post-operative care.Her petition cited that despite the fact that she was a victim of a dastardly terrorist attack and she along with her father proved to be key eye-witnesses against Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the sole 26/11 attacker caught alive and hanged to death in November 2012, the authorities did not take care of her family’s needs to date.    In 2009, she had also approached various government authorities requesting them to extend rehabilitative measures for her family and also sent several representations.“However, all our efforts went in vain,” the petition added. All kinds of assurances were made, but they turned out to be hollow promises until the 26/11 trial was in progress, the petition stated .The plea also prayed before HC that rehabilitative measures prove to be elusive after the memories of terror attacks fade from the public’s consciousness because of the absence of a definitive law or policy to safeguard the victims’ needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-11-mumbai-attack-witness-moves-hc-seeks-compensation/story-TNiXMMSDZVSaRGat8LUp4J.html
24-08-2020||India||Prank calls hit emergency ambulance services during Covid pandemic in Jharkhand||Prank and fake calls have emerged as a major concern for the provider emergency ambulance services during the Covid-19 pandemic in Jharkhand, as these calls are leading to queues and delay in assigning the ambulances, officials said. The state’s call centre for 108 Ambulance service gets around 40% fake calls every day, officials said. In Jharkhand, people are often found complaining of not getting an ambulance in time or calls going unattended, which are often caused by fake or prank calls that result in less productivity and clogged telephone lines. Sumit Basu, project head of Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd, which runs the emergency 108 ambulance service on behalf of Jharkhand government, said, “The fake and abusive calls have turned out to be a big hurdle in smooth functioning of the emergency ambulance service during the pandemic Covid period. At this time of crisis, some people still do not understand the seriousness of emergency services.” Basu said, “We receive 6,000-7,000 calls a day at our centralized call centre in Doranda. However, 40% of them are either fake or abusive or unimportant calls, which not only waste the time of the employee attending the calls but also delay the service to the persons who might need it urgently.” The emergency ambulance service was started in Jharkhand on November 15, 2017. At present, 337 ambulances are functioning across the 24 districts of the state. According to the agency, the ambulances have provided services to the 4,75,625 people till August 18, 2020. Basu said after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, a total of 80 ambulances have been dedicated for Covid patients. “These ambulances are not used for other patients, as it needs extra precautions and safety. Since March, more than 11,000 Covid-19 patients have been transferred through these ambulances,” Basu said. There are many instances where an ambulance service was sought but when the vehicle reached the spot, there was no patient, he said. The abusive and prank calls also hit the morale of the employees and also irritate them sometimes.“We have many times blocked the numbers of fake callers and also lodged a few FIRs. But, people will have to understand that fake calls might deprive people from availing the ambulance services in extreme need,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prank-calls-hit-emergency-ambulance-services-during-covid-pandemic-in-jharkhand/story-jbVnQ4yicoI9Fn3LL7eJrO.html
24-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi never said signatories of letter were colluding with BJP: Azad||New Delhi: Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and veteran Congress leader, clarified on Monday that Rahul Gandhi had never stated that those who wrote the letter to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi were colluding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Also read: Sibal backtracks after reacting to ‘colluding with BJP’ remark“Rahul Gandhi at no point of time inside the Congress Working Committee (CWC) or outside said that the signatories to the letter were doing it at the behest of the BJP. This is a totally wrong thing, which has been attributed to Rahul Gandhi,” Azad told HT. “Secondly, what I said at the CWC meeting was that, unfortunately, most of the people have not seen the full text of the letter. Because in the leak, which is unfortunate, only some portions of the letter have come out. Without going into the full text of the letter, some of my colleagues yesterday (on Sunday) said that this was being done at the behest of the BJP. I have said that if any of those people and leaders will prove that it was done at the behest of the BJP, I will resign. In that context, I said that I will resign if they prove it and I did not ask Rahul Gandhi to prove that. I have not resigned,” he said. In the meeting, a Congress leader said Azad made it amply clear that the letter was not against Sonia and Rahul as “misconstrued” and alleged by some people. For the past one month, the leader quoted Azad as having said, there were rumours doing the rounds that Rahul does not want to come back as the Congress president at the moment and Sonia does not want to continue as the party’s interim chief beyond August 10 when she had completed her one-year term. There were also suggestions that Sonia might appoint somebody to the post and the letter was written in that context, the former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister told the CWC. Azad told the meeting that the letter was written to urge the interim Congress president to discuss and consult with them before appointing somebody to the post. Should a third person be appointed to the top post, that person has to do certain things, such as form the parliamentary board, be active and have collective leadership, he told the CWC. Azad said letter was the do’s and don’ts for the third person and that they should be consulted before appointing anybody to the highest post in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-never-said-signatories-of-letter-were-colluding-with-bjp-azad/story-NWOeCKpLrmT9JkA18hml4N.html
24-08-2020||India||Convince Rahul to become president if your health does not permit full-fledged dedication: Siddaramaiah to Sonia||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday urged interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi to convince Rahul Gandhi to take up the party’s top post if her health does not permit for full-fledged dedication.The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly requested Sonia Gandi to continue as AICC president.”And if you feel that your health may not permit for full-fledged dedication, I urge you to convince Shri Rahul Gandhi to take up the position,” Siddaramaiah said in a letter to Sonia Gandhi.The party is divided on the leadership matter with a section demanding collective leadership and another reposing faith in the Gandhi family.Around 20 party leaders had written to Sonia Gandhi demanding a full-time, visible president and overhauling of the organisational structure including elections to the CWC and reconstitution of the Parliamentary board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/convince-rahul-to-become-president-if-your-health-does-not-permit-full-fledged-dedication-siddaramaiah-to-sonia/story-JYOjBSKSurwu8MOzJ4uFbK.html
24-08-2020||India||Sonia asks CWC to elect a new chief, Rahul questions timing of dissenters’ letter||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday started as expected, with interim chief Sonia Gandhi asking the party’s highest decision-making body to begin the process of electing a new president, thereby relieving her of the duties. Party general secretary in-charge of the organisation KC Venugopal read Gandhi’s letter to CWC. The meeting came a day after a letter written to Sonia Gandhi purportedly by 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan and Jitin Prasada, was leaked to the media. In the letter, the dissenters sought a complete overhaul of the organisation and the formation of a parliamentary board, and maintained that the Gandhis will always be an integral part of a “collective leadership”. Also Read: CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back footAt Monday’s CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi said that it had been a year since she was asked to lead the party till a new president was elected. The CWC had named her the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi turned down calls to withdraw the resignation he had given on May 25, taking moral responsibility for the party’s rout in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “A year has lapsed now. In the party’s interest, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in place a process of transition to relieve me of my duties,” she said. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was the first speaker after Venugopal read Sonia Gandhi’s letter and urged her to continue on the post till a new president is elected. Former defence minister AK Antony said if Sonia Gandhi was unwilling, then Rahul Gandhi should take over. He said weakening the high command meant weakening the party. “How can my colleagues write such a letter? This is cruel and unfortunate,” added Antony. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel urged Rahul Gandhi to lead the party once again. Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter written by dissenters—the Congress president was ill and the party was fighting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. He was referring to the upcoming by-elections in Madhya Pradesh and the internal turmoil in the ruling Congress in Rajasthan where Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators revolted against Gehlot. The rebellion ended after Pilot met Rahul Gandhi and the party formed a three-member committee to resolve issues raised by both the sides. Azad then spoke and explained the reasons behind the letter. He offered to resign if it was proved that he had been colluding with the BJP, as alleged by some of his party colleagues in tweets, letters and statements on Sunday after the contents of the letter and the names of those who had written it were reported by the media. There was some drama outside the CWC meeting as well. Media reports quoting Rahul Gandhi stated that those who had written the letter were colluding with the BJP, prompting a strong response from senior leader Kapil Sibal. “Rahul says ‘we are colluding with BJP’. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government. Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet ‘we are colluding with the BJP’!” he tweeted. Reacting to this, the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted saying Rahul Gandhi had said nothing to that effect. “Please don’t be mislead by false discourse or misinformation in the media. But yes, we all need to work together to fight the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting and hurting each other and the Congress,” he said. Soon after, Sibal withdrew his tweet and said Rahul Gandhi had informed him personally that he had never made such a remark. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-asks-cwc-to-elect-a-new-chief-rahul-questions-timing-of-dissenters-letter/story-XfsgGXE7vMMkr66hyfDRLN.html
24-08-2020||India||Marriage hall employee injured in shooting in Lucknow||An employee of a marriage hall was injured after being allegedly shot by some unidentified assailants in broad daylight in Lucknow’s Daliganj area on Monday morning, police said.The injured man identified as Dhirendra Das, 50, was rushed to the trauma centre at King George Medical University (KGMU) where his condition was stated to be stable, they said.“Dhirendra Das who managed booking for marriages and other events was shot at around 9:30 am. According to the people present there at the time of the incident, the attackers approached Das on the pretext of seeking booking for a function and then shot at him. The accused fled the spot and our teams are trying to identify and arrest them,” said additional deputy commissioner of police Rajesh Srivastav.“We have deployed four teams which are checking CCTV footage and mobile surveillance besides seeking help of local intelligence unit to identify the attackers,” said the officer.“We are also speaking to people who were present at the marriage hall when the incident took place to ascertain if Das had any personal rivalry with anyone,” he added.In 2015, Das was shot at under similar circumstances and the involvement of other employees of the marriage hall had come to fore then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-hall-employee-injured-n-shooting-in-lucknow/story-d4VLa2NtEFHQF7oNGyXJnI.html
24-08-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai witnesses quietest Ganesh Chaturthi in 17 years: Report||Processions in Mumbai during the first day of the Ganesh idol immersions for Ganeshotsav were quieter this year than the noise levels measured during the entire festival last year. This year’s noise levels on the first day of the celebration were much lesser when compared to the data recorded since 2003, anti-noise campaigners stated in a report.The highest levels of noise were recorded 100.7 decibels (dB), as loud as a motorcycle, from a procession at Worli Dairy in south Mumbai, non-government organisation Awaaz Foundation said in a report.Last year, the highest noise levels were recorded only during the last day (Anant Chaturdashi) at 121.3 dB. The highest noise level over the past 17 years was recorded during Ganeshotsav 2015 at 123.7 dB followed by 123.2 dB recorded in the year 2013.Also read: Recovered Covid-19 patients’ test results come positive for monthsOn Sunday, lowest noise levels were witnessed at Shivaji Park in Dadar at 53.1 dB from a collection point and an artificial immersion site. At all remaining areas, ambient noise (traffic but no loudspeakers or noisy instruments) contributed to the noise level and ranged between 65.3 dB and 77.2 dB.According to the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, residential areas should have a maximum noise level of 55 decibels (dB) in the day and 45dB during night.How loud is too loud?Noise levels up to 70dB are acceptable to the human ear.Continuous exposure to decibel levels higher than 70dB can lead to hearing loss. Continuous exposure to noise in the range of 100dB-110dB can result in sensorineural hearing loss, which usually occurs suddenly. If detected at an early stage, the damage is reversible. (Source: WHO)“Ganesh Chaturthi this year was the quietest ever recorded since 2003. There were no crowds in most places and almost no loudspeakers or other noisy instruments. More artificial immersion spots and policies for online celebrations helped reduce the din,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation. She added that that the Covid-19 pandemic and associated impacts played a major role in ensuring smaller and less noisy processions.“Although we need to understand how sustainable will this dramatic change in noise levels this year be in a post Covid world,” she added.On Sunday, the city saw a total of 40,823 idol immersions - 39,845 households and 978 Sarvajanik (public) - of which 22,859 idols were immersed across artificial immersion sites - 22,149 households and 710 Sarvajanik, respectively.Also read: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray asks people to be careful during festivals“This year, the administration was more careful while people were cautious about the ongoing pandemic and decided to avoid crowds. At the same time, alternative sources through artificial immersion spots helped avoid large groups near natural immersion sites such as Girgaum Chowpatty, Shivaji Park, Juhu beach etc. We will ensure this trend continues throughout remaining immersion days,” said Narendra Barde, joint municipal commissioner (zone II), Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). A senior official from the Mumbai police said, “We have strictly implemented noise abatement measures this. The use of disc jockey sets and loudspeakers is prohibited. Wherever large crowds have the possibility of gathering, more police personnel are being deployed there and social distance is being maintained.”The Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals, said they have directed all mandals in the city not to violate noise rules. “The city is celebrating a simple festival this year. The noise is minimal only from aartis (ceremonies during prayers). There are directives from the police and the Bombay High Court. We will see what happened at Worli since majority of idols immersed were household and not under our control,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, president, BSGSS.Abdulali added, “It is heartening to know that the Ganpati mandals voluntarily cooperated not only to safeguard public health and the environment but to undertake important social causes in the crisis of pandemic that we currently face.”Noise pollution is an unrecognised crisis where unwanted or excessive sound can have deleterious effects on human health.According to Dr Samir Bhargava, ENT surgeon at DrRN Cooper Medical General Hospital, Vile Parle, if noise levels are high at night, the main impact is on the mind more than our hearing abilities. “The stress will lead to blood pressure issues, irritability, and headaches. Depending on the duration of the exposure, the level of 102 dB as average noise levels is extremely dangerous for citizens, especially for children and senior citizens,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-mumbai-witnesses-quietest-ganesh-chaturthi-in-17-years-report/story-8cb3eG9Jlp3Zhtci6aL4yJ.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC meet: Sibal backtracks after reacting to ‘colluding with BJP’ remark||New Delhi: Amid the fireworks in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, a friction between the veterans and Team Rahul Gandhi played out publicly on Twitter for a few minutes , when party’s communication chief Randeep Singh Surjewala rejected former Union minister Kapil Sibal’s allegations that Rahul accused some senior leaders of colluding with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the crucial meeting.Also read: LIVE Updates of CWC meeting here“Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don’t be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread,” Surjewala replied to Sibal on Twitter even when the meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body was still in progress. Sibal, one of the top legal brains of the Congress, had mentioned earlier in the day that Gandhi reportedly alleged in the meeting that seniors are colluding with the BJP. No such allegation or even indication was made by Rahul in the meeting, party leaders said. Sibal, too, withdrew his statement quickly. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I, therefore, withdraw my tweet,” he tweeted as a rejoinder to his earlier angry outburst. In his previous tweet, Sibal, who is not a member of the CWC, possibly got carried away by the reports appearing on social media, listed his acts of loyalty to underline that in his 30 years’ association with the Congress, he had never made any statement in favour of the BJP on any issue. He pointed out how he “succeeded in Rajasthan high court defending the Congress party”, and he is “defending the party in Manipur to bring down BJP government”. Sources said that Rahul took the initiative to defuse the situation and it was clarified to Sibal that no such accusations against the leaders who wrote the letter was made by the former Congress president. In his tweet to Sibal, Surjewala also called upon the lawyer-turned-politician to stand united in the fight against the BJP. “... yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian (Narendra) Modi rule rather than hurting each other and the Congress,” Surjewala said. Later, Manickam Tagore, who represents Tamil Nadu’s Sivaganga constituency in the Lok Sabha, also responded to Sibal’s outburst and tweeted, “Kapil Sibal ji we all have great respect for you. @INCIndia made you Cabinet minister and gives a lot of importance. you are NOT inside the CWC. You are reacting to a leak that is false. It does not reflect well on a leader as senior as you are, to react to hearsay!”Kapil Sibal ji We all have great respect for you. @INCIndia made you cabinet minister and gives lot of importance. you are NOT inside the CWC. You are reacting to a leak that is false. It does not reflect well on a leader as senior as you are, to react to hearsay!pl #CwcMeeting https://t.co/etyVpflQQzThe leaked letter seeking major changes in the functioning of the party sparked a raging debate in the CWC. At the meeting, Rahul had questioned the timing of the letter and pointed out that it was sent when the party was facing crisis in Rajasthan and more importantly since his mother was unwell. A leader said the party high command is livid about the leaked letter and has even identified the possible brains behind the move. At the beginning of the meeting, general secretary K C Venugopal, the in-charge of the organisation, also lashed out at the dissenters, who had written the letter. His opening gambit in the meeting was a pointed question: “Why was the letter leaked?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-sibal-backtracks-after-reacting-to-colluding-with-bjp-remark/story-3zUdxyWg2KDYTreReu8BLM.html
24-08-2020||India||Doctor jumps into Krishna river in Andhra, search operation underway||One person allegedly jumped off the Prakasam barrage in Vijayawada into the Krishna river on Sunday night, police said.The body of the doctor has not yet been found yet but search operation is underway, they added. He has been identified as Addepalli Srinivas, working as an assistant professor in GGH, Guntur.“Before jumping, he left his ID card and phone on the barrage road. Passers-by who saw him jumping off informed the police. One town policeman had immediately rushed to the spot,” sub-inspector Srinivas Rao told ANI.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-jumps-into-krishna-river-in-andhra-search-operation-underway/story-ifz5FjMURbm8UTrtqeJkgO.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Bastar Abhar’: Former journalist’s mission to make district greener||Hemant Kashyap, 61, former journalist, is on mission mode to turn his native Bastar district in Chhattisgarh greener. This is his payback time to the district after working for a vernacular newspaper for decades.On the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on August 15, he started a campaign called “Bastar Abhar” in Bilori village. The idea was to encourage the villagers to plant saplings in the name of each family member registered in the ration card.“I have started this campaign from village Bilori and more than 1,200 saplings have been planted so far. My aim is to cover each and every village of Bastar district in the next one year,” Kashyap said.The total population of Bilori gram panchayat is 2,561 and ration cardholders are 683. While the district’s total population is 8,34,375, around 6,98,864 of them are still living in villages.Also read: Chhattisgarh CM writes to centre, seeks funds for bridges“I have been flooded with calls following the success of the campaign at Bilori village. They have been calling me to start the campaign in their villages. I am calling this campaign Bastar Abhar. The state government is offering several benefits to those who live in rural areas. Planting a sapling is acknowledging doing our bit for the environment and society. The concept is to make the Bastar district and villagers realise that trees are life,” said Kashyap, who is also a member of Chhattisgarh Wildlife Board.Bastar Abhar has received an overwhelming response from people belonging to all walks of life. Help is at hand for Kashyap - from sarpanchs to state forest officials.“I have never seen villagers so motivated towards planting saplings. Everyone is planting a sapling and also taking a pledge to protect it,” said Umman Baghel, a sarpanch of Bilori village.Kashyap has done his preliminary homework of mapping the district’s demographic profile.“Our district has 414 ration shops, of which 366 are located in rural areas. A total of 1,63,868 people have ration cards. If they plant fruit-bearing saplings in their villages, the initiative will not only increase their income but will also make our district greener,” he saidBastar’s forest cover has consistently decreased because of persistent felling of trees through the years.“The state government is giving pattas (rights) on forest land due to which logging is rampant in tribal-dominated districts. The government does engage in afforestation drives but those are few and far between as compared to logging activities. Besides, they rarely plant fruit-bearing saplings,” said the former journalist.Somaru, a resident of Bastar district, said that the Bastar Abhar campaign would empower the tribals in the district.“The initiative will give us additional income, as most of the saplings being planted belong to the fruit-bearing category. Also, our dependence on the jungle for fruits will come down,” said Baghel.Shahid Khan, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Chhattisgarh, said the forest department is supporting the Abhar campaign.“Awareness will be created among the public in a bid to ensure that every ration card holder plants a sapling in his village and also takes responsibility to protect it. It is a commendable initiative and the demand for saplings will be met from the nursery run under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, (MGNREGA), 2005. The district can become green if Bastar Abhar succeeds,” said Khan.Indrajit, chief executive officer (CEO), Zila Panchayat, said Bastar Abhar would be launched at every gram panchayat of the district.“Bastar Abhar will help villagers to develop an emotional relationship with trees that will make the district greener. We will provide all support to the campaign,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bastar-abhar-former-journalist-s-mission-to-make-district-greener/story-AKVTt9h4T5gKPBe5jB8YiO.html
24-08-2020||India||Congress chief should be from Gandhi family, no outsiders: Party workers||Several workers of the Congress on Monday demanded that the party’s president should be from the Gandhi family as top leaders held a virtual meeting of its highest decision making body amid a controversy over a letter by top leaders over changes in the organisation.The meeting of the Congress Working Committee is being held after a controversy erupted over the letter by more than 20 senior leaders calling for ‘full time’ active leadership, sweeping reforms and raising questions about the party’s condition and direction, as well as demanding the election of the CWC.The workers, who had gathered in front of the party office in Delhi, shouted slogans as well. “We want party president from the Gandhi family only. Party will be destroyed and break away if any outsider is made president,” Jagdish Sharma, who had gathered outside the Congress office with others, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi offered to quit during the CWC meeting, asking the body to initiate the process for selecting a new party chief. However, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who spoke after Gandhi, and AK Antony urged her to continue.Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter, which he said was sent to Sonia Gandhi when she was in a hospital.Around 23 party leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kipal Sibal, had written to Sonia Gandhi demanding a “full-time, visible president” and overhauling of the organisational structure including elections to the CWC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-chief-should-be-from-gandhi-family-no-outsiders-party-workers/story-BnHy7g6nzwkaGkY69fL1dL.html
24-08-2020||India||After clarification on Rahul Gandhi’s remarks, Kapil Sibal withdraws tweet||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal has withdrawn his tweet where he expressed unhappiness with Rahul Gandhi’s reported remarks at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.There were reports that Gandhi had said that the letter written by the group of people seeking overhaul of Congress was done at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sibal was part of that group.Party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala quickly denied the reports about Rahul Gandhi’s statement. “Sh. Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don’t be mislead by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather then fighting & hurting each other & the Congress,” Surjewala tweeted.Soon after that, Sibal said he is withdrawing his tweet. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet,” he tweeted. Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him . I therefore withdraw my tweet .An upset Sibal had earlier said that he has never made any statement in favour of the BJP in the last 30 years, and that he and other leaders have defended the party during various crises.Apart from Sibal, 21 other leaders were part of the group that wrote the letter on overhauling the Congress. One among them was Ghulam Nabi Azad who offered to resign after reports about Rahul Gandhi’s remarks surfaced.The crucial meeting of the CWC is being held today after the letter where these leaders called for ‘full time’ active leadership, sweeping reforms and raised questions about the party’s condition and direction.Manmohan Singh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Amarinder Singh, Mallikarjun Kharge, PL Punia, KC Venugopal and AK Antony among others are present at the virtual meeting.Sonia Gandhi said at the meeting that she will quit from the post of interim president, and even asked the CWC members to begin the process to find a new chief.Many leaders, including Manmohan Singh and AK Antony urged Sonia Gandhi to continue leading the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-clarification-on-rahul-gandhi-s-remarks-kapil-sibal-withdraws-tweet/story-xyBF8zpJ0PA0AELoFJCZXN.html
24-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi didn’t say or allude to it, claims Surjewala over ‘collusion with BJP’ remark||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala denied reports of Rahul Gandhi’s accusation that leaders who wrote the letter seeking dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC did so in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Sh. Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don’t be mislead by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather then fighting & hurting each other & the Congress,” Surjewala tweeted.Click here for CWC meeting live updates Surjewala tagged Congress leader Kapil Sibal’s tweet in his post, which was in response to Rahul Gandhi’s alleged remark about collusion with the BJP. “Rahul Gandhi says we are colluding with BJP. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP Govt. Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet “ we are colluding with the BJP”!” Sibal tweeted.However, he later withdrew his tweet after Rahul Gandhi told him that he did not make the comments attributed to him.Sonia Gandhi, meanwhile, remained adamant on quitting as Congress president. In her opening remarks at the meeting where Rahul Gandhi allegedly made the remark, she made the offer to quit saying she had given a detailed reply on the issue to AICC general secretary K C Venugopal.“A year has lapsed now. In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in a place of process of transition to relieve me from my duties,” she said at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-didn-t-say-or-allude-to-collusion-with-bjp-surjewala/story-7x6PoMvMHrSC98OHdErVjJ.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back foot||A leaked letter seeking major changes in the Congress functioning has turned counterproductive and even offset the temporary upper hand a group of veterans gained after Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with the Rajya Sabha leaders earlier this month. At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, party leader Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter and pointed out that it was sent when the party was facing crisis in Rajasthan and more importantly, Sonia Gandhi was unwell. Also read: At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letterAccording to a top strategist of the Congress, the party high command is livid about the leak of the letter and has even identified the possible brains behind the move. At the beginning of the CWC meeting, general secretary K C Venugopal, in charge of the organisation, also lashed out at the leaders who wrote the letter. Speaking first in the meeting, he said, “Why was the letter leaked?” Congress president Sonia Gandhi had cited the letter in the meeting while she asked the CWC to start the process of appointing a new party president and made it clear she will no longer stay as the interim party chief. The group of veterans, now under attack had a clear upper-hand just two weeks ago when they emerged as team UPA, got united under the pretext of safeguarding former Manmohan Singh’s legacy after Congress MP Rajiv Satav called for an introspection into the second UPA era. Key ‘Team UPA’ leaders had closed ranks on Saturday and turned the ‘junior versus senior’ fight as an attempt by Rahul Gandhi aides — who felt UPA was responsible for Congress’ falling fortunes — to undermine the legacy of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. UPA ministers Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma, Milind Deora, Manish Tewari (among the 23 signatories of the letter to Sonia Gandhi) were vocal on Twitter. UPA minister Anand Sharma — another signatory of the letter — wrote 11 tweets to remind that “honest introspection” is always helpful and “Congressmen must be proud of UPA’s legacy.” They tried to label the young brigade as critics of Manmohan Singh’s legacy to corner some Team Rahul members. While Sharma cautioned young leaders “No party disowns or discredits it’s legacy. Nobody expects the BJP to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget,” Deora invoked Manmohan Singh’s words— history will be kinder to me — to say, “Could he have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation & seek to destroy his legacy - that, too, in his presence.” Tewari, who had lashed out at Congres MP Rajiv Satav on Friday, continued his attacks. “BJP was out of power for 10 years. Not once did they ever blame Vajpayee or his government for their then predicaments. In @INCIndia unfortunately some ill–informed would rather take swipes at Dr. Manmohan Singh led UPA govt than fight NDA/BJP. When unity reqd (required) they divide,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-leaked-letter-puts-congress-seniors-on-back-foot/story-1ScxjjyLkmfBM30gfU2FsM.html
24-08-2020||India||CBI team visits Mumbai resort for probe in Sushant case||CBI officials probing Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case on Monday visited a Mumbai-based resort where the actor is said to have spent a couple of months, and also continued the questioning of the actor’s friend and cook at the DRDO guest house here.Rajput’s accountant Rajat Mewati was also called on Monday for questioning at the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths probing the case are staying, an official said.A CBI team on Monday reached the Waterstone Resort in suburban Andheri, where Rajput is apparently spent about two months, for questioning its staff in connection with the probe into his death, according to the official.The probing team went to the resort on Sunday also, but left as its staff members were not there.Meanwhile, Rajput’s accountant Mewati, flat-mate Siddharth Pithani and cook Neeraj Singh reached the DRDO guest house for questioning by the CBI, the official said.The CBI questioned Pithani, Neeraj and Rajput’s domestic help Deepesh Sawant on Saturday and Sunday also.These three were present in Rajput’s house at Mont Blanc Apartments in suburban Bandra when the 34-year-old actor was found hanging in his room on June 14.On Sunday, the CBI team questioned Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant at the DRDO guest house and later took them to the late actor’s residence.After spending three hours there, the central agency team left the place along with Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant, who were then again taken to the DRDO guest house in the evening for questioning, the official said.Forensic science experts were also part of the CBI team which visited Rajput’s residence, the official said.On Saturday also, the CBI team accompanied by Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant visited the late actor’s house to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead.On Friday, the CBI officials had recorded the statements of Pithani and Neeraj.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI.After Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in June, the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death.Later, Rajput’s father filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor’s suicide and misappropriating his money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-visits-mumbai-resort-for-probe-in-sushant-case/story-m3cofEaKDeA0AvYizN98hK.html
24-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan won’t apologise for tweets, tells SC ‘would be contempt of my conscience’||Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan has declined to apologise for his tweets wherein he criticised the top court and Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The tweets represent his bona fide belief and retracting his statements would be an insincere apology, Bhushan said in a statement submitted before the Supreme Court on Monday.“An apology has to be sincerely made. If I retract a statement that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology that in my eyes would amount to contempt of my conscience and of an institution (Supreme Court) that I hold in highest esteem,” the statement said. On August 20, the Supreme Court had asked Bhushan to reconsider his stance and offer an apology by Monday (August 24) while hearing on the sentence to be awarded to him. Earlier, on August 14, the court had ruled that Bhushan was guilty of contempt of court and kept the matter for deciding on punishment for August 20. Also read: ‘History will judge the court’ - Kapil Sibal on Prashant Bhushan contempt caseOn August 20, Bhushan issued a statement in which he chose to stick to his tweets. He had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Bhushan’s first tweet read, “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second referred to CJI Bobde and said, “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Attorney General KK Venugopal, on August 20, asked the court not to punish Bhushan. The court is now expected to pronounce its order in the coming days on the sentence to be imposed on Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-declines-to-apologise-over-his-tweets-says-an-insincere-apology-would-amount-to-contempt-of-my-conscience/story-L4BU5rSEmxDmGWLR9SEupK.html
24-08-2020||India||BJP won’t project any CM face in Bengal for 2021 polls: Kailash Vijayvargiya||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not project anyone as its chief ministerial candidate in West Bengal for the crucial 2021 assembly polls, Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s national general secretary overseeing the state unit said in Kolkata late Sunday night. “The achievements of the Narendra Modi government will be our face and it will ensure our victory. After the polls, elected BJP lawmakers can select their leader,” said Vijayvargiya who is in the city to attend a series of meetings where strengths and weaknesses of district units in south Bengal are being evaluated. A silent campaign over the BJP’s ‘prospective chief ministerial face’ for the 2021 election had become a thorn in the flesh for the leadership, a number of BJP leaders told HT. “We strongly suspect that the campaign was started by a section of party leaders pursuing personal agenda. It became the subject of widespread gossip and speculative news items, helping the TMC to project our Bengal unit as a divided house. All this will end with Vijayvargiya’s announcement,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity.Also read: Speculations rife on role allotment in Bengal BJP after meetings in Delhi, Kolkata Quoting unnamed “BJP sources,” numerous news portals, social media pages and vernacular dailies have named a prominent sports personality, a BJP Rajya Sabha member, a Union minister, a member of a Right-wing think tank group and, last but not the least, a monk from the Ramakrishna Mission as the possible chief ministerial candidate against Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee. While the monk dismissed the rumour, the others avoided running into any debate. Significantly, the salient point of all these posts and news reports was an attempt to argue that the BJP needed to project an “erudite Bengali” as the next chief minister since state president Dilip Ghosh, despite being the most popular among opposition leaders in Bengal, invites criticism with his controversial comments. This, BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders told HT, was the outcome of personal aspirations of a handful of leaders. Ghosh was an RSS pracharak from 1984 till he joined the Bengal BJP in 2014. Under his leadership, the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, which is a record. “Maybe he is a bit rustic but Ghosh has become a darling of the crowds. This might have made some people frustrated and insecure,” said a Bengal BJP leader who handled campaigns in 2019. “The timing of these so-called news reports and social media posts, which were clearly planted, is significant. The party has to restructure the central organisation, a process delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, the Union cabinet may undergo some reshuffle,” said a senior leader aware of the developments. Not willing to comment on internal differences, Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “I can only talk about two facts. The Bengal BJP fought unitedly in 2019 under the leadership of Ghosh and created a situation where the TMC looked vulnerable. Secondly, the central leadership re-elected Ghosh as state president for the second term and made it clear that he will lead the battle in 2021.” The Assam unit of the ruling BJP on Sunday also rubbished veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi’s claim that the former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi could be the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly polls. It said the party will have no chief ministerial face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-won-t-project-any-cm-face-in-bengal-for-2021-polls-kailash-vijayvargiya/story-X61PjON95O908WPmIkfvZI.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Pranab Mukherjee deeply comatose, being treated for respiratory infection’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in coma, and is being treated for respiratory infection, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said in a medical bulletin on Monday.“The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose and is being treated for respiratory infection. His vital parameters are stable and he continues to be on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in the bulletin.Doctors attending on the 84-year-old said Mukherjee’s vital parametres are stable and he continues to be on ventilator support.Mukherjee underwent a critical brain surgery at the hospital to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He is on ventilator support since then.He was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. He later developed a respiratory infection.On August 21, Sharmistha Mukherjee, the former President’s daughter, tweeted her gratitude for everyone’s good wished and prayers for her father’s quick recovery.Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-deeply-comatose-being-treated-for-respiratory-infection-hospital/story-pGrc6O21I2bkZqRzu5RjjI.html
24-08-2020||India||Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad offers explanation over letter, says will resign||Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the 23 Congress leaders who wrote to party chief seeking an overhaul in the organisation among other things, on Monday said he was ready to step down if he was in any manner helping the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or working at its behest.Azad’s explanation came at the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) over the letter written by him and other party leaders calling for sweeping reforms in the organisation.Before Azad spoke, Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter written by the party’s leaders. The former Congress president said that the letter was sent to the party chief at a time when she had not been keeping well. He also said the letter came at a time when the “party is fighting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya and Rajasthan.”In the letter, former chief ministers, members of the party’s highest decision-making body and sitting members of Parliament, had suggested far-reaching changes including dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the highest decision-making body.One of the 23 Congress leaders had even sought dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC even as another of the group as come out in support of current party president Sonia Gandhi.Sonia Gandhi said during the meeting that she was not willing to continue as interim chief even as several leaders urged her to stay on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ghulam-nabi-azad-offers-explanation-over-letter-offers-to-resign/story-ZRqWmBHz6iBpFI7Dn8gH9N.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC meeting: Sonia Gandhi adamant on quitting, leaders call letter unfortunate||There was a controversy at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, which has been called to find a way to end the turmoil triggered by a letter from a group of Congress leaders. Reports quoted Rahul Gandhi as saying at the CWC that this was done in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).As soon as the reports surfaced, those who had raised the issues in the Congress - many of them senior party leaders - reacted in disbelief. One of them, Kapil Sibal, said he has never made a statement in favour of the BJP in the last 30 years. He also said that they have defended the party in many crises. Another senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, also part of the group, offered to quit.Congress soon got into damage control mode, with party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala clarifying that the reported remarks attributed to Rahul Gandhi are untrue.After the clarification, Sibal said he is withdrawing his tweet.The meeting of the CWC, Congress’ highest decision-making body, has been called after a group of 23 leaders wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi earlier this month seeking an overhaul of the organisation.Apart from Azad and Sibal, 21 other leaders were part of the group that wrote the letter on overhauling the Congress. AK Antony and other leaders who want Sonia Gandhi to continue called the letter unfortunate and cruel.Sonia Gandhi, meanwhile, remained adamant on quitting as Congress president. In her opening remarks at the meeting, Gandhi made the offer to quit saying she had given a detailed reply on the issue to AICC general secretary K C Venugopal.She also handed over a detailed reply to Venugopal, who read out its contents.“A year has lapsed now. In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in a place of process of transition to relieve me from my duties,” she said at the meeting.The crucial meeting of the CWC started in New Delhi amid divisions in the party over the leadership issue.The party is divided on the leadership matter with a section demanding collective leadership and another reposing faith in the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meeting-kapil-sibal-objects-to-rahul-gandhi-s-collusion-with-bjp-remark-sonia-gandhi-adamant-on-quitting/story-LZwIvwryAPKweeZooo38CO.html
24-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letterThe meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, saw some angry outbursts from party leaders who criticised a letter written by some of their colleagues to Sonia Gandhi asking for overhaul of the party. Read moreRed category rain warning issued for Rajasthan, Saurashtra and KutchIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red category warning for Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch region for Monday. Read more‘We made a mistake’: Sunil Gavaskar highlights one reason why India couldn’t win 2019 World CupThere have been detailed discussions regarding India’s 2019 World Cup campaign for over a year. India were one of the favourites to win the title in England after an incredible run in the last few years. Read moreRhea Chakraborty has not received any summons from CBI in Sushant Singh Rajput case: lawyerActor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer has said that she and her family have not received any summons from the Central Bureau of Investigation as the agency investigates the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Read moreCalifornia wildfire decimates 1 million acres of land: All you need to knowCalifornia is battling wildfires that have destroyed over 1 million acre of land so far. There is no end in sight either with winds likely to fan the flame further. Read moreHasan Minhaj shares sweet video of himself hanging out with son. Netizens can’t keep calmAmerican comedian, Hasan Minhaj shared this video of himself spending some quality time with his infant son on social media. This adorable interaction is making netizens beam and rightly so. Read moreThe future of travel: Slow, meaningful and closer to homeAs tourism gradually reopens, people are planning holidays again but will travel be the same? According to travel influencers, it will be slow, less, but meaningful. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-cwc-meeting-congress-leaders-ask-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-party-chief-criticise-letter-and-all-the-latest-news/story-s4DEv04zDKZDVnOEmI6ebJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi condemns timing of Congress leaders’ letter, says it was sent when Sonia Gandhi was sick||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday questioned the timing of the letter written by party leaders to interim chief Sonia Gandhi calling for sweeping changes in the organisation.The former Congress president said during the crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee that the letter was sent to the party chief at a time when she had not been keeping well. He said the letter came at a time when the “party is fighting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya and Rajasthan.”Gandhi was referring to the letter from 23 leaders, including former chief ministers, members of the party’s highest decision-making body the Congress Working Committee and sitting members of Parliament, have suggested far-reaching changes including dissolution of powers to state units and revamping the highest decision-making body.Before him, his mother Sonia Gandhi asked the CWC to relieve her as the interim chief of the Congress party as former prime minister Manmohan Singh urged her to continue. She asked CWC members to begin deliberations towards the process of transition to relieve her from the duty of party president.Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Prithviraj Chavan, Vivek Tankha and Anand Sharma were among the leaders who wrote the letter to Gandhi.Gandhi, in her reply to one of the signatories, expressed her wish to discontinue as the president and asked all the leaders to get together to find a new leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-condemns-timing-of-congress-leaders-letter-says-it-was-sent-when-sonia-gandhi-was-sick/story-FJdZxsdkQxvHz9b4i5XuSP.html
24-08-2020||India||At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letter||The meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, saw some angry outbursts from party leaders who criticised a letter written by some of their colleagues to Sonia Gandhi asking for overhaul of the party.Those who want Gandhi to continue as party president said that the timing of the letter was not correct.Among these leaders is Rahul Gandhi, who according to people aware of the developments, said that the letter was written at a time when the Congress president was ill and the party was fighting to contain the crises in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.Another senior leader AK Antony said weakening the high command is weakening the party, according to one of the leaders present at the CWC. He also slammed the Congress leaders who wote the letter, the leader said on condition of anonymity.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who has stood behind the Gandhi family and want Sonia Gandhi to continue as president, said that he is hurt by the letter. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh also urged Gandhi to continue as party chief.Sonia Gandhi, meanwhile, asked CWC members to begin deliberations towards the process of transition to relieve her from the duty of party chief, according to people aware of the developments.In the virtual meeting, Gandhi asked the CWC members to proceed with the process of electing a new president.She was appointed as an interim president on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi stepped down as Congress chief, taking the responsibility for party’s disastrous defeat in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Various leaders including Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Karnataka unit chief DK Shivakumar have requested Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president.There is a section in the party who is demanding Rahul Gandhi’s return as Congress chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cwc-meeting-congress-leaders-ask-sonia-gandhi-to-continue-as-party-chief-criticise-letter/story-lIJEhngaUjOVFQL4P9ZiVK.html
24-08-2020||India||LIVE: Senior leaders should raise concerns at party forum only, says Sonia Gandhi in concluding remarks||CWC briefing by KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala underwayThe Congress Working Committee briefing is underway. KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala are addressing the media. Both leaders read the party’s resolution in both English and Hindi.Senior leaders should raise concerns at party forum only: Sonia Gandhi in concluding remarks“Congress is one big family and I don’t hold anything against anyone. But all, especially senior leaders should raise concerns at the party forum only,” said Sonia Gandhi in her concluding remarks.CWC meet ends, Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress presidentThe seven-hour long CWC meeting has come to an end. Sonia Gandhi to continue as Congress president till an AICC session is called within six months. A committee will be formed to help Sonia Gandhi in day-to-day functioning.Ambika Soni demands action against dissentersCongress leader Ambika Soni has demanded that action be taken against the dissident leaders.‘Nobody can question my loyalty to Congress party’: Mukul Wasnik“I owe a lot to Sonia Gandhi. Nobody can question my loyalty to the Congress party,” says dissident Congress leader Mukul Wasnik.‘We should all learn from her’: RPN Singh’s pitch for Sonia GandhiCongress leader Ratanjit Pratap Narain Singh praised Sonia Gandhi for being available ‘24x7’ to guide the party during Jharkhand elections. “We won the elections. I want to tell all CWC members that we should all learn from Sonia Gandhi,” he told the CWC. RPN Singh also wanted Sonia Gandhi to continue on the post till a new president is elected.Ahmed Patel criticises dissenters, says Rahul Gandhi should be Cong presidentAhmed Patel criticised the dissenters. Referring to Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik and Anand Sharma, he said they are occupying key posts in the party and should not have written such a letter. He also said that Rahul Gandhi should take over as Congress president immediately.‘Does not reflect well on you to react to hearsay’: Congress MP Manickam Tagore on Sibal’s tweet“Kapil Sibal ji We all have great respect for you. @INCIndia made you cabinet minister and gives lot of importance. you are NOT inside the CWC. You are reacting to a leak that is false. It does not reflect well on a leader as senior as you are, to react to hearsay!” Tweeted Congress MP from Tamil Nadu Manickam Tagore. After clarification on Rahul Gandhi’s remarks, Kapil Sibal withdraws tweetSenior Congress leader Kapil Sibal has withdrawn his tweet where he expressed unhappiness with Rahul Gandhi’s reported remarks at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.Rahul Gandhi did not say leaders were colluding with BJP: SurjewalaRandeep Singh Surjewala tagged Kapil Sibal’s tweet where he said Rahul Gandhi was accusing them of colluding with the BJP, and clarified that the former Congress chief ‘did not say a word of this nature nor alluded to it.’Priyanka Gandhi hits back at Ghulam Nabi AzadPriyanka Gandhi hits back at Ghulam Nabi Azad, says what you are saying is opposite of what you have written in the letter.The letter was ‘unfortunate, cruel’: AK AntonyAK Antony said the letter of dissenting Congress leaders was unfortunate, cruel.Begin deliberations to put in a place of process of transition to relieve me from my duties: Sonia Gandhi“A year has lapsed now. In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in a place of process of transition to relieve me from my duties,” says Sonia Gandhi.Never made a statement in favour of BJP in 30 years: Kapil SibalRahul Gandhi says “ we are colluding with BJP “ Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP Govt. Last 30 years have never made a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet “ we are colluding with the BJP “! Tweeted Kapil Sibal.Letter was written in collusion with BJP, says Rahul GandhiWriting a letter to Sonia Gandhi for reforms in party leadership was done in collusion with BJP, says Rahul Gandhi: ANI quoting sources.Ghulam Nabi Azad explains why he wrote the letter, offers to quitGhulam Nabi Azad said that he would resign if he was in any manner doing this to help the BJP or doing it at its behest.KC Venugopal reads out Sonia Gandhi’s letter seeking to step down from her roleSonia Gandhi’s letter seeking to step down from her role was read out by KC Venugopal.Ghulam Nabi Azad, part of group that wrote letter on Congress’ overhaul, praises Sonia GandhiDissenting leader Ghulam Nabi Azad praises Sonia Gandhi in key meeting over leadership crisis in Congress.I am hurt by the letter: Captain Amarinder SinghPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh said he was “hurt” by the letter seeking changes in CWC.Weakening the high command is weakening the party: AK Antony“Weakening the high command is weakening the party. How can my colleagues write such a letter?”, asks AK Antony.Rahul Gandhi condemns timing of Congress leaders’ letterRahul Gandhi condemns the timing of the leaders’ letter and says it was written at a time when Sonia Gandhi was ill and when the Congress Party was fighting BJP in MP and Rajasthan. Sonia Gandhi wants a start to process of transition to relieve her from dutySonia Gandhi asks leaders to begin deliberation to start a process of transition to relieve her from the duty.Rahul should take over if Sonia Gandhi unwilling to continue as party chief: AK AntonySonia is unwilling to continue as Congress interim chief, Rahul Gandhi should take over, says AK Antony.Sonia Gandhi should complete full term: Manmohan SinghFormer PM Manmohan Singh says he wants Sonia Gandhi to stay and complete full term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-meet-to-discuss-leadership-crisis-sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi/story-336RGq3NKAt6JJCfukmVrI.html
24-08-2020||India||Shoots of over 30 films, songs get completed in Uttarakhand as state govt eases norms||With the Unlock process underway in the state after three months of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, 33 film shoots have been completed in the state, informed officials. KS Chauhan, nodal officer of Uttarakhand Film Development Council (UFDC) said that these shoots include songs, films, short movies and videos. “The demand to conduct shoots in Uttarakhand has been high as producers are not able to travel to foreign countries and the state provides picturesque locations similar to foreign locations. Since the process of Unlock started at the end of June, we received requests for 33 shooting projects, all of which were approved. The work continued with officials ensuring that social distancing and all other norms are strictly followed,” said Chauhan.Also read: The future of travel - Slow, meaningful and closer to home The official said the feedback received from the film community revealed that the documentation and the approval process in Uttarakhand is easier as compared to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, which is why the demand is high. Chauhan further informed that at present, a production team is conducting a recce in the state for Shahid Kapoor’s upcoming film ‘Jersey’. The approval for the project will be given soon after the locations are finalised. In a bid to welcome film producers and shooting units to the state, the Uttarakhand government, on June 20, issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for film shooting with a focus on physical and social distancing, regular thermal scanning and frequent sanitisation. The district administrations had been directed to ensure that film shooting activities are closely monitored and in case of any violation, the concerned sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) are enforced. Also read: 3 buried under debris while clearing landslide site in Uttarakhand, 1 body recoveredProduction houses had been asked to ensure thermal screening of all crew members or staff on a daily basis, and use of a non-contact thermometer or fever guns. Film shooting will not be allowed in containment zones and the head of the film shooting unit or audio-visual sector must ensure that no member of the team or crew belong to the Covid-19 containment zone of the district. Indoor shoots will have a maximum capacity of 15 people while outdoor shoots will have a maximum of 30 people. Last month, the guidelines were revised and the maximum capacity for indoor shoots was increased to 50 persons with a strict enforcement of social distancing guidelines. However, there are no restrictions on the number of persons for an outdoor film shoot, subject to following all norms of physical distancing and safety norms issued by the state and Central government. On Sunday, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said that production of films and television programmes can resume with all essential health protocols in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). After a consultation with the home ministry and the health ministry, a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been firmed up for the production of films and television programmes, including adherence to social distancing, respiratory etiquette and use of face masks, Javadekar said in an announcement cheered by the entertainment industry based in Mumbai. According to the SOP, actors facing the camera will be exempt from wearing masks. All remaining crew members will have to adhere to the guidelines of the health ministry. In some cases, people aged over 60 years - considered a high-risk group - are not allowed on the sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shoots-of-over-30-films-songs-get-completed-in-uttarakhand-as-state-govt-eases-norms/story-kcrsEz6aWjJOioQ8DFerUI.html
24-08-2020||India||Police start survey at Visva Bharati in Bengal to seek opinions of senior residents||Days after the vandalism at Visva Bharati, the only Central university in Bengal, hitthe headlines, the Birbhum district administration has started a survey to collect opinion from people (especially veteran teachers and senior citizens) who live in the campus. Shyam Singh, superintendent of police of Birbhum district and his team on Sunday went door to door on bicycles wearing kurta and pyjama (just like the students) and talked to residents. Most people told the SP that they do not want walls being constructed by the vice-chancellor as it goes against the spirit with which Rabindranath Tagore built the institution. “People now have to take a detour just because walls have come up in Shantiniketan. Senior citizens are facing problems as they have to walk a longer distance. The path which could have been covered just by one minute’s walk is now taking more than 10 minutes,” said Urmila Ganguly, a senior citizen. Last Monday even chief minister Mamata Banerjee was visibly irritated with the boundary wall at Visva Bharati. The chief minister had said that she doesn’t want any construction that destroys the beauty of Visva Bharati. “When Rabindranath Tagore built Visva Bharati he wanted students to be in the heart of nature and study in the open. He did not want wood and cement structures,” Banerjee had said. While speaking to the police team, Tagore’s great grandson Supriyo Thakur also expressed his displeasure and disapproved of the idea of building walls. “It is a welcome move that the district administration has come to discuss with the senior citizens but the idea of building walls is not acceptable,” he said. On August 17, a large crowd of local people led by some Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, demolished two gates of the campus of Visva Bharati and vandalised construction material stocked by the authorities to build a wall around the ground where an annual fair is held. The university authorities have already demanded a CBI probe into the incident and also requested the Centre to deploy central paramilitary forces for security at the campus. “In an administrative meeting held by the chief minister several persons had expressed their displeasure with the walls that have been built at Visva Bharati. We went to seek the opinion of some senior residents on a Sunday morning,” said a senior police officer who was in the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-start-survey-at-visva-bharati-in-bengal-to-seek-opinions-of-senior-residents/story-bCErETO4vOZ7Vh6hfX2fDL.html
24-08-2020||India||‘Will put students’ lives at risk’: Mamata Banerjee urges Centre to postpone JEE, NEET||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday requested the Centre for the second time to postpone NEET and JEE 2020 in view of Covid-19 crisis in the country. If the exams are conducted as scheduled, it would put students’ lives at risk, said the CM in a tweet.“In our last video conference with PM Modi, I had been vocal against the UGC guidelines mandating completion of terminal examinations in Universities/Colleges by the end of September 2020, which had a huge potential to put student lives at risk,” Mamata Banerjee tweeted.“With the Education Ministry’s directive to conduct NEET, JEE 2020 in Sept, I would again appeal to Centre to assess risk and postpone these exams until the situation is conducive again. It’s our duty to ensure a safe environment for all our students,” Mamata Banerjee’s tweet further read.Despite opposition from several quarters to postpone the national level entrance exams for professional courses, the ministry of education gave directive to conduct JEE from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13.Some students even approached the Supreme Court but it refused to interfere in the exam schedule. Meanwhile, India on Monday reported over 61,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 836 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 3,106,349, including 2,338,036 recovered patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-put-student-s-lives-at-risk-mamata-banerjee-urges-centre-to-postpone-jee-neet/story-RWhswCwUjMeJ8wdN2R9SkJ.html
24-08-2020||India||‘A year has lapsed’: Sonia Gandhi asks CWC to relieve her of party chief duties||Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked the Congress Working Committee (CWC) to relieve her as the interim president of the Congress party as several leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh, urged her to continue.Gandhi made the request at the crucial CWC meeting where the issue of leadership is on agenda amid a controversy over a letter written by 23 leaders of the party.“A year has lapsed now. In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in a place of the process of transition to relieve me from my duties,” Gandhi said.Party leader AK Antony maintained that if Sonia Gandhi was unwilling to continue as the party president, Rahul Gandhi must take over.Follow the latest updates on the CWC meeting here:The meeting was called after 23 party leaders wrote a letter to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the organisation. Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Prithviraj Chavan, Vivek Tankha and Anand Sharma were among the leaders who wrote the letter to Gandhi.ALSO WATCH | Explained: What started dissent in Congress? Several leaders including Venugopal, Antony and Rahul Gandhi criticised the letter by the 23 leaders.Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter sent to the party chief at a time when she was unwell. He condemned the letter for being written at a time when the “party is fighting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.”“Weakening the high command is weakening the party. How can my colleagues write such a letter,” Antony told party members while Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said he was hurt by the letter.Ghulam Nabi Azad, part of the group that wrote the letter on Congress’ overhaul, praised Sonia Gandhi and offered to quit saying if he was “in any manner doing this to help the BJP or doing it at its behest.”Azad’s statement was contested by Priyanka Gandhi who said: “What you are saying is the opposite of what you have written in the letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-asks-cwc-to-relieve-her-as-interim-party-chief-manmohan-singh-requests-her-to-continue/story-xhazprK2I3b5L3udA2OFLO.html
24-08-2020||India||Militants claim killing panchayat member in Kashmir who went missing last week||Militants in an audio message claimed to have killed a panchayat member from South Kashmir’s Khanmoh village who has been missing since August 9, police said.Panchayat member Nisar Ahmad Bhat went missing from Shopian and police have been trying to trace him.A senior police officer said that according to family members, Bhat went to Shopian on Wednesday. “Since then he has been missing. He (panch) was booked under PSA in 1995. There are 12 FIR against him and efforts are on to trace him.” The officer, however, said the audio clip seems fake. “We are investigating every aspect of this case.”In a 2.56 minute long message purportedly released by militants, they claimed that Bhat has been killed and buried at an unidentified place. An unidentified person is heard saying that the panchayat member was involved in “anti movement” activities” and had met his fate. “We have been after him for a long time and finally got him.”The message claimed that the body wasn’t handed over to his family because of Covid-19.“We understand the pain of the family. To avoid the spread of Covid-19, the body wasn’t given to his family. The same way, Indian forces after killing our comrades bury them at unmarked graves at unidentified locations,” the message said.Earlier on August 2, Shakir Manzoor, who was working with 162 Territorial Army battalion in south Kashmir was abducted from Kulgam district and his burnt vehicle was found later. Soon after the abduction, police and army had launched a search operation in Shopian and Kulgam areas. However, the jawan could not be traced. A similar message was released which claimed that Manzoor was killed and buried at an undisclosed location. In the last two months five BJP leaders including two sarpanches have been killed in different parts of Kashmir. Earlier in July, Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita was killed in Anantnag district which forced many panchayat members to resign from their parties.The government also shifted dozens of panchayat members and BDC members, majority of them from the BJP, to safer places after an evaluation of threats from militants.Soon after taking charge, Jammu and Kashmir’s new Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had said adequate security would be provided to panchayat members and political workers in Kashmir. Sinha was speaking at a function in Srinagar in which a large number of panchayat workers participated and demanded security in the backdrop of attacks on BJP workers in different parts of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militants-claim-killing-panchayat-member-in-kashmir-who-went-missing-last-week/story-x9a0174WYHiX9hUTNInuRM.html
24-08-2020||India||India performs 600,000 Covid tests on Sunday, lowest in 2 weeks||India’s daily day testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped sharply on Sunday, as 609,917 tests were conducted. The daily testing figure was around 200,000 less than that of the previous day. Also read: Ludhiana residents struggle to give Covid samplesSunday’s was the lowest test count since August 10, when 477,027 tests were conducted. On Saturday, 801,147 tests were conducted across 1,515 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved laboratories in the country. Last Friday, India had achieved a milestone, when it had conducted a million tests. On average, the country has been conducting 850,000 tests per day over the past week. On August 1, 5,25,689 tests were conducted; on August 6 (6, 664,949); and on August 16 (746,608). ICMR officials said during weekends the number of swab samples that arrive for testing is usually lower, but the rising average daily tests in the past three weeks are a pointer towards the progress being made in aggressive Covid-19 testing mechanism across the country. “On weekends, the number of tests usually goes down a bit. There could be several reasons, including fewer swab samples being collected and reduced work shifts of laboratory technicians. This is more an aberration than a norm. It doesn’t mean that the country’s testing capacity has reduced. The daily testing count is only going to increase from here on,” said an ICMR official requesting anonymity. India, which had conducted its first Covid-19 test on January 23 at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune, has conducted 3,590,213 tests to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-performs-6-lakh-covid-tests-on-sunday-lowest-in-2-weeks/story-tKGfJ4USP9pGZmhIT8YgfN.html
24-08-2020||India||Lockdown comes as a blessing in disguise for Uttar Pradesh’s small tarai farmers||Kuldeep Singh, a farmer in Uttar Pradesh’s Tilhar area of Shahjahanpur, faced many troubles ranging from a shortage of labour to transportation of fertilizer during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. But the 52-year old now feels that the lockdown had been like a blessing in disguise for farmers with small land holdings in the tarai belt. That’s because lockdown restrictions reduced the cultivation of Saatha rice, mainly carried out by well-off farmers to increase their profits. Though more than 70 percent of farmers grow this type of rice to make extra profit, locals said farmers with smaller land holdings suffered the consequences as the farming of this water-intensive crop would make groundwater levels dip sharply, making things difficult for small and marginal farmers.Also read: UP Board moots drop boxes for to provide kids without e-wherewithal with study materialThis year, however, Singh didn’t face any problem in irrigating his crops during summers as the water levels hadn’t depleted as much. Groundwater shortage is caused by many factors but Saatha rice cultivation contributes to it in a big way, said locals. “Saatha rice variety that is grown here is sown in April and harvested in June. Farmers depend only on groundwater for irrigation of this variety of crop which severely impacts the underground water level,” explained Navjot Singh, a farmer from Tilhar who has been demanding a ban on Saatha rice farming. “Only farmers with big farms can afford to pump out underground water, those with smaller land holdings can’t,” Navjot added.Covid-19 lockdown, however, changed things on the ground.“Lockdown meant restrictions and only 10 percent of farmers could cultivate Saatha rice. The rest planted vegetables or other crops that do not require much water. This has helped replenish the underground water level in the region,” said Singh. Recent underground water level survey reports by the district administration confirm the same.“In the past few years, the water levels in 85 percent blocks where Saatha is grown used to drop below 150 ft during the cultivation period. This time, such a drop has been limited to only 28 percent of theses blocks,” said Praveen Singh, the local irrigation officer.“This year, the markedly lower level of dip in underground water levels indicates that farmers are moving away from crops that need large amounts of water. The district administration will continue to support such moves. We plan to organise awareness campaign in the region to tell people about the harms of growing water-intensive crops and suggest alternatives too,” said Jagannath Prasad Tripathi, district magistrate of Shahjahanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-comes-as-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-uttar-pradesh-s-small-tarai-farmers/story-nydRgedS0VRnwrr2WBv7TP.html
24-08-2020||India||A look at how Congress faced a similar leadership crisis in 1998-99||Many Congress leaders are reminiscing the 1998-99 timeline, when the party saw its last major revolt and questions were raised over the leadership on the lines of the ongoing kerfuffle. Also read: CWC meet: Possible scenariosSonia Gandhi had repeatedly turned down appeals to join the Congress – following the assassination of her husband and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991 – until 1997, when she agreed to enter politics and became a primary member of the party at its Kolkata plenary. Prior to Gandhi’s political plunge, the former PM PV Narsimha Rao and Sitaram Kesari had led the Congress and also faced internal revolt that had cut short their reign at the trop. While Rao had to step down in 1996, Kesari was removed in a hurriedly-called meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the apex executive body, which will meet on Monday to tackle the current leadership crisis. Kesari was blamed for the party’s lack of preparedness for the mid-term elections in 1998 and his style of decision-making had ruffled the feathers of several leaders, including R Kumaramangalam and Aslam Sher Khan, who had quit the Congress in protest. On March 14, 1998, Gandhi was elected as the Congress president. The biggest challenge for her was to rejuvenate and unite the faction-ridden party. But over a year later on May 15, 1999, and just before the Lok Sabha elections, three leaders --- Sharad Pawar, PA Sangma and Tariq Anwar -- revolted against her, challenging her projection as the party’s prime ministerial candidate, ostensibly on the grounds of her foreign origin. Soon, she resigned from the post. In her resignation letter to the CWC, Gandhi had written: “Although born in a foreign land, I chose India as my country and would remain an Indian till my last breath. India is my motherland, dearer to me than my own life.” The move prompted a resignation spree from several party leaders and also the then Congress chief ministers such as Digvijaya Singh (Madhya Pradesh), Sheila Dikshit (Delhi), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Giridhar Gamang (Odisha). Hundreds of party workers had gone on hunger-strike and a nationwide agitation was launched to request her to take back the resignation. Finally, Gandhi relented and agreed to withdraw her resignation only after the party expelled Pawar, Sangma and Anwar for six years on May 20, 1999. She informed the party leaders of her decision on May 24, 1999. The next day, a special session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) was convened to welcome her back as the party chief. The grand old party appears to have come full circle in its 134-year-old history. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-congress-faced-leadership-crisis-in-1998-99/story-h2Lf0X6az80xQGPgvBe1BN.html
24-08-2020||India||In less than 3 weeks after launch, Central Railway increases Kisan Rail’s frequency||The Central Railway has increased the frequency of the Kisan Rail train following good response after the service was launched for faster transportation of perishable farm produce.The first Kisan Rail train for transportation of perishable goods with refrigerated coaches to assist farmers aimed at ensuring a fast transportation of agricultural produce across the country was flagged off on August 7 from Deolali in Maharashtra to Danapur in Bihar.The train which was launched as a weekly one, will now be operated biweekly.The train on one its third operation transported 235.44 tonnes of produce including pomegranate, lemon, cauliflower, garlic and eggs. The train will now be operated twice a week and will also be operated from Sangola in Solapur district in Maharashtra to Muzaffarpur in Bihar through Manmad in Maharashtra. “The train has got a good response from farmers and is being operated with assurance of faster and cheaper transportation, providing a seamless supply chain and preventing the destruction of perishable farm produce that will lead to the increase the income of farmers. Prior to Kisan Rail the farmers depended largely on road transport.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-less-than-3-weeks-after-launch-central-railway-increases-kisan-rail-s-frequency/story-1f0pVRvDrrhU3EnaLVZDTN.html
24-08-2020||India||3 buried under debris while clearing landslide site in Uttarakhand, 1 body recovered||A 32-year-old man involved in clearing a landslide site died after he was buried under debris on Monday morning in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district, officials said.He was among the three people clearing the debris after a landslide near the Kaudiyala area on the Rishikesh-Srinagar stretch of National Highway 58 in Tehri Garhwal. All of them were buried along with the earthmoving machine and excavator when the fresh landslide occurred around 5:20 am.Two of the men have been identified as Prabhat, 32, resident of Punjab’s Gurdaspur and the JCB operator, and Sanjeev Kumar, 40, resident of Punjab’s Pathankot, who was driving the Pokland machine.“All three persons were buried under the debris as big rocks fell from the mountain. We have recovered one body and work is underway to rescue others. The two others are also feared dead as body parts have been scattered,” Praveen Alok from State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), which is conducting the search and rescue operation, said. Also read: Don’t delay development projects, Jammu and Kashmir LG tells officersA video of the landslide went viral on social media.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert from August 24 to 27, predicting heavy rainfall with intense spells at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Dehradun and Chamoli districts of the state. Lightning is also likely to occur at isolated places in the state on these days. For August 26 to 27, the met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall, with intense spells, at isolated places in Dehradun, Pauri, Haridwar, Tehri, Nainital, Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-people-get-buried-in-landslide-while-clearing-debris-in-uttarakhand-body-recovered/story-n4IjJ56aWhhKtKnNpvj4zJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Tributes pour in on Jaitley’s first death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other leaders paid respect to late Arun Jaitley on Monday on the occasion of his first death anniversary. Also read: ‘Not just my father, he was India’s son too,’ says Sonali Jaitley“On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitleyji. I miss my friend a lot. Arunji served India diligently. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary,” PM Modi paid glowing tribute to the veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader on social media. The PM was away on a state visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on this day last year, when Jaitley had breathed his last after a prolonged illness. The PM also shared a link of what he had said at the former Union minister’s prayer meeting last year. The ruling BJP’s official social media handle posted a short video on the former finance minister and one of the tallest leaders of the party. “He left us early but he also left behind indelible imprints on the Indian economy, law, governance and probity in public life. His impeccable life will serve as guiding path for the talented future generations,” the party said. Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah remembered Jaitley as “an outstanding politician, prolific orator and a great human being who had no parallels in Indian polity” and described him as “multifaceted and a friend of friends, who will always be remembered for his towering legacy, transformative vision and devotion to nation”. Union Minister for Defence Rajnath Singh tweeted, “Jaitleyji was a stalwart who made a big contribution towards the BJP’s growth and rise to power. He made a mark as a successful lawyer, seasoned parliamentarian and effective administrator. I offer my heartfelt tributes to him.” Jaitley’s doting daughter Sonali Jaitley-Bakshi, who wrote a poignant article on his father for HT, posted a picture of her early childhood. She tweeted, “Today marks one year without my father. Do I miss him? Yes. Do I miss his presence? Never, for he is always with me. I love you, dad --- thanks for everything.” His son, Rohan, too shared old photographs and tweeted, “It’s been a year since you left us, dad @arunjaitley. In many ways, it feels like it was just yesterday. The pain is still as fresh. But so is my resolve to live by your values, principles and vision. You are always with us. So missed, so loved.” Jaitley (66) was admitted to New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on August 9 after he had complained of uneasiness. He died of multiple organ failure on August 24, 2019. Jaitley had opted out of the central government, citing his poor health condition, when the second National Democratic Alliance (NDA) dispensation, headed by PM Modi, took oath on May 30, 2019. Kirren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Minority Affairs and a Member of Parliament (MP) from Arunachal Pradesh, said Jaitley was an “exceptional orator with gifted personality”. Jaitley’s friend Swapan Dasgupta, a Presidential nominee to the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “We miss his erudition, his sharp analysis and his amazing powers of persuasion. I miss his wicked humour, his irreverence and his loyal friendship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-on-jaitley-s-first-death-anniv/story-bf937WmCHynbjYPrK3975O.html
24-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi’s resignation, polls for new chief may figure in Congress meet today||The crucial Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday will discuss the leadership issue in the context of 23 party leaders, including Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Prithviraj Chavan, Vivek Tankha and Anand Sharma, seeking an overhaul of the organisation and interim chief Sonia Gandhi (73) unwilling to continue and having asked the party to elect a new president. A look at the likely scenarios: • Gandhi refuses to continue as the party’s interim chief, asks CWC to elect a new president • The CWC requests Rahul Gandhi to lead the party. He refuses and asks the leaders to find a non-Gandhi as the Congress president• Rahul accepts the demand and takes back his resignation, but seeks a free hand in overhauling the organisation, including dissolution of the CWC• Rahul refuses and the CWC requests Gandhi to stay on until a new president is elected. Also forms a parliamentary board for the day-to-day functioning of the party, as per the demands of leaders, who wrote to Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the organisation• Both Gandhi and Rahul refuse and the CWC authorises the senior-most general secretary to officiate as the interim president until internal elections are held and a new chief is elected• Outpouring of support for the Gandhis from many party leaders and those who wrote letters are silenced. Gandhi agrees to stay on as the Congress chief .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-possible-scenarios/story-FkFXb6HyyvSTO9Kr0vzYPM.html
24-08-2020||India||Don’t delay development projects, Jammu and Kashmir LG tells officers||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha took note of the delays in the completion of some projects and directed the officers concerned to ensure that projects do not languish unnecessarily.“Work with a motto of development and welfare of the people. Development projects are the backbone of a region’s holistic development. People of J&K have set the bar of expectations from the Government very high, so make sure that all the projects are completed within the stipulated time frame to fulfill the developmental aspirations of the people,” Sinha said at a high-level meeting to review the progress of mega projects in the union territory.The meeting was also attended by LG’s advisors K K Sharma and Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar and Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam.Sinha called for adopting a viable strategy for providing best possible developmental infrastructure to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.The Lt Governor stressed on inter-departmental coordination and asked the advisors and the chief secretary for regular monitoring of all the projects in order to achieve results on the ground.He directed the officers to work in a close synergy to remove any bottlenecks coming in the way of progress of works, besides ensuring timely completion of all the projects with strict adherence to the quality norms. While reviewing the restoration project of Mubarak Mandi Heritage Complex, Sinha directed that engineers be posted there for technical supervision and designing.Stressing on the need to strengthen medical infrastructure in the region, the Lt Governor directed speedy execution of work on mega projects like AIIMS and other medical colleges and hospitals in Jammu.Among the other projects that the Lt Governor reviewed were the multi-level parking at Jammu bus stand and the development of townships in Jammu division. The townships are coming up under Jammu, Katra, Udhampur and Akhnoor Master Plans.The Lt Governor took stock of the progress on important projects like Jammu- Akhnoor road, IT Parks, Ujh Multipurpose Project, Shahpur Kandi project, Jambu Zoo, Mechanized Car Parkings, Airport expansion etc.The Lt Governor also inaugurated Smart WiFi Connectivity under Jammu Smart City Mission at 6 places - Raghunath Bazaar, Residency Road, Mubarak Mandi to Parade Chowk, Bahu Fort, Apsara Road and Green Belt Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-delay-development-projects-jammu-and-kashmir-lg-tells-officers/story-7uq9ZoqZPOOV7j2yuxBplJ.html
24-08-2020||India||As India’s Covid-19 tally climbs over 3.1 million, recoveries cross 2.3 million||India reported 61,408 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 836 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 3,106,349, including 2,338,036 recovered patients, according to the Union health ministry on Monday.The country had crossed the 1 million mark on July 16, the 1.5 million milestone on July 28 and two million on August 6. The number of Covid-19 cases in India crossed three million on August 22. Last week, 397,277 Covid-19 cases, including more than 5,700 deaths, were added to the country’s infection tally.There were 710,771 active Covid-19 cases, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With 57,469 patients discharged between Sunday and Monday morning, the number of recoveries has reached 2,338,036 and recovery rate at 75.26%, data showed.The health ministry said the gap between recoveries and active cases continued to widen, with the number of patients recovering currently more than three times the active cases. The widening gap has led to active Covid-19 cases becoming about 23.24% of the total positive case reported in the country so far. India had reported its first Covid-19 case on January 30.“This is because of effective implementation of Centre led policies ensuring efficient clinical management in hospital settings for critical patients, and supervised Home Isolation for moderate and mild ones,” the health ministry tweeted on Monday morning.“The constantly increasing recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country viz. the active cases, has reduced and currently comprises only 23.24% of the total positive cases. This has also resulted in a gradually falling mortality rate.”According to the health ministry’s data, India has witnessed 57,542 people succumbing to the viral disease to date. It has said that India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) at 1.86% is one of the lowest globally. The ministry has been attributing this to the comprehensive and sustained effectiveness of the Centre’s policy of “TESTING aggressively, TRACKING comprehensively & TREATING efficiently”.“Higher number of recoveries and declining mortality rate among COVID patients have shown that India’s graded and pro-active strategies are delivering results on the field,” it has said.According to Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker, the global tally stands at 23,358,598 with 807,830 fatalities. The US leads the tally with 5,701,938 Covid-19 cases, followed by Brazil with 3,605,783. India is the third worst-affected country in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-over-3-1-million-recoveries-cross-2-3-million/story-xeTVbCnU5P2r0gneHy5K0K.html
24-08-2020||India||Goa designer comes up with ‘multi-mask’ for complete protection against Covid-19||In a world where everyone, from doctors to flight attendants and political leaders, is struggling with the usage of masks, a designer based in Goa has developed a modular mask-cum-face shield prototype that comes with a single strap and is comfortable to use. The prototype can bring much-needed relief for those who need it the most amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Deepak Pathania, an industrial designer based in South Goa, has designed a unique, ‘Multi-Mask’ for complete protection from Covid-19 which he said will be a ‘one-stop’ for future mask requirements.The face shield fits onto the mask and stays in place attached to it which is strapped onto the face. This makes it possible for the user to simply slip it on or take it off if the face shield is not required.Also read: US announces emergency authorization of plasma treatment against Covid-19“The face-shield could simply be slipped on to the mask when required without any straps. The user’s speech was not muffled as it only flows through the filter, bypassing the face shield. All parts of the mask could be washed easily and hence minimised bio-waste. The mask could also be customised later with fittings like electronic filter, audio/video recording etc making it future-ready,” Pathania said.Pathania is collaborating with a Pune-based design company to help with the final design, tooling and production process.Pathania, who honed his skills at the National Institute of Design, has already applied for a patent for this device after checking if a similar mask has been devised anywhere in the world.His newly set-up company, Med Interventions and Beyond Pvt Ltd, is currently at the incubation stage at the Centre for Incubation and Business Acceleration, Goa (CIBA).“The idea was to make the product compete with the best in the world. Crowdfunding platforms have a category for products in the “prototype stage” and it is important to spread the word because pre-selling a product is a good way to generate capital and also get feedback on the product, its acceptability and pricing,” Pathania said.The Multi-Mask has been featured on the US-based crowdfunding site, ‘Indiegogo’ to help attract funds for its manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-designer-comes-up-with-multi-mask-for-complete-protection-against-covid-19/story-FnSYdv3oOnRoAIhrl36pVJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Covid recoveries now three times active cases: Health ministry||The gap between coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries and active cases continues to widen, with the recoveries currently more than three times the active cases, the Union health ministry announced on Monday.Also read: With 495 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 15,000 markAs opposed to 2,280,566 recovered cases in the country to date, there are 707,668 active cases, shows health ministry data. Active Covid-19 cases are the current disease burden of the country.“This is because of effective implementation of Centre-led policies ensuring efficient clinical management in hospital settings for critical patients, and supervised home Isolation for moderate and mild ones,” the health ministry tweeted on Monday morning.The widening gap has led to active cases becoming about 23.24% of the total positive case reported in the country so far. The first case was diagnosed positive on January 30, this year. The Covid-19 recoveries have also touched 75% (74.90%).“It is indeed a result of all the efforts that government has made to manage the outbreak. We are detecting Covid-19 infections early; for which credit largely goes to enhanced testing apart from robust surveillance system in place. We have managed quite well given the large population size of India,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Even though overall deaths related to Covid-19 are moving closer to 60,000, the case fatality rate (CFR), that dropped below 2% a week ago, now stands at 1.86%, which is among the lowest as compared to other countries.“Deaths have definitely reduced and we don’t see too many patients needing ventilator support. One of the reasons for it could be that cases are being detected early and reaching hospital well in time. The treatment starts well before they reach the critical stage. In fact, most of the positive cases do not require hospitalization these days, as these are being managed well at home,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital.Doctors treating Covid-19 patients also say that now they know better what works on these patients.“We now know the disease better than what we knew at the start of the pandemic. There are more treatment options open before us and we know things like steroids are working very well in saving lives. There are other supportive therapies that we are now confident about,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, Moolchand Hospital.“Knowing a disease better helps in overall disease management, which is why we are able to save more lives than before,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-recoveries-now-three-times-active-cases-health-ministry/story-xa9vFEkpbXOTyZADpohyzI.html
24-08-2020||India||2 dead, 1 feared trapped under boulders on Badrinath highway in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal||Two people were killed after being hit by shooting stones on the Rishikesh-Badrinath highway in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district early on Monday, news agency ANI reported citing State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) officials.Another person is feared trapped under the boulders near the Kaudiyala area of the district, they said according to ANI. More details are awaited.The Badrinath highway stretch in the Chamoli district was blocked after a landslide near a camp of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) late on Sunday, reported news agency ANI.The operations to clear the debris on the highway in the Gauchar area of the district are underway, according to ANI.In a video tweeted by the news agency, a group of people can be seen rushing away from the spot where a large amount of debris is seen falling from the adjacent cliff on the highway. There were no immediate reports of any casualties. #WATCH Uttarakhand: A landslide occurred near ITBP camp in Gauchar of Chamoli district last night, blocking Badrinath Highway. The operations to clear the highway is underway. pic.twitter.com/G1BL5cjExrOn Sunday, a landslide had occurred on the Rishikesh-Badrinath Highway (National Highway 58) near Bayasi in the hill state’s Tehri Garhwal district.The road from Dehradun to Badrinath, Kedarnath and Yamunotri are blocked at several points with rocks and boulders tumbling down the hill slope following heavy rain.The Rishikesh-Badrinath highway was blocked in Totaghati in Chamoli, the road to Kedarnath at Jaleshwar Mahadev and the one to Yamunotri at Silai bend in Uttarkashi.Officials have said more than 100 roads, including four national highways, are still blocked owing to heavy rain in several parts of the state. A stretch of the Badrinath highway has been blocked for the past 20 days, they said.Over 200 machines have been deployed by the public works department to clear the roads to facilitate smooth traffic movement, according to a report by the department.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state between August 25 and August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/badrinath-highway-blocked-after-landslide-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli/story-PM8HCblMCjsHk0m7SOolUO.html
24-08-2020||India||Maha cautious over reopening to prevent second wave: Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated that the call to provide further relaxations would be taken cautiously to prevent another wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) transmission across Mumbai and the state. The CM said that the state -- the worst affected as far as the viral outbreak is concerned -- would like to tread cautiously in easing lockdown restrictions to “prevent a second wave”, while unveiling an 800-bed Covid-19 hospital in Pune on Sunday via video-conference. Thackeray said the state government is working on ramping up the health care infrastructure in a bid to prevent a second wave of the viral outbreak in Maharashtra. “We are opening up activities gradually to ensure a second wave doesn’t occur. Gathering is inevitable, when we want to get back to our normal lives,” the CM said. Maharashtra, on Sunday, recorded 10,441 new Covid-19 cases, as the tally rose to 682,383. The state crossed 22,000 fatalities after 258 new Covid-19 related deaths were recorded on Sunday and the cumulative toll stands at 22,253. Of the fatalities recorded on Sunday, 213 were from the previous 48 hours and 23 were from last week. The remaining 22 deaths were from the period before last week. The case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra is 3.26%. So far 488,271 Covid-19 patients have recovered from their viral infection, including 8,157 on Sunday. At present, Maharashtra has 171,542 Covid-19 active cases. There have been demands from various quarters, including from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), for reopening of gymnasiums and religious places of worship. However, the state government is yet to take a call. Though the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked state governments to allow unrestricted movement of people and goods between states, the MVA government has not acted upon it yet. The CM said the next 10 days are crucial for the state’s battle against Covid-19. The state is anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases following an uptick in the movement of people during festivals such as Ganesh Utsav and Muharram. “The next phase is important for the state. The next eight-10 days are going to be crucial, as the Ganpati festival is on. Paryushana concluded on Sunday and Muharram will also be observed in a few days. Besides these festivals, a raging monsoon is a carrier of several diseases,” Thackeray said. State health department officials attributed the spike in Covid-19 cases to the easing of lockdown restrictions and anticipated a similar trend to continue. The CM said though the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai is “under control”, he cautioned the authorities to guard against any complacency to prevent a second wave of attack, as has been the global trend. “A dedicated Covid-19 facility is being commissioned in Pune, and two more will be added in this week. People ask me why do we require so many healthcare facilities? We cannot remain careless. Absolutely not. Today, the situation in Mumbai is under control, but I shall not rest. We are continuing with our strategy of tracing, tracking, testing etc. Globally, a second wave [of Covid-19] has occurred. We are striving to prevent a second wave. But what should we do, if it occurs? Earlier, we had faced an acute of shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, including N-95 masks, and also ventillators,” the CM had said while unveiling the Pune healthcare facility. Mumbai recorded 991 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, as the city’s tally rose to 136,353. It also recorded 34 fatalities and the cumulative toll is 7,422. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cautious-over-reopening-to-prevent-second-wave-thackeray/story-rbzvwGoIrC4TY0VWx3X4sI.html
24-08-2020||India||Two Delhi teachers among 47 selected for national teachers award 2020||For the last 21 years, 47-year-old Surender Singh travels from Haryana’s Sonipat to north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar in a DTC bus spending nearly two hours every day with one motive in mind - to help children from marginalised families get a better education.Singh, a primary teacher at a North Delhi Municipal Corporation school in Sarai Pillai thala in Adarsh Nagar, is among the 47 teachers selected for the national teachers’ award 2020. He is also a mentor teacher with 11 North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run schools under him. He is known for his innovative idea of modifying the nibs of fountain pens to help children improve their handwriting in their initial days at school.“A majority of the students who come to us are from very poor families and they do not get any guidance at home. When they come to us, they don’t even know how to hold a pencil. To help them write better, I came up with this idea of changing the nibs of fountain pens and make them sharp as wooden pens that we would use earlier with ink. I cut the nib with a pair of scissors and rub them on a stone to sharpen their edges. I also distribute ink pots to students regularly. It helped them a lot in improving their handwriting. Teachers from many other schools adopted my idea,” he said.Also read: UP government teachers team up to help colleagues in tough timesSingh had also helped hundreds of his students to crack the entrance exam of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (popularly known as RPVVs) - a system of schools run by the Directorate of Education (DoE) for class 6. “I hire a bus and take them to the entrance centres as well,” he said.When asked if he does not get demotivated since there are regular complaints of delay in distribution of salaries at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run schools, he said, “It’s definitely problematic for us all but we can’t stop working. We have a huge responsibility as teachers.”Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner of north civic body, said, “It’s a huge moment of pride for the corporation. We are hoping for more teachers from municipal corporation schools to get recognised in future.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini sector B-8, is the only one who won the award from across the CBSE-affiliated schools in the country this year. The 51-year-old has been working in the education sector for the last 27 years.Arora is known for several innovative community service projects including converting an old school van into a 3D lab. “We have installed a 3D screen on the bus with content on health, science and hygiene. The bus goes to nearby MCD schools and slum areas accompanied by some teachers and gives a digital exposure to kids there. The kids in municipal schools and slum areas are deprived of technology. It gives immense satisfaction to see those kids wearing 3D glasses and watching content on day-to-day life things such as photosynthesis and cleanliness,” she said.Besides, Arora also conducts several programmes on sustainable development goals in her schools and has also written books on healthy food habits for kids. “With every recognition comes responsibility. The award will give us the motivation to do more in future,” she added.The Union Education Ministry, earlier known as Human Resource Development Ministry, gives national teachers awards every year recognising their achievements in the field of education. The teachers apply for the award online and get shortlisted at three levels - district, state and national. The department of school education and literacy of the education ministry constitutes an independent jury at the national level to select the awardees. This year, 153 teachers were shortlisted and 47 of them were selected for the award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-delhi-teachers-among-47-selected-for-national-teachers-award-2020/story-nQUndMDDhqVgqYYjYnc8zO.html
24-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: US announces emergency authorization of plasma treatment against Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US announces emergency authorization of plasma treatment against Covid-19American authorities announced on Sunday an emergency authorization for doctors to use blood plasma from recovered coronavirus patients as a treatment against the disease that has killed over 176,000 in the US. Read moreMilitary option on table if talks fail: Rawat on ChinaIndia’s Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat has explicitly stated that a military option to deal with transgressions by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh is on the table, but will be exercised only if talks between the two armies and the diplomatic option are unfruitful. Read moreCWC meet today, Sonia Gandhi in favour of a new leaderCongress president Sonia Gandhi looks set to announce her decision to step down at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, after 103 Congress leaders wrote a letter to her this month, seeking a complete rehaul of the organisation. Read more‘I miss my friend a lot’: PM Modi remembers Arun Jaitley on first death anniversaryPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday remembered former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the first anniversary of his death for his diligent service to the country and his “wit, intellect, legal acumen”. Read moreSuresh Raina: A shoulder for giantsNo other illustrious career for the Indian cricket team is as difficult to reduce to its essence as Suresh Raina’. Read moreWeight loss tips: From drinking water before meals to eating spicy food, here are some simple steps to shed those extra kilosA major bane of months of Covid-19 lockdown and work from home is that it has cut down massively on our outdoor activities and added extra unwanted kilos to our couch potato selves. Read moreHarsh Goenka shares tip on what to do if you’re tired of Zoom meetings. WatchThe pandemic has drastically changed people’s working model and working from home is the new reality for many. One part of this new norm of life is attending numerous meetings through video conferencing apps. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan is back on sets of KBC 12 after Covid-19 recovery, shares pic of ‘a sea of blue PPE’Actor Amitabh Bachchan has resumed shooting for the upcoming season of Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC). On Sunday, the veteran actor shared a picture from the sets. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-us-announces-emergency-authorization-of-plasma-treatment-against-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I0sbgz8PO6KZzswiigSi0O.html
24-08-2020||India||Striving to ensure there is no second wave of Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated on Sunday that further relaxation of lockdown restrictions would be taken cautiously to prevent a “second wave” of Covid-19 transmission across Mumbai and the state. Speaking via video conferencing during the commissioning of an 800-bed dedicated Covid hospital in Pune on Sunday, Thackeray said the state government is preparing health infrastructure to fight in case there is a second wave of outbreak of the disease in the state.“When we say we want to resume our lives normally, then crowding is inevitable. We are opening things gradually, but while doing so we are also ensuring that a second wave does not start,” he said.There have been demands from various quarters, including from leaders within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, to allow gymnasiums and religious places to open up. But so far the state has not taken a call.The Union home ministry has asked state governments to allow unrestricted movement of people and goods between states. The state, however, is yet to take a call in it.Thackeray said that the next 10 days are crucial for the state’s battle against coronavirus. The state is anticipating a rise in Covid-19 cases with the increased movement of people during festivals, including Ganeshotsav and Muharram. “The next phase is quite important for the state. The next eight-10 days are going to be crucial as Ganpati festival is on, Paryushan of the Jain community is going on, Muharram is also in a few days. Along with these festivals, there is monsoon, which brings diseases,” he said. Maharashtra health department officials said that with opening up of restrictions in the state, they have seen an increase in fresh cases of Covid-19 and the trend is expected to continue.The CM said though the situation in Mumbai is getting “under control” he cautioned the authorities against negligence to prevent a second wave of attack. Mumbai recorded 991 new infections on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 136,353. It also recorded 34 fatalities, taking its toll to 7,422. “A dedicated Covid facility is being commissioned in Pune, and two more will be added this week. People ask me do we require so many facilities? We cannot remain careless. Absolutely not. Today, the situation in Mumbai is in control, but I am not letting things rest. We are continuing with the tracing, tracking, testing, etc. Globally it is seen that after a wave, a second wave (of Covid-19) comes. We are striving so that no second wave comes, but if it comes, then what will we do? Earlier, we had a shortage of PPE kits, N95 masks, and ventilators,” the CM said in the speech at the event.On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 10,441 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 682,383. The death toll crossed 22,000 with 258 fatalities on Sunday pushing the toll to 22,253.The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stood at 3.26%. With 8,157 people discharged on Sunday, the number of recoveries rose to 488,271. The state now has 171,542 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/striving-to-ensure-there-is-no-second-wave-of-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray/story-jyK7yM4ROHDLlywoy1sdFN.html
24-08-2020||India||With 495 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 15,000 mark||Uttarakhand on Sunday crossed the 15,000-mark after 495 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported from across the state on Sunday. The state’s infection tally now stands at 15,124. The state also reported the death of five Covid-19 patients on Sunday, taking the toll to 200. Out of the 200 deaths, 46 were due to the coronavirus disease, while others died because of co-morbidities. Of the five deaths reported on Sunday, one died due to coronavirus while others died due to co-morbidities.According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, US Nagar district reported the maximum number of cases (249), followed by Haridwar (106), Dehradun (66), Pauri (18), Nainital (14), Rudraprayag (10), Chamoli (9), Tehri (6), Bageshwar (6), Almora (4), Champawat (4), and Pithoragarh (3). Also read: Manipur’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 68.92%So far, Haridwar district has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases (3,661), followed by Dehradun (2,985), US Nagar (2,955) and Nainital (2,150). Also, 459 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 150 from US Nagar district. The rate of doubling of cases based on last seven days now stands at 25.26 days while the infection rate is 5.25 percent. The state has tested over 3.07 lakh samples so far, of which the results of more than 12,000 tests are awaited. A total of 10,480 people have recovered successfully in the state, bringing the recovery rate to 69.29 percent. Uttarakhand has 345 containment zones in eight districts at present. The maximum number of containment zones (280) come from Haridwar district. In a bid to fight the pandemic, the state government has also operationalised 17 dedicated Covid hospitals and 381 Covid Care Centres (CCC) across the state and has recently started home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-495-fresh-cases-uttarakhand-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-15-000-mark/story-hZazdtQfCDSfcF7rAfvJsK.html
24-08-2020||India||‘I miss my friend a lot’: PM Modi remembers Arun Jaitley on first death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday remembered former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the first anniversary of his death for his diligent service to the country and his “wit, intellect, legal acumen”.“On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitley Ji. I miss my friend a lot. Arun Ji diligently served India. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary,” the Prime Minister tweeted.The Prime Minister also tagged a video of his comments during a prayer meeting in his memory. On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitley Ji. I miss my friend a lot. Arun Ji diligently served India. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary. Here is what I had said during a prayer meeting in his memory. https://t.co/oTcSeyssRkModi had mourned Jaitley’s death, saying he has lost a valued friend. He was in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on the second leg of a three-nation visit when the news of the former finance minister came.Also read: ‘Not just my father, he was India’s son’, writes Sonali JaitleyUnion home minister Amit Shah also tweeted to praise the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart.“Remembering Arun Jaitley ji, an outstanding politician, prolific orator and a great human being who had no parallels in Indian polity. He was multifaceted and a friend of friends, who will always be remembered for his towering legacy, transformative vision and devotion to nation,” Shah said.BJP president JP Nadda also paid his homage to Jaitley on his first death anniversary. “Salutes to ex-finance minister Shri Arun Jaitley, a brilliant leader, thinker, Padma Bhushan awardee, on his first death anniversary. The unending contribution of his public welfare policies and schemes in nation building will always be remembered,” Jadda tweeted.Jaitley had died of multiple organ failure at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at the age of 66 on August 24, 2019, two weeks after he was admitted to the premier hospital.Modi had handpicked Jaitley to be the finance minister after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) swept to power in 2014. Jaitley who had been battling a series of illnesses had asked Modi to exclude him from the government in 2019.He was the second BJP stalwart to die in less than three weeks after former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj died on August 6 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-miss-my-friend-a-lot-pm-modi-remembers-arun-jaitley-on-first-death-anniversary/story-LxuJfud3kVVmmATzFLhSfK.html
24-08-2020||India||UP govt allowed undue benefit of Rs 572.48 cr to developers in 2010: CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit report claimed that the Uttar Pradesh government allowed undue benefit of Rs 572.48 crore to developers at the cost of Ghaziabad Development Authority in 2010 by altering the land use indicated in the Master Plan without levying land-use conversion charges. The report on Economic Sector and Public Sector Undertakings of Uttar Pradesh for the year ending March 31, 2018, was tabled in the state legislative assembly on Saturday. The report stated that following the state government order of August 2001, the land-use conversion charges were to be levied on the net area of the land at the circle rates fixed by the district magistrate for the existing use of land. The government order had stated that rates of land-use conversion would  be 50 percent in case of land-use conversion from agriculture to residential land.Also read: Cong orders probe after its top two leaders in Agra quit over video rowAccording to the audit report, the state government, in May 2006,  selected two developers for the development of hi-tech townships in Ghaziabad. The Master Plan- 2001 was in force, according to which the land use of the area designated for the hi-tech townships was agricultural. In July 2005, the state government approved the Master Plan- 2021. It was provided that for the use of the land designated for hi-tech township, the developers selected by the state government shall have to pay the applicable land-use conversion charges and the remaining land shall be considered agricultural.  The two orders issued by the state government on May 18, 2006, and September 17, 2007, introducing the hi-tech township policy-2006 and 2007 also stipulated that the applicable land use conversion charges shall be payable by the developers, the CAG report said. In an order on April 23, 2010, regarding Master Plan- 2021, the state government stated that there was no provision under the UP Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 for showing land use as indicative for hi-tech township, the report added. The land had been shown in the Ghaziabad Master Plan- 2021 and, therefore, the land use will be considered residential. The land-use conversion charges would not be payable on this area, the state government said, according to the CAG report. The CAG noticed that by the order issued on April 23, 2010, the housing and urban planning department, on the request of the developers, altered the indicated land use in the master plan to residential and, consequently, no charges for conversion of land use were, henceforth, payable by the two developers. The CAG further noticed that the authority has approved (October 2010 to October 2013) the layout plans of the developers for an area of 4,772.19-acre land, which included 3,702.97-acre land indicatively earmarked as hi-tech township in the Master Plan - 2021, wherein land-use conversion charges of Rs 572.48 crore were to be levied on the developers.  However, due to state government order on April 23, 2010, the charges could not be levied. Thus the land use of agricultural land was changed to residential land without levying conversion charges, the CAG report said. This resulted in the extension of an undue benefit to the developers and loss to the authority of Rs 572.48 crore, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-allowed-undue-benefit-of-rs-572-48-cr-to-developers-in-2010-cag-report/story-Hq5F8IM8cCX6bUExiRrb1J.html
24-08-2020||India||Red category rain warning issued for Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red category warning for Rajasthan, Saurashtra and Kutch region for Monday. The region is likely to record extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm). On Sunday as well, parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan like Udaipur, Porbander, Kandla etc recorded heavy rain.Also read: Mumbai breaches 1,000 mm rainfall mark in AugustA low pressure area is currently lying over central parts of south Rajasthan, according to IMD’s Monday morning bulletin. It is very likely to move westwards across west Rajasthan during next two days and become less marked thereafter.However, the associated cyclonic circulation is likely to meander over south Rajasthan neighbourhood region for the subsequent 2-3 days. The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). It is likely to remain active during next 2-3 days.Due to these favourable conditions, extremely heavy rain is very likely over south-west Rajasthan and Gujarat on August 24.Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over east Rajasthan over west Rajasthan on August 25 and 26 and over Saurashtra and Kutch on August 15.Another low pressure area has formed over North Bay of Bengal on Monday. Low pressure areas are the main rain bearing system during monsoon which bring a lot of rain to the core monsoon region (parts of central and east India). Due to its development, rain is likely to increase over east and central India once again.Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Odisha during August 24 to 26 with extremely heavy rainfall in parts of the state on August 25; over Gangetic West Bengal during August 25 and 26 and Jharkhand during August 26 and 27.Due to convergence of lower level easterlies from Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from Arabian Sea, rainfall activity is likely to also increase over northwest India from August 25: Jammu & Kashmir, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad & Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh are likely to record heavy rain from August 25 to 28 and Uttarakhand to record heavy to very heavy falls during August 25 to 28.Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are likely to record widespread and heavy rain on August 26 and 27.Overall monsoon rain over the country since June 1 has been 7% excess. It has been 6% excess over east and northeast India, 14% deficient over northwest India, 13% excess over central India and 26% excess over south Peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-category-rain-warning-issued-for-rajasthan-saurashtra-and-kutch/story-VeAeGaLOYhqAkRRoaI6BCN.html
24-08-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 68.92%||With 161 new recovered cases in the past 24 hours, the recovery rate of the Covid-19 positive cases in Manipur reached 68.92 percent on Sunday.The recovered cases are from Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) and other Covid care centres of the state, as per the latest data available with the state health authority on Sunday.So far, 3,616 persons out of the state’s total Covid-19 positive cases (5,246) have recovered from various COVID care centres in the state.Also read: A day after hitting 1 million mark, 800k tests on Saturday“The number of active cases is 1,608. The recovery rate is 68.92 percent,” says Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department in a press release on Sunday.“In the past 24 hours, 67 persons (39 male, 22 female) from the general population and 47 from CAPF were confirmed as new Covid-19 positive cases,” the release said. “They are from VRDL (Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratories) of RIMS, JNIMS, Raj Medicity, Babina Diagnostics Centre, Imphal West RAT, Imphal East RAT, Bishnupur RAT, Ukhrul and Thoubal.” The patients come from areas like Imphal West, Imphal East, Bishnupur, Chandel, Noney, Ukhrul, Kakching and Thoubal, the press release said.“Seven persons out of the general population are returnee from other states whereas the rest 60 are locals without any significant travel history. They are being shifted to the Covid Care facilities,” it said. “All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place.”“Today, there is no report of death. The cumulative number of deaths is 22,” the release said. The state had reported its first death due to Covid-19 on July 29 while the first case was registered on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-68-92/story-DqajBJNAiagjQ7mTPqo64K.html
24-08-2020||India||Ahead of CWC meeting, Kamal Nath and Digvijaya throw weight behind Sonia Gandhi in late-night tweets||Hours before the Congress Working Committee’s meeting scheduled to be held on Monday, state Congress president Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh, both former chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, sought to throw their weight behind the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a series of tweets late night on Sunday. Digvijaya Singh went to the extent of saying that he can’t imagine the Congress without Nehru-Gandhi family and that an ordinary worker of the party would not accept anyone else as the party president. The two leaders’ tweets appeared within a gap of less than half an hour. Also read: CWC meet today, Sonia Gandhi in favour of a new leaderThe meeting of Congress Working Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party, is taking place in the backdrop of more than 100 Congress leaders, including former chief ministers and members of parliament, writing to the party president to bring about massive changes in the party in view of the prevailing circumstances. Kamal Nath tweeted, “Any suggestion or insinuation that Mrs. Sonia Gandhi’s leadership is in question is absurd. I appeal to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi to give strength to the Congress Party by continuing as President and lead the Congress.” He said, “I have had the privilege of working with Sanjay Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. I have also had the privilege of serving the Congress Party as a Member of Parliament for almost 40 years and as the longest-serving Member of Parliament. I have been the general secretary of the Congress Party for many years. We must not forget that in spite of the canard against Smt. Sonia Gandhi, she led the Congress Party to victory in 2004 and made Atal Bihari Vajpayee sit at home.” Digvijaya Singh tweeted, “Sonia ji’s leadership is accepted by all. If Sonia ji does wish to step down then Rahul ji should accept the post of President while giving up his insistence (on not holding the post). Digvijaya Singh added, “This is the time for unanimity of views in the Congress, not the difference of opinions. It is known to all which family offered sacrifice and supreme sacrifice for the freedom of the country and thereafter. I don’t agree with what is appearing in the media. I can’t imagine Congress without Nehru Gandhi family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cwc-meeting-kamal-nath-and-digvijaya-throw-weight-behind-sonia-gandhi-in-late-night-tweets/story-1DmjynsIC7HQ2OxkX6kK0L.html
24-08-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh: Amid flooding in village, official take Covid-19 patient to hospital on boat||Andhra Pradesh Police in Doddavaram village of East Godavari district used a boat to take a Covid-19 patient to the hospital, as the village is flooded following incessant rainfall in the region.The boat was arranged by a Sub-Inspector of Nagaram village of the district. The person has been suffering from coronavirus in Doddavaram village in Mamidikuduru Mandal of the district. He was facing problem in breathing since Saturday morning. Sub-Inspector of Nagaram village took a boat to Doddavaram village and took the patient to the hospital.With 7,895 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 3.5 lakh mark on Sunday with 93 more people succumbing to the infection.According to the State health bulletin, the overall tally went up to 3,53,111, with the total number of those who recovered from the infection totalling 2,60,087 and 3,282 deaths, the State Health Department informed.The total number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 89,742.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-amid-flooding-in-village-official-take-covid-19-patient-to-hospital-on-boat/story-ipqq7avmeVwCh3ymWEBahJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Had turned down MP Dy CM’s post offered by Congress, says Scindia||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Sunday said that although the Congress’s top leadership had offered to make him the deputy chief minister of Madhya Pradesh after the 2018 state polls, when he was still in that party, he had turned down the offer as he decided to work for the people.He alleged that the Congress had betrayed the people of the state with false promises to come to power.“The Congress’s top leadership had offered me deputy chief minister’s post. Instead, I decided to work for the people,” the BJP Rajya Sabha member said while addressing his party’s three-day long membership drive, which will end here on Monday.This is for the first time that Scindia has publicly admitted that he was offered this post by the Congress.Also read | ‘PM imposed lockdown to protect people, Kamal Nath imposed it on common man’s entry to secretariat’: ScindiaIn March this year, veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had said that Scindia was offered the post of MP deputy chief minister, but Kamal Nath had refused to accept a “chela”.Scindia said, “I understood that Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh will ruin the Congress government in 15 months. The Congress betrayed the people with false promises like waiver of farm loan in 10 days in order to come to power in the state.” “Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had promised that farm loans of up to to Rs 2 lakh will be waived within 10 days or else the chief minister will be sent back on the eleventh day,” he said.“Congress made false promises to come to the power in the state,” he alleged.Scindia had quit the Congress in March this year and later joined the BJP.On the Congress’s agitation against the BJP’s membership drive in Gwalior, Scindia said, “At least they (Congress leaders) came out of their houses to protest against BJP’s drive five months after losing the government in MP.” With an eye on the by-elections to 27 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, especially in Gwalior- Chambal region of the state that accounts for 16 of these seats, the ruling BJP has launched the membership drive here on Saturday.Twenty-two rebel Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, mostly from the Scindia camp, resigned in March, reducing the 15-month-old dispensation led by Kamal Nath to a minority and paving the way for the BJP to form the government in the state.These former MLAs had later joined the BJP.The BJP then sent Scindia to Rajya Sabha, while many of his loyalists got important portfolios in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet.Last month, three more Congress MLAs in the state resigned and joined the saffron party, taking their number to 25, while two assembly seats had fallen vacant due to the demise of legislators.The Congress now has 89 MLAs in the House, while the ruling BJP has 107. The effective strength of the 230-member House has come down to 203 due to the resignations and deaths of legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-turned-down-mp-dy-cm-s-post-offered-by-congress-says-scindia/story-kM9Jyof6iBEwW9pCiSYlVN.html
24-08-2020||India||Built consensus to induct women fighter pilots, says ex-IAF chief||Former Indian Air Force chief Arup Raha (retd), under whose leadership women officers were cleared to join the fighter stream for the first time, said some people in the service raised “practical concerns” over women flying war planes and he built a consensus to end the rigid gender-based combat exclusion policy. The decision to induct women in the fighter stream was taken five years ago. “I won’t say there were no challenges and the proposal to allow women in the fighter stream faced no resistance. But this wasn’t due to a gender bias. It was because people pointed out practical difficulties related to biological issues — mainly pregnancy-related aspects,” air chief marshal Raha told HT. The controversy triggered by the Netflix film, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, has turned the spotlight on women in the military, particularly the air force. While women officers have been flying helicopters and transport planes for more than two decades, the IAF’s first female fighter pilots were commissioned into service only three years ago. Raha said he dealt with the internal resistance to the proposal to allow women to fly fighter jets by emphasising the need to be progressive and giving them a chance to realise their aspirations. “My argument was if women want to become fighter pilots, then why should we stop them? Women pilots cannot perform the duties assigned to them during pregnancy as that may not be good for the mother and the baby. But that would be for a certain period of time. The bigger goal was to empower women and people eventually understood that,” said Raha. In 2016, the IAF advised its first batch of three women trainees to put off motherhood for at least four years after they got into service so that their training schedule was not disrupted. That was only an advisory and not a no-pregnancy clause. The decision to allow women to fly warplanes was taken on an experimental basis in 2015 for five years. The air force is set to expand the scope of the experimental fighter pilot programme for women, IAF Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria told HT in an interview in May. Nine women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after the experimental scheme for their induction into the combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history. The government then said it was a progressive step that mirrored contemporary trends in the militaries of developed countries. “I think women fighter pilots have settled into their new roles rather well and their performance matches that of their male counterparts. It’s important to empower women in our country where even educated families sometimes do not provide them equal opportunities,” said Raha. The former IAF chief said he hadn’t watched the film, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, but felt miserable about the way the air force had been projected from reading some reviews. “The film has maligned the reputation of the IAF. The content appears to have been trivialized and commercialized. The film makers have wasted an opportunity to project women and the military in the right light,” Raha said. Currently, there are a total of 111 women pilots serving in the IAF, including those who fly transport planes and choppers. The head count of women in the military adds up to nearly 3,500, but combat roles were off limits to them until the IAF took the lead in crushing internal resistance to induct them into the fighter stream. Warships, tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992. The armed forces began inducting women by granting them short-service commission for five to 10 years before the government came out with a new policy in 2008 to give them permanent commission in a few arms and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/built-consensus-to-induct-women-fighter-pilots-says-ex-iaf-chief/story-BAoPgmfqrmjn8WrnbnNMuK.html
24-08-2020||India||Sexist or sensational? Film stirs row||In the summer of 1994, months after she was commissioned into the Indian Air Force (IAF) as part of the first batch of 12 women officers, wing commander Anupama Joshi (retired) faced a daunting prospect.She was appointed fire officer, a prestigious position whose holder had to learn and lead the fire drill. As part of her duties, she was asked to get into a basket dangling off the hydraulic ladder and demonstrate a fire rescue from a multistoried building. Joshi remembers being scared. “I was scared of the height; plus it was a little basket hanging seven or eight floors above the ground,” she told HT. As the hydraulic ladder was raised in the air, Joshi clutched the railing of the basket. “I was smiling and giving a look that everything was going well. Inside, I was afraid but I knew I couldn’t say no, because then it would become about a woman’s ability to perform a duty,” she said. “So I did my little prayer, grit my teeth and successfully finished the task.”At the time, the IAF was experimenting with inducting women and as the first batch, the pressure to perform was immense. “I was always 5-10 minutes early for every task because I knew it would never be about Anupama being late, it would become about a lady officer being late,” she said.Almost three decades after Joshi and the “dirty dozen” –what the first batch called themselves – entered the force, attitudes towards women officers and questions of discrimination are under the spotlight with the release of the recent Hindi film, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl. Based on the life of one of the first women pilots to fly during combat, the film depicts stark discrimination and sexism, drawing criticism from the IAF and the air force officers’ community. In response, Saxena has defended her position and some experts have pointed out that all institutions struggle with gender inclusivity and that filmmakers can take some creative liberties with depiction.The nepotism debate On August 29, 2019, Karan Johar’s official Instagram account put up a poster showing Janhvi Kapoor, daughter of movie producer Boney Kapoor and late actor Sridevi, in an IAF pilot’s overalls and helmet hooked into the crank on one side, surrounded by men in similar blue overalls cheering her on. The poster was the first look of Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, based on “India’s first Air Force woman officer who went to war”, the poster claimed. A second poster weeks later showed Kapoor embracing Pankaj Tripathi, who plays her father, Anup Saxena. On December 28, 2019, when Kapoor posted photographs on her Instagram account — sitting inside a helicopter in the same blue overalls, with Saxena, director Sharan Sharma and other crew members— she announced a wrap. “Can’t wait for you guys to see it,” she posted to her 8.9 million followers. But the coronavirus pandemic made a theatrical release impossible and by June, it was announced that Netflix bought the film for ₹50 crore.By this time, the death by suspected suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was roiling the film industry and stirring a debate on nepotism within Bollywood. A Netflix promotional video showing Kapoor speaking to Saxena drew ire on YouTube against nepotism with some calling for a boycott of the film. “When I tweeted the film looked solid, I was instantly trolled. Why? Because the film has been produced by Dharma Productions and it stars Janhvi Kapoor as Gunjan Saxena. I was called a “Dharma stooge” and much worse,” wrote critic Anupama Chopra in Film Companion.In the first two weeks of August, Sharma, Tripathi and Kapoor gave several interviews and appealed to people to watch the movie before forming opinions. “You can’t decide the merit of a book on its cover. I know this is a democracy, and everyone is free to express what they wish to… but it will be more fruitful if people talk about the film after watching it,” Tripathi said in an interview to HT. But the August 12 release brought fresh problems . Social media users began to call the film ‘anti-national’, not only for showing gender-based discrimination in the IAF but also for its depiction of patriotism. The IAF released a statement expressing its disappointment. A week after the release, Saxena’s batchmate Srividya Rajan claimed she – and not Saxena – was the first women pilot to fly into the Kargil war zone. As the controversy snowballed into national news, the film’s crew and production house fell silent and insiders described shock and surprise at the hostile reception from a section of the audience and the air force – especially at the claims of factual inaccuracy – given that the film was widely publicized before and is based on books and newspaper articles. Kapoor, Sharma and Dharma Productions didn’t respond to multiple requests for comments. Tripathi told HT, “I don’t know anything about the debate that’s going on. In any film I do, there’s nothing apart from acting that I know or even want to know. I feel one should just do their job and go.”Mumbai-based film critic Mayank Shekhar attributed the silence to “a proper smear campaign against the film industry”. “Look at the comments on the trailers or on Instagram or any other platform. These are not spontaneous. The point is to shut people up because there is no way to engage with these comments.” A representative from Netflix refused to comment on the matter. Air force reacts Shortly after the film’s release, IAF sent a letter to Dharma Productions, Netflix and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), saying certain scenes and dialogues in the movie and its trailer, which were forwarded to it for viewing, were found to “portray the IAF in an undue negative light.” “IAF is deeply concerned about the false portrayal of gender bias as institutional work culture,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. The letter said as per initial understanding, Dharma agreed to represent IAF with authenticity and make all efforts to ensure the film would help inspire the next generation of officers. The IAF said it was a gender-neutral organisation and always provided equal opportunity to both men and women. The summary of the scenes and dialogues of the script that were considered objectionable were annexed to the letter, said a second IAF officer, asking not to be named. The letter pointed out the production house was informed about the objectionable portions and advised to delete or modify them. However, it added that instead of deleting the scenes, Dharma proposed a media plan in the run up to the film’s release and inserting a disclaimer. The letter made it clear these options were inadequate. The annexure of the IAF letter detailing its objections are not in the public domain – a questionnaire by HT received no response – conversations with officials helped draw a rough sketch of the possible disagreements. One set pertained to scenes where Saxena’s scheduled sorties are repeatedly cancelled by the flight commander because no male pilot is willing to fly with her, and the non-cooperation of authorities to set right infrastructure problems such as the absence of toilets for women. A second set were to the depiction of junior male officers refusing to salute Saxena and her male batch mates making pejorative comments and being hostile to her. A third set was against the depiction of physical aggression and seniors forcing Saxena to enter an arm-wrestling match with a male batch mate to prove her toughness. “Flight commanders welcome newly posted officers, they do not insult them. They groom youngsters, do not humiliate them,” tweeted Nitin Welde, IAF veteran and himself a trainer.“Absolutely fictitious” Within the air force community, there is deep anger and consternation over the movie’s depiction of a sexist and hostile force. “The film has smeared the reputation of an honourable service with its cooked up instances of gender bias. There may have been some teething troubles in the initial years but what has been shown in the movie is absolutely fictitious and revolting,” said a serving officer, asking not to be named. In WhatsApp groups and personal discussions, particular anger is directed at the projection of male officers as lewd misogynists. “Do the film makers realize how those officers would be feeling about their horrible portrayal? I happen to know some of those fine officers, including the flight commander, who were posted at the Udhampur air base during that time. Forcing a woman officer to arm-wrestle with a male counterpart or asking her to change into flight overalls on the tarmac, this is nothing but fiction,” said a second serving officer. Going the extra mileConversations with three former women officers threw up three sets of challenges they faced in the initial years, but all three were emphatic in saying that IAF was cooperative and backed them during any problems they faced. The first was with outdated policies. Joshi and other women, for example, were not detailed for night patrols initially for safety reasons but after they argued that they needed to be treated equally, it became a norm. For the first three weeks in June 1992, her batch of 12 women walked around the Air Force Academy in Dundigal, Telangana, in civilian clothes because no uniform was designed for women. “In some cases, there was over protection of women, and I had to tell people to look at me as an officer, not as women. We must understand that for 20 years, many of these people spent treating women differently. But this didn’t mean disrespect or institutional bias,” Joshi said. Wing commander Pamela Pereira (retired) said the force supported and nurtured women officers. She agreed that at first women pilots were a novelty, and the syllabus for the trainee cadets was different from that for men. “We had to prove ourselves more, and it was not always smooth sailing.” The second challenge was some male officers who misbehaved with them. Joshi explained there were some incidents where men misbehaved but the organisation had systems in place. She put up an airman for obscenity and he was court marshalled. “This would not be possible in any other organisation,” she said. “Majority were progressive thinking and supportive. A few had doubts about our abilities. But these people are in every profession. We were fighters. We knew how to tide over difficult situations,” said Rajan. Joshi pointed out that many women offices found their life partners in the forces.The third challenge was infrastructural. All three officers said when they first arrived, facilities were scant but added that the force and fellow officers made adjustments soon.Joshi explained that she would latch male officers’ washrooms and use them, or use facilities built for civilian women employees – clerks, stenographers. “I found the IAF the safest place for a woman to work. Later, in my fight for permanent commission, many men came forward,” said Joshi. “And, if we pledge our life for the country, finding a toilet is not that important.”Pereira said male officers would vacate changing rooms to let her use them, and later facilities were built. “We knew we had to compromise a bit. But no woman officer was treated badly or left to fend for herself,” she added. “No ill treatment”Of course, the most serious charge against the film is of historical inaccuracy. Rajan, for example, said the lack of toilets was exaggerated and that women officers used a toilet of a woman medical officer in the next building -- hence, it was not a big issue. Rajan and Saxena joined the academy in 1994 and commissioned together in June 1996 in a batch of six women. They were sent to the Udhampur air base, where they became the first women pilots in the station– doing sorties to support the army, communication, search-and-rescue and casualty evacuation. “There was no ill treatment or humiliation. We were given equal opportunities. If the organization had problems with women, why would it induct them?” she asked. “We always had the option of complaining if any misbehaviour happened.”When the Kargil conflict broke out in May 1999, Rajan claimed that she – and not Saxena – was part of the first team sent to the Srinagar base and flew sorties. At the time, she said, media was not allowed and reporters were only let in two weeks later, when she had finished her two-week shift and Saxena was on the frontlines. “But I was there first, before the media came there, and I was the first woman pilot to fly in Kargil. This film has erased me,” said Rajan – adding that flight log records would support her claim. Saxena has not responded to the specific allegations – multiple texts and calls from HT went unanswered – but defended herself in a blog published on NDTV on August 17. She quoted the Limca Book of Records to say she was the first woman to fly in a combat zone. Numerous newspaper and magazine articles also name her as the first, though some also name Rajan. In the blog, she pointed out it was not her, but IAF that “opened the doors to the media” on her achievements. “How can anybody deny the obvious fact of me being a pioneering woman officer during the Kargil war?” she asked. On gender bias, she agreed that there existed no discrimination at the organizational level. “The experiences of different woman officers would be different. To deny it completely speaks of a feudal mindset and undermines the grit of women officers,” she wrote. Objections raised This was the second objection raised by an arm of the military to a show or movie in recent weeks. Last month, the defence ministry wrote a letter to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), drawing attention to producers of movies and web series “distorting” the image of the Indian Army and said they should obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before airing such content. The government has not responded to the request. CBFC member Vaani Tripathi Tikoo pointed out that the film — which was cleared for theatrical release — was now streaming on an OTT platform that didn’t have any regulations. “We have no control on what is streaming on them, it’s not in the ambit of CBFC.”Tikoo also said the procedure for certifying biopics and military personnel is different. “Since Prasoon Joshi became the chairperson, he has been very sensitive to that fact, and in most of our screenings, we invite military personnel to see the film. At the end of the day, we are not experts in military and defence,” she said. “The guideline states any film which has issues of national security and defence should be viewed in purview of the permissible, it should not lead to any kind of communal violence, it shouldn’t harm national security, and should not disrespect the national emblem.”Shohini Ghosh, director of Jamia Millia Islamia’s AJK Mass Communication Research Centre, said that had the film not committed itself to being a biopic, it may not have got mired in this debate. (The film offers a disclaimer that the events have been dramatized). “What we would have been left with is a powerful film on sexism in a hallowed male-dominated institution. Many women would be able to identify with how even if you are up to doing your job, sexism stands in the way, as the environment is built for men. The film also redefines patriotism, as not just limited to slogan-mongering jingoism, but as a love for the country that emerges from one’s own passions and sincerity. It’s patriotism that includes everyone, not just those who are at the borders,” Ghosh said.A standing ovationAt any rate, the film and the ensuing controversy has also highlighted the giant strides made by women pilots in three decades -- from a time when they were inducted in administrative roles for 10 years with an optional five-year extension to now, when they are flight commanders and elite fighter pilots.Joshi remembers when as cadets just three months into their training in October 1992, her batch were told they would be a special contingent at the Air Force Day parade in New Delhi. “We were super excited, especially after we were put up in the officers’ mess and everything — food, drinks — was made free for us, We would stay up all night, talking,” she said.On October 8, 1992, Joshi led the woman contingent and they were later corralled to meet the president, prime minister and defence minister, in whose presence the then air chief NC Suri called the women his 12 angels. “We got the loudest applause and a standing ovation from the gallery. President Shankar Dayal Sharma said this was one of the proudest moments for him,” said Joshi. At the time, there were zero women officers in the IAF. Today, there are 111. (with inputs from Rishab Suri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexist-or-sensational-film-stirs-row/story-pmzqjZbzo6U2xhXbPVdWyM.html
24-08-2020||India||A day after hitting 1 million mark, 800k tests on Saturday||The number of daily Covid-19 tests slumped by about 200,000 on Saturday after crossing the record one million mark a day before. The data released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showed that the country performed 8,01,147 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours. The overall tally stood at 3,52,92,220. On Friday, 10, 23, 836 tests were conducted. “At times, this (low-test count) happens on weekends. However, it doesn’t mean that there is a decline in our testing capacity,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR. “It is only by aggressive testing that the positive cases can be identified, their contacts tracked in a timely manner and critical patients provided the needed clinical treatment…,” said Union ministry of health and family welfare (MOH&FW) in its statement released on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-hitting-1-million-mark-800k-tests-on-saturday/story-XvOTxoGJtPKuTOQFbCq7gP.html
24-08-2020||India||Sellers of school uniforms all dressed up but nowhere to go||Himanshu Bhardwaj has been keenly waiting for schools to reopen — no, he is not a vociferous votary of in-class teaching, but a manufacturer and trader of school uniforms with massive unsold stocks. “I never thought schools could ever be closed for so long and we could ever go out of business,” says Bhardwaj, sitting inside his shop in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar.The shop’s shelves are laden with coats, shirts, trousers of various sizes; fabrics of different patterns and colours: plain, twill, matty, oxford checks, stripes in blue, white, grey, green and other school colours. Behind him on the wall are showcased ties and belts with logos of schools as far away as Assam and West Bengal. “The lockdown happened just when we were readying to dispatch uniform to them. About 40,000 summer uniforms are lying unsold in my godown,” says Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj is not the only one.The continued closure of schools due to the Coronavirus crisis -- -- since March 19 in Delhi -- has caused unprecedented disruption in the country’s school uniform market, which, according to the industry estimates is worth 18,000 crores. India has one of the largest K-12 (kindergarten to class 12) school systems in the world with more than 1.4 million schools with 250+ million students, according to a FICCI report.The Delhi-NCR and Solapur in Maharashtra are the two biggest school uniform manufacturing hubs in the country. The Gandhi Nagar market in the capital alone boasts of about 100 school uniform traders and manufacturers, who attract vendors and retailers from all across the country, providing direct and indirect employment to about 1 lakh people in the city—cutters, tailors, stitchers, embroiders—between August and March. In fact, August is the time when manufacturing for winter uniforms starts, but this year most tailoring units, which are concentrated in east Delhi, Noida and Sahibabad are shuttered.“We start production in January for the new session in April, and in August for the winter session. But with large stocks of summer uniforms having remained unsold, we are facing a cash crunch, and there is no way we can start production till the existing stocks are cleared and we receive payment. If the schools open in December, there would not be any winter uniforms in the market,” says Anil Jain, sitting inside his shops in Gandhi Nagar. There are hundreds of packed white lab suits lying behind him.Jain is one of the few traders who have chosen to keep his shop open in the market where a majority of shops of uniform traders and makers have remained closed since March. Jain says he keeps the shop open more to kill boredom at home than in hope of getting any business. None of the 150 schools he has made pre-ordered uniform with their emblems has picked up their stocks, he says. “Many of them, especially budget schools, have stopped taking my calls.”The average cost of uniform in wholesale is anything between Rs 300 to Rs 900, depending on the fabric, size and the customisation required. “Till January, I had so many vendors and school representatives exploring new uniform designs flipping through these catalogues,” says Bhardwaj, pulling out a catalogue of a well-known uniform fabric brand. One of his shelves is packed with catalogues with fabric samples and uniform designs.Gandhi Nagar has over 150 tailoring units, each employing 20 to 70 people, with different specialties. “There were people who would cut, stitch, and there were those who specialised in embroidering logos on the uniform,” says Vivek Sharma. Hanging from the front of his shop are children’s mannequins in school uniforms made by his firm. “I employed about 50 people, who are now jobless,” says Jain, who has been in the school uniform business for the past 25 yearsDelhi also has many traders and manufacturers who supply belts and ties to uniform manufacturers all over the country. Sadar Bazar-based Sushil Verma, for example, has been making ties and belts for uniform manufacturers in Solapur and Delhi. He is sitting on a large stock of undelivered belt and ties. “I am afraid a lot of them are white belts with school logos printed on them. They might fade,” says Verma. “I used to make about 2,500 belts a day, but have not produced a single belt or tie since March.”If Gandhi Nagar has manufacturers and traders, Katra Choban in Chandni Chowk is the hub of uniform fabric dealers —and they say their business is facing a crisis like never before. “Our sales are down by 90%. Most uniform manufacturers have withheld our payment because they have not been able to get payment from school vendors. We have unsold stocks worth lakhs, and have not placed any new order with fabric manufacturing firms,” says Sanjeev Malhotra, partner, Prakash Lal Rakesh Kumar, one of Delhi’s better- known and oldest uniform fabric dealers. His customers include uniform vendors of some of Delhi’s biggest and oldest schools.Most dealers procure fabric from mills in Bhilwara in Rajasthan and Bhiwandi near Mumbai, home to some of India’s biggest textile mills. “School uniform fabric accounts for most of our output; our production for school uniform fabric is down by 80%. But we have seen a slight increase in demand from the health sector,” says Kishore Kothari, director, Valji Uniform, a Mumbai-based firm, which is one of India’s largest uniform fabric manufacturers. “But the industry will see a quick recovery as soon as schools reopen.”Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools, an association of private schools in Delhi, says there is no requirement of uniform as long as schools are closed. “Children are free to wear the dress of their choice as they take online classes at home. Even otherwise, while some schools appoint vendors for uniforms for the convenience of parents, the latter have always been free to buy it from wherever they want,” says Arora. “The schools decide what their uniform should be, but not where should the parents buy them.”Aparajitha Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association, said some schools had initially asked parents to make their children wear uniforms while attending online classes. “We protested and asked the parents not to follow such directions as they are already facing financial stress in the current situation. There is no point buying a new uniform when the schools are closed,” she said.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation, like other two corporations in the city, gives Rs 1,100 per student to parents to buy school uniforms for their children. Nearly 2.75 lakh students are enrolled at 714 primary schools run by the civic body. The corporation, which spends around Rs 30 crore on school uniforms, has released the funds to parents to buy uniforms. “Every year, this fund is released in April but due to lockdown this year, it was given in July and August first week. Though schools are yet to open, we have released the money so that the parents can buy uniforms as soon as the schools reopen,” says Ira Singhal, deputy commissioner of the North Delhi Corporation.Back in Gandhi Nagar, traders are not too optimistic about the reopening of schools. If Bhardwaj has started stocking women’s wear such as salwar suits, kurtis – not the right garments, he admits, for a firm called NHPS School Uniform; Sharma has started dealing in pyjamas and T-shirts. “I have never sold anything other than school uniforms, but we need to look beyond uniform to survive at least till the time schools reopen, ” says Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sellers-of-school-uniforms-all-dressed-up-but-nowhere-to-go/story-BW5ym7APhdOiMB9gzHaojN.html
24-08-2020||India||Delhiwale: Cheeku and Peeku||It’s very tough to make out who is who. Cheeku and Peeku are twins. Barely a month old. They don’t speak much. They stay together. And they seem to have recovered from the great loss they suffered a bit too soon in their life.“Their mother died a few days after their birth,” says Ratan Kumar. It is evening and he has brought Cheeku and Peeku for their regular evening outing in this south Delhi park. They live in nearby Jia Sarai village. Mr Kumar quietly watches as Cheeku and Peeku hover around his feet. It is a humid evening but the siblings are looking like fresh balls of snow.Cheeku and Peeku are rabbits. “I bought their mother from Adchini for 650 rupees,” says Mr Kumar, looking at the twins as they fiddle about the greens, just outside their empty steel cage. “We don’t keep them inside the cage at home... it’s used just as a carriage to bring them to the park.”Mr Kumar, a security guard in a monument, was never really fond of the idea of keeping pets, but he bought the twins’ mother after being persuaded by his four kids. He says that Cheeku gets his name from his mother. “She was originally named Cheeku by my daughter Komal.”There is no knowing how deeply the twins felt the death of their mother, confesses Mr Kumar. “But for a week or so they barely moved about the house, they would keep lying on the floor together, their heads slumped one upon the other. Many times we had to force them to eat.”Now Mr Kumar silently spreads out his arm and, as if on cue, both rabbits raise themselves on each of his palms. Lifting the twins closer to his face, Mr Kumar says in a flat tone that “by now they have forgotten their mummy.”He turns to look at the woody expanse beyond the park’s boundary, and gesturing vaguely towards that direction, he says, “I buried the mother there... my son Ankuj was with me.”Absentmindedly dropping the rabbits on the cushiony grass, he nods towards Peeku and says, “This one is very sharp, very clever and far more active... Cheeku is dull, peechhe reh gaya (he’s left behind).”If the twins have overheard these words from their human father, they show no reaction.“Everyone in my family loves them both equally... we feed them with roti-subzi and fruits, and all the other things we ourselves eat daily.”Meanwhile, it is getting dark. A few evening walkers are going past the twins but they don’t show any excitement on spotting the rabbits—perhaps they are used to seeing them here around this time. A black dog is lying nearby, looking bored.Soon it starts to drizzle. A rainbow forms up in the far corner. Mr Kumar gently nudges Cheeku and Peeku to go inside the cage as he prepares to walk home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-cheeku-and-peeku/story-nFfaoJvqWXXIXKA87j61aI.html
24-08-2020||India||Shooting for movies, TV shows to restart but with riders: Govt||After an almost five-month halt, production of films and television programmes can resume with all essential health protocols in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday, as the government spelled out strict do’s and don’ts for film and television shoots.After consultation with the home ministry and the health ministry, a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been firmed up for the production of films and television programmes, including adherence to social distancing, respiratory etiquette and use of face masks, Javadekar said in an announcement cheered by the vast entertainment industry based in Mumbai. According to the SOP, actors facing the camera will be exempt from wearing masks. All remaining crew members will have to adhere to the guidelines of the health ministry. Production of films and television programmes ground to a hall on March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed in the aftermath of the outbreak of Covid-19. After 68 days of stringent curbs, the government initiated the “Unlock” process starting in June, gradually relaxing curbs. The entertainment industry had demanded that be allowed to resume work. Some states have allowed resumption of shooting of films and television programmes with many riders. In some cases, people aged over 60 years --- considered a high-risk group --- are not allowed on the sets.“It’s great news because it means we are moving towards starting shoots on a full-fledged basis,” said Nikkhil Advani, the filmmaker who owns the production house Emmay Entertainment. “Since we are either already working or are in the process of starting to work in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, we have to go through the MIB {ministry of information and broadcasting} guidelines in detail to see as to if they differ from various state-specific guidelines. But it’s great news for everyone including the daily-wage labourers who have had no work for over five months now. So, I welcome the move by MIB.”As per the guidelines announced on Sunday, high-risk employees will have to take extra precautions; they are advised not be exposed to frontline work requiring contact with public. Masks will be mandatory for all, sanitisation norms will have to be adhered to, respiratory etiquette will be strictly followed, and the use of the Aarogya Setu app will be advised “We, as the film fraternity, welcome the ministry’s move as the work has been stuck for a really long time. And everyone is tired of sitting at home, especially those whose livelihoods are directly dependent on film/TV shoots. So, I am happy that we, slowly but surely, are moving towards normalcy again,” said filmmaker Anees Bazmee, whose next film, Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2, is due to restart filming in Lucknow soon.Thermal screening at entry points will be mandatory and only asymptomatic persons will be allowed on the premises of shooting. A physical distance of six feet has to be maintained at all times as far as feasible Crowd management in parking lots outside the premises to ensure physical distancing is also part of the guidelines that will need to be followed. The guidelines also call for ensuring that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30°C. Recirculation of air has to be to be avoided to the extent possible and cross-ventilation ensured.Production houses have also been asked to ensure visitors and audience are not allowed on the sets; for outdoor shooting, coordination with the local authorities will have to be ensured to minimise and manage spectators, Staggered call and pack-up timings have to be ensured or different production by studios having multiple sets. “Common locations such as sets, cafeteria, make-up rooms, edit rooms, vanity vans, washrooms, etc. shall be sanitized regularly. Sensitive equipment, while keeping in consideration the delicate nature and technical feasibility, shall be sanitized, to the extent possible, before and after the shoot. Adequate provisions for rational use of gloves, boots, masks, PPE {personal protection equipment} etc. shall be undertaken,” the guidelines said. The new dos and don’ts also forbid sharing of costumes, hair wigs, makeup items, equipment, and use of PPEs by make-up artists and hair stylists.The guidelines have a specific provision for anti-stigma behaviour and said stigmatisation or unruly behaviour shall be dealt with strictly in coordination with the local authorities. “Suitable provisions may be made for temporary isolation of any suspect case that may get reported,” the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shooting-for-movies-tv-shows-to-restart-but-with-riders-govt/story-z5uaeFqD2TLBopToi6aVUM.html
24-08-2020||India||14 deaths, 1,101 new Covid-19 cases reported in Gujarat||A total of 14 deaths and 1,101 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Gujarat on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 86,779, the state’s health department said. The total figure includes 14,653 active cases and 69,229 discharges. So far, 2,897 lives have been claimed by the deadly virus in the state. Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 cases tally crossed the 30-lakh mark with a single-day spike of 69,239 cases, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.The Covid-19 tally in the country stands at 30,44,941 including 7,07,668 active cases, 22,80,567 cured/discharged/migrated patients, and 56,706 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health. As many as 912 deaths have also been reported due to the infection during the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-deaths-1-101-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-gujarat/story-ftZ4gGhEQM4Oj8GfKhVgXO.html
24-08-2020||India||Odisha reports record 2,993 Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths||Odisha on Sunday registered its highest single-day spike of 2,993 Covid-19 cases and 10 more deaths due to the infection.With this, the state’s Covid-19 death toll has mounted to 409 and the infection tally reached 78,530, a health official said.Fifty-three other coronavirus patients have also died, but the cause of their deaths was attributed to some other reasons.“Regret to inform the demise of ten Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the state Health and Family Welfare Department said in its official Twitter post.Three of the 10 new fatalities were reported from Ganjam district, two each from Cuttack and Rayagada and one each from Bolangir, Gajapati and Nayagarh districts, the official said.The state also registered a record of 2,129 recoveries on Sunday, the official said, adding that the recovery rate now stands at 69.28 per cent.A total of 54,406 people have been recovered from the disease so far.Of the new 2,993 cases, 1,879 were reported from different quarantine centres, while the remaining 1,114 were detected during contact tracing, he said. The state had last reported its highest single-day surge of 2,924 cases on August 15.The fresh cases were detected in all the 30 districts.Khurda reported the highest 606 cases, followed by Ganjam (271). Nine districts reported new cases above 100, he said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Odisha now stands at 23,662, which accounts for 30.13 per cent of the total caseload in the state, the official said.Odisha had on Saturday tested a record 68,906 samples for Covid-19, taking the cumulative tests so far to 13,02,711.With a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in Ganjam, the administration has decided to withdraw restrictions imposed on entry and exit from Berhampur town, District Collector A V Kulanga said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-record-2-993-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths/story-Zqlcze556iQwGEv2FpK38N.html
24-08-2020||India||Nearly 100 roads blocked in Uttarakhand due to rain, landslides, stretch of NH-58 remains shut||With heavy rain continuing to lash different parts of Uttarakhand, nearly 100 roads are still blocked in the state including a stretch of the Badrinath highway (National Highway 58) that has been blocked for the past 20 days, officials informed. A fresh landslide was reported on Sunday from near Kaudiyala area on the Rishikesh-Srinagar stretch of National Highway 58 in Tehri Garhwal district; a video of which went viral on social media. Brijesh Bhatt, disaster management officer for Tehri Garhwal district said, “Due to continuous rainfall, landslides and instances of debris falling from the mountains have been reported from the Rishikesh-Srinagar stretch frequently. One particular area of Totaghati on National Highway 58 which connects to Badrinath has been closed since the past 20 days due to frequent landslides. Work is continuously underway to clear the roads.” As per the report of the public works department, over 100 roads including four national highways were blocked with over 200 machines deployed by the department to open the roads for smooth movement of traffic. In Mussoorie, five people were injured on Sunday morning after their car fell into a gorge near Hathipaon area. Devendra Aswal, in-charge Mussoorie police station said, “We received information about a car having fallen into a gorge on the road near Hathipaon on Sunday. We rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers who were then shifted to the Civil Hospital for treatment.” The injured were identified as residents of Dehradun. Police officials said that the family members of the injured were informed and as per initial investigation the officials found that the driver of the vehicle had lost control. In Nainital district, six roads including one state highway was closed on Sunday due to heavy rainfall. Road blocks were reported from Bailparao-Kotabag-Kaladhungi on state highway 61, Fatehpur-Aniya motor road, Nauna Byasi-Siltona-Budlakote motor road and Chhiyori-Dhura-Suyalkhet motor road in Nainital district. In Bageshwar district, officials from the district control room informed that houses of two locals from Majhgano village and Galai village got demolished on Sunday due to heavy rainfall. In the weather bulletin issued on Sunday afternoon the India Meteorological Department issued an yellow alert from August 24-27, predicting that heavy rainfall with intense spells is likely to occur at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Dehradun and Chamoli districts of the state on August 24-25. Lightning is also likely to occur at isolated places in the state on these days. For August 26-27, the MeT department predicted that heavy to very heavy rainfall with intense spells likely to occur at isolated places in Dehradun, Pauri, Haridwar, Tehri, Nainital, Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts of the state. According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand has already received 764.3 mm of rainfall from June to August 19 compared to 848 mm (the normal range) for these months. Bageshwar district has received the maximum rainfall with a 179% departure from normal rainfall limit and Uttarkashi has received the least rainfall with a negative 50% departure. The state is in an overall 10% rainfall deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-100-roads-blocked-in-uttarakhand-due-to-rain-landslides-stretch-of-nh-58-remains-shut/story-CQU8jKXJfek6Sx4CTsHYqK.html
24-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel urges Rahul Gandhi to return as Congress chief||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Rahul Gandhi, on Sunday, urging him to return as the president of the Congress party. Posting a copy of his letter on his Twitter account, Baghel said, “Sonia ji and Rahul ji are a ray of hope for us in every challenge. We are all with you. Millions of party workers and people of Chhattisgarh and the entire nation is with you....” Baghel in his letter said that the Nehru-Gandhi family has significant contribution in transforming India and their sacrifices for the country are unforgettable. “Despite facing several crises in the past, millions of workers of the 135-year-old Congress party has always shown faith in the Nehru-Gandhi family,” Baghel stated in his letter. The Chhattisgarh chief minister further said that at present, some leaders within the party have started discussing ideological differences publicly. “I request all party members to maintain unity within the party during this challenging time. It has been the tradition of Congress that all issues are discussed in detail at various levels and decisions are then taken in a democratic manner. We remember that the Congress party under the leadership of Rahul ji put up a good show in the Gujarat assembly elections and paved the way for the formation of the government in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Only Sonia ji and Rahul ji seem to be a ray of hope for bringing the country out of the crises,” Baghel said in his letter. He also requested, “Amid voices of dissent, you should stand firm and show a new direction to the country and take charge of the party leadership. We are hopeful that under your strong leadership, Congress will again touch new heights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-urges-rahul-gandhi-to-return-as-congress-chief/story-k92Ya7tmKR08BsdI0XOiDJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Sourav Ganguly returns land he took from Bengal government to build a school||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly has returned the two-acre plot of land at New Town in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata which he had got from the Trinamool Congress government for setting up an ICSE Board high school. People close to Ganguly and who are aware of the developments said he met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna, the state secretariat, last month and returned the documents relating to the land. Neither Ganguly nor the state government commented on the issue. His visit to Nabanna was described as a “courtesy call”. Ganguly reportedly decided to backtrack from the project as there is litigation over the land. Incidentally, the erstwhile Left Front government gave Ganguly a plot of land at the Salt Lake Township for a similar project but that land too led to litigation and he had given it back to the state. Ganguly’s decision to return the plot of land to the TMC government has led to speculation in political circles that he is increasing his distance from the ruling party. There have been rumours for some time that he may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prior to the 2021 assembly polls. During his recent interactions with the media, Ganguly however, ruled out such a possibility, saying he has no plans of joining active politics. Ganguly is known to have a warm relationship with both Banerjee and Union home minister Amit Shah. The chief minister backed Ganguly and helped him become the president of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) without having to face an election. Shah and some Central ministers played a crucial role in making Ganguly the president of the BCCI in 2019. Shah’s son Jay Shah is the BCCI secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sourav-ganguly-returns-land-he-took-from-bengal-government-to-build-a-school/story-QpTZsgb9LwDtVmdHtcil0I.html
24-08-2020||India||Donald Trump woos Indian-American voters, with clips from Howdy Modi||The race for Indian American votes is well and truly under way.The Trump campaign on Saturday released a video titled ‘Four More Years’, which seeks to rally the 1.2 million Indian-American voters in the US ahead of the November presidential election and features clips showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the ‘Howdy Modi’ event in Texas last year and the US President ‘Namaste Trump’ event in Ahmedabad this February. The two leaders had shared the stage on both the events. “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” Kimberly Guilfoyle, national chair of the Trump Victory Finance Committee, wrote in a tweet with the short video.Donald Trump Jr, the president’s eldest son and Guilfoyle’s partner, retweeted the post.The video opens with a panoramic view of the stadium where the ‘Howdy Modi’ event was hosted in Houston in September 2019 and cuts to the February event in Ahmedabad, which was the US President’s first visit to India. “America loves India,” Trump says in a clip from the event, adding “America respects India, and America will always be faithful and loyal friends to the Indian people.”The video marks the campaign’s most visible pitch yet to the Indian-American voters, and comes just hours ahead of the Republican party’s convention that will official nominate Trump for a second term on Monday. The video was also released just days after Democratic presidential nominee and former US vice president Joe Biden declared California Senator Kamala Harris his running mate, making her the first Indian-American and Black woman to be nominated for the key position by a major US party. Harris, 55, has since invoked her Indian heritage -- her mother was a cancer researcher who emigrated to the US from Chennai -- multiple times, including at the Democratic National Convention earlier this week.The Biden campaign, too, has reached out to Indian-American community in the run up to the four-day Democratic convention that began on August 17. At an Indian Independence Day celebration held virtually on August 15, the Democrat had pledged closer ties with India and a better deal for Indian-Americans in a short, policy-laden message, saying he will stand with New Delhi in confronting “new threats its faces in its own region and along its own border”. He also promised to check China’s “impunity” along the border and not tolerate cross-border terrorism.Al Mason, who conceptualised the ‘4 More Year’ video, said, “The video depicts great friendship and love between India- US - cemented by the emotional bond between Prime Minister Modi & President Trump. Trump is much loved by the community.”Mason leads Trump campaign’s outreach to the Indian-American community and is the co-chair of Trump Victory Indian-American Finance Committee. The video, he added, “will evoke mega support in terms of fund raising at the grass root level and votes for President Trump in battleground states — a must win for Trump”.The American states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Florida are likely won or lost by wafer-thin margins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-woos-indian-american-voters-with-clips-from-howdy-modi/story-eUvWEsra7WkhYnZEkXIzGO.html
24-08-2020||India||CWC meet today, Sonia Gandhi in favour of a new leader||Congress president Sonia Gandhi looks set to announce her decision to step down at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, after 103 Congress leaders wrote a letter to her this month, seeking a complete rehaul of the organisation.The letter, which was signed by former chief ministers and members of Parliament, alleged “drift” and “uncertainty” over the leadership of the 134-year-old party. The letter was signed by, among others, Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shashi Tharoor, Bhupinder Hooda, Milind Deora, Manish Tewari and PJ Kurien, and delivered to her residence – 10, Janpath – on Independence Day.Hindustan Times has learnt that Gandhi responded to the letter a few days later with a hand-written note to one of the signatories.WATCH: Grand old party’s dissent within, Sonia says look for new chief According to two senior Congress leaders that HT spoke with, the 73-year-old Gandhi said Congress leaders should get together and find a new chief because she does not want to carry the responsibility of leading the party any longer.Sonia Gandhi became interim president of the Congress after Rahul Gandhi quit as the party chief in May 2019, owning responsibility for the Congress’s rout in last year’s general elections, in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led the National Democratic Alliance to power for the second straight term.Expressing her sense of hurt at being targeted by party leaders who made the complaint against the Congress leadership public, Gandhi wrote in the note that she was not interested in leading the party and had accepted the post of interim chief after much persuasion only on condition that the party will find a replacement for her soon, according to the two senior leaders cited above, who requested anonymity.Congress leaders made desperate pleas to her after Rahul Gandhi rejected their calls to withdraw the resignation that he offered on May 25, 2019.For the record, party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said: “Reports of Sonia Gandhi resigning from her post of Congress president are false.” The two leaders that HT spoke to confirmed that Gandhi was inclined to resign at the CWC meeting, called to discuss the leadership issue.“If she has to resign, she may do so when she meets with the leadership tomorrow,” said one of the two leaders, requesting anonymity.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan said in Gwalior: “The Congress is bound to sink; no power in the world can save it.”Also read | After letter, some Congress leaders back GandhisWhile Surjewala and other party leaders denied that she had already resigned, Monday’s CWC meeting is set to be a stormy one with a confrontation likely between those who are unhappy with the current style of functioning of the leadership (Sibal, Azad) and those that are part of the current power structure – KC Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Rajeev Satav, among others.In a column published in Hindustan Times on August 4, Sibal wrote about the importance of value of organizations. “The management of a large public corporation committed to growth, with a huge shareholder base, has to deal with a host of complex issues. This requires the management to listen to the voice of its shareholders — a vital input for the corporation’s strategy, operations and growth,” the Congress leader wrote.The organisers have decided to make it an extended session which will be attended by all Congress chief ministers. Chief ministers Amarinder Singh of Punjab, Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan and Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh released statements in favour of Sonia Gandhi’s leadership.One party leader told Hindustan Times that the letter had been leaked to the media to force a discussion on the leadership issue at the CWC meeting.“This is not the right time to raise such an issue, given the need for a strong opposition against the BJP-led NDA,” said Amarinder Singh. “A move by these Congress leaders to demand a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests.”“It’s very unfortunate. There was no need to go to the media. I strongly believe that Sonia Gandhiji should continue at this juncture,” said Gehlot.The group of senior leaders wrote the letter after four months of deliberations, HT has learnt. While Kurien said that the full details of the letter would be released after the CWC meeting on Monday, another signatory told HT that they were forced to write the letter after months of frustration. “Senior leaders would approach the Gandhis but would be told to speak to Surjewala. How can some of these senior leaders seek a clarification from him?” the signatory added, requesting anonymity.“It’s okay that they wrote a letter and expressed their concern,” said one Congress politician from the other side, also requesting that he not be named. “What is worrying is that they have been meeting about this issue. It means they have been actively seeking change.”“She’s a very dignified lady and never wanted to be Congress president,” said CWC member and leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. “When she passes through Central Hall, she is greeted by MPs from all parties and this shows how much people regard her.”In the letter, the 23 leaders have acknowledged an erosion of the party’s support base and pointed to the lack of honest introspection after electoral defeats. The leaders have also outlined an agenda for reform — a full-time, effective, active and visible president; elections at all levels in the party (including the CWC); establishing an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party; and a national coalition with like-minded parties, among other measures.Zoya Hasan, Professor Emerita, JNU, said: “The letter of 23 is certainly not a 1969 moment in the Congress. But it is a significant development as it is forcing the party’s hand. Such a letter has not been written in a long time. And that is its importance. Thanks to the letter, the Congress’s existential crisis is out in the open. The drift and failure to confront its deep crisis has harmed the party immensely. This uncertainty must end. Congress is divided on the leadership issue and on the role of Gandhis. If Sonia Gandhi quits, the question is who will replace her... the issue cannot be brushed under the carpet any longer. They need to sort themselves out and elect a full-time president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meet-today-sonia-in-favour-of-a-new-leader/story-yWviR0xVHIMY2NrkH4dJBL.html
24-08-2020||India||BJP rejects report that ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi is party CM pick||The Assam unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has rubbished former chief minister and veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi’s claim that former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi could be the BJP’s CM candidate for next year’s assembly polls in the northeastern state. “People utter a lot of meaningless stuff when they grow very old, we would put Gogoi’s statement in that category. I have met many former chief ministers, but no one makes such baseless assertions like Gogoi. There is no iota of truth in what he said,” Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said. On Saturday, Tarun Gogoi, 85, who was the chief minister from 2001 to 2016, had told journalists in Guwahati that the former CJI, who took his oath as a nominated Rajya Sabha MP in March this year, could be the BJP’s CM face in 2021. “I have heard from my sources that Ranjan Gogoi’s name is in the list of BJP’s probable chief minister candidates. I suspect he might be projected as the CM by the party in the next assembly polls,” Tarun Gogoi said. “BJP is happy with Ranjan Gogoi for the Ayodhya Ram mandir verdict and therefore he was nominated as a Rajya Sabha MP after his retirement. Gogoi could have refused to be a Rajya Sabha MP, but his acceptance shows he is interested in active politics,” he added. Tarun Gogoi, who represents the Titabar seat in the Assam assembly, said that he would contest next year’s elections, but will not be the Congress’s prospective CM candidate. On Saturday, Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) agreed to form an alliance against the ruling BJP in the 2021 polls. “There’s nothing to comment on Tarun Gogoi’s utterances. It seems he knows more about our party than those who are in the BJP,” said Assam BJP’s chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rejects-report-that-ex-cji-gogoi-is-party-cm-pick/story-p6JuOzppO4ecQoSGoE7krL.html
24-08-2020||India||Locals not consulted on Bhagirathi plan: Experts||Independent expert members on a committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to prepare the Bhagirathi Eco-Sensitive Zone’s zonal master plan (ZMP) and independent members of a panel formed to scrutinise the ZMP have written to the government saying they hadn’t approved the final plan released in May.The members wrote to the Union ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation and the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) expressing their concerns over the plan released by the latter, saying they had concluded that the document was “flawed” and not in consonance with a 2012 notification of the project.One of the main concerns raised by the panel is that the ZMP was to be prepared specifically “in consultation with local people, particularly women”. The Bhagirathi Eco-Sensitive Zone stretches from Gaumukh to Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand and covers an area of 4,179.56 square kilometres, including 88 villages.But the letter, written by nine independent members,a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, stated the draft ZMP was not translated into Hindi and, as a result, was never put before the panchayats and villagers for their comments and suggestions before the final document was prepared.“We had no inputs from villagers and panchayats for whom the ZMP was being prepared. The ZMP submitted for approval violates the letter and spirit of the BESZ notification,” the letter stated.The members wrote that the ZMP was a compilation of departmental proposals primarily based on current schemes, which are unacceptable because they lacked public feedback.Expert members also raised concerns about several unaddressed issues in the final ZMP such as land use change, local participation and scope for panchayats in taking decisions and on highway widening, which will lead to the felling of over 12,000 trees, including 6,000 Deodar trees“The plan, which was sent to the MoEFCC by the Uttarakhand government, is a compilation of departmental plans. It’s not what people have asked for or recommended. Five token consultations were carried out by the district magistrates in 2017 but we were never told what responses were received from the public. Women community members were not the focus of these token consultations,” said Ravi Chopra, who is a part of the 11-member ZMP scrutiny committee that was set up following a Supreme Court (SC) order and the ZMP preparation committee. “All members are not supposed to approve the ZMP. Additional chief secretary of Uttarakhand government was heading the drafting panel. He must have approved the ZMP in consultation with other members. The job of Union ministry of water resources was to get the draft plan scrutinised by an 11-member scrutiny committee. We had forwarded their comments to MoEFCC as it is the approving authority,” said UP Singh, secretary, ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation.On July 29, HT had reported on differences of opinion among several committee members, who had raised concerns about the final ZMP. For instance, some members had pointed out that slope cutting could be fraught with danger for the region’s fragile ecology. “Therefore, the undersigned, who were entrusted with this task by the Hon’ble Supreme Court and by the Hon’ble NGT, hereby declare that the abovementioned ‘approved ZMP’ does not have our consent or approval, nor does it consist of our scrutiny,” the letter added.RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry, could not be reached for a comment on Sunday but his office confirmed that it had received the letter from panel members.“The process of designing and notifying any ESZ sets the foundation of how much its mandate is accepted and enforced. This is not just important for the conservation of the area but also for determining social, ecological and economic futures. Without this, ESZs can be non-starters,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-not-consulted-on-bhagirathi-plan-experts/story-aEK7o36cNOodOwfQGqdATK.html
24-08-2020||India||Relief for Swara Bhasker as AG refuses action in contempt case||Attorney general KK Venugopal on Sunday declined to grant permission for the initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker for a statement that a petitioner said was critical of the Supreme Court and its judgment in the Ayodhya title dispute case.Bhasker’s statement that the Supreme Court acknowledged the illegality of the demolition of the Babri Masjid in its November 2019 judgment and yet rewarded those who brought down the mosque “appears to be a factual statement” and reflects Bhasker’s perception of the incident, Venugopal said in his letter to the petitioner, Usha Shetty, declining the request. “The statement appears to be a factual one and is a perception of the speaker. The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalize or lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt,” the AG’s letter stated.The plea against Bhasker, which was filed by Shetty on August 17, was placed before AG for his consent to list the matter before the court.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of the AG or the solicitor general is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by an individual.The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by then Chief Justice of India ( CJI) Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site for the construction of . a temple; it directed the Centre to allocate a five-acre plot elsewhere for the construction of a new mosque. The 16th Century Babri mosque was demolished in December 1992 by Hindu activists who believe that the site marks the birthplace of the warrior-god Ram. The top court had acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Bhasker had, on February 1, attended a panel discussion organized by the non-government organisation (NGO) Mumbai Collective on the topic Artists Against Communalism. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, made the following statement:“We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”Regarding Bhasker’s statement about courts not believing in the Constitution, the AG said that it was a vague and general statement not related to any particular court and cannot be taken seriously.Venugopal had on, August 20, asked the Supreme Court not to punish lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court in relation to his tweets against Supreme Court and current CJI SA Bobde.After AG declined permission, Shetty’ lawyers on Sunday wrote to solicitor general Tushar Mehta, seeking his consent.Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhasker was derogatory and intended to scandalize the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity, but a deliberate attempt to incite the masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court,” she added.“The statement intends to incite feeling of no confidence amongst public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-swara-as-ag-refuses-action-in-contempt-case/story-ScKkOALOpzafSFBvyQZx5I.html
24-08-2020||India||Dissent brewed over aloof leadership?||The letter of dissent by top Congress leaders was triggered by a combination of factors -- primarily the exclusion of seniors in decision-making and contentious internal appointments -- according to several of the over 100 signatories Hindustan Times spoke to.A communication breakdown between the Gandhis and other leaders in the party was cited by the signatories, who said only party general secretary KC Venugopal and national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had access to the top leadership.“There are just three people running the party: Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Nobody else has been consulted for anything in the last three years,’’ said one of the leading signatories who did not wish to be named.The dissenters that HT spoke to said their letter was a wake-up call to get the party ready ahead of the 2024 elections. “It’s now been exactly 15 months since the loss and yet there has been no tangible way forward that has been pointed out,’’ said one of the Lok Sabha members of Parliament who signed.Also read | Most Congress workers would like to see Rahul Gandhi lead the party: Sachin PilotA Rajya Sabha member among the signatories said, “There has been no manthan (introspection) at all. We are not asking for any key positions. We have thanked the ex-president and the president but we want someone to stand up and say that the nation is more important.’’HT has learnt that one of the key triggers was Sonia Gandhi’s speech at the all-party meeting called by the Prime Minister after the Galwan Valley clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. At the meeting, Gandhi was the only leader who took a critical position against the government, asking questions pertaining to an intelligence failure and of Chinese forces building up along the LAC.“This was a key foreign policy issue and yet none of the experts in the party who are dealing with foreign policy were consulted. There was a feeling that a stand should be taken by the party by consensus,’’ said one of the leaders.Key foreign policy experts among the signatories include former UN envoy-turned-MP Shashi Tharoor and former Union minister Anand Sharma.Also read | Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel urges Rahul Gandhi to return as Congress chiefThe leaders who met on Sunday evening also dismissed the “coterie” that surrounded Rahul Gandhi. “They are kids. Why don’t we have a parliamentary board which is elected? Why is everyone nominated whether it is to the CWC or to the extended CWC?’’ said one of the persons who organised the signatures.While the exit of senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who moved to the BJP, added to the unease, appointments of Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as Lok Sabha leader to, most recently, that of Ajay Maken as general secretary upset many of these leaders.“There is no understanding as to what qualifies someone for an appointment. There is nothing against Maken or Chowdhury but why isn’t there a discussion?’’ said the person cited above.The other camp within the party dismissed these concerns as stemming from personal uncertainties. Its members pointed out that key signatory Ghulam Nabi Azad’s term as Leader of the Opposition (LoP) will end on February 15 next year and there is no indication that he will get re-elected around that time. Azad is also the party general secretary in charge of Haryana.Similarly, general secretary Mallikarjun Kharge’s entry into the Rajya Sabha has diminished deputy leader Anand Sharma’s chances of becoming the LoP. His term ends in April 2022.“The others are all feeling sidelined in the party,” said a Congress functionary.While charges flew thick and fast, the signatories and their supporters said they would not stay silent any longer. They said their next course of action would be determined after the CWC meeting on Monday....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-brewed-over-aloof-leadership/story-2czfPIRTCxjZHA1tV8URwK.html
24-08-2020||India||12.7 per cent dip in diesel demand in July||Diesel consumption, a bellwether of economic performance,declined 12.7% in July compared to the previous month mainly because of demand constraints, heavy rains in parts of the country and weekend lockdowns imposed in several areas to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .Consumption of diesel in July dropped to 5.5 million tonnes (MMT) compared to 6.3 million tonnes in June. Overall consumption of petroleum products also dropped 3.7% drop to 15.7 million tonnes compared to 16.3 million tonnes in the previous month, according to the oil ministry’s data-keeper Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC). The July consumption of diesel compared with 6.8 million tonnes in the same month last year. A contraction in the use of diesel eased from -55.5% in April year-on-year to -29.3% in May and -15.4% in June after the coronavirus disease lockdown was gradually relaxed starting on June 1. The trend, however, saw a reversal in July with a 19.3% contraction.year-on-year..Experts said diesel demand typically decrease in the monsoon months of July and August, and reckoned that an uptick in the economic activity after Unlock 1.0 should be sustainable in the coming months. The country had been under a 68-day lockdown since March 25. It started opening up gradually from June 1, with Unlock 1.0. The Union government on June 29 issued guidelines for Unlock 2.0 to lift more restrictions imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic effective for a month from July 1.Ram Singh, a professor at the Delhi School of Economics, said a drop in diesel demand in July compared to June does not indicate any major blip in the ongoing economic recovery, which will continue in the coming months. “Diesel consumption saw a jump in June because of pent-up demand after the lockdown... Besides, the onset of monsoon in July also reduced demand for diesel [for irrigation],” he said.SC Sharma, an energy expert and a former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said: “High consumption of diesel in June occurs due to harvesting and to some extent DG [diesel generator] based electricity demand. However, as monsoon enters, the agriculture and power demand is largely met from monsoon water as also wind power and hydro power. Accordingly, diesel demand goes down by 15% to 20% during July, August every year.” According to the latest Industry Consumption Report published by the PPAC, “certain restrictions at state and district levels coupled with lower demand for products and services” moderated the speed of recovery in diesel consumption to the pre-Covid level..The report pointed tot key factors affecting diesel consumption in July. “Unlock 2.0 has carried forward the economic recovery but in moderated pace. Most of the industries across states are operating at 70 to 80% capacity due to a subdued demand,” it said.Weekend lockdowns and other restrictions imposed by state and district administrations to curtail the spread of Covid-19 have also affected the consumption of diesel, it said. While rural demand on account of agriculture related activities continues to drive consumption growth, flooding in Bihar and some northeastern states has also affected consumption, it added.The report said diesel consumption in July 2020 was also affected by other factors such as slow growth in sales of commercial vehicles and a decline in port traffic. “Commercial vehicle sales as reported by individual companies are showing a slow pace to recovery. Major automobile companies have reported a fall in sale of M&HCV [medium and heavy commercial vehicle] by about -70% and of LCV [light commercial vehicle] by about -30%,” it said.According to the report, the traffic handled at major ports in India recorded a contraction of 13.2% and collectively they handled 51.5 million tonnes of cargo during July 2020 as against 59.3 million tonnes handled during the corresponding period of the previous year....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-7-dip-in-diesel-demand-in-july/story-A785vDisice69yD3KCz9QJ.html
24-08-2020||India||Contempt of court provision vague: Former Supreme Court, High Court judges||A provision in the Contempt of Courts Act of 1971 that criminalises statements on grounds of “scandalizing” the court is vague and susceptible to a dubious interpretation, former Supreme Court and high court judges said.Scandalising the court as grounds for criminal contempt is found in Section 2( c)(i) of the 1971 Act and states that a publication or act will amount to such contempt if it “scandalises or lowers the authority of any court”.“The definition of criminal contempt on the ground of scandalising the court is very vague. The word ‘scandalising’ must be clarified by giving a precise definition of what ‘scandalising the court’ means. That is essential because the provision entails serious criminal consequences,” said retired Supreme Court judge V Gopala Gowda.Section 2( c)(i) has come under the scanner recently after proceedings were initiated against lawyer Prashant Bhushan under that provision for his tweets critical of the Supreme Court and the current Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.“The word ‘scandalising’ is subjective and will depend on the perception of the concerned person. The provision is not clear as to whether it has to be looked at from the perception of the court, the individual judge or public. As long as the words ‘scandalising the court’ are present (in the statute book), it will be susceptible to arbitrary exercise of power,” retired Madras high court judge K Chandru said.Prashant Bhushan’s case is not an isolated example and there have been many instances in the past when cases were initiated for criticism of the judiciary.“In Tamil Nadu, a person who used to run a magazine, wrote a letter to the high court after the high court had acquitted a murder accused. The letter stated that since the high court has acquitted the accused, it should tell public as to who is the actual culprit. The high court punished him for criminal contempt of court. What is ‘scandalising’ in that letter? He was not attributing any motives to the judges. It was only an immature statement and also showed the person’s lack of understanding of criminal law. Such instances go unnoticed because the people punished are not famous persons,” retired justice Chandru said.India’s contempt of court law is derived from British law, but in 2013, the United Kingdom abolished ‘scandalising the judiciary’ as a form of contempt of court on the grounds that this went against freedom of expression while retaining other forms of contempt like behaviour causing disruption or interference with court proceedings.“One of the reasons why England, in 2013, repealed scandalising judiciary as a ground for contempt is to allow constructive criticism. A strong judiciary in a democratic republic is the bulwark of masses of this country. It must work towards fulfilling the goals set out in the constitution -- to secure social economic and political justice for the masses and to uphold their fundamental rights. If the judiciary is not functioning keeping in mind these objectives, an individual, be it a lawyer, law student or a layman, should have the freedom to point out the same and it cannot be said to be criminal contempt. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right,” retired justice Gowda said.Is this fundamental right being curtailed by courts using contempt of court provisions?“Judges are using this as a weapon to silence critics. The word ‘scandalises’ is susceptible to dubious interpretation. Therefore, it has to go. It violates Article 14 and 21 of the constitution,” said retired justice Chandru.Contempt of court law is intended to protect the institution and not individual judges and the law should not be used to stifle healthy criticism, retired justice Gowda said.“Majesty of the court is built on its functioning and its judgments. There are thousands of cases in which directions of Supreme Court and high courts are not being implemented. If courts decide to initiate civil contempt in all those cases, then the entire institution will have to function only for hearing contempt proceedings,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-of-court-provision-vague-former-sc-hc-judges/story-0rzJOODbOyIIrqrJhQwxnM.html
24-08-2020||India||After letter, some Congress leaders back Gandhis||Congress chief ministers, state units and senior leaders rallied in support of the Gandhi family on Sunday and urged Rahul Gandhi to take the reins without delay after a section of the party wrote to interim chief Sonia Gandhi and sought an overhaul of the organisation,complaining of “drift” and uncertainty in the leadership. The also termed as unfortunate a move by this group of party leaders to challenge the Gandhi family leadership ahead of the crucial Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday. The development has exposed a deep divide in the grand old party on the leadership issue. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry ), state unit chiefs DK Shivakumar (Karnataka), Balasaheb Thorat (Maharashtra), Anil Kumar (Delhi), KS Alagiri (Tamil Nadu) and Ripun Bora (Assam), Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, former union ministers Salman Khurshid and Ashwani Kumar, Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV, Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah all backed the Gandhi family, urging Sonia Gandhi to stay on until Rahul Gandhi is ready to take charge once again. Rahul Gandhi resigned in May 2019, taking responsibility for the Congress’s rout in general elections, and Sonia Gandhi reluctantly became interim chief. Opposing the bid to challenge the Gandhi family leadership, Captain Amarinder Singh said this was not the time to raise such an issue. “The move by these Congress leaders to demand a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation. What the Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not just to a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large,” he said, adding that the Gandhis fitted the role. “Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wants,” he said, adding that Rahul Gandhi should thereafter take over as he is fully capable of leading the party. Gehlot termed the letter written by the 23 party leaders to Sonia Gandhi as unfortunate and said the Gandhi family has kept the party united. “News of 23 senior most Congress leaders writing letter to Hon’ble CP is unbelievable and if it is true - it’s very unfortunate, was no need to go in media. I strongly believe that Hon’ble CP Smt Sonia Gandhi ji should continue to lead the party at this crucial juncture where the fight is to save the ethos of our Democracy. She has always taken challenges head on. But if she has made up her mind,-I believe @RahulGandhi should come ahead and be the Congress President as country faces the biggest challenge to save our Constitution,Democracy,” he tweeted. The Chhattisgarh chief minister wrote a letter to Rahul Gandhi, urging him to return as the party chief. “Hon’ble Sonia ji and Rahul ji are the ray of hope for us in every challenge. We are all with you. Millions of party workers and people of Chhattisgarh and the entire nation are with you…,” Baghel wrote on Twitter.“I saw the news in some newspapers that ex Congressmen wanted overhaul and changes in Congress party This kind of statement will create confusion in the minds of millions of Congress men This a ploy by BJP to divert attention of people from Facebook controversy,” the Puducherry chief minister tweeted, referring to a report in Wall Street Journal that Facebook had favoured a soft approach towards hate speech by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politicians . Siddaramaiah tweeted, “It is unfortunate that the leadership of Gandhi family is being questioned by few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen Congress and not weaken it.” Ashwani Kumar and Salman Khurshid spoke against elections to the party president’s post and favoured a consensus. They argued that elections would be divisive. Thorat described Rahul Gandhi as a “courageous, sensitive and intellectually committed leader” and demanded that he lead the party. He said Sonia Gandhi should continue to lead the Congress as its interim president until Rahul Gandhi takes over as the full-time president. “With due respect to Rahulji’s sentiments, we would like to say, ‘Come Back, Rahulji’. Under your leadership, we will be the voice of millions of Indians, we are determined to make history. This is not only the need of the Congress party but the need of the entire country as well,” said Thorat. The Delhi Congress, after an emergency meeting. adopted a resolution demanding Rahul Gandhi’s return as the party’s chief without delay. The meeting, presided over by the Delhi unit chief, noted that some senior leaders going public with their call for a change in the leadership had given “ammunition” to Congress opponents to mount an attack on the party, demoralising its cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-letter-some-cong-leaders-back-gandhis/story-QR98Qeg8IH9Q6uO8mtCnGP.html
24-08-2020||India||Serum Institute clarifies after reports claim free Covid-19 vaccine shots in 73 days||Serum Institute of India (SSI), which has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, has issued a clarification, denying reports that the shot may be launched in 73 days as “completely false and conjectural”. The Pune-based company’s clarification said that the government has granted it permission to only manufacture Covishield and stockpile it for future use, according to news agency ANI. It has also said, according to ANI, that Covishield will be commercialised once trials are proven successful and requisite regulatory approvals are in place. The world’s largest vaccine manufacturer said it will confirm its availability officially only once the vaccine is proven immunogenic and efficacious, ANI reported.Also Watch | Covid update: Serum Institute clarifies; SOPs for TV shoots; weekend lockdownSerum Institute has registered for Phase II and III clinical trials on Covishield with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI). The trials will be conducted on 1,600 healthy participants across India.It has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the AZD1222 vaccine, which has till now been tested in the most number of people among the close to 200 options across the world. The company had entered into a partnership with Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to speed up the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for India and sevetal low- and middle-income countries.India’s drugs controller had given approval to SII for conducting Phase II and III clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-denies-reports-indians-to-get-free-shots-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-73-days/story-I5LoIApg3C4kB5J9tFxUuN.html
