25-08-2020||India||India, Vietnam talk on China’s destabilising actions||New Delhi China’s destabilising actions in the region figured at a meeting on Tuesday of the India-Vietnam joint commission on trade, economic, scientific and technological cooperation, during which the two countries agreed to work more closely together in the Indo-Pacific. During the virtual meeting, co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Vietnamese counterpart Pham Binh Minh, the two sides agreed to add new momentum to their economic and defence engagements and to explore closer cooperation in emerging areas such as civil nuclear energy, space, marine sciences and new technologies. China’s actions in the South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) figured in the discussions, with both sides briefing each other on the latest developments, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Vietnamese side “underlined the importance of peace and security in the South China Sea”, one of the people cited above said. India and Vietnam agreed to enhance bilateral cooperation in line with New Delhi’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) and Asean’s outlook on Indo-Pacific to “achieve shared security, prosperity and growth for all in the region”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “India invited Vietnam to collaborate on one of the seven pillars of the IPOI,” it added. IPOI was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the East Asia Summit in November 2019 and its pillars include enhancing maritime security, promoting free, fair and mutually beneficial trade and maritime transport and enhancing science and technology cooperation. In recent years, Vietnam has often turned to India for support over China’s increasing activities within its exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea. India is one of only three countries with which Vietnam has a comprehensive strategic partnership and state-owned ONGC Videsh is engaged in energy production in Vietnamese waters that have witnessed intrusions by Chinese vessels over the past year. On Friday, Vietnamese envoy Pham Sanh Chau met foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to brief him on the escalating tensions in the South China Sea after China ramped up its military presence in the region. At Tuesday’s meeting, the two sides also reviewed recent developments in their comprehensive strategic partnership and discussed the future trajectory of their engagement. The statement said Jaishankar and Minh “exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest, especially in the context of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic”. Jaishankar referred to the prime minister’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” for enhancing resilience through self-reliance and human-centric globalisation and invited Vietnam to take advantage of the country’s new economic capacities and demands. He also reaffirmed India’s development and capacity-building aid to Vietnam through initiatives such as quick impact projects (QIPs), PhD fellowships, water resource management projects in the Mekong Delta, digital connectivity and heritage conservation. India has approved 12 QIPs in Vietnam, including seven water resource management schemes in the Mekong Delta and five for building educational infrastructure. MoU for cooperation between the Sushma Swaraj Institute of Foreign Service and the Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam and between the National Maritime Foundation and Scientific Research Institute of Sea and Islands were signed on the margins of the joint commission meeting. India and Vietnam also agreed to coordinate closely at multilateral forums, including the UN Security Council, where both countries will concurrently serve as non-permanent members in 2021, and at regional forums under the Asean framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vietnam-talk-on-china-s-destabilising-actions/story-3YALid2Qe23CVR7sbo8qXJ.html
25-08-2020||India||India, B’desh river trade route to begin from Sept 3||New Delhi India and Bangladesh are set to operationalise a new riverine trade route on September 3, when a Bangladeshi vessel will transport a cargo of cement to Tripura as part of efforts to boost connectivity between the two countries. The route connecting Sonamura in Tripura to Daudkandi in Bangladesh is being operationalised under an agreement signed by the two sides in May to boost riverine trade by adding two new routes and five more ports in order to improve connectivity to India’s northeastern states and reduce transportation costs. Following discussions between the Inland Water Authority of India and Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, the first pilot movement on the 93-km Daudkandi-Sonamura route is expected to be conducted on September 3, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Bangladeshi vessel MV Premier will carry 50 metric tonnes of cement from Premier Cement Ltd of Bangladesh to Tripura via Gumti river, the people said. Customs formalities will be completed at the land customs station at Srimantapur-Bibirbazar, they added. “The new route will facilitate bilateral trade with improved reliability and cost effectiveness for the business community,” said one of the people cited above. India and Bangladesh signed the Protocol for Inland Water Trade and Transit in 1972 for inland waterways connectivity between the two sides for bilateral trade and to improve connectivity to India’s northeastern states. The protocol was expanded with the signing of a second addendum on May 20 that added two new routes and five ports of call to take the total number of routes to 10 and ports of call to 11. During fiscal 2019-20, about 3.5 million metric tonnes of cargo were transported via the inland waterways. “The connectivity provided by the existing and the newly added routes is all the more pertinent amid the Covid-19 crisis as it will be key to economical, faster, safer and greener transportation for the business communities of both countries,” the person said. The other new route – Rajshahi-Dhulian-Rajshahi – will help augment infrastructure in Bangladesh and reduce the cost of transporting goods such as stone chips to northern Bangladesh. It is also expected to decongest land customs stations on both sides. The new riverine trade route is being operationalised against the backdrop of India’s concerted efforts to boost economic aid and connectivity with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. Last month, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh, reflecting a renewed focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. This came close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics and the first trans-shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked northeastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-b-desh-river-trade-route-to-begin-from-sept-3/story-h7NQTTdFYWGa9R6MuKEsiJ.html
25-08-2020||India||House panels told not to pick sub-judice issues||New Delhi: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has written to the chairpersons of all parliamentary panels to select subjects following Parliamentary rules and conventions, which includes not taking up subjects that are pending examination by courts. “The Committees should give due consideration to rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination,” Birla said in a letter, which accessed by the Hindustan Times. “In addition, I would like to point out that as per convention, the Committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the Courts.”According to rule 270, ‘a Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final’.Moreover, the rule adds that the Government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state.The Speaker’s letter comes barely a week before the Information and Technology Panel is slated to discuss two contentious topics, the issue of Internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir on September 1 and Facebook’s testimony over alleged bias towards the ruling party. The Supreme Court is still considering the matter of Internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir. While the next hearing has not with the next hearing been notified, on August 11, the Centre had told the SC that they will be restore 4G in the newly formed Union territory in a staggered manner after August 15. The Facebook controversy was spotlighted by the Wall Street Journal, which reported that Facebook India intervened in content moderation processes to ensure hate speeches by a BJP leader were not taken down – a claim the company has since denied. Facebook India on Friday evening reiterated it acts in an unbiased manner. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey has contested panel chair Shashi Tharoor’s decision to ask Facebook to appear before the committee and has asked the Speaker for his removal.Hindustan Times reached out Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for a response but did not receive one till press time. Parliamentary standing committees and departmentally related standing committees are smaller units of MPs from both houses and across political parties. As extensions of the Parliament, the rules that govern the House, apply to the Committees. The committees function all year round, under the overall aegis of the Speaker. The agenda of the committees is pre-approved by the Speaker. At present, there are 54 Parliamentary Committees, of which 24 are departmentally related. Of the 24 departmentally related committees, 17 fall under the Lok Sabha and seven are under the Rajya Sabha. According to the agenda of the IT Panel, issued on August 20 and seen by Hindustan Times, ‘oral evidence of the representatives of the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications), Ministry of Home Affairs and the representatives of the state of Bihar, UT f Jammu and Kashmir and the UT of NCT of Delhi’ is expected on the ‘suspension’ of Internet/Telecom services and its impact’. It has also listed hearing the views of the ‘representatives of Facebook on ‘Safeguarding Citizens’ rights’.The issue of ‘sub-judice’ matters being discussed in the house, say experts, has been around for a while now. According to former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary, the rule of sub judice is not absolute. “There have been many times when the issues has been before the court and examined by the House at the same time,” Achary told Hindustan Times. “It has been done in the past.” Achary added that there is a rule that matters that are sub judice should not be discussed does exist, however, the Parliament also has a rule of suspension that allows for a departure in case a topic of national importance has to be discussed.“The sub judice is more of a self-imposed restriction,” said Achary. “The Committee can do so under the direction of the Speaker and since the agenda is pre-approved by the Speaker, they don’t need to seek permission again. Not every paper has to go to the Speaker.”Former secretary general of the Rajya Sabha Shamsher Sheriff said that since the Parliamentary committees are extension of the house, the Speaker has only drawn the attention of chairpersons to the particular issue. The former official drew the attention to the Presiding Officers meet held in New Delhi in 1967 that was appointed to indicate guidelines as to what could be treated as sub judice. “If you go by that, then quite naturally, it is left to the discretion of the chairpersons of the committees, depending on the facts of each case and its specificities, to determining whether the matter can be discussed or not“Members are left in the light of all this to show restraint when discussing such matters, only facts can be asked for but a discussion that may be prejudicial to the proceedings of the court has to be avoided,” he added. According to the Committe of the presiding officers, as mentioned in the Rajya Sabha General rules of procedure, (Rajya Sabha at Work) available on the Rajya Sabha website, “freedom of speech is a primary right whereas rule of sub judice is a self-imposed restriction. So where need be, the latter must give way to the former.” It says that as a sovereign body, the Parliament has a right to legislate on any matter. “Rule of sub judice has no application in privilege matters. Rule of sub judice does not ordinarily apply to legislation. Rule of sub judice applies only in regard to the specific issues before a court. The entire gamut of the matter is not precluded,” it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panels-told-not-to-pick-sub-judice-issues/story-7iM7g7ZGd1fnehjDpZe8kK.html
25-08-2020||India||‘A brief moment in history’: China envoy on clash that killed 20 Indians||The June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese forces was an “unfortunate incident” and “a brief moment from the perspective of history”, and the two sides should now “seek common ground while reserving differences”, Chinese envoy Sun Weidong has said.Sun made the remarks at a China-India youth webinar organised on August 18, though the transcript of his speech was released by the Chinese embassy only on Tuesday. The remarks came against the backdrop of India urging China to speedily address outstanding issues that have held up the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The envoy’s speech largely focused on historical links between the two countries and how the two sides, as ancient civilisations, should respect each other and seek common ground. He also said China’s “basic foreign policy towards India remains unchanged”.In the only reference in his speech to the June 15 clash, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties, Sun said: “Not long ago, an unfortunate incident happened in the border areas that neither China nor India would like to see. Now we are working to handle it properly. It is a brief moment from the perspective of history.”The envoy added, “China sees India as a partner instead of a rival, and an opportunity instead of a threat. We hope to put the boundary question at an appropriate place in bilateral relations, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and push bilateral relations back on track at an early date.”There was no immediate response to the Chinese envoy’s remarks from Indian officials.In an apparent response to the Indian government’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) initiative that was launched after the border standoff began, Sun said: “No country can be isolated from the rest of the world and seek development on its own. We should not only adhere to self-reliance, but also stick to opening up to the outside world in line with the trend of globalisation.”He pointed out China has been India’s largest trading partner for many years and the two economies are interdependent. “I think the two big economies of China and India should attract each other like magnets, rather than forcefully separate them,” he said.The envoy outlined three reasons to show that China’s foreign policy towards India has not changed – the basic national conditions of the two countries remain unchanged, their orientation as partners, friendly cooperation and common development remain unchanged, and the “general structure that China and India cannot develop without each other remains unchanged”.Sun noted the Chinese people often say it is important to have a “long-term perspective rather than only looking at the present”, and there is need to see that “friendly cooperation between China and India is...the general trend”. “Only by seeing this can we maintain objective and rational judgment and correctly handle the differences between the two sides. I am convinced that China and India...have the wisdom and ability to properly handle bilateral relations,” he added.Sun further said the two countries should “treat each other’s differences in a mature and rational manner”. He added: “We need to understand each other, seek common ground while reserving differences, and work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind.”The two “rising major neighbours” should “abandon the old mindset of drawing lines by ideology, and get rid of the old game of ‘one’s gain is another’s loss’ and ‘zero-sum game’”, or else “you would be led astray and go down a wrong path”, Sun said.Mutual respect and equal treatment alone can enhance mutual understanding and trust, avoid suspicion and misunderstanding, and “realise the goal of ‘Dragon-Elephant Tango’ between China and India on the road of peaceful coexistence and common development”, the envoy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-incident-china-envoy-on-border-clash-that-killed-20-indians/story-kOylvqPUBF3WJ3sLeYQNKN.html
25-08-2020||India||Delhi to receive moderate to heavy rainfall over next 3 days: IMD||In the national capital, the India Meteorological Department on Tuesday issued an alert saying that it will receive “moderate to heavy” rains over the next three days.“Delhi-NCR is very likely to experience one or two spells of moderate rain from Wednesday evening/night to Friday afternoon, with heavy rainfall at isolated places on Thursday,” IMD said.The rain is likely to flood low-lying areas in the national capital and disrupt the traffic movement.The Yamuna river was flowing precariously close to the warning mark in Delhi.Cloudy weather kept the mercury below the 34 degrees mark in Delhi on Tuesday. However, humidity levels shot up to 92 per cent later in the day.Delhi has recorded 213.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 210.6 mm in August so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-receive-moderate-to-heavy-rainfall-over-next-3-days-imd/story-PXi46UDG6wxr0fGv6js2aO.html
25-08-2020||India||Companies now allowed to spend CSR funds in finding drugs, vaccines for Covid-19||The government has allowed companies to spend their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds on research and development (R&D) for finding vaccines, medicines and medical equipments to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, two government officials said requesting anonymity.“The decision was taken in line with the Prime Minister’s directive to encourage new drug discoveries for Covid-19, and a top official of the PMO [Prime Minister’s Office] played an active role in this,” one of the officials said.The ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) has already notified the two amendments in the CSR rules on Monday that would allow companies to spend their CSR funds in R&D activities related to new vaccine, drugs and medical devices in three financial years starting from 2020-21.The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR. Money earmarked for spending on CSR activities in a year is about Rs 15,000 crore.MCA has amended the Schedule VII to include R&D for development of drugs to cure Covid-19 as one of the approved CSR activities, a second official said. The government has specified broad areas of mandatory CSR spending in Schedule VII.Accordingly, contributions to R&D projects in the field of science, technology, engineering and medicine, funded by the central or state governments or any public sector entity would also be counted under CSR, he added. Companies can now contribute their CSR funds to public funded universities, Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Department of Pharmaceuticals, he said. They can also participate in institutions under the ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH), he said. Approved activities under Schedule VII of CSR include eradicating extreme hunger, poverty, promotion of education, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment as well as reducing the child mortality, improving maternal health and combating diseases. Ensuring environmental sustainability and prompting employment enhancing vocational skills are other activities approved under CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/companies-now-allowed-to-spend-csr-funds-in-finding-drugs-vaccines-for-covid-19/story-V8BhbSlY9lgKapsN5jQQxK.html
25-08-2020||India||Orissa high court allows woman to live-in with same-sex partner||The Orissa High Court has allowed a 24-year-old woman to live with her same-sex partner after the latter’s family members reportedly tried to get her married to a boy against her wish.Hearing a habeas corpus petition, a division bench of Justice SK Mishra and Justice Savitri Ratho directed the police to provide security to the partner of the woman so that she could start living with her. Though the order was passed on Monday, it was uploaded on the high court portal on Tuesday.Petitioner Chinmayee Jena alias Sonu Krishna Jena had filed a habeas corpus application under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution seeking production of her woman partner, alleging that she was being kept away by her mother and uncle. The petitioner told the court that her partner’s mother and uncle were now trying to marry her off.Jena, who produced a certification of Gender Dysphoria for Trans man from a psychiatrist, had claimed that he and his partner had fallen in love with each other in 2011 and had been enjoying a consensual relationship since 2017. The two were studying in the same school and later in the same college. After completing their respective studies, Jena got a private job at Bhubaneswar and was staying on rent in the city.Jena claimed that while she was staying in a live-in relationship with her partner, in April this year, the latter’s mother and uncle came to her and forcibly took her away against her will. It was done against her will even though both of them had become majors. She also cited the provisions of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, which acknowledged live-in relationships.Citing the orders of Supreme Court in Navtej Singh Johar vs Union of India case in which the apex court held that section 377 of the Indian Penal Code transgressed Article 14, 15, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, the High Court bench said that the petitioner has the right of self-determination of sex/gender and also has the right to have a live-in relationship with a person of choice even though such person may belong to the same gender as the petitioner.During the hearing through virtual mode, the petitioner woman’s partner told the HC that she wants to join the company of the petitioner without further delay.The HC also ordered that the petitioner would have to allow the mother and sister of her partner to be in touch with her and that her partner would have all the rights of a woman as enshrined under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-allows-woman-to-live-in-with-same-sex-partner/story-M6gWVDJp8yWFP3QHoNEveM.html
25-08-2020||India||Delivery of modified Boeing 777 aircraft, part of Air India One for PM Modi delayed||The arrival of specially modified Boeing 777 aircraft part of the Air India One fleet for Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been delayed due to “operational issues”, officials aware of the development said.“The delivery of the aircraft was scheduled for August 25 but has been delayed due to certain operational issues. It may now take two to three weeks more to deliver,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.The Centre had sent a team of senior officials from the Indian Air Force and Air India for escorting the aircraft back to India and assessing the technical requirements, a second official said.The government has planned to procure two such specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats with its own missile defence system, called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).The modified aircrafts were set to match the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures.‘Air India One’ is the call sign of any aircraft with the President or Prime Minister of India on board. The aircraft is operated as a VVIP flight by the Indian Air Force.Air India One, the highly customized wide-bodied Boeing 777-300 ERs, meant exclusively for the Indian Prime Minister, President and the Vice-President, is set to land in Delhi by early next week.When contacted by HT, Air India spokesperson said: “We would not like to comment on this.” Boeing India’s spokesperson also declined to comment on the matter.The planes will come equipped with self-protection suites (SPS) consisting of aircraft infrared countermeasures, advanced integrated defensive electronic warfare suite and counter-measures dispensing system to protect them from inbound missiles, Hindustan Times had reported on June 4.Air India had sent a pair of new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be refurbished for VVIP travel, including installation of missile defence systems worth USD 190 million. Aircraft records from open source websites showed both jets were less than 3 years old and have been sparingly used.The new long-haul aircraft will be used exclusively by PM Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.At present the three dignitaries fly Air India’s Boeing-747 planes that the state-run airline deploys on commercial flights. These are temporarily reconfigured for the dignitaries when they need to travel, with the call sign changing to Air India One.The Boeing-747 planes that are chartered from Air India for use by the three dignitaries are two decades old.The modified aircraft will also have ‘Bharat’ and India written over it along with the Ashoka emblem.The new planes have been configured to give PM Modi some generous office space, meeting rooms, a wide array of communication systems and a section for handling medical emergencies. The aircraft can fly between the US and India without having to stop for refuelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delivery-of-modified-boeing-777-aircraft-part-of-air-india-one-for-pm-modi-delayed/story-NaqlxjlxNmm1AWuG8aa49L.html
25-08-2020||India||Odisha announces slew of packages to kickstart rural economy||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday approved a slew of packages for the women self help groups and migrant workers, including loans upto 1 lakh for individuals to kickstart the economy in rural areas affected due to the coronavirus pandemic.The package named Covid-19 assistance package (CAP) and designed by state panchayati raj department has converged various existing schemes like Odisha Livelihood Mission, Mission Shakti, District Mineral Foundation fund, Odisha Mineral Bearing Area Development Corporation and Odisha PVTG empowerment and livelihood improvement programme.Different departments like Panchayati Raj & Drinking Water, ST & SC development, women and child development and Mission Shakti will work for providing livelihood for poor and very poor families in the villages.Under package one, working capital support up to Rs 50,000 will be given to nano and micro-enterprises, who are facing crisis owing to reduced economic activities and changed business scenarios. The state government has identified nano and microenterprises in rural areas like small eateries, vegetable retail shops, tea shops, bakeries, grinding mill, tailoring, small farm input suppliers, welding, plumbing and automobile mechanic shops.A one-time loan amounting to Rs 1.5 lakh will be given to producer groups and enterprise groups formed by individuals working in the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors under package 2. Producer Groups over six-month-old and Enterprise Groups over one-year-old will be eligible for availing this loan.Under package 3, enterprises managed by very poor or destitute families like physically challenged, particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG), widow, third gender, destitute, families with women as head, etc will be provided with loan up to Rs 20,000 for development of the enterprise and uplifting of livelihood.Loans up to Rs 1 lakh will be provided to skilled and semi-skilled migrant workers who have returned during the Covid-19 pandemic for the development of existing enterprises and establishing new enterprises under package 4.This package would remain valid for six months from the date of its announcement.In May this year, Odisha had announced a Rs 17,000 crore package to provide employment and income generation opportunities to the worst affected sections, including the migrant workers and farmers. The package titled Special Livelihood Intervention Plan and launched in June was targeted at 9 lakh migrant workers who have returned to Odisha after lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-slew-of-packages-to-kickstart-rural-economy/story-IcmMBKLavnKJo90XNBrBOO.html
25-08-2020||India||JEE-NEET exams: Here’s the complete list of NTA’s safety steps for aspirants||Despite several requests to postpone the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Tuesday announced fresh guidelines and updates.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting these exams, had earlier announced that the JEE-Main will be held from September 1 to 6 and NEET for undergraduate courses on September 13. While there was a national uproar to postpone the exams in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the agency has decided to go ahead with the scheduled dates. In the fresh set of announcements, the NTA on Tuesday said that the admit cards for NEET (UG) 2020 will be released shortly. The agency had earlier released the admit cards for JEE examination.Below are the new announcements made by NTA:1. The National Testing Agency ensured that more than 99% candidates get their first choice of Centre Cities in both of these examinations.2. In case of JEE Main, the number of Examination Centres have been increased from 570 to 660 and 2546 to 3843 for NEET-UG 2020. 3. JEE (Main) will be Computer Based Test (CBT) and NEET (UG) will be pen paper-based test. 4. In case of JEE (Main), the number of shifts has been increased to 12 from 8, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced to 85000 from 1.32 lakh.5. Considering the social distancing norms, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE (Main). In case of NEET(UG), the number of candidates per room has been reduced to 12 from 24.6. In order to maintain social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centres in order to maintain adequate social distancing between candidates while they wait for the test to begin. 7. Advisory guiding candidates about the Do’s and Don’ts for proper social distancing has also been issued. For better local movement and to make sure that the candidates appearing for these exams reach their centres on time, the National Testing Agency has written to the state governments to extend support. Around 16 lakh students have registered for NEET-UG this year, while close to 9.3 lakh students had registered for JEE-Mains (Paper I) that was conducted in January. With the ongoing pandemic, NTA on Tuesday said that the aspirants appearing fort these exams will have a safe environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-exams-here-are-the-guidelines-issued-by-national-testing-agency-nta/story-lEpF7CZaPy2HKVRsY1Yp5N.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Appu Ghar’s land was taken by court’: SC during Central Vista hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday began hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the Central Vista project, which involves building a new Parliament and integrating all Central government offices into one complex, being developed by the Central government.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the petitioners to address them first on the challenge with regard to change of land use. The lead petitioner, Rajeev Suri, represented by advocate Shikhil Suri, submitted to the court that the land use of the Central Vista area - which comprises Parliament, heritage buildings, green area and recreational spaces - could not be changed by the government. According to him, this was done in haste and in an illegal manner as the March 20 notification approving change of land use could not be issued by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA).On a lighter note, the bench observed that when the Supreme Court had to be expanded, the land where Appu Ghar existed was taken over for development of the court’s additional complex.The bench remarked, “The recreational space at Pragati Maidan was converted into the extended complex of Supreme Court. That aspect (change of land use) nobody has challenged fortunately.” Suri informed the court that the alteration carried out by the DDA was shown as modification to the Master Plan of Delhi 2021 but in essence it altered the very character of the master plan. He further submitted to the court that the National Capital Region plan envisaged decentralisation and by this logic too, the Centre’s decision to integrate all 51 Central government offices in the heart of the city could not be sustained. “The idea behind the project is to have an integrated office complex instead of having it dispersed. Does the layout plan or building bye-laws permit such classification where one class of activity can be integrated at a common place,” the bench asked Suri.Further, the Court wished to know if the DDA should be faulted on the change of land use or the extent of this change in land use. The Court pointed out that though the notification of change of land use was issued by the DDA in exercise of its power under Section 11A of Delhi Development Act, such power can even be derived from other sections of the same Act. The hearing will continue on Wednesday.The Central Vista project envisages a new Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, common Central Secretariat housing 51 Ministries in 10 buildings. At present, these offices are housed in 47 buildings spread over different locations. An underground shuttle of 3 kilometre length is also being planned for providing connectivity with nearest metro stations of Udyog Bhawan and Central Secretariat stations.The proposed Lok Sabha chamber is expected to accommodate 876 seats and the Rajya Sabha chamber 400 seats. At present, the Central Hall has 440 seats and during the joint session of Parliament, temporary seats have to be arranged in the aisle. The new complex will provide for 1224 seats in the Central Hall, equipped with state-of-the-art technology and seamless movement between the two Houses.An affidavit filed by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the project proponent in the present petitions, has pegged the project cost at Rs 20,000 crore to be paid over six years. On the green front too, the Centre has claimed that 9.5 acres green space to be utilised for the project will be compensated by providing patches of 1.88 acre green area in three pockets, in Zone D of Central Vista and 3.9 acres green space in Zone C. Besides Rajeev Suri, other petitioners have also approached the apex court faulting the project on various grounds – manner of conducting public hearing, issue of public notice, grant of environmental impact assessment, clearance of project plan by Central Vista Committee, and unplanned destruction of heritage buildings in Central Vista as part of the project plan. The bench, while issuing notices on these petitions, indicated in March any steps taken with regard to the project will be subject to the final outcome of the proceedings in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-begins-hearing-petitions-challenging-central-vista-project/story-ynBesx5GjneGVCLigrBGSO.html
25-08-2020||India||JMM chief Shibu Soren shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital for further treatment||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) president and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren, 76, who was found infected with Covid-19 last week, left for New Delhi for further treatment in Medanta Hospital, Gurugram on Tuesday.The former Jharkhand chief minister tested positive for Covid-19 on August 21. He was shifted to Ranchi’s Medanta Hospital on August 24 after having breathing problems.His son and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said, “The JMM chief has old medical history. He is currently stable but for the last one year, he had not undergone a routine check-up. As a precautionary measure, he is being shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram.”On Tuesday at 4 pm, Shibu Soren left the Ranchi hospital in an ambulance under full security cover to board the Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express train at Jharkhand’s Bokaro railway station at 7 pm. Chief minister Hemant Soren accompanied his father to see him off at the Bokaro railway station.A team of doctors and paramedics from Gurugram’s Medanta is also travelling with him to take care of any medical exigencies.Shibu Soren is a heart patient and he had undergone bypass surgery earlier. On August 21, he and his wife Roopi Soren tested positive for Covid-19.Earlier this month, 12 security guards posted at Soren’s official residence in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground tested positive. Reportedly, none of these guards had come in contact with Soren as their deployment was in different parts of the campus to look after external security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-chief-shibu-soren-shifted-to-gurugram-s-medanta-hospital-for-further-treatment/story-9WmEsIsZl1MZefOB4LDv5N.html
25-08-2020||India||JEE, NEET to be held as per Sept schedule, says NTA amid calls for postponement||The National Testing Agency on Tuesday refused to change the schedule of the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).In a fresh set of guidelines released on Tuesday evening, the NTA said that the NEET will be held on Septmeber 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6.The apex exam body cited the August 17 Supreme Court that rejected the plea seeking postponement of these exams saying a crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.The NTA has, since then, released Admit Cards of JEE (Main) Examination will also release admit cards shortly, it said in a statement. It has ensured that more than 99% candidates get their first choice of centre cities in both of these examinations, the statement added. Following concerns due to the coronavirus pandemic, the number of examination centres have been increased from 570 to 660 in case of JEE Main and from 2546 to 3843 in case of the NEET exam. For the JEE main exam , the number of shifts has been increased from the earlier eight to 12 and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh to 85000 now, the NTA said.In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE (Main) and for the NEET entrance exam the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12.The NTA has staggered the entry and exit of candidates to ensure social distancing outside the examination hall. Adequate arrangements will also be made outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting, it said. An advisory guiding the candidates about “Do’s and Don’ts” for proper social distancing has also been issued. Nearly 8.58 lakh and 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the JEE (Main) and NEET examinations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-calls-for-postponing-jee-neet-apex-exam-body-sticks-to-sept-schedule-announced-fresh-guidelines/story-xtGuH0QWcACkFNhpmdhCRK.html
25-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar’s virtual mega rally for Bihar polls set for September 6||The JD (U) on Tuesday said chief minister Nitish Kumar will address the first big virtual rally on September 6 to roll out the party’s poll campaign. Ten lakh people are said to be joining the event through a digital platform.The fresh date for the maiden political rally by the chief minister, originally slated for August 7, has been announced after the Election Commission said that polls will be held on time despite the clamour by the opposition parties to defer it in the wake of sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and flood situation, a demand that was also backed by NDA ally, the LJP.In the midst of uncertainty, the JD (U) which had completed the preparation and exercise for the roll out of the party’s poll campaign, on July 31 announced that it was putting the event on hold. In a one-line statement JD (U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashistha Narayan Singh said: “In view of the flood situation and Covid-19 pandemic, the party has decided to postpone the proposed virtual rally of the chief minister.”Party national general secretary Ravindra Singh said, “The state assembly elections are going to be held during Covid-19 pandemic. It is, therefore, necessary to find out-of-the box solutions for public interaction.”He, however, did not explain the idea behind the new coinage for the virtual rally that has now been christened as ‘jan samvad’ (public interaction).Singh said that people can connect with chief minister’s ‘jan-samvad’ programme on September 6, which would also be live-streamed across CM’s Facebook and his Twitter accounts, and on YouTube and electronic channels, in addition to the homegrown digital platform--jdulive.com-- developed by the party.Party sources said that separate teams of party leaders have been tasked to rope in the general public and sympathisers to hear Nitish Kumar spell out developmental initiatives and explain why another term for his party was in the overall interest of the state and its people.RJD media coordinator Mritunjay Tiwari said that nothing has changed.“First they postponed the rally fearing that their flop show would be exposed as numbers can’t be fudged on a live social media programme. Now, they are deploying their in-house digital platform. They are free to do whatever they want, but people are aware of the ground realities and the difficulties they face. No amount of window dressing is going to help,” he said, adding “last time the rally date fell during the lockdown, this time too, it falls on the last date of the extended lockdown.”On July 17, Opposition parties jointly petitioned the Election Commission, suggesting that Covid-19 cases were likely to touch 1 million mark by October-November and the election exercise could just turn into a “super spreader event”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-s-mega-virtual-rally-for-bihar-polls-set-for-september-6/story-etLXMT7OmzXbEAARRHKY8I.html
25-08-2020||India||Govt extends deadline for Air India bids by 2 months||The government has extended by two months the deadline for placing bids for Air India till October 30 as the Covid-19 fallout has disrupted economic activity globally.The process of stake sale in the national carrier was initiated on January 27. This is the fourth extension given by the government for putting in bids. Issuing a corrigendum to the Expression of Interest (EoI) for sale of Air India, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management said the deadline has been extended in view of the “request received from the IBs (interested bidders) in view of the prevailing situation arising out of Covid-19”.While issuing the EoI in January, the last date for bids was kept at March 17, which was later extended to April 30. This was further extended till June 30, and again till August 31. Also the date for intimation to qualified interested bidders (QIB) has been extended by over two months till November 20, the DIPAM said in the corrigendum posted on its website. “Further changes with respect to the Important Dates, if any, will be communicated to the Interested Bidders subsequently,” it added. Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted economic activity globally with many countries announcing lockdown to contain the virus spread. The aviation sector has been hit hard by Covid-19 with airlines cancelling international flights and announcing pay cuts for employees. The government has already extended the time given to investors to bid for its entire 52.98 per cent stake in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) to September 30. After its unsuccessful bid to sell Air India in 2018, the government in January 2020 restarted the divestment process and invited bids for selling 100 per cent of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. In 2018, the government had offered to sell its 76 per cent stake in the airline. Of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. For current fiscal, the budget has pegged disinvestment proceeds at Rs 2.10 lakh crore. This includes Rs 1.20 lakh crore from CPSE share sale and Rs 90,000 crore from share sale in public sector banks and financial institutions, including listing of insurance behemoth LIC. However, no disinvestment has taken place so far this fiscal.The government has already kickstarted the process for selecting a transaction advisor for the initial public offering of Life Insurance Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-deadline-for-air-india-bids-by-2-months/story-pO1xb8RAoejYjuO9vm8FPL.html
25-08-2020||India||India delivers second tranche of aid to Lebanon||India on Tuesday handed over the second tranche of assistance to Lebanon, including medical supplies and personal protective equipment (PPE), in the wake of the devastating explosions in Beirut on August 4. Indian ambassador, Suhel Ajaz Khan, handed over a consignment of medical aid, including 70 boxes of PPE kits, to Lebanon’s public health minister Hamad Hassan to help in the country’s fight against Covid-19. Khan and Hassan discussed issues of mutual interest, including encouraging Indian pharmaceutical exports to Lebanon. Earlier, India had delivered 58 tonnes of medical, food and relief supplies to Lebanon in an air force plane on August 14. The aid included emergency medical supplies, wheat flour, sugar, pulses, and relief materials such as blankets, dignity kits and sleeping mats for the large number of people left homeless by the explosions. Nearly 3,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored at Beirut’s port blew up on August 4, virtually wiping out the city’s commercial hub and damaging many parts of the Lebanese capital. The blasts killed more than 170 people, injured another 6,000 and left nearly 300,000 homeless. The total damage was estimated at $10 billion to $15 billion. A preliminary assessment by the World Bank showed some 50,000 residential units were damaged and 80% of residential buildings and infrastructure were affected by the explosions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-delivers-second-tranche-of-aid-to-lebanon/story-n3EMaqRVWnDmqOkJhbaBHI.html
25-08-2020||India||Govt makes FASTag mandatory to avail discounts at highway tolls||The Centre has made it mandatory to allow only FASTag users to avail any discount at the highway toll plazas in a bid to promote the digital mode of payment, according to a notification issued on Tuesday.The ministry of road transport and highways on Tuesday amended the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008 to allow discount for users who make the return journey within 24 hours and all other local exemptions only if the vehicle carries a valid functional FASTag. HT has reviewed a copy of the notification. “In order to promote usage of digital payments for availing all discounts on the Fee Plazas of national highways, the amendments to the Rules are made which would enable- discount on return journey within 24 hours, it would be through FASTag or such other device and automatic. There will be no requirement for a pass,” a ministry official said.“The fee payable towards discounts ashall be paid through pre-paid instruments, smart card or through FASTag or on board unit (transponder) or any other such device only. The amendment would also enable that in cases where there is a discount available for a return journey within 24 hours, there is no need for a prior receipt or intimation and the citizen would get the discount automatically if return journey is made within 24 hours with a valid and a functional FASTag on the vehicle,” the official added.FASTag is a radio frequency identification sticker typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen that allows for the deduction of toll wirelessly and automatically without requiring a vehicle to stop at plazas. The tags were introduced to encourage digital payments and to end congestion and reduce waiting time at toll plazas.The Centre mandated that all lanes of toll plazas on national highways be declared FASTag lanes by December 15 to reduce bottlenecks along the national highways. It also relaxed its rules to allow at least a fourth of the lanes at toll plazas to allow both cash and FASTags payments for a period of 30 days. That ended on January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-makes-fastag-mandatory-to-avail-discounts-at-highway-tolls/story-QUE2lQg8T0rMnyF7gPO8gK.html
25-08-2020||India||India-Vietnam meeting discusses China’s destabilising actions||China’s destabilising actions in the region figured at a meeting on Tuesday of the India-Vietnam joint commission on trade, economic, scientific and technological cooperation, during which the two countries agreed to work more closely together in the Indo-Pacific. During the virtual meeting, co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Vietnamese counterpart Pham Binh Minh, the two sides agreed to add new momentum to their economic and defence engagement and to explore closer cooperation in emerging areas such as civil nuclear energy, space, marine sciences and new technologies. China’s actions in the South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) figured in the discussions, with both sides briefing each other on the latest developments, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Vietnamese side “underlined the importance of peace and security in the South China Sea”, one of the people cited above said. India and Vietnam agreed to enhance bilateral cooperation in line with New Delhi’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) and Asean’s outlook on Indo-Pacific to “achieve shared security, prosperity and growth for all in the region”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “India invited Vietnam to collaborate on one of the seven pillars of the IPOI,” it added. IPOI was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the East Asia Summit in November 2019 and its pillars include enhancing maritime security, promoting free, fair and mutually beneficial trade and maritime transport and enhancing science and technology cooperation. In recent years, Vietnam has often turned to India for support over China’s increasing activities within its exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea. India is one of only three countries with which Vietnam has a comprehensive strategic partnership and state-owned ONGC Videsh is engaged in energy production in Vietnamese waters that have witnessed intrusions by Chinese vessels over the past year. On Friday, Vietnamese envoy Pham Sanh Chau met foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to brief him on the escalating tensions in the South China Sea after China ramped up its military presence in the region. At Tuesday’s meeting, the two sides also reviewed recent developments in their comprehensive strategic partnership and discussed the future trajectory of their engagement. The statement said Jaishankar and Minh “exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest, especially in the context of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic”. Jaishankar referred to the prime minister’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” for enhancing resilience through self-reliance and human-centric globalisation and invited Vietnam to take advantage of the country’s new economic capacities and demands. He also reaffirmed India’s development and capacity-building aid to Vietnam through initiatives such as quick impact projects (QIPs), PhD fellowships, water resource management projects in the Mekong Delta, digital connectivity and heritage conservation. India has approved 12 QIPs in Vietnam, including seven water resource management schemes in the Mekong Delta and five for building educational infrastructure. MoU for cooperation between the Sushma Swaraj Institute of Foreign Service and the Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam and between the National Maritime Foundation and Scientific Research Institute of Sea and Islands were signed on the margins of the joint commission meeting. India and Vietnam also agreed to coordinate closely at multilateral forums, including the UN Security Council, where both countries will concurrently serve as non-permanent members in 2021, and at regional forums under the Asean framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vietnam-meeting-discusses-china-s-destabilising-actions/story-paRUZjoMdiS709T8F5LgVJ.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Neither luxury nor sin good’: GST tax rate on 2-wheelers may witness a cut||The government may consider bringing down Goods and Services Tax (GST) on two-wheelers from the highest slab of 28% as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday told the industry that two-wheelers are neither a luxury nor a sin good, hence merit a rate revision.Responding to an industry suggestion on the need for lowering the GST rate on two-wheelers at a close-door meeting of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) through video conference, she said “this was indeed a good suggestion as this category is neither a luxury nor a sin good and hence merits a rate revision,” a CII statement quoted her as saying.Sitharaman told the industry body that this matter will be taken up with the GST Council, which is the apex federal body on matters related to the indirect tax. The GST Council is chaired by the Union finance minister and finance ministers of states are its members. The council’s decisions are often unanimous. A government official aware about the development said on condition of anonymity that the matter is under consideration to boost sagging demand of automobiles, but the Union finance ministry has only recommendatory role. “Any decision in this regard will be taken by the GST Council,” the official said. While sale of passenger vehicles has plummeted by about 4% in July 2020 compared to the corresponding period last year, two-wheelers’ sales plunged by 15.24% in the same period.“It is not yet clear whether matters related to tax rationalisation would be taken up in the 41st meeting of the GST Council or in the 42nd meeting,” the official said. The 41st meeting of the GST Council is scheduled on August 27 and the 42nd meeting is expected next month on September 19.A finance ministry official said requesting anonymity that the first meeting on August 27 is expected to consider only one matter – how to pay compensation to states for their revenue shortfalls? “It is likely that tax rate rationalisation matters would be taken up on September 19 along with various other reforms,” he said.As told by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman after the 40th meeting of the council on June 12, the August 27 meeting will be special as it will discuss only one matter - how to pay compensation to states at a time when the compensation cess collection has plunged because of weak economic activities due to Covid-19 pandemic, he said.While briefing reporters after the 40th meeting, Sitharaman had said on request of members the Council would meet again in July to discuss only “one-agenda item” -- compensation to states.“Compensation, which has to be given to states, and, if at all, it results in some kind of borrowing, how and who is going to pay for it,” she had said. The meeting was, however, deferred to August, due to some technical reasons, the official said.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to 2022) and their revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco products. The official said, the 42nd meeting of the Council on September 19 is generic in nature and may consider revising tax on several items that suffer from inverted duty such as fertilisers, footwear, renewable energy devices, tractors and man-made yarns and fabrics. Inverted duty structure is a situation in which inputs are taxed at a higher rate than finished goods.Jigar Doshi, founding partner of a tax technology firm TTMS LLP, said, “The applicable GST rate on two wheelers is 28%, which is usually for the sin or luxury goods. Since two wheelers do not form part of either category, the same has been under consideration and recommendations for rate reduction.”“It is relevant to note that the input tax credit on two wheelers is restricted under the Act (unless for furtherance of business). Given that two wheelers might be essential, especially for the non registrants [those not registered under GST] or small organizations, a rate cut will be a major sigh of relief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neither-luxury-nor-sin-good-gst-tax-rate-on-2-wheelers-may-witness-a-cut/story-mjSIjcZCsAhSXCUmg5zTbL.html
25-08-2020||India||BJP revokes suspension of MLA seen in viral video dancing with guns||The Uttarakhand BJP on Monday revoked the suspension of controversial Khanpur MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion from the party 13 months after the action was taken against him when a video purportedly showing him dancing with guns in hand went viral.The decision was taken by the core committee of the party based on the legislator’s “good conduct” during the last 13 months of his suspension and his repeated apologies to the party leadership, state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat told reporters after welcoming Champion back into the party fold at his residence.The party also decided to forgive Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal, who had been served with a notice for breach of party discipline, after he gave an apology in writing, he said.The party had been considering taking Champion back and forgiving Karnawal for some time.Bhagat also said the Khanpur MLA had apologised to him, to the party’s core committee and to the media for his “misconduct”  which had led to his suspension from the party in June 2019.Champion was suspended from the party in June last year, initially for three months, on charges of breach of party discipline for engaging in a public spat with the Jhabreda MLA and challenging him to a wrestling bout at a Roorkee stadium.When the action was taken against him, he was also facing the charge of abusing an electronic media reporter at Uttarakhand Bhawan in Delhi.His suspension was extended indefinitely just a month later when a video in which he was purportedly seen dancing with guns in hand to popular Bollywood songs went viral, leaving the party red-faced.After being welcomed back into the party, Champion said he remained loyal to the BJP even during his suspension period. He also offered an apology before the press for his misconduct which had led to his suspension.“I was sorry then and I apologise again today with folded hands for what I did. But even during the 13-month period of my suspension, I worked for the policies and programmes of the BJP,” Champion said.Champion is a fitness enthusiast known for his love for guns.The party is yet to hear from two other legislators, including Dwarahat MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused of rape by a woman and Lohaghat MLA Pooran Singh Fartyal who also faces breach of discipline charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-revokes-suspension-of-mla-seen-in-viral-video-dancing-with-guns/story-1JXeeIoSALphaRJhnrBVoO.html
25-08-2020||India||Amid border row, India and China may take part in war games in Russia||The Indian army and the Chinese People’s Liberation army may be caught in a tense border stand-off along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh but both armies are likely to send troop contingents to Russia next month to take part in a multi-lateral exercise, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.Talks between the two armies to reduce border tensions are stuck in a stalemate and the disengagement process in Ladakh has hit a roadblock. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the exercise Kavkaz-2020, said one of the officials cited above. Eighteen countries are expected to take part in the exercise, including the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), the exercise planned next month assumes importance because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector, said a second official.“Participation of Pakistan and China in this annual event as part of the SCO should not be contextualised in the perspective of the India-China border row,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). India is sending a tri-services contingent of 150 to 200 personnel to Russia for the drills scheduled from September 15 to 26. Details of the Chinese and Pakistani participation are not known.India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks last week, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20.People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process.The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-india-and-china-may-take-part-in-war-games-in-russia/story-alys0XvcAF404OOkD3s5lI.html
25-08-2020||India||11 killed in Maharashtra building collapse; FIR against developer, 4 others||A day after a five-storey building collapsed in Mahad town of Raigad district, some 170 kilometres from Mumbai, killing 11 people, police booked five persons on various charges, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder. According to Raigad District Superintendent of Police, Anil Paraskar, a First information Report (FIR) was registered on Tuesday at Mahad city police station against the builder and four others: architect, RCC consultant and two civic officials. No arrests have been made till now. According to the FIR, the builder, along with the architect and RCC consultant, was responsible for constructing the building using inferior material and without proper attention. The FIR also charged two civic officials of issuing completion certificate without properly inspecting the site. The Navi Mumbai based developer had constructed the building in partnership with a local landowner based on the 50:50 formula of sharing profit, said police officials. Those booked by police are identified as Farooq Kazi, a developer; Gaurav Shah, architect; Bahubali Dhamane, RCC consultant; Deepak Jhisand, former Mahad Municipal council chief and Shashikant Dighe, junior construction inspector at Mahad Municipal Council. Repeated attempts made to reach out to all the five named in the FIR did not bear result.They have been booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting murder), 304-A (Causing death by negligence), 337 and 338 (causing hurt to any person, and 34 (criminal act carried out by several persons with common intention). The Tariq garden building with 40 flats was completed in two years’ time after which people started living there, according to the FIR. Paraskar said around 95 people were there in the building on the day it came crashing down. “Of the 95 persons, 75 managed to come out while the NDRF was able to pull out 11 bodies till 4 pm.” Six men and five women were among the dead. Maharashtra minister for urban development Eknath Shinde, who visited the building site, said, orders have been issued to police to act against all those responsible for the incident. “We will not spare anyone responsible for the building collapse. Information is being gathered on whether a structural audit of this building was conducted or not.”District guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said a committee will be formed to probe the incident. “The committee will probe how and why this happened. At the same time, structural audit will be carried out of other buildings to prevent similar incidents,” said Tatkare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-killed-in-maharashtra-building-collapse-fir-against-developer-4-others/story-cWQZljltSO0UEi4qVJs86O.html
25-08-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi, asks Centre to file review petition to postpone JEE, NEET exams||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for the Centre to file a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order to conduct Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in September. She has urged for the Prime Minister’s intervention to postpone the examinations “so that students are free from mental agony and mental disaster.”Banerjee’s request comes in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease that has infected as many as 31,67,323 people in the country and has claimed over 58,000 lives. Also read| Clamour grows around postponement of JEE, NEET; Greta Thunberg favours students: Latest developments“Such intervention is very much essential in the larger interest of students to facilitate creating a situation whereby the students will neither be subjected to grave health risk nor they will face a career risk,” she wrote in the letter. The chief minister has asked the Prime Minister to consider taking necessary steps for postponing the JEE and NEET exams “until the public health situation becomes conducive again.” Earlier in the day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank seeking postponement of the entrance exams. It would be highly unsafe and perilous for 50,000 students of the state to visit the test centres physically to appear in these tests, he said. On Monday, Banerjee had written to PM Modi about her reservations against the UGC guidelines that required completing terminal examinations in universities/colleges across the country by the end of September 2020. “My point was that this decision had a huge potential to put students’ lives at risk,” she said.The Supreme Court had on August 17 rejected a plea seeking postponement of these exams saying a crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.Over 16 lakh students have registered for NEET this year and nearly 9.3 lakh students had registered for JEE-Mains (Paper I) that was held in January. An equal number of students were expected to appear for the second phase of the exam, which are scheduled for April-May each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-centre-to-file-review-petition-to-postpone-jee-neet-exams/story-j2YZkbahq1He25RfKaw2BM.html
25-08-2020||India||CBI summons 2 Mumbai police officers in Sushant Singh Rajput death probe||Two Mumbai police officers were summoned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday in connection with the death of Bollywood actor Suhant Singh Rajput. The officers - inspector Bhushan Belnekar and sub-inspector Vaibhav Jagtap - were under quarantine after they tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago. “Belnekar was discharged a few days ago. But is currently under quarantine, as per the doctor’s advice,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity. Mumbai police officials said the CBI is likely to summon senior police officers, including the senior police inspectors and officers above him as well. The central agency’s probe team has been in Mumbai since Friday last after the Supreme Court approved the ongoing CBI investigation recommended by the Bihar government into the death of Sushant Rajput.The team continued to question the actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, domestic help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, chartered accountant Sandeep Shridhar and house manager Samuel Miranda in DRDO guest house in Santacruz (east). On Monday, the CBI team had questioned employees of Waterstone Resort in Andheri (East) where Rajput had spent two months last year. The same afternoon, a CBI team also visited and met the team of Cooper Hospital doctors who conducted the autopsy. Rajput’s father had filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Rhea Chakraborty - her son’s friend - and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money. The CBI is yet to call Rhea Chakraborty for questioning.Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. He was 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-2-mumbai-police-officers-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe/story-kglQAdJ0NRZkKXIv2hYEsI.html
25-08-2020||India||India-Russia in talks regarding Covid vaccine Sputnik V, says health ministry||Communication between India and Russia are on as far as Sputnik V, the Covid vaccine, is concerned, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.“As far as Sputnik-5 vaccine is concerned, India and Russia are in communication. Some initial information have been shared,” Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union health ministry said while briefing the media.President Vladimir Putin on August 11 had announced ‘Sputnik V’, Russia’s first approved vaccine against Covid-19, making it the first country to approve a vaccine. Russia had said the vaccine will be rolled out by the end of this month. The country has already produced the first batch of ‘Sputnik V’, named after the world’s first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, according to reports. However, some scientists fear that with this fast regulatory approval, Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety amid the global race to develop a vaccine against coronavirus.President Putin had earlier assured the people that the vaccine is safe, adding that one of his daughters had taken it as a volunteer and felt good afterwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-in-talks-regarding-covid-vaccine-sputnik-v-says-health-ministry/story-b9Id1R23bIyYazvGl7k5xL.html
25-08-2020||India||At CWC meet, Rahul Gandhi had a question on leak of letter that set off a storm||During the seven-hour long marathon meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, one of the signatories of the contentious letter that advocates changes in the Congress party and elections at every level, Rajya Sabha MP Ghulam Nabi Azad read out a few lines from the letter. Till now, the full content of the letter written on August 7 have not been made public. But Hindustan Times has learnt that the letter-writers had demanded the letter be made available to each of the 52 members that were attending the Congress Working Committee so that their act could be understood in its full context that it was asking for reform and not a revolt against Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. However, that was not done and the letter writers say that this led to the other members of the Congress Working Committee criticising them without fully knowing what the letter was about. “We wanted the letter to be made public,” said one of the members of Parliament and signatories. “However, they chose not to do so.”’ ALSO READ | CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back footHT has managed to access the lines that were read out at the meeting of the Congress’ highest decision-making body. The lines addressed to Congress President Sonia Gandhi say, “We deeply appreciate the leadership provided by you in difficult times and also recognise the commendable efforts of Shri Rahul Gandhi during his tenure as Congress President. Congress Party will always remember with pride and gratitude the supreme sacrifice of Shrimati Indira Gandhi and Shri Rajiv Gandhi for the unity and integrity of India,” it said.“We acknowledge the resolute struggle, the visionary leadership and notable contribution of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. His enduring legacy will always remain a source of guidance and inspiration for the Congress party. The Nehru-Gandhi family will always remain an integral part of the collective leadership of the Congress party,” read Azad at the meeting yesterday. The other parts of the letter are reported to be asking for “active’ and visible” leadership and elections at all levels but this extract was read out to illustrate to the CWC that it wasn’t a war-cry against the Gandhis.Even as Azad read these lines, former president Rahul Gandhi questioned the claim that there were no copies of the letter. One of the members present at the meeting told HT that Gandhi questioned how the letter was leaked when it was written on the covering note that there is only one copy that was handed over to the Congress president and all other copies were destroyed.ALSO READ | ‘A year has lapsed’: Sonia Gandhi asks CWC to relieve her of party chief dutiesOne of the signatories to the letter said, “It was an orchestrated campaign for the invitees to slam the letter which they had not read. There were selective misreadings and misinterpretations,” said the Member of Parliament.However, CWC member and spokesperson Randeep Surjewala dismissed these claims. “Azad and Anand Sharma, the two senior leaders have already given statements that they are satisfied and so the issue is now closed,” he said.The party resolved on Monday to authorise Sonia Gandhi to stay on as party chief till an AICC session was called to elect the next president. The letter writers are now waiting to see if there is an impact of their letter, although all three letter writers Azad, Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha expressed their satisfaction with Sonia Gandhi’s comments at the meeting.She had said, “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions, but, we come together as one. Organizational issues are always addressed within the organization. And the process of constitution and reconstitution is a continuous one.” Gandhi went on to say that she does not hold any ill will against any colleague, irrespective of however hurtful the remarks. “I have always risen above them to keep the Congress family together and to fight for the cause of the people,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cwc-meet-rahul-gandhi-had-a-question-on-leak-of-letter-that-set-off-a-storm/story-lmm3xGfcinQzsQ8WMuFcUO.html
25-08-2020||India||Boating in Uttarakhand’s famous Naini Lake to resume from September 1||Boating in the famous Naini Lake in Nainital will resume from September 1. Boating happens to be the chief attraction of Nainital. Tourists prefer to enjoy boating on a visit to the small hill station. Following the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, boating in Naini Lake was prohibited from March, an official said. The decision to allow boating was taken in a meeting between officials of Nainital municipality and a boat operators committee on Monday. “A meeting was held earlier also but the boat operators committee was reluctant to start operations due to lack of tourists. Now they are ready to operate as some tourists have started arriving,” Ashok Kumar, chief executive officer, Nainital municipality said. According to officials of the Nainital municipality, 222 rowing boats and around 60 pedal boats ply in the lake. The livelihood of over 300 boatmen depends upon boating. They were sitting idle during the lockdown when hardly any tourists were coming to the state. Kumar said, “It will be the duty of boat owners and boatmen that tourists maintain social distancing and wear face masks while enjoying boating. They will have to follow other guidelines during the booking of tourists and continuous sanitization of the boats.” Ram Singh Bisht, president, Boat Operators Committee, Nainital said, “As some tourists have started to come in the last few weeks, they decided to start boating services and spoke to officials concerned about it. Also, it is not possible for us to stay away from our profession as it is our source of earning our livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boating-in-uttarakhand-s-famous-naini-lake-to-resume-from-september-1/story-XjOq56813C1oeotQGxnfoL.html
25-08-2020||India||Explained: What is Interpol red notice and how it will affect Nirav Modi’s wife||The Interpol on Tuesday issued a red notice against the wife of fugitive Indian businessman Nirav Modi. The notice was issued on the request of Enforcement Directorate (ED).Modi’s wife Ami is being investigated by ED in connection with laundering of money. The diamantaire, meanwhile, is in prison in London in connection with the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case.Ami had left India with Nirav Modi and other family members in first week of January, 2018, just before agencies started investigations in the PNB scam. It is alleged that she had gone to the US.What is a red notice?Interpol defines red notice as a request to law enforcement agencies worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender, or similar legal action.The global body further says that a red notice contains information to identify the wanted person, such as their name, date of birth, nationality, hair and eye colour, photographs and fingerprints if available. It also information related to the crime they are wanted for.It is issued at the request of member country. The Interpol clarifies that a red notice is an international wanted person notice, but not an arrest warrant.The checks to be performed before issuing a red noticeEvery red notice request is checked by a specialised task force of the Interpol. This review takes into account information available at the time of publication.How will a red notice affect Ami Modi?A red notice allows 192 member countries to locate a person wanted by the country which has made the request. This means that Ami Modi’s free movement will be affected now.After a red notice against her, Ami’s name will be now in Interpol database at all the ports and airports across the world.Ami was director in few companies which were allegedly used by Nirav Modi for laundering money. The ED had named Ami as an accused in the PNB money-laundering case for the first time in March last year.Who are the subjects of red notices?The Interpol website says that red notices are issued for fugitives wanted either for prosecution or to serve a sentence.When a person is sought for prosecution, they have not been convicted and should be considered innocent until proven guilty. A person sought to serve a sentence means they have been found guilty by a court in the issuing country, it futher says.Can a red notice lead to arrest?Interpol says that it cannot force the law enforcement authorities in any country to arrest someone who is the subject of a red notice.Each member country decides what legal value it gives to a red notice and the authority of their law enforcement officers to make arrests, according to Interpol website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-what-is-interpol-red-notice-and-how-it-will-affect-nirav-modi-s-wife/story-VnWY1EtlGWHhgtRdcOv6ZK.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Still in love’: Congress accuses BJP of using banned China app||The Maharashtra Congress has slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party over the use of a banned Chinese app for its official communication to announce the organisational appointments on Monday. Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant raised questions over the use of Cam Scanner, one of the 59 Chinese apps banned by the central government in June. The Modi government had on June 29 banned the Chinese app as part of the ban amid the tension with China following the June 15 incident along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers died in the line of duty. The BJP issued a press note announcing the appointments of its workers on party’s OBC Morcha on Monday. Sawant has presented a copy of the press note scanned using the banned app. He said that the BJP’s pseudo nationalism has been exposed with this act. जाहीर निषेध! गद्दार @BJP4Maharashtra मोदी सरकारने बंदी घातलेले #कॅमस्कॅनर अॅपचा अजूनही राजरोसपणे वापर करत आहे. चीनी अॅपवर बंदी आणि आत्मनिर्भर अभियान ही सर्व धूळफेक आहे. भाजपाचे चीनबद्दलचे प्रेम ओसंडून वाहणारे आहे हे स्पष्ट आहे. pic.twitter.com/9w0g5L0Im5“It is shameful and annoying that the BJP is openly using the apps banned by the Central government ruled by it. This has shown how the BJP is still in love with China. The act of banning the Chinese app by the Modi government was just a hogwash to misguide people,” Sawant said. Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the party had forwarded the PDF files to the media and to other communication platforms. “We have not used any banned Chinese app for this communication. The files that were sent out were in PDF format. We are not aware if anybody in further process scanned them using the banned app,” he said. Sawant has also said that the organisations affiliated to the BJP were on forefront demanding to ban the Chinese products. “The ‘so called patriots’ were leading the campaign. The recent revelation about the potential deal between an Indian industrialistand TikTok, too has brought the real face of BJP to the fore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-in-love-congress-accuses-bjp-of-using-banned-china-app/story-rViOZzbM8NgSuZV4KMCFGJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Pakistan hackers target personal website of MoS G Kishan Reddy, now temporarily unavailable||The personal website of minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy -- kishanreddy.com -- was targeted by self-claimed Pakistani hackers. The website was hacked on Independence Day and the hackers had put messages related to Free Kashmir, Pakistan, and also warned the Government of India.The incident has been confirmed by G Kishan Reddy’s office in Hyderabad on Tuesday.After the incident of hacking, the website is ‘temporarily unavailable’ and has not been made available for the public yet as the root cause of the issue is still being established.It was expected that since the website targeted by Pakistan-based hackers was personal in nature, it was primarily aimed at dissemination of information to the general public, no critical data, personally identifiable information or any other personal data was compromised, officials aware of the incident claimed.The officials also claimed that the website had no government-related data and whatever it had related to personal details about the minister, his public activities and political programs. The website had G Kishan Reddy’s work, his profile and personal details, which are all in the public domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-hackers-target-personal-website-of-mos-g-kishan-reddy-now-temporarily-unavailable/story-xr9IScxnouzRJq2rVhVtnO.html
25-08-2020||India||Undertrial escapes from Goa jail, hunt on||An undertrial at Goa’s central jail escaped and prompted a state-wide manhunt on Tuesday. The prisoner, Hemraj Bharadwaj, who is facing trial in a narcotics case, escaped taking advantage of the job of dumping garbage outside the prison under supervision assigned to him.Jail officials said with many convicts and prisoners known for good behaviour out on parole to reduce crowding of the jail due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the chores had to be redistributed among other prisoners including undertrials. This led to the lapse.“We have alerted the police ensuring the borders were sealed within 20 minutes of his escape being brought to our notice. We expect that he will be apprehended soon,” said inspector general (prisons) Gurudas Pilarnkar.Officials said the undertrial asked for permission to relieve himself and used the opportunity to escape while he was out to dump garbage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/undertrial-escapes-from-goa-jail-hunt-on/story-ulVAw7SObV4eT5G9E479SJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Stand-off with PLA pushes India to go for new snow-free axis to Ladakh||India’s national security planners are pushing hard to complete an all-weather strategic route to Ladakh that will link Darcha in Himachal Pradesh to Nimu via Padum in Kargil’s Zanskar valley, people familiar with the matter said. Nimu is 35 kilometres from Leh town and headquarters of XIV Corps responsible for the defence of East Ladakh and Siachen Glacier.This would be the first all-weather route to Ladakh that is already connected by two other routes; the first via Zoji La in Jammu and Kashmir and the second, via Himachal’s Manali-Upshi-Leh axis. The 9.02 kilometre Atal tunnel at Rohtang La, which will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km, is set to become operational next month.Senior military commanders said the third route to feed Ladakh by road is urgently needed given how Pakistan and its all-weather friend, China were eyeing the Siachen Glacier and Daulat Beg Oldie. The defence ministry’s road project is being given its hardest push by road and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and his colleague Gen VK Singh after China provoked a standoff along the Line of Actual Control in East Ladakh and started mobilising troops in depth areas. New Delhi perceives Beijing’s reluctance to disengage despite reminders as an effort to set a new normal at the border.Officials said the third route requires upgrading the Darcha-Padum-Nimu trekking route into a metalled road and building a 4.5 kilometre tunnel under Shingo La on the Darcha-Padum route. The project, which has been in the pipeline for a decade, is scheduled to be completed by the defence ministry within two years.In an effort to ensure that the project meets its two-year deadline, Gadkari’s ministry has proposed that the task to build the tunnel should be given to the company that constructed the 9.02 km tunnel at Rohtang La on the condition that it meets the timeline.According to military commanders, the need to build the third axis was felt as tunnelling would be required under four more high mountain passes on the existing Manali-Leh route if the road has to be kept open throughout the year. The Atal tunnel at Rohtang La on this route has been built at a height of 10,171 feet and is already the world’s longest at this altitude.The four passes that would require tunnels on the existing Manali-Leh route are at higher altitudes: Baralacha La (16,500 feet), Nakee La (15,547 feet), Lachung La (16,616 feet), and Tanglang La (17,480 feet). These passes are only open for traffic between mid-May to mid-November and covered with deep snow remaining part of the year.However, the Darcha-Padum-Nimu route requires only a single 4.5 km tunnel through the 16,570 feet Shingo La between Darcha and Padum to ensure that the road is closed only for two months in winter. Darcha is 147 kilometres from Manali and lies on the highway to Leh after Jispa and Keylong across Rohtang La.The distance between Darcha and Padum is about 148 kilometres with the Zanskar sub-divisional town connected to Kargil via a 230-km long single lane road. Work is already on to construct the Darcha-Padum road with another 260 km road work in progress between Padum and Nimu, the 14 Corps headquarters in Ladakh.“We are looking to build a road that bisects the Leh-Kargil highway around Lamayuru monastery and connects Darcha via Padum. This road will allow Indian military and the local population to get round-the-year supplies… The route is not under the prying eyes of the Pakistan Army as in Kaksar in Kargil district or the DSDBO (Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie) route that is under observation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA),” said a former army chief.Apart from keeping the supply lines open for the military guarding Siachen, Kargil and DBO sectors, the Darcha-Nimu route will also develop the new union territory of Ladakh to match the aspirations of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-steps-up-building-new-snow-free-axis-to-ladakh-amid-china-standoff/story-d3wAm1zGliffOpk76jowON.html
25-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 epicentre Wuhan opens colleges for first time since January and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 epicentre Wuhan opens colleges for first time since JanuaryThousands of domestic university students are returning to Wuhan, China, where the Covid-19 pandemic originated, as campuses have been reopened there with strict social distancing norms in place around seven months after physical classes were suspended. Read moreSupreme Court reserves verdict on sentence against Prashant Bhushan over his tweetsSenior counsel Rajeev Dhavan appearing for Prashant Bhushan said that court should not punish Bhushan and make a martyr of him. He suggested that the court should close the case after issuing a general direction that Bar should be restrained while criticising the court. Read moreInterpol issues red notice against Nirav Modi’s wife on ED’s request in connection with money laundering caseThe Interpol has issued a red notice against the wife of Nirav Modi, the prime accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case. Read moreMS Dhoni was a hero for those who came from small towns like me: Kings XI Punjab captain lavishes praise on former India captainMS Dhoni is a once in a generation cricketer. This is something which is known most by those who have had the experience of sharing the dressing room with the former India captain. Read more‘Sands are shifting’: Sanjay Dutt’s wife Maanayata shares pic of their twins with heartfelt note, Trishala Dutt sends her prayersSanjay Dutt’s wife Maanayata Dutt has shared a beautiful picture of their two children, twins Shahraan and Iqra, along with a heartfelt note. Sanjay was diagnosed with lung cancer this month and has been undergoing treatment in Mumbai for now. Read moreHP launches new ENVY and ZBook premium laptops: Prices, specs and moreHP has launched new laptops under its ‘Envy’ series in India including the new HP Envy 15, ENVY 13 and ENVY x360 13. These come in addition to HP ZBook Studio and ZBook Create laptop for developers and artists. The new, premium laptops are available at all HP World stores and online store.hp.com/in website. Read more531 kms on single charge: Volkswagen ID.3 electric sets new range recordThe new Volkswagen ID.3 has set its first range record in Switzerland. In a statement issued by the carmaker, the new electric car from the German carmaker’s stable covered a little more than 530 kilometres from Zwickau to Schaffhausen in Switzerland, on a single charge. Read moreJennifer Lopez is launching her makeup and skincare brand, JLo BeautyActor and singer Jennifer Lopez dropped news for her fans and beauty lovers: her very own skincare and makeup line called JLo Beauty, is coming soon. Read moreWatch | Flash flood risk in Gujarat, NDRF rescues stranded people from affected areasParts of Gujarat have been reeling under heavy floods. An NDRF team rescued stranded people from flood-hit areas in Morbi. At least 30 people were evacuated from Morbi’s Chikhli village. The rescued people were later handed over to district administration. Rains have pounded several areas of Gujarat in the last few days. Watch the full video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-epicentre-wuhan-opens-colleges-for-first-time-since-january-and-all-the-latest-news/story-N8VcypTjxcRy4aXUhbLPhK.html
25-08-2020||India||Goans give travel influencer a reality check on tourism during pandemic||Popular Instagram travel influencer ‘ShenazTreasury’ was forced to delete an Instagram post after she faced a backlash and a barrage of comments In a post on Instagram, Shenaz posted a selfie of herself riding pillion on a two wheeler in Anjuna in Goa without a mask. “After five months at home, I feel like a prisoner who’s escaped and found freedom! Goa is open to tourism… most restaurants and hotels are shut and empty. But you can find a few open. There are very few people here, streets are deserted but that’s how I like it especially during covid times,” she said in the post. What followed was a barrage of comments questioning the propriety of travelling during the pandemic and how travellers like herself could be risking the health of the local population since unnecessary travel should be avoided. The adverse comments prompted an apology from the influencer.“... the Goa government has opened its state up for tourism and being a travel content creator, I want to stand by travel. Travel is the most affected industry in this pandemic, I want to support it. I didn’t realise that the locals felt so strongly against having visitors and didn’t want tourists here. Sorry again Goa locals, I understand your perspective,” she said. “I apologise for not wearing a mask in my earlier post. My rationale was that I was in spots that were absolutely empty or in my own hotel with friends who I am travelling with. I do realise that I am setting an example to others and It may seem like I am saying that a mask is not needed in Goa. This is not true. We must be responsible when around others and wear a mask…,” she said. However, many were quick to point out that it is not about a mask, but rather promoting travel during these ‘dangerous’ times was the real problem. “Goa is touching [the] highest numbers everyday, the moment you landed in Goa you have been trying to portray as this place that is carefree and where one can go to escape it all. I’m sorry but is everyone else sitting at home an idiot? We go wanna go for vacation, your posts have done nothing but encourage reckless behaviour during this pandemic. So called influencers should know better,” an Instagram user by the name globetrotter.chika said. “Like me a lot of other Goans depend on the tourism industry for our bread and butter, but at this point when the state is struggling to get things under control we don’t need tourists to come and add fuel to the fire,” kaioo_2396 said. “[Goa is] up and running because the economy of Goa depends on tourism. Also the medical facilities in Goa was on the news for not being able to provide adequate treatment to all its citizens suffering from the disease. Goa is open because we have no other option. Imagine getting tested positive after coming to Goa. The government here cannot even guarantee you adequate treatment. You are gonna put your own lives at risk. Give it time till everything comes back to normal,” Serial_chiller_0_0 another commentator said. However, others pointed out that one couldn’t really blame the influencers or the tourists who chose to travel “Isn’t it the ministers who decided that Goa is open for tourism? If we had collectively bashed them on such decisions, that would have been far more productive than going after an Instagram influencer. Noise like this works brilliantly in favour of these politicians who are then away from the spotlight and free to finish off this state without any sort of questioning or scanner on them,” Shreyas Naique a resident of Goa said. Goa opened for tourism in early July and while arrivals have been very minimal there have been tourists who have chosen to travel -- mainly those who prefer to drive down who have found empty stretches of beach and a few open hotels. But much of Goa’s attractions and nightlife zones remain closed. Goa is reporting over 300 cases each day of the novel coronavirus and has recorded nearly 150 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goans-give-travel-influencer-a-reality-check-on-tourism-during-pandemic/story-DWKsZWvs4TyUADyLAM7XlN.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Not young or old, irresponsible people driving Covid-19 pandemic in India’: ICMR||The experts from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have said that people who are not wearing masks are driving the Covid-19 pandemic in India.“I wouldn’t say young or old but irresponsible, less cautious people who are not wearing masks are driving the pandemic in India,” said Professor (Dr) Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR.He also said that three vaccine candidates are the frontrunners in the country.“Three Covid-19 vaccines are ahead in the race in India. Serum Institute’s vaccine is in phase 2(B) & phase 3 trials and Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila’s vaccines have completed phase 1 trial,” said Dr Bhargava.His remarks came on a day when India saw 60,975 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the nationwide infection tally rose to 31,67,323.The death toll climbed to 58,390 with 848 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday.There are 7,04,348 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 22.24 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.However, the country’s recovery rate has been steadily improving. The number of recovered patients surged to 24,04,585 on Tuesday, pushing the recovery rate over 75.92 per cent.The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.84 per cent.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,68,27,520 samples have been tested up to August 24 with 9,25,383 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-young-or-old-irresponsible-people-driving-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-icmr/story-dJLrzv75Oyi83fpMM0IErI.html
25-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate is now more than 75%, says health ministry||The recovered Covid-19 cases in India are 3.4 times more than the active cases as of Tuesday, according to Union health ministry.There are 7,04,348 active coronavirus cases in the country which comprises 22.24 per cent of the total caseload, according to the health ministry data. With 60,975 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, India’s tally rose to 31,67,323 with recoveries surging to 24,04,585, pushing the recovery rate to 75.92 per cent, according to health ministry.“Active cases are only 22.2 per cent of the total cases. The recovery rate is now more than 75 per cent,” Union health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan said while briefing the media on Tuesday.Out of the total active Covid-19 cases in the country, only 2.7 per cent of the patients are on oxygen support, the health ministry said. 1.92 per cent are in ICU, while 0.29 per cent are on ventilator support. In last 24 hours, India reported 848 deaths due to coronavirus. India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.84 per cent, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-now-more-than-75-says-health-ministry/story-rzjBIANJLCvSbEbFMmbZTI.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Set up high-level committee to probe deaths of 2 Covid-19 patients’: DM writes to BHU VC||District magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma has written a letter to Professor Rakesh Bhatnagar, vice-chancellor at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), urging him to constitute a high-level committee to probe the deaths of two Covid-19 patients who were undergoing treatment at Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital of the central university.Sharma also said a magisterial inquiry had already been ordered into the two incidents. A two-member team will probe the incidents and submit its report within a fortnight, he added. In the first incident on August 23, a 21-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly died by jumping off the fourth floor of the SSL hospital where he was admitted, doctors treating said. The kin of the deceased alleged negligence on part of the hospital — a charge denied by the hospital. Hospital medical superintendent Professor SK Mathur said the patient was admitted to the emergency of the SSL hospital on August 16 due to some mental illness. During treatment, his sample was sent for Covid-19 test on August 19 and his report came positive on August 22 following which he was moved to a Covid-19 ward the same day. Also read: Covid-19 patient at BHU hospital disappears, body recovered from premises“He was being treated by experts. The behaviour of the patient was very unusual. He would leave his bed and go to other patients. Even on August 23, the patient made a bid to jump through the window. He was pacified and brought back to the bed. He was given medication and counselled,” Mathur said.In the second incident, the body of a 25-year-old coronavirus patient, who went missing from the Covid-19 ward of the SSL hospital’s super-speciality block two days ago, was recovered from the hospital premises on Monday night, a university official said.Mathur said it appeared that the patient had tried to come down from the second floor of the hospital building with the help of a pipe and fell as the pipe broke. The body was found below after which the hospital staff and security personnel immediately took it to the mortuary. The hospital administration then informed the police.Earlier, an FIR was registered in connection with the patient’s disappearance following a complaint by his family members, inspector Mahesh Pandey, station officer at Varanasi’s Lanka police station, said on Monday. According to the family, the patient had suffered injuries in a road accident on August 11 and was admitted to the BHU trauma centre the same day, the police said. Two days later, his Covid-19 test was done and he tested positive. Thereafter, he was moved to a Covid-19 ward at the super-speciality block of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital. He spoke to his mother on August 22 through the window of the building, the family told the police. At that time, he had pleaded his mother to take him home, the family added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-up-high-level-committee-to-probe-deaths-of-2-covid-19-patients-dm-writes-to-bhu-vc/story-hep6nJh7S3ig9YmUgcveuN.html
25-08-2020||India||RBI did not print even one Rs 2,000 note in 2019-20||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) currency note presses did not print even one Rs 2,000 note in 2019-20. This happened because they did not receive any order to do so. The trend seems to be in keeping with a conscious decision to bring down the share of Rs 2,000 notes in total currency under circulation, which has come down from at least 50% in 2016-17 to just 22% in 2019-20. These figures have been reported in RBI’s Annual Report for 2019-20, which was released on August 25. RBI has also disposed a disproportionate share of Rs 2,000 notes in the soiled category. This raises questions about the government’s plan for the country’s highest denomination currency note. In January 2019, the government indicated that the printing of Rs 2,000 notes was being stopped as there was adequate supply, as reported by Economic Times in January, 2019.“Printing of bank notes of particular denomination is decided by the government in consultation with RBI to maintain the desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of public. No indent was placed with the presses for printing of Rs 2,000 denomination notes for 2019-20.However, there is no decision to discontinue the printing of Rs 2,000 bank notes,” minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur told the Lok Sabha on March 16, 2020.Rs 2,000 notes were introduced after the government announced demonetisation of old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes on November 8, 2016. These two denominations accounted for 86% of the total currency in circulation when the policy was announced. The number of Rs 2,000 notes peaked at 3.36 billion units (or pieces) in 2017-18. This number dropped to 3.29 billion in 2018-19. It has fallen again to 2.73 billion in 2019-20. The fall in number of Rs 2,000 notes in circulation is in keeping with the fall in orders for printing Rs 2,000 notes. RBI printed 3.5 billion Rs 2,000 notes in 2016-17. This came down to 151 million in 2017-18 and 47 million in 2018-19. No Rs 2,000 notes were printed in 2019-20. RBI also seems to have disposed of a disproportionately high number of Rs 2,000 notes in 2019-20. A total of 176.8 million pieces of soiled Rs 2,000 notes were disposed of in 2019-20. Just one million Rs 2,000 notes were disposed of in 2018-19 and no Rs 2,000 notes were disposed of in 2016-17 or 2017-18. The share of disposed of Rs 2,000 notes in the total Rs 2,000 notes under circulation in 2019-20 is 6.5%. This number is just 0.6% for Rs 500 notes. Both these notes were introduced together after demonetisation.It is Rs 500 notes which have gained at the cost of the Rs 2,000 notes. More than half of the 22 billion currency notes printed in 2019-20 were of the Rs 500 denomination. As a result of these changes in currency composition, the share of Rs 500 notes has reached an all-time high in the total currency in circulation. A government official said on condition of anonymity that the Rs 2,000 notes were introduced in 2016 to quickly fill the gap created by demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. It was the need of the hour.Gradually, with increased supply of smaller notes, including new notes of Rs 100 and Rs 200, and with growing popularity of digital transactions, the urgency to issue new Rs 2,000 notes is no longer there, the official said.“But, this does not mean that there is any move to discontinue Rs 2,000 notes,” the official added. “Increasingly, commercial banks are also using more and more smaller notes because their customers often find difficulties in getting change for Rs 2,000 notes,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-did-not-print-even-one-rs-2-000-note-in-2019-20/story-E4ho4aqYSZ4URUwwENtEdI.html
25-08-2020||India||Delhi Police orders probe after video of cop thrashing man goes viral||Two days after a video of a policeman thrashing a man went viral on social media, Delhi Police said it has ordered an enquiry to probe the incident.The video first surfaced on social media on Sunday showing a policeman in uniform beating a man with a stick. In the video, the man could be seen lying on the road joining his hands, apparently pleading the policeman to let him go. Another policeman is also seen standing close by. A senior police officer said they’ve been told that the video is from Delhi’s RK Puram area but the date of the incident or the credentials of the man are not clear. The officer also said the police have not received any complaint against the policemen.Also read: Businessman, son and friend held for assaulting Delhi cops, tearing their uniformsDeputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Devender Arya on Tuesday said an inquiry has been ordered and departmental action would be taken against the policeman based on its outcome.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) has been asked to conduct a fact-finding inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-orders-probe-after-video-of-cop-thrashing-man-goes-viral/story-3NtLJ8oD4Vi3ycEmxlc82K.html
25-08-2020||India||Rs 26 lakh robbed at gunpoint in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||A man was robbed of Rs 26 lakhs at gunpoint in Bihars Muzaffarpur district on Tuesday, police said.Mukesh, the manager of former RJD MLA Musafir Paswan, was on the way to Motihari when his bike was stopped by six men at Sahwajpur Raghopur Chowk in Ahiyapur police station area, they said.The six men were also on bikes, police said.They snatched from Mukesh the two bags that had the cash and fled the spot, Superintendent of Police (City) Niraj Kumar Singh said.The entire incident has been captured on CCTV and police have started an investigation, he added.Mukesh was heading to Motihari for making payments to labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-26-lakh-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur/story-z1kie5owOnMcHLwlu8aSLM.html
25-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh Police register rape case against former director of medical education||Chhattisgarh Police have booked former Director of Medical Education (DME) for allegedly raping a woman in the pretext of providing her a job, police officials said on Tuesday. Raipur Police booked Dr SL Adile on the basis of the statement of a complainant in Mahila Thana on Monday and started a probe. “The complainant, in her statement, alleged that the accused had raped her on the pretext of offering her a job in 2018. We have registered a case under section 376 and probe as started,” Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Yadav told HT.On August 22, Raipur Police claimed having received a complaint of rape against Dr Adile. The victim was a resident of Kanker district and the case was transferred to Mahila Thana for further investigation. Dr Adile was unavailable for a comment despite repeated attempts by Hindustan Times.Also read: ‘Bastar Abhar’ - Former journalist’s mission to make district greenerOn August 22, state health minister TS Singh Deo ended the extension given to Adile, saying that the health department had received serious complaints against him. Dr Adile was on an extension after his retirement.“When the law department asked for a consent for his prosecution in a case pending with Bilaspur high court, we agreed,” Deo had said.The minister further said that in another case relating to the purchase of items for Dr BR Ambedkar Memorial Hospital there was a complaint of financial irregularities against Adile.“Taking cognizance, I asked senior officials to end Dr Adile’s extension,” Deo had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-register-rape-case-against-former-director-of-medical-education/story-9W8NBlTMKrdgmceuJmPM5L.html
25-08-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves verdict on sentence against Prashant Bhushan over his tweets||Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on the sentence to be awarded to lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets criticising the top court and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. A three judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said that while the court welcomes fair criticism, those who criticise courts should not attribute motives to judges. Also read| Warn Bhushan and close the contempt case’: AG KK Venugopal to SC“We tolerate fair criticism and welcome it. But we cannot go to press to defend ourselves. I have never gone to press. We are bound by an oath,” Mishra said.Justice Mishra also said that lawyers and judges are part of the same institution and should work together to ensure that dignity of the institution is not compromised.“You (lawyers) are part of the system. We are not separate from the Bar. We (judges) have also come from the Bar,” he said.Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan appearing for Bhushan said that court should not punish Bhushan and make a martyr of him. He suggested that the court should close the case after issuing a general direction that Bar should be restrained while criticising the court.“ The effect of a punishment is it will make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. Do not make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. We don’t want this controversy to continue. This controversy will continue depending on the sentence that you give Bhushan,” Dhavan submitted.Justice Mishra expressed his displeasure at lawyers going to the press in pending cases and also deprecated the practice of making allegations against retired judges.Also read: Supreme Court says Prashant Bhushan has not realised his mistake“When lawyers go to the press or make statements (against judges) that is a problem. We cannot go to the press. How long can system suffer? Why is it that you can say anything against retired judges,” justice Mishra asked.Earlier, Attorney General KK Venugopa had also requested the court to close the case against Bhushan after reprimanding him.“Your lordships should warn him and tell him not to repeat it in future. But do not punish him,” Venugopal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aug25--bhushan-/story-pXHjdX2TfoGxO8QuifNj1I.html
25-08-2020||India||Businessman, son and friend held for assaulting Delhi cops, tearing their uniforms||A 53-year-old businessman and two others, including his son, were arrested for allegedly assaulting four police officials at south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park (CR Park) police station Monday night following a fight the three had with the owner and driver of a BMW car over a collision, police said. The three – Ajay Mahipal, his son Rohan,21 and his friend Anish Raghav,21, were booked for rash driving and assaulting policemen on duty and a case was registered under Sections 279, 186, 353, 332 and 34 of Indian Penal Code. The accident and the assault took place around 9.30 pm at a market near I-block in CR Park, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the police control room had received a call regarding an accident in CR Park area. An inspector and three policemen immediately reached there and found two vehicles – a BMW and a Micra car – in damaged condition.Two occupants of the Micra car, Rohan and Anish Raghav, were allegedly assaulting the driver of the BMW and arguing with an elderly man sitting inside the SUV. When some passerby tried to intervene, the two men hurled abuses on them and asked them to stay away, said a police officer.“As the four policemen tried to intervene, the two men began assaulting them as well. They tore their uniform. In the meantime, Rohan’s father Ajay Mahipal, also arrived in his car and allegedly joined them in assaulting the policemen, the BMW driver and misbehaving with the public,” said the officer, requesting not to be named.The police sent reinforcement to control the situation. Both the parties were brought to the police station, where the trio allegedly created a commotion, slapped police personnel and fought with them, said DCP Thakur.“We registered a case and arrested the three men. The cars, including the damaged BMW, were impounded,” added the DCP.DCP Thakur said that Mahipal is into the business of producing railway track clips while his son and his friend are pursuing a mass communication course from a private institute in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/businessman-son-and-friend-held-for-assaulting-delhi-cops-tearing-their-uniforms/story-xXxhp7wM6VeRfv5hN95HaO.html
25-08-2020||India||NIA files charge sheet in Pulwama attack case; names Jaish chief Masood Azhar, his brothers and Pakistan||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a charge sheet in the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack case in which it named 19 people who it said carried out the bombing at Pakistan’s behest.The 13,500-page charge sheet was filed before a special NIA court in Jammu.Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Maulana Masood Azhar, his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, and nephew Umar Farooq are among those named in the charge sheet by the agency. Farooq was the son of IC-814 hijacking accused Ibrahim Athar who was in India to execute the Pulwama conspiracy and was killed in March 2019 in an encounter by security forces.Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed in the attack that brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.Officials say that the charge sheet has irrefutable evidence - technical, material and circumstantial - on Pakistan’s role in the attack. It cites the roles of the JeM leadership and the arrested accused in the attack and has details like chats, calls details of terrorists.NIA probe has revealed that Pakistan used Adil Ahmad Dar, a local resident who rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, as a suicide bomber to project the attack as a result of a home-grown militancy against “India’s occupation of Kashmir”, one of the officers said.Azhar, who founded JeM in 2000 after he was freed from an Indian prison in exchange for 155 passengers of a hijacked aircraft, and Asghar have been named as the primary accused in the charge sheet.Azhar was among those India designated as individual terrorists in 2019. The move came following an amendment to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which allows the government to designate individuals as terrorists. The US has similar laws for such designations and the 2019 move opened an added avenue for joint action against terrorists.The 19 people named by the NIA in its charge sheet are:1. Masood Azhar Alvi, 52 years, Pakistani national2. Rouf Asgar Alvi, 47 years, Pakistani national3. Ammar Alvi, 46 years, Pakistani national4. Shakir Bashir, 24 Years, r/o Kakapora, Pulwama, J&K.5. Insha Jan, 22 Years r/o Kakapora, Pulwama, J&K6. Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, 53 Years, r/o Kakapora, Pulwama, J&K7. Waiz-ul-Islam, 20 Years, r/o Srinagar, J&K8. Mohd Abbas Rather, 31 Years, r/o Kakapura, Pulwama, J&K.9. Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey, 28 years, r/o Hajibal, Lalhar, Pulwama, J&K10. Mohd Iqbal Rather, 25 years, r/o, Charar-e-Shareef, Budgam, J&K.11. Mohd Ismail, 25 years, r/o Pakistani national12. Sameer Ahmad Dar, 22 years, r/o Kakapora, Pulwama, Kashmir13. Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo, 33 years, r/o Rajpura, Pulwama14. Adil Ahmed Dar, 21 years, r/o Kakapora, Pulwama, Kashmir (Killed)15. Muhammad Umar Farooq, 24 years, r/o Pakistani national (Killed)16. Mohd Kamran Ali, 25 years, r/o Pakistani national (Killed)17. Sajjad Ahmed Bhat, 19 years, r/o Bijbehera, Anantnag (Killed)18. Mudasir Ahmad Khan, 24 years, r/o Awantipura, Pulwama (Killed)19. Qari Yasir, r/o Pakistani national (Killed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-in-pulwama-attack-names-jaish-chief-masood-azhar-his-brothers-and-pakistan/story-PMOIQITa6Ra37CJrXsXutJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Two ITBP jawans missing after vehicle falls into Sutlej river||Two Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans went missing on Tuesday after their vehicle fell into the Sutlej river in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, a district official said.The incident occurred at 10.30 am when ITBP vehicle was on its way to Duvling post from Reckong Peo.The vehicle fell into the river near Spillow on national highway number five, news agency PTI said quoting Kinnaur Superintendent of Police, SR Rana. An INSAS rifle and some documents were recovered from the spot.The two ITBP jawans who are missing have been identified as driver Pradeep of Ghumarwin in Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur district and Rifleman Neema Dandoob of Arunachal Pradesh.Police and ITBP jawans from the 17th battalion are trying to trace the missing jawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-itbp-jawans-missing-after-vehicle-falls-into-sutlej-river/story-5YqnvHD2BR5cMnhgpjkZ6J.html
25-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s health continue to remain unchanged: Hospital||Former President of India Pranab Mukherjee’s health continued to remain unchanged and his vital parameteres are stable, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said in a medical bulletin on Tuesday.“There is no change in the medical condition of Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He continues to be on ventilator support and his vital parameters are stable,” the hospital said in the bulletin.Mukherjee underwent a critical brain surgery at the hospital to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He is on ventilator support since then.He had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the time of his admission. He later developed a respiratory infection.Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-health-continue-to-remain-unchanged-hospital/story-bbD1mvRHhIjfV3FRsp2fNN.html
25-08-2020||India||Clamour grows around postponement of JEE, NEET; Greta Thunberg favours students: Latest developments||The clamour around postponing the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) has been growing. Many leaders in India have urged the Centre to postpone these exams, as demanded by the students, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik is the latest to write a letter seeking postponement of the above entrance exam. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Tamil Nadu leader MK Stalin have already sought its postponement.Here are the latest updates on the controversy:• In a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday, Patnaik said that due to prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, it would be highly unsafe and perilous for 50,000 students of the state to visit the test centres physically to appear in these tests. • Famous climate activist Greta Thunberg has also tweeted in support of the students demanding postponement of JEE and NEET. “It’s deeply unfair that students of India are asked to sit national exams during the Covid-19 pandemic and while millions have also been impacted by the extreme floods. I stand with their call to #PostponeJEE_NEETinCOVID,” she tweeted on Tuesday.• Mamata Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday seeking postponement of NEET and JEE examinations that are scheduled to be held in September. Banerjee said she had expressed her views against the UGC guidelines that required completing terminal examinations in universities/colleges across the country by the end of September 2020. “My point was that this decision had a huge potential to put students’ lives at risk,” the chief minister said.• In his letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, DMK president Stalin said that no decision should be made in haste putting the lives of students at stake. “The government should act keeping the well-being and future of students in mind. In the light of the severe difficulties explained above, I sincerely request you to postpone the JEE, NEET until Covid-19 is brought under control,” Stalin said. • The Supreme Court had on Monday declined to pass direction to the central government to hold NEET examination in Gulf countries, but asked the government to allow students to come via Vande Bharat Mission flights to give the exams. A bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao said that the quarantine norms are mandatory for students who would come from the Middle East countries to give exam but allowed petitioners to approach state authorities to seek relaxation.• The top court had on August 17 dismissed a petition seeking postponement of these exams saying precious year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.• The Medical Council of India recently told the Supreme Court that postponement of the NEET any further shall be a “drastic deviation” from the academic schedule which may affect the subsequent academic years of the students.• Over 4,200 students participated in a day-long hunger strike on Monday demanding the cancellation and postponement of exams. Using the #SATYAGRAHagainstExamInCovid, students took to Twitter to urge the government to heed to their demands.• Around 16 lakh students have registered for NEET this year, while close to 9.3 lakh students had registered for JEE-Mains (Paper I) that was conducted in January. An equal number of students were expected to appear for the second phase of the exam, which are scheduled for April-May each year.• This year, however, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the National Testing Agency (NTA) kept postponing the exam dates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clamour-grows-around-postponement-of-jee-neet-greta-thunberg-favours-students-cause/story-X23r2LiBA4O1kiiVIW3eyN.html
25-08-2020||India||Former IPS officer K Annamalai joins BJP||K Annamalai, a former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday and said he took the political plunge after being inspired by the leadership qualities of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Quoting a verse from Thirukural, a classic Tamil text, which celebrates the qualities of a king, his administrative and leadership skills, fearlessness, knowledge and wisdom, Annamalai said he sees all these attributes in PM Modi and the BJP. He said he decided to join the BJP to strengthen the movement that the party stands for. Known as ‘Singham’, a sobriquet for a tough cop, he had grabbed the headlines for his role in tackling the 2017 riots in Chikmagalur, Karnataka. On the role he is expected to play in the party, the former cop said he would try to bring the “nationalist spirit to Tamil Nadu”. Speaking on the occasion, BJP’s national general secretary P Murlaidhar Rao said, his joining holds the key amid a movement for strengthening the constitutional values in Tamil Nadu. “He expressed his desire to join the BJP to strengthen Modiji’s hands. He will be meeting party president JP Nadda and he will be an important asset for the party,” Rao said.Annamalai’s decision to join the BJP comes as a shot in the arm for the party, which has been trying to establish its presence in Tamil Nadu that is slated to go to polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ips-officer-k-annamalai-joins-bjp/story-Ac6fMhxSZ6KiM4rXdNpnCJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Lucknow CMO tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home quarantine||Lucknow chief medical officer (CMO), Dr RP Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “I was feeling feverish and rhinorrhea (running nose) resembling Covid-19 symptoms. So, I got myself tested and my report came positive,” said Dr Singh, who is in home quarantine for now.Singh has appealed all those people who had come in his contact in the last seven days to get tested and remain quarantined. Meanwhile, the CMO office was sanitised and other staff of the office were asked not to panic. While the staff wanted the CMO office to be sealed, the district administration was yet to decide on it.Also read: Karnataka Congress state president DK Shivakumar tests positive for Covid-19Before Dr Singh, ACMO Dr Ajay Raja had tested positive for coronavirus disease on Saturday. Besides, a number of top health officials have tested positive this month, including director-general, family welfare, Dr Mithilesh; vice-chancellor, King George’s Medical University (KGMU); Lt Gen (retd) Dr Bipin Puri, among others.Dr PK Gupta of Indian Medical Association expressed his concern and said, “This is the time when everyone should take maximum care while walking out of their house. The IMA appreciates doctors for their contribution in fight against Covid-19. The IMA wants the government to recognise the contribution of these doctors and give special treatment and promotions to them who got infected while serving corona positive patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-cmo-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-home-quarantine/story-g0mh5u4zvM8p1poMP86CLN.html
25-08-2020||India||Report getting ready to seek flood relief from Centre: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday said a report was being prepared to secure Centre’s assistance for the flood ravaged parts, as he also expressed confidence that the financial situation of the state would improve in two to three months. The chief minister, who is on a visit to flood-hit districts and to conduct an aerial survey of the situation there, also said, the government was honestly working towards providing relief and rehabilitation to those affected. “Survey is going on regarding the losses, how can we know it immediately? estimates are being worked out. Once that report comes, we will forward it to the Centre to get all possible help. Report is getting ready..,” Yediyurappa said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters at Belagavi, he said, on going back to Bengaluru, after conducting the aerial survey of the affected areas, he will once again discuss with the officials in this connection. The chief minister today reviewed the situation due to recent rains and floods, also relief measures undertaken so far, with the elected representatives and officials of Belagavi and Dharwad districts. Pointing out that due to Covid-19 reasons the state’s economic situation was not good, Yediyurappa said despite this, most probably in the entire country, Karnataka is the only state where there was no disruption in payment of salary to government employees. “The government was also releasing money for developmental works as much as possible, as per the requirement,” he said adding that “most probably in two to three months financial conditions may get better.” The CM assured that his government would honestly work on rebuilding the houses that collapsed last year and this year due to rains and floods, and restore roads and bridges that have seen extensive damages. On crop relief, the chief minister said, he has instructed officials to ensure that there is no misuse and work in this regard should happen with honesty and caution. “I assure that as per central government and NDRF rules whatever is possible, I will honestly work beyond my limits to do it,” he added. The state government had earlier this month said according to the initial assessment Rs 4,000 crore loss has been incurred due to floods. It had also requested the Centre to provide additional special assistance of Rs 4,000 crore, other than NDRF norms, to address the situation amid the pandemic. According to the latest data available, at least 12 districts have been affected by floods and rains since August 1, in which 20 people have lost their lives, while three are missing and ss many as 66 animals died. Ninety two relief camps have been opened across these 12 districts, where 4,485 people are taking shelter. While 385 houses are completely damaged, 7,238 have seen partial damages. Also, agriculture crops in about 89,440 ha and horticulture crops in over 51,803 ha have been affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-getting-ready-to-seek-flood-relief-from-centre-karnataka-cm/story-B14d6Q5A5UoEa60HOpiHCL.html
25-08-2020||India||Manipur social welfare minister tests positive for Covid-19||Manipur’s social welfare and cooperation minister Nemcha Kipgen took to Twitter on Tuesday to announce that she has tested positive for Covid-19.“After getting symptoms of Coronavirus, I got myself tested and the report came back positive. I sincerely request all of you who have come in contact with me in the past few days to kindly isolate yourselves and get yourselves tested at the earliest,” she tweeted.Kipgen became the first minister in the state to test positive for Covid-19, Sources here said the minister has isolated herself and is waiting for the results of her second test for further steps.Nemcha Kipgen who is minister in charge of Kangpokpi and Senapati districts, had chaired a review meeting to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in the presence of Deputy Commissioner, Senapati, Superintendent of Police, Chief Medical Officer and district level officers on August 20.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.In that meeting, she handed over essential safety kits such as sanitizers, gloves, PPE, masks and sodium hypochlorite to frontline Covid warriors. Sources from Senapati also said contact tracing is being carried out and those who came in contact with the minister will be tested and kept in isolation.Earlier Congress MLA Md Fazur Rahim was tested positive for COVID 19 after he returned from New Delhi on August 10.On Monday, Manipur reported 116 new Covid-19 cases taking the state’s tally to 5,362, the government said in a statement.On the other hand with 97 recoveries, the recovery rate of the Covid-19 positive cases in Manipur reached 69.24 per cent on Monday.So far 3,713 people have recovered from the disease in the state.“The number of active cases is 1,627,” the statement added. There were no casualties on Monday. The death toll stands 22, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-social-welfare-minister-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-PowKI6vrBMzh3qv27THrJP.html
25-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena slams Cong MLAs’ protest, calls it akin to questioning Sonia and Rahul||The Shiv Sena has taken a dim view of the eleven Congress legislators who have threatened to protest against the government. The party said that their protest is similar to raising questions against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi who extended their support to the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government.In an editorial in party’s mouthpiece Saamana, Sena said that there is “instability and unease” within the Congress party but it needs to play the role of an active opposition party.Congress’ Jalna MLA Kailash Gorantyal has threatened to go on a hunger strike over constituency development funds. He has claimed support of 10 other Congress legislators without naming any one of them. The MLA added that Congress constituencies are given a step-motherly treatment in the distribution of funds. Gorantyal, who defeated Sena’s Arjun Khotkar, had threatened to resign in January after he was not given a spot in the state cabinet.Also read: Congress turmoil - A look at past instances involving ‘letters’The editorial in the Marathi daily said the MVA government will complete its full five-year term and the opposition party in Maharashtra need not rejoice over the display of resentment.“The situation in the country isn’t all well. There is instability and unease in the Congress party itself. There’s Modi government in power but there’s a need for an active opposition party in a parliamentary democracy. The Congress should play the role of an active opposition party,” it stated.“But instead of questioning the ruling party [at the Centre], the Congress legislators are going on a protest against the government where they are partners. It is their right in a democracy but this is akin to questioning Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi who had given their go-ahead to form the government,” the editorial added.It further stated that Congress ministers in Maharashtra, Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan, and Nitin Raut, have not spoken publicly on the matter but the three leaders are working to keep the government functioning.“If the Congress legislators are going to sit on a hunger strike then it is the party’s matter to look into. The opposition will get an easy issue and it will add to Congress’ woes. Uddhav Thackeray is capable of resolving political issues,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-slams-congress-mlas-protest-calls-it-akin-to-questioning-sonia-and-rahul/story-OF7xNxbTkfOg8fzWfm5cpJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend, house helps questioned again by CBI||Sushant Singh Rajput’s flat-mate, cook and domestic help were again called for questioning by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday in connection with their probe into the Bollywood actor’s death, reports said.Siddharth Pithani, Neeraj Singh and Deepesh Sawant reached the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where CBI officials probing the case are staying, in the morning, news agency PTI reported. Pithani, Singh and Sawant were present in Rajput’s house in suburban Bandra when the 34-year-old actor was dead on June 14.The CBI team also called Rajput’s chartered accountant and accountant for information about his financial transactions, PTI cited an official as saying.Shridhar was questioned by a team of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on August 3 “about the transactions regarding bank accounts of Sushant Singh Rajput. The ED has recorded his statement and will question further if required,” an official told ANI.The ED had on July 31 registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in the late actor’s death case after a first information report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against actor Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.A team of the Mumbai Police also went to the DRDO guest house in the morning, the official added.The CBI team had on Monday visited a Mumbai-based resort where Rajput is said to have spent a couple of months, and also questioned Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant. They had on Friday recorded the statements of Pithani and Neeraj.The team had Pithani, Neeraj and Sawant to Rajput’s flat on Saturday to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead in June. The three were again taken to the flat on Sunday and were also questioned by the CBI at the DRDO guest house.The Supreme Court had on August 19 upheld the transfer of the FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the central probe agency.Rajput’s father had filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money. The agency has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.Mumbai Police had registered a case of accidental death after Rajput was found dead in his house.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-friend-house-helps-questioned-again-by-cbi/story-HW7zYwmEzmAw5Eo9YYyDVO.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Warn Bhushan and close the contempt case’: AG KK Venugopal to SC||KK Venugopal, Attorney-General (AG) of India, urged the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday to let off lawyer Prashant Bhushan with a warning in the contempt of court case initiated against the activist- lawyer for his tweets criticising the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde.Venugopal said that Bhushan has expressed regret in the 2009 contempt case initiated against him for his remarks that past CJIs were corrupt.“Perhaps if he expresses regret in this case as well, then Your Lordships should forgive him. I don’t think the court should go to the extent of punishing him. He should withdraw the allegations and the court should drop the proceedings after warning him not to repeat this,” Venugopal said.The SC bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, pointed out that Bhushan has declined to apologise and has also filed statements before the apex court sticking to his stance.“He says he is not ready to apologise. We have him time to think over and express regret. So what should we do now?” asked Justice Mishra, who is heading the three-judge SC bench.“I think this is one case where Your Lordships should take a compassionate view and forgive him. It will be greatly appreciated at the Bar. He has done a lot of good for the public and the institution,” the A-G said.The bench pointed out that the A-G himself had filed a contempt of court case against Bhushan for a remark that he had misled the court in a case.“I withdrew that case,” said A-G.“Yes, but only after he expressed regret,” said Justice BR Gavai, who is part of the bench.A-G maintained that Bhushan should express regret and the court should close the case.“That will be a fitting end to this case,” he said.The bench took a break for lunch at 1:15 pm and will reassemble at 2 pm, when Bhushan’s counsel is expected to make submissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warn-bhushan-and-close-the-contempt-case-ag-kk-venugopal-to-sc/story-PqThrOHboxukRCZZP9VpVO.html
25-08-2020||India||Former IPS officer Annamalai Kuppusamy joins BJP||Former IPS officer Annamalai Kuppusamy, dubbed as Karnataka’s ‘Singham’ joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday.He joined the BJP at party headquarters in Delhi in the presence of national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao and Tamil Nadu BJP president L Murugan.A native of Tamil Nadu, Kuppusamy has spent 10 years in Karnataka. He resigned from the police service in 2019.Exactly a year after he quit, Annamalai had announced via a Facebook live that he would be entering Tamil Nadu politics and was preparing to contest in the 2021 Assembly polls in the state. Annamalai earned the reputation of a tough police after he dealt with 2017 riots in Bababudangiri in Chikkamagaluru and took on criminals, radicalisation and communal elements in coastal Karnataka region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ips-officer-annamalai-kuppusamy-joins-bjp/story-x6xdpzargRLg4m62k1PkoK.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Hasn’t realised his mistake’: Supreme Court on Prashant Bhushan contempt of court case||The Supreme Court said on Tuesday it had given Prashant Bhushan time to reconsider his statement and tender an apology but observed that the senior lawyer is still reluctant to apologise for his tweets from June this year.A three-judge is hearing the contempt of court case against Bhushan for his tweets criticising the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India, Sharad Arvind Bobde. Bhushan has been held guilty in this case and the court is expected to decide on the punishment to be handed down to Bhushan.The matter is being heard by justice Arun Mishra, justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari.Attorney General KK Venugopal requested the court to drop the case against Bhushan and said that it would be a fitting end to the case. The bench contended that the senior lawyer has not realised his mistake.The bench has already deferred the 2009 contempt of court case against Bhushan and has asked the CJI Bobde to take it in front of an appropriate bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-gave-him-time-but-he-is-not-ready-to-apologise-sc-on-prashant-bhushan-s-contempt-of-court-case/story-YOFtdLEQnLasrZ7zrEu1cK.html
25-08-2020||India||High Court lawyers in Lucknow abstain from work, demand physical hearing of cases||Lucknow Awadh Bar Association of Lucknow bench of the high court is up in arms against the Allahabad High Court administration over allowing physical hearing of cases in Prayagraj and not permitting it for its Lucknow bench. As per the resolution passed on the issue by the Awadh Bar Association, the top most body of high court lawyers in Lucknow, all lawyers of the high court are abstaining from judicial work from Tuesday in protest against the Allahabad High Court’s decision. This decision was taken at the governing council meeting of the Awadh Bar Association on Monday evening. Giving this information, president of Awadh Bar Association, HGS Parihar, said, while abstaining from work the lawyers would demand the restoration of physical hearing of cases in Lucknow too. Also read: ‘Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 testing figures far ahead of WHO norms’ - Top official“At present, only virtual hearing of cases is going on at high court in Lucknow. This system has collapsed due to poor internet connectivity. But in Allahabad High Court, physical hearing of cases is being allowed,” said Parihar. “When physical hearing of cases can be allowed at Allahabad High Court, why can’t it be permitted in Lucknow? We have a sprawling campus where social distancing can be easily maintained,” added Parihar. High court lawyers in Lucknow have often complained about poor internet connectivity resulting in failure of virtual hearing and e-filing system. On Tuesday afternoon, an emergency meeting of the Awadh Bar Association was going to decide the future course of action on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-lawyers-in-lucknow-abstain-from-work-demand-physical-hearing-of-cases/story-Ic6mpsmZa8ARwLwJelVJcJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Interpol issues red notice against Nirav Modi’s wife on ED’s request in connection with money laundering case||The Interpol has issued a red notice against the wife of Nirav Modi, the prime accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case.The notice has been issued in connection with money laundering case registered against Ami Modi in India. A red corner notice acts as international arrest warrant.Ami had left India with Nirav Modi and other family members in first week of January, 2018, just before agencies started investigations in the PNB scam. It is alleged that she had gone to the US.Ami was director in few companies which were allegedly used by Nirav Modi for laundering money.The ED had named Ami as an accused in the PNB money-laundering case for the first time in March last year.Nirav Modi was arrested in London by the Scotland Yard authorities in March 2019. He was declared an “economic fugitive offender” under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in December last year.On June 8, a special court set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) ordered confiscation of movable and immovable properties belonging to Modi. The order was passed in accordance with section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act on an application filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering charges in the fraud case.The fugitive businessman is fighting extradition to India. Earlier this month, a UK court remanded Modi to further remanded in custody until August 27.The 49-year-old has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interpol-issues-red-notice-against-nirav-modi-s-wife-on-ed-s-request-in-connection-with-money-laundering-case/story-pTbGnIxI9TaIM1ZERVI0wN.html
25-08-2020||India||Oxford Covid vaccine data could go before regulators this year: Director||An experimental Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca could be put before regulators this year if scientists are able to gather enough data, said the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group.“It is just possible that if the cases accrue rapidly in the clinical trials, that we could have that data before regulators this year, and then there would be a process that they go through in order to make a full assessment of the data,” Professor Andrew Pollard from the Oxford Vaccine Group told BBC Radio. The Oxford vaccine showed early promise in the first human trial when it produced an immune response, underlining its position as one of the leading candidates in the race to produce a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The trial was in the news earlier this week when the Financial Times reported that the Trump administration was considering fast-tracking the vaccine for use in the United States ahead of the November 3 elections. “The process of going through emergency use authorization in an emergency is well established, but it still involves having carefully conducted data... and evidence that it actually works,” Pollard said.The Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to begin its phase II/III clinical trials of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield, to check its efficacy at Pune’s Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday.SII is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by the number of doses produced and sold globally. It has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-covid-vaccine-data-could-go-before-regulators-this-year-director/story-B06BNCX57qOkAmi6rMbbhM.html
25-08-2020||India||500 vehicles stranded on Jammu-Srinagar highway after massive mudslide||Heavy rains triggered a massive mudslide that swept away a large stretch of the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Dalwas area near Batote in Ramban district early Tuesday bringing traffic movement to an abrupt halt. The 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar highway is the only all-weather surface link that connects Kashmir with the outside world. SSP Traffic National Highways, JS Johar said, “A mudslide swept away a stretch of the road at Dalwas this morning around 5 am. Now, concrete material has to be filled up where the road was swept down the valley.”He said nearly 500 light vehicles have been stranded due to the mudslide. Johar said that restoration will take some time.The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has pressed its men and machinery to restore the highway but bad weather was hampering the restoration work. A local scribe from Ramban said that considering the damage, it may take the entire day today to repair and restore traffic movement. Traffic has been stopped at Qazigund on the other side of the Jawahar Tunnel and in Chenani Udhampur and Nagrota on the Jammu side following the mudslide. The traffic on the highway plies from Jammu and Srinagar alternatively in view of the ongoing work to convert the road into a four-lane one.Light motor vehicles from either side of the tunnel were also stopped at various places due to the closure of the highway, the officials said.Stranded vehicles would be given priority once the highway is restored., they said. Meanwhile, the traffic police department has requested the people not to travel without confirming the status of the highway from traffic control units in Ramban, Jammu, Srinagar and Udhampur. The MeT department has forecast more rain in the next two days over Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-vehicles-stranded-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-after-massive-mudslide/story-zgHONwBWCejb8mU34zdjaK.html
25-08-2020||India||Over 20,000 pilgrims visit Char Dham shrines in two months despite soaring Covid-19 cases||Over 20,000 pilgrims have visited the Char Dham shrines in Uttarakhand in the past two months ever since the entry of pilgrims was allowed to these revered Himalayan shrines. Officials from Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that around 35,000 e-passes have been issued to pilgrims of which over 20,000 have already visited the shrines. The response has been good despite the pandemic and soaring Covid-19 cases. Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “It is the effort of the state government that there should be a gradual influx of pilgrims in the four shrines so that tourism and pilgrimage can get momentum. The yatra is getting a good response also. Now people from outside the state can also travel by making e-pass for Char Dham Yatra and fulfilling the health-related standards.” Also read: Uttarakhand cop arrested for allegedly raping minor daughter of differently-abled coupleSince July 1, a total of 35,028 e-passes have been issued by the Board to pilgrims from within and outside the state. Raman added that all social and physical distancing norms are being followed at the temples while giving entry to pilgrims. The officials further informed that the response has slightly reduced due to monsoon. With bad roads, not all pilgrims are able to reach the shrines. A Covid-19 test from a laboratory certified by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is mandatory for pilgrims visiting from outside the state. In the last week of July, the Uttarakhand government had decided to allow pilgrims from other states to visit Char Dham shrines with some conditions. According to the new guidelines, the pilgrims will need to have an RT-PCR negative report conducted within 72 hours of entering the state. If they don’t have a negative report then they will be required to complete the mandatory quarantine period after entering the state before proceeding with the pilgrimage to Char Dham shrines. The pilgrims are also required to upload their negative RT-PCR report or a declaration on having completed the quarantine on the website of the Char Dham board. They will also need to keep all these documents with them during the pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-000-pilgrims-visit-char-dham-shrines-in-two-months-despite-soaring-covid-19-cases/story-WJ7RHk2h59yJoltYQK3OVI.html
25-08-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: HC directs state to provide medical reports of accused to their families||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government to provide copies of the medical reports of Professor Sudha Bharadwaj, Dr. Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are lodged in Mumbai’s Byculla Women’s Jail and Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Jail, respectively, to their families, lawyers and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) before the next hearing of the case on Friday (August 28). All three are accused in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case.The court has held that the inmates and their families have the right to know the status of their health condition and, as a result, the reports must be shared with them at the earliest. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht, while hearing the application of Professor Bharadwaj, who had moved HC against the rejection of her bail application by a special NIA court. Professor Bharadwaj had applied for bail on grounds of her health condition and the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which has afflicted several inmates and staff in the state’s prisons and correctional homes.Advocate Ragini Ahuja informed HC that Bharadwaj had comorbidities and due to overcrowding in the Byculla Women’s Jail she was susceptible to contract SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.Maharashtra government authorities submitted before the HC bench a medical report of Professor Bharadwaj dated August 21.The court perused the report, which stated that her health condition was stable and she would be entitled to other medical facilities, if she required them.However, the bench observed that Professor Bharadwaj’s family members had a right to know about her wellness and the report must be shared with them at the earliest. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, who represented the Maharashtra government, informed the court that the medical report would be shared with her family members by Tuesday evening. There was a separate hearing of the application of Gonsalves and Dr. Teltumbde, who had sought to undergo Covid-19 tests. The court was told by the state authorities that Gonsalves’s medical report was submitted earlier. While the corrected report of Dr Teltumbde was ready and would be submitted before the court by Friday. Advocate Mihir Desai, who appeared for Gonsalves and Dr. Teltumbde, pointed out that the medical report of Gonsalves was not shared with his legal counsel. Desai sought directions to the state in a bid to keep his clients’ legal counsel abreast with their latest health conditions. Earlier, Gonsalves and Dr. Dr. Teltumbde had sought to undergo Covid-19 tests after their fellow accused Vara Vara Rao (81) was found to have contracted the viral infection in July.The next hearing of the case will be on Friday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-directs-state-to-provide-medical-reports-of-accused-to-their-families/story-qDXfD5Bor6LOPuadCWKXfK.html
25-08-2020||India||Karnataka Congress state president DK Shivakumar tests positive for Covid-19||DK Shivakumar, the president of Congress’ Karnataka unit president, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday.Shivakumar has been admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe senior Congress leader has been touring the state extensively to assess damages due to floods and to strengthen the party’s district units.Before Shivakumar, chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah had also tested positive for the viral disease. They have been discharged after being cured.Five ministers from the southern state have also tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 infection tally jumped to 3,167,323 after recording 60,975 fresh infections in a day, the health ministry dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. There are 704,348 active cases, a decline of 6,423 from Monday, and 58,390 people have succumbed to the disease till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-state-sresident-dk-shivakumar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-YepRO8zScObwxIkefFkvHL.html
25-08-2020||India||India sees highest single-day recovery of over 66,500 Covid-19 patients||A record 66,550 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were discharged from hospitals across the country between Monday and Tuesday morning, taking the number of those cured to past 2.4 million, according to the Union health ministry. India’s Covid-19 total recoveries have been 2,404,585 till date and the recovery rate climbed to 75.91% on Tuesday, which the government has attributed to “effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively”.With 60,975 fresh infections and 848 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s infection tally stands at 3,167,323, the health ministry dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. There are 704,348 active cases, a decline of 6,423 from Monday, and 58,390 people have succumbed to the disease till date.“Effective clinical management of the patients in the ICUs has been instrumental in keeping the Case Fatality Rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.85% today,” the ministry said on Monday.The gap between the number of active cases and those of recovered people further widened to 1,700,237, data showed. India’s Covid-19 recoveries crossed the one-million mark on July 30 and two-million mark on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-highest-single-day-recovery-of-over-66-500-covid-19-patients/story-zK4GQrbM3yPtEYSmRVn9MN.html
25-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Bihar resumes bus services after a month and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bus service resumes in Bihar after a month; masks, sanitisers compulsory for allBus services in Bihar resumed from Tuesday, a month after they were stopped amid the coronavirus pandemic, following a state transport department directive. Read moreUnlock 4.0 from Sept 1: Metro may start, schools likely to remain shutUnlock 4, the ongoing process to open up economic activities in India, will start from September 1. Unlock 4 will come at a time when India’s infection tally has ballooned to more than 3 million and over 58,000 people have died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreRhea Chakraborty’s friends defend her against Sushant Singh Rajput abetment allegations, say she gave up film offers to take care of himFriends of actor Rhea Chakraborty have spoken about her relationship with Sushant Singh Rajput, and the steps that the couple took together to get him treatment for his alleged mental illness. According to a HuffPost report, Rhea even turned down a couple of film offers to focus on being there for Sushant. The friends have not been named. Read moreNokia 5.3 and C3 smartphones, Nokia 150 and 125 feature phones launched in IndiaHMD Global today launched four new Nokia devices in India. The lineup includes two smartphones and two feature phones - Nokia 5.3, Nokia C3 smartphones, Nokia 125, Nokia 150. The feature phones go on sale starting today while the smartphones will be available to purchase in September. Read moreDoctor tweets pic of wrinkled hand after wearing PPE in humid climate. Tweeple post thank you messagesFrontline warriors, like medical professionals and emergency workers, have been at the forefront in the battle against coronavirus. They have been working tirelessly in the toughest situations to help as many people as possible. Read moreKajal Aggarwal’s bold violet sharara works its magic into fashion police’s heartsSlaying on our social media feeds like a true diva, South sensation Kajal Aggarwal left fashionistas gushing over her latest photoshoot in designer Anita Dongre’s Aabida set. Raising the bar for ethnic dressing this festive week, Kajal’s sartorial elegance is once again talk of the town. Read moreSurvey finds this EV to be the ‘most satisfying’ car across all age groupsSatisfaction derived from a car can be based on a host of different parameters but one car has managed to take the crown in a recent survey conducted among a varied base of respondents. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-bihar-resumes-bus-services-after-a-month-and-all-the-latest-news/story-N2onadHKD6EjkDmmPotImI.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 testing figures far ahead of WHO norms’: Top official||Uttar Pradesh has conducted a total of 46.74 lakh (4.67 million) Covid-19 tests till date with 1,21,553 samples tested on Sunday alone, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said on Monday.The state has been conducting 32,000 tests per 10 lakh (1 million) population which was four times the norms set by the World Health Organisation (WHO), he said.Uttar Pradesh has been able to keep the positivity rate below 5 percent. Between August 1 and 23, the positivity rate in UP remained 4.8 percent, the top official added.Also read: Lucknow’s KGMU pins hopes on asymptomatic donors for Covid-19 plasma therapyPrasad said there were 49,288 active coronavirus patients in the state, including 24,482 people in home isolation, 2,134 in private hospitals and 269 in hotel isolation. The remaining were admitted in state government-run facilities. Only asymptomatic patients were permitted home isolation, he said, adding that they would have to be moved to hospital if any symptoms surfaced.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state had increased to 72.82 percent, he said. Out of 77,608 people who had opted for home isolation till now, 53,126 have recovered from the disease.As many as 62,744 Covid helpdesks have been established across the state. These helpdesks have identified 6.75 lakh symptomatic people so far and their samples were sent for testing, Prasad said.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said there were 14,642 containment zones across the state. The health teams have surveyed 13.62 lakh houses and 79.27 lakh people, he said. Currently, there are 37,688 positive cases in these containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-covid-19-testing-figures-far-ahead-of-who-norms-top-official/story-O7oyNdOjKrsS2FhhVqhYaJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand cop arrested for allegedly raping minor daughter of differently-abled couple||A 35-year-old assistant sub-inspector who allegedly raped an 11-year-old girl inside the toilet of government quarters in Dehradun on Sunday, was arrested Monday evening, police said.The survivor’s father is visually impaired while her mother who lodged a complaint against the accused identified as one Sanjiv Jagudi has a differently-abled hand. Jagudi was currently deployed at state police’s 112 emergency helpline centre in Dehradun, said police. Circle officer (city), Sekhar Chand Suyal said the girl’s mother in her complaint to the police said, her family and the accused both live in the same complex of government quarters. “On Sunday afternoon, her daughter had gone to the toilet. When the girl didn’t return after some time, she went to check. After reaching near the toilet she called her several times but there was no answer with the door closed from inside. Suddenly, Jugadi opened the door from inside and escaped,” said Suyal. He said that when the woman entered the toilet, she saw her daughter in an unconscious state. She then took the girl home and called the neighbours.One of the neighbours called the police which rushed to the spot and took the girl to a hospital. “Later in the evening, her mother lodged a complaint against Jugadi following which he was booked for rape under section 376 of IPC and 5/6 of POCSO Act,” said Suyal. “A team was formed to nab Jugadi. He was arrested on Monday and presented before the court which sent him to jail,” he said. Superintendent of police Dehradun (city) Shweta Chaubey said, “The accused had come on attachment to the radio department of 112 state emergency helpline centre in Dehradun from Rudraprayag district about two years ago.” “A departmental action would soon be taken against him by the police headquarters also. As far as the girl is concerned, she is at present in a stable condition at her home,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cop-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-minor-daughter-of-differently-abled-couple/story-rQ9iyTOHRhx8y5MRF9RRsK.html
25-08-2020||India||Delhi Court refuses bail to Malvinder Mohan Singh||A Delhi court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to Malvinder Mohan Singh, former promoter of Fortis Healthcare. Malvinder had sought the bail on “parity”, as his brother Shivinder Mohan Singh was granted bail by the Delhi high court (HC) in July. Malvinder had argued that he has been in jail since November, despite the fact the charge sheet has already been filed in the case. However, Nitesh Rana, the counsel for the Enforcement Directorate (ED), opposed his argument. He argued that Malvinder cannot seek parity, as the Supreme Court (SC) had ordered a status quo on Shivinder’s bail. Rana cited the SC order, which had stated that the Delhi HC judgement not to be treated as a precedent for any other case. Shivinder is also lodged in Tihar Jail following his arrest last October. In a charge sheet filed in January, the ED had alleged that the brothers used two sets of “conduit companies” to funnel funds from their finance company Religare Finvest Limited over eight years. A large part of this money was used to buy properties and there was no intention of repaying the sum, the charge sheet said. The Central agency has claimed that out of a total of Rs 47,968 crore of loans given to 115 companies by Religarem Finvest, Rs 2,036.69 crore was moved to 19 companies, which had defaulted in making payments. Most of these funds were used for the personal gain of the Singhs, the charge sheet added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-refuses-bail-to-malvinder-mohan-singh/story-Y6tWfMCRR9Em4HPydNODRL.html
25-08-2020||India||Congress turmoil: A look at past instances involving ‘letters’||The Congress in its 134-year-long history had to contend with several letters that centred on major debates and heated arguments. On Monday, the Congress Working Committee – the highest decision-making body of the party -- saw fireworks over a letter written by 23 leaders. A peep into the past throws up several similar incidents.For instance, in 1969, letters were at the centre stage of a tussle between ‘Indicate’ and ‘Syndicate’ that eventually led to the biggest split in the party to date. Also read: Regional BJP leaders say Cong top posts reserved for familyA total of six letters were exchanged between the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and then Congress president S Nijalingappa in October and November 1969 following the defeat of the candidate Neelam Sanjiva Reddy at the hands of VV Giri after Indira’s call for “conscience voting” to party members of Parliament (MPs) and members of legislative assemblies (MLAs). Indira’s responses to Nijalingappa veered around the facts that there is no use in pretending that all’s well, whose echoes are being felt now as the party veterans have red-flagged the need for an “honest introspection”. Another point of Indira’s reply had an uncanny resemblance with what the interim party president Sonia Gandhi told the CWC meeting on Monday, even though the context of the two occasions were markedly different. While Indira’s reply, drafted by her secretary PN Haksar, suggested that in a dynamic party such as the Congress, it must incorporate multiplicity of ideas and attitudes in sync with the nation’s plurality. On Monday, though Sonia expressed unhappiness over the leak of the letter to the media, she conceded that “the Congress is a big family and sometimes people can have different suggestions.” In the end, Sonia gave a clarion call for the party unity. “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions, but we come together as one. The need of the hour is to fight for the cause of the people and the forces that are failing this country,” she said at the meeting. However, Indira didn’t have that luxury over five decades ago. The 1969 tussle was a battle between two different generations of the Congress, akin to the present situation.But the context of earlier shenanigans was at odds with here and now. “In 1969, it was a battle between a PM and her party that wanted to control her. It bears no resemblance to the current situation,” said a Congress leader. While the 1969 infighting was also a clash of personalities that had turned into a battle of ideologies within the party, no such ideological conflicts exist in the current scenario, despite differences of opinion over strategies.Many in the Congress claimed the intent of the letter brigade was targeted at former party president Rahul Gandhi and his team, as many seniors feel marginalised because of the rise of the younger leaders.In the meeting, many veterans also spoke against the signatories of the letter. Ambika Soni reminded Ghulam Nabi Azad that he could become Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) chief minister because of the Gandhis, while Ahmed Patel slammed Anand Sharma for drafting such a letter. Sharma cited examples of world leaders, who are above 65 years, and hinted that veterans too can play a major role in the party’s affairs. Mukul Wasnik, who defended the letter and argued that it was not against the Gandhi family, also insisted that Congress’s internal communication must improve. Rajiv Satav, a member of the Rajya Sabha (RS), who was recently attacked by the party veterans, hit back and said that he was ashamed that three out of the 23 signatories to the letter are former Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chiefs. While letters had led to intense debates in both 1969 and now, leaders also quickly pointed out that in both the cases, the fight against the Gandhi family had fizzled out and their authority was further consolidated..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-turmoil-a-look-at-past-instances-involving-letters/story-w0qrkUDmSGjzizxdVskWhJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Bus service resumes in Bihar after a month; masks, sanitisers compulsory for all||Bus services in Bihar resumed from Tuesday, a month after they were stopped amid the coronavirus pandemic, following a state transport department directive.A decision in this regard was taken in the crisis management group meeting of the government headed by state chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday.“It’s good the government has resumed bus services. Social distancing measures are hard to follow but we are trying. Sanitisers need to be made compulsory,” said a passenger, according to ANI. Bihar: Bus services in the state resumed from today following a State Transport Department directive. "It's good the govt has resumed bus services. Social distancing measures are hard to follow but we are trying. Sanitisers need to be made compulsory," says a passenger. pic.twitter.com/vjboEMqRO0Although buses were earlier allowed to ply from July 1 onwards in the state, all public transport services, except rail and air travel, were once again stopped on July 16 after the enforcement of fresh lockdown. Autorickshaws, taxis and cabs were, however, allowed to ply.State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said it will be mandatory for passengers, drivers and conductors to wear masks, adding that the number of passengers, in any circumstances, should not exceed the number of seats. Agarwal said that the officials concerned have been asked to ensure that bus owners sanitize and clean the buses after each trip. The drivers and conductors should wear clean clothes, masks and gloves and the bus owners will also have to provide santiser to the passengers.He also asked officials to make sure that social distancing is maintained by people while boarding and de-boarding the buses. The Bihar government had again decided to extend the lockdown till September 6, owing to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The state’s home department had issued an order in this regard on August 17. The lockdown was imposed from July 16 to July 31 and later extended till August 16.No public transport was earlier allowed to ply in areas falling under lockdown norms, state officials had said, owing to orders issued on July 30 for the containment of Covid-19.Air and rail travel had been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices were allowed to function with minimal staff strength.The total number of recovered cases among Covid-19 patients in Bihar crossed the one lakh- mark on Monday, a bulletin issued by the health department said. The state also reported 17 deaths due to the infection taking the number of fatalities to 627, while its coronavirus tally rose to 1,23,382 after 1,227 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, it said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-service-resumes-in-bihar-after-a-month-masks-sanitisers-compulsory-for-all/story-fJFHwdXgcSz6ST5TcQmMGK.html
25-08-2020||India||Unlock 4.0 from Sept 1: Metro may start, schools likely to remain shut||Unlock 4, the ongoing process to open up economic activities in India, will start from September 1.Unlock 4 will come at a time when India’s infection tally has ballooned to more than 3 million and over 58,000 people have died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Here is a look at what will open and what will remain shut:* The Centre is finally likely to allow resumption of Metro services, which has been shut since March 22, from September 1. Officials have said modifications are still being worked out in consultation with ministry of housing and urban affairs, local governments, Metro rail corporations and security agencies.* The Unlock 4 guidelines for resuming Metro service will be issued later this week.* Passengers travelling in Metro trains may not be allowed to use tokens anymore as Centre plans to implement a contactless ticketing system using only cards.* Bars might also be allowed to sell liquor over the counter for takeaway services. They were also closed since on March 25 when the lockdown came into effect.* Schools and colleges will continue to remain closed but the government is considering reopening institutes like IITs and IIMs.* Cinema halls and auditoriums will also continue to remain closed for another month. Officials have said that even if cinema halls are allowed right now, it won’t be financially viable for them to run shows with only 25-30% capacity due to physical distancing norms.* Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are also likely to remain prohibited till next month.* Officials have said Unlock 4 guidelines will only mention the activities which will be prohibited while the rest can resume. The containment zones will continue to be under strict lockdown and monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-0-from-sept-1-metro-may-start-schools-likely-to-remain-shut/story-vCfZtAgzRJAVeahRZZkL0K.html
25-08-2020||India||New SC bench to hear 2009 contempt of court case against Prashant Bhushan||A separate bench of the Supreme Court will hear the 2009 contempt of court case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks that past Chief Justices of India (CJI) were corrupt.A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that since he is retiring on September 2, he will not have adequate time to address the legal questions raised by Bhushan in the matter.“Let the matter be listed before an appropriate bench on September 10 after taking directions from the Chief Justice of India SA Bobde,” said the Justice Mishra-led bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari.This case dates back to 2009 when Bhushan called past CJIs corrupt in an interview to Tehelka magazine.Senior advocate Harish Salve brought this statement to the attention of the court based on which contempt action was initiated against him in November 2009.The case was listed by the top court on July 24 over eight years after it was last heard. Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court.The court on August 10 rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail.When the case was heard on August 17, the court said that certain larger legal issues need to be settled including whether allegations of corruption against judges can be made by way of public statements and the procedure to be adopted when such allegations are raised.When the case was taken up on Tuesday, Bhushan submitted a revised list of legal issues to be considered by the court and also prayed for reference of the matter to the Constitution Bench.“I am short of time. I am demitting office,” justice Mishra remarked.The same Justice Mishra-led bench is slated to hear on Tuesday another contempt of court case against Bhushan for his tweets criticising the top court and the CJI. Bhushan has been held guilty in this case and the court is expected to decide on the punishment to be handed down to Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-sc-bench-to-hear-2009-contempt-of-court-against-bhushan/story-6TN8vmDtYcs7xI2wu1IFMN.html
25-08-2020||India||‘I feel safer shooting in the hills’||Actor Brijendra Kala had a packed shooting schedule when the lockdown happened. Yet his films like ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ starring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana and ‘Ghoomketu’ with Nawazuddin Siddiqui in the lead released on over-the-top (OTT) platforms. During the unlock phase Kala has shot for an Ad film, a film ‘The Last Resort’ in Vadodara and is currently shooting for ‘Samosa & Sons’ at Mukteshwar, Uttarakhand. “It’s a love story and a touching subject on gender issues and traditional rituals. It has Sanjay Mishra and Jeetu Shastri besides others. The film is being directed by Shalini Shah who too hails from the hills comes with Rajesh Shah as DOP,” he said. “I feel it’s much safer to shoot in mountains. The film came as a good outdoor shoot amidst clean air. I am feeling healthy in these serene surroundings though we are shooting with a small crew and taking full precautions due to coronavirus,” the versatile actor said. He has another reason to feel happy about. “One of the main reasons to say yes to the film was that I come from Nauriyal Gaon in Pauri Garhwal. So my roots are in the mountains even though I had grown up in Mathura where my father worked at the veterinary hospital. I make no distinction between UP and Uttarakhand,” he said over phone. Prior to this he shot for film ‘The Last Resort’ in Varodra for 10 days. “We shot it in a resort in isolation and full safety. Before that I shot an advertisement.” The OTT platform, he said, has come as a boon for small-budget filmmakers. “Earlier, filmmakers used to think that a film should be released on the big screen. But it was a problem for small films. But, the success on OTT has given low-budget filmmakers confidence and hopefully it will reduce the mad rush for getting a film released on theatres,” he said. He will be shooting for a big OTT-series in October besides shooting for the fourth season of ‘Aaam Aadmi Family’. Last year, he shot for ‘Ram Prasad Ki Tehari’, ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ and ‘Love Hackers’ in Lucknow. “I was shooting for ‘Sherni’ starring Vidya Balan in Bhopal where lockdown happened. I have also shot for ‘Mere Desh Ki Dharti’ with Devyenndu Sharma, Anand Vidhaat and Anupriya Goenka. In Badaun, I have shot for ‘Sonam Gupta Bewafa Hai’ which has Atul Srivastava and another film that I am doing with him is ‘Mard Ko Dard Hota Hai’.” “In lockdown I have made my family happy by being with them but now my dates are being readjusted for different shoots. The readjustment is a big task. I feel blessed that I am getting enough work despite the pandemic. But I feel bad because due to small units, many crew members have been unemployed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-feel-safer-shooting-in-the-hills/story-9fmzJbdDACwaHEXUVwafqK.html
25-08-2020||India||‘Audience is lapping up rustic, realistic & relatable content’||With a career spanning over 25 years, actor Nitesh Pandey feels now is the right time to experiment with the new stories and content. “I feel the change is happening across mediums of entertainment. OTT has surely narrowed the gap of films — from silver screen to mobile. With exciting web series and digital movies, audiences are getting to watch more rustic, realistic and relatable content, now. And, they are lapping up!” said the versatile actor over the phone. Nitesh feels that television content too will change but it will take its own time, “We have to accept that TV’s reach is very wide and digital content will take long to reach all households in our country. Till then, the content of daily soaps which is primarily larger than life, fantasy based and female-oriented is going to stay. Change will happen but at a very slow pace but cinema is surely changing rapidly.” The actor is known for roles in ‘Pyaar ka Dard Hain…’, ‘Manzilein Apani Apani’, ‘Astitva...’, ‘Saaya’ and ‘Durgesh Nandini’ along with films including ‘Om Shanti Om’, ‘Khosla Ka Ghosla’ and ‘Dabbang 2.’ He was last seen in OTT series ‘Maharaj Ki Jai Ho’, a science-fiction sitcom. “Initially the show was launched on TV in March but due to some issues it was taken off air. It was then streamed on OTT and did exceptionally well. I played king Dhritrasthra, as the show travelled in Mahabharat era through time machine. The response we got was phenomenal even from abroad. It was then I realised the power of digital space.” Though Nitesh hails from Almora, Uttarakhand and has grown up in Mumbai, he has a strong connect with Lucknow too. His wife writer-actor Arpita Pandey is granddaughter of legendary author Amritlal Nagar. Telling more about his city connect, Nitesh said, “I am from the lineage of known poet Sumitranandan Pant. He was my maternal grandfather’s brother. He and Amritlalji were great friends. That is how our connection happened and we got married 17 years back. I got married in Lucknow only (2003) but now my in-laws have shifted to Mumbai near to us.” In Covid times he is happy man shooting for two shows simultaneously. “I’m playing Hansmukh in upcoming daily soap ‘India Wali Maa’. I play husband to Suchita Tiwari who essays the role of the Maa. The show is based on relationship of parents with their son. I am also shooting for another TV show ‘Hero’ which will probably go on air next month. Thankfully both the sets are very close so it’s easy for me. It’s a blessing to get work in such tough times. Sadly, since the budgets have been slashed big time so actors are also facing major remuneration cut,” he shared. Nitesh has also acted in yet to release movie ‘WingMan’ which has Shashank Arora in lead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/audience-is-lapping-up-rustic-realistic-relatable-content/story-GaAkZyUZGTbW2VIlldaTjO.html
25-08-2020||India||This Bareilly girl is surely going places||Hailing from Bareilly, actor Shrashti Maheshwari started acting at a tender age of 12. “I have always been a child who loved extracurricular activities — be it sports, acting or dancing. Thankfully, my parents supported me in all my big or small endeavours,” said the actor. Seeing her inclination towards acting Shrashti’s mother took her to Rangvinayak Rangmandal/Windermere Theatre. “It was there that well-known director and writer Ranjit Kapoor, who had come for an event, saw me as I was waiting for the auditions in my school uniform. I remember him telling me, ‘Try karo beta you never know what works — maybe you go a long way’.” She did number of national as well as international plays before landing into TV. “I learnt a lot at that time as I used to volunteer for all plays happening while I was associated with the theatre group. I got numerous chances to perform with the teams from National School of Drama. By the time I was 14, I have a long list of plays both national as well as international. Travelling and performing across the country gave me the right exposure and I learnt a lot in terms of acting,” said the young actor over the phone. Shrashti wants to join army and is still trying her best to fulfil her dream. “I dream to be an army officer and will be appearing for defence examination this year whenever it gets scheduled. My parents have been my strength and this is what I want to do for them. However, acting is something I truly enjoy and love being on stage as well as on screen. I remember participating in ‘Big Fame’ and being only one from the city to be selected. After that, I got a chance to be the part of the reality show ‘Bigg Boss’ season 7. I was not a housemate but appeared as ‘Pari’ on Sunday episodes. That small fun part actually made me popular and soon more shows followed.” . She has been part of several TV serials like ‘Thapki Pyaar Ki’, ‘Do Dil Bandhe Ek Dori Se’, ‘Dil Ko Aaj Fir Jine Ki Tammanna Hai’, ‘Khauff’, ‘Yeh Hai Aashiqui’, ‘Aladdin Naam Toh Suna Hoga’ and ‘Divya Drishti’ besides film ‘Shaadi Teri Bajayenge Hum Band’ (2018). Soon Shrashti will be seen in the ongoing TV show ‘Tujhse Hai Raabta’. Telling us about her role she said, “The show will take a five-year leap and my character ‘Avni’ will make an entry to take the story forward. I am glad the makers chose me to play this important role. It will be a fresh challenge for me and something that viewers will enjoy too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/this-bareilly-girl-is-surely-going-places/story-wRv3ZfQA4NNI5qPC2tNlNI.html
25-08-2020||India||MNNIT scholar’s achievement shared by PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ Twitter handle||Jeetendra Prasad’s exceptional feat of successfully harnessing electricity from the soil of the Ganga riverbed has been shared by the official Twitter handle of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat Updates’. Prasad is a research scholar at Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Prayagraj. Union ministry of education and Government of India also tweeted Prasad’s achievement. Hindustan Times had previously reported Prasad’s achievement in its edition dated August 20, 2020, for which the scholar has been awarded the SRISTI-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation (GYTI) Award-2020.  Also read: Lucknow’s KGMU pins hopes on asymptomatic donors for Covid-19 plasma therapyA research scholar of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Prayagraj, Jeetendra Prasad, has devised a technique of generating electricity from Ganga’s riverbed sediments to provide electricity in remote areas. #AatmaNirbharBharat #PositiveMornings pic.twitter.com/6qYg418HD4The ‘Mann Ki Baat Updates’ tweet mentions, “A researcher scholar of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Prayagraj Jeetendra Prasad has devised the technique of generating electricity from Ganga’s river bed sediments to provide electricity in remote areas.” An ecstatic Prasad said, “I am thrilled by the development which gives me added responsibility as my nation is counting on me. I am thankful to the government and ministry of education. I want to assure my countryman that every one of us would put the best of our efforts to make the country ‘aatma nirbhar’ soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mnnit-scholar-s-achievement-shared-by-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-twitter-handle/story-2PkmCAbv0HRCOJ9FAtYWAL.html
25-08-2020||India||Ready for any probe, says Uttarakhand BJP MLA accused of rape||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Mahesh Singh Negi who has been accused of rape by a woman, met the party’s state unit chief Bansidhar Bhagat on Monday evening to present his version of the case.Negi had been summoned along with three other party MLAs mired in controversies. The lawmaker has been accused of rape and fathering a child by a married woman earlier this month following which the Dehradun police is carrying an investigation. The woman has also been demanding a DNA test of Negi and her daughter to prove her allegations. A party office-bearer who was privy to the details of the meeting between Negi and Bhagat said, “After reaching Bhagat’s residence, he spoke to him on the ongoing matter and said that he is ready for any sort of investigation.” “However, he also said that the accusations by the woman are a part of a conspiracy by Congress to frame him. He is trying to gather evidence on that and will soon present them to prove that Congress is behind the episode,” said the party leader who did not wish to be named. Bansidhar Bhagat said, “The matter is under investigation by police at present. We will wait for the probe to be over. If Negi turns out to be guilty, then strict action will be taken against him as the party never compromises on discipline.” Negi could not be contacted despite several attempts. The Opposition Congress has meanwhile, attacked BJP and its state government for not taking any action against Negi. Congress state president Pritam Singh said, “The accusations leveled by the woman against him are very serious. She has been demanding a DNA test to reveal the truth but so far nothing has been done on that because of the government’s inaction.” “CM Trivendra Singh Rawat a few days ago said that Negi is ready for a DNA test but it is done as per a legal procedure. But, CM is forgetting that he is also the home minister of state. Who is stopping him from initiating the legal procedure to direct a DNA test?” “If Negi is proved to be the father of the woman’s daughter in the test, then strict action should be taken against him. And if it’s not, then stern action should be taken against the woman,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-any-probe-says-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-accused-of-rape/story-Zr7oCtcSBoI5kKCPPSb5MJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Journalist shot dead in UP’s Ballia district||A Journalist working with a Hindi news channel was shot dead in Phephna area of Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district on Monday night, police said.He has been identified as Ratan Singh (45). Police said four people have been taken into custody for interrogation, police said.“Ratan Singh was working with a Hindi news channel. He was shot dead by unidentified assailants. We are investigating the case,” additional superintendent of police Sanjay Yadav said.A police officer said that the initial probe revealed that Ratan Singh had a dispute with some people in the village over some issue. They reportedly threatened him of serious consequences. His family has not filed any complaint yet. The officer said a case will be registered as soon as a complaint is received, a case will be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-shot-dead-in-up-s-ballia-district/story-vqdatfT6Fv6xMkEdQcjlZO.html
25-08-2020||India||Mumbai University issues new circular on online classes||Almost three weeks after the University of Mumbai announced that all affiliated colleges need to start regular online lectures for the 2020-21 academic year, the varsity has released details on how to carry forward the new form of classes.For starters, college teachers have been asked to divide each subject into four quadrants — video lecture, specially prepared reading material that can be downloaded/printed, self-assessment tests through tests/quizzes and an online discussion forum to clear all doubts of students.The circular further states that in case of students struggling to participate in online lectures due to lack of equipment or internet connections, colleges should also make such lectures available on YouTube/Facebook, share notes via email/WhatsApp and personally dial students and provide counselling.Also read: Police to file FIR against 5 in Raigad building collapse in Maharashtra“Teachers should also form small groups of five to ten students for better communication within the group to discuss regular lessons and get their feedback as well. Counselling sessions should also be conducted and teachers should be in regular touch with parents as well,” states the circular which dated August 24.While several teachers have found students adapting to online classes well, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) has called this move “far from reality”, especially in the case of students in rural Maharashtra. “MU is assuming all students are sitting in their homes in Mumbai and other big cities but what about students stuck in their hometowns in rural Maharashtra with no electricity at present to even charge their phones, mostly due to the incessant rains?” asked one of the members of the BUCTU.Previously, the MU had released a circular on August 2 addressed to all affiliated colleges. It stated that with the completion of admissions for all batches, except first-year undergraduate and postgraduate graduate courses, colleges should start virtual lectures only for the new academic year August 7 onwards.Several teacher organisations from across the state had raised objection to this sudden decision by the university, especially amid lack of clarity given by the varsity about how these classes would be conducted for students stuck in their hometowns in rural Maharashtra due to the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-university-issues-new-circular-on-online-classes/story-KFYpISyr6YqBrZYyO5BUbI.html
25-08-2020||India||3 nomads buried alive in landslide in Jammu’s Reasi||Three nomads including a woman were buried alive under a landslide triggered by heavy rains in a remote area of Shodol in Reasi district during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Reasi district police chief SSP Rashmi Wazir said, “On the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, heavy rains triggered a landslide that came crashing down on a dhok (a cave type temporary shed) where these nomads were sleeping with their cattle.” The victims were buried alive. The decease have been identified as Khalil Ahmed, 22, son of Mohammed Rafiq of Jamlan, his wife Rukhsana Bagum (19) and Mohammad Aslam, 25, son of Mohammed Rafiq, all residents of Tehsil Mahore. A police party along with locals of the area reached the spot and recovered all the bodies, she said. Some buffaloes and other animals are also reportedly got buried under the landslide. Meanwhile, traffic on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was suspended early Tuesday after heavy rains triggered a massive landslide in Ramban district, blocking the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-after-landslide-in-jammu-srinagar-highway-traffic-movement-blocked/story-Dvzv7zdyJRrPxmYBM3RZiM.html
25-08-2020||India||Finance company owner stabbed to death in Kanpur||A finance company owner was killed in his office and a woman employee injured when two knife-wielding men pretending to be customers, stabbed them in Govind Nagar area late Monday evening, police said. Jaipal Puri, 62, died at a hospital and his employee Ratna Shukla was injured seriously. Puri’s son was also shot dead a few years ago. The two men approached Puri in his office on the pretext of getting a small commercial vehicle financed. He refused but the two men insisted that he take Rs 70,000 in advance and finance the vehicle.After he refused again, the men whipped out knives and began stabbing him all over his body. Ratna, who was nearby, intervened but was attacked by the miscreants, said police. The assailants managed to escape but one of them left behind his knife.Puri was rushed to a nearby hospital where he died due to excessive bleeding. DIG/SSP Kanpur Preetinder Singh said the killers came with a purpose and the police were trying to find out if the crime was committed because of some personal enmity or business rivalry.The police have secured CCTV footage in which the two men are seen with their faces quite visible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-company-owner-stabbed-to-death-in-kanpur/story-3SJzxcWfwkJ8r748r1RO4N.html
25-08-2020||India||Pulwama attack: NIA to file charge sheet today; name Masood Azhar and Pakistan||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a charge sheet in February 14, 2019 Pulwama terror attack naming Maulana Masood Azhar, his younger brothers - Abdul Rouf Asghar Alvi and Ammar Alvi, his nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, a highly skilled Afghan trained improvised explosive device (IED) -making expert – and 15 others who carried out the bombing at Pakistan’s behest. According to the details of 13,500 page charge sheet filed in a Special NIA court in Jammu, Umar Farooq (who was killed in an encounter by security forces on March 29 last year) had prepared two jerry can based IEDs – weighing 160 kg and 40 kg respectively – comprising gelatin sticks, ammonium nitrate, ammonium powder and RDX, and the same were fitted in the Maruti Eeco car by February 6, 2019 morning itself. As exclusively reported by HT on March 4 this year, the JeM had earlier planned to carry out the attack in first week of February 2019 itself but it had to postpone its plans as the highway was closed due to heavy weather and convoy movements had stopped. While the RDX was smuggled to India from Pakistan, other explosives were collected by JeM operatives and overground workers from local stone quarries, NIA probe has revealed. Umar Farooq (24), according to NIA, was the son of Ibrahim Athar, Azhar’s younger brother who along with four others had hijacked the IC-814 Indian Airlines flight in December 1999 after which India had to release the JeM chief. Farooq was especially sent to India in April 2018 to execute a spectacular attack for which he did extensive planning and made all the arrangements. In its charge sheet, NIA has included all his chats with his uncles Rouf Asghar and Ammar Alvi, in which they were continuously giving directions before, during and after the attack. Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed in the attack that brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. Officials say that the charge sheet has irrefutable evidence - technical, material and circumstantial - on Pakistan’s role in the attack. It cites the roles of the JeM leadership and the arrested accused in the attack and has details like chats, calls details of terrorists. ALSO WATCH | Car with 60 kg explosives intercepted in Pulwama, major attack averted NIA probe has revealed that Pakistan used Adil Ahmad Dar, a local resident who rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, as a suicide bomber to project the attack as a result of a home-grown militancy against “India’s occupation of Kashmir”, one of the officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-attack-nia-to-file-charge-sheet-today-name-masood-azhar-pakistan/story-8u6QpknoF619Gr8jRzNISI.html
25-08-2020||India||Bengal braces for three-pronged assault of Covid, flood and dengue||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the state needs to plan to face a three-pronged assault of Covid-19, flood and vector-borne diseases such as dengue in the coming days.While the India Meteorological Department has warned of heavy rain in the districts of south Bengal, some districts have seen a surge in Covid-19 cases with very high positivity rate and mounting casualties. Cases of vector borne diseases have also been reported from several districts. “There is a warning of heavy rains. Some places have already got inundated and rivers are flowing above the danger level. We must plan for the flood keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation,” Baneerjee said at an administrative review with officials of four districts in south Bengal on Monday. While North 24 Parganas, the second most populous district in India after Thane in Maharashtra, has registered a high positivity rate of 20.6% which is double the national average, the death rate in North 24 Parganas and Howrah is 2.7% and 2.2% respectively compared to the national average of less than 2%. Dengue is another major worry and every year many cases are reported from densely populated areas of North 24 Parganas. This year such incidents have been low so far.The two coastal districts of North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas have already been affected by heavy rains. There have been breaches in river embankments and water has gushed into the villages inundating some villages. There are fears that Howrah and Hooghly will get affected when the Damodar Valley Corporation releases water. “Even if there is heavy rain in Jharkhand and the Damodar Valley Corporation releases water, large areas in Howrah and Hooghly may get inundated. In some areas water may also enter hospitals,” Banerjee said, asking district officials to plan accordingly keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Some districts in north Bengal including Malda, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar have also been asked to stay on alert as they may be affected due to heavy rain in Bihar and Nepal. “The districts have been asked to set up 24X7 control rooms to monitor the flood situation during the Covid pandemic. The control rooms would be set up in the offices of district magistrate and superintendents of police,” said a senior official who was present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-braces-for-three-pronged-assault-of-covid-flood-and-dengue/story-fQSj8OwPcwOIF9kfnjXbWN.html
25-08-2020||India||Rainfall to end Jammu & Kashmir’s dry spell: IMD||Jammu & Kashmir is expected to receive widespread rainfall by Wednesday and over the next few days after an extended dry spell since May that led to a surge in day temperatures in the Valley, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Moderate rain and thunderstorms were reported from Jammu and the Himalayan Pir Panjal Range region from Bhaderwah to Poonch.Also read: Extreme rain recorded in Gujarat, Rajasthan; warning issued for Delhi“The rainfall will move forward towards east later in the day [Tuesday],” an IMD official said. He said the Kashmir Valley will receive rainfall by Wednesday morning.Meteorologist Sonam Lotus said because of the prolonged dry spell, the day temperature rose sharply on August 17 as Srinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 35.7 degree C, the highest in 39 years. “The highest ever maximum temperature recorded in Srinagar in August is 36.7 degree C in 1946,” he said.Jammu & Kashmir has recorded 245.1 mm of rain from June to August. This is around 42% lesser compared to the same time last year.Officials said the fresh rainfall was likely to compensate for the deficiency. “This time, it is going to be good and moderate rainfall between 26 and 27 August. ...the heavy rainfall could trigger landslides,” the official said.The deficient rainfall has hit maize and paddy cultivation in Kashmir and is also likely to impact the horticulture sector too. “If there will be good rainfall for a couple of days this time as predicted, it is going to be timely and will help fruits attain good size and colour,” said Jan Mohammad, an apple grower from Bandipore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-deficient-kashmir-to-get-rainfall/story-iVaPnQC1Yiw46GjMnGOkbK.html
25-08-2020||India||Woman kills disabled son, takes her life after husband dies of Covid-19||A 36-year-old woman allegedly killed her 19-year-old son with disability and then took her life after her husband, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in Howrah, West Bengal on Monday. The police said that the 45-year-old man, a resident of Rajapur, around 40 kilometres west of Kolkata, was suffering from fever over the past one week. On Saturday, he was rushed to Uluberia sub-divisional hospital when his condition deteriorated and he complained of severe breathing trouble. “He died a few hours later. As he was suffering from breathing trouble and had fever his samples were sent for Covid-19 tests. On Monday the reports came and he tested positive for Covid-19. The civic body performed the last rites and we were present at the spot,” said the man’s father-in-law. Also read: In Bengal, tribal woman gang-raped over relationshipThe woman and his son were also allowed to have a look at the man’s body from a distance. After the family returned home, the woman and her son locked themselves in their house. A few hours later when her father, who stays in the same locality, sent a relative to the woman’s house with some food, there was no response from the house. “The neighbours were informed who broke the window and found that the woman had hanged herself. The son was lying on the floor. The police were soon informed. She had probably strangulated her son before killed herself. We are waiting for the autopsy report,” said Soumya Roy, Superintendent of Police, Howrah (rural). While the man was an employee at a private company, the woman was a housewife. “They could not take the shock and that is why the woman took her life after killing her son,” said Milan Halder, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-kills-disabled-son-takes-her-life-after-husband-dies-of-covid-19/story-CdMMSNjxoGboAhwmqWpthO.html
25-08-2020||India||Raigad building collapse: President Kovind, PM Modi extend condolences to victims’ families||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended his condolences to the families of the victims of the building collapse mishap in Maharashtra’s Raigad district.“Saddened by the building collapse in Mahad, Raigad in Maharashtra. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their dear ones. I pray the injured recover soon. Local authorities and NDRF teams are at the site of the tragedy, providing all possible assistance,” PM Modi said in a tweet. Saddened by the building collapse in Mahad, Raigad in Maharashtra. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their dear ones. I pray the injured recover soon. Local authorities and NDRF teams are at the site of the tragedy, providing all possible assistance: PM At least one person was killed and several others were injured after a multi-storey building collapsed in the Kajalpura area of Mahad town, on Monday evening. Along with three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the local administration, including the police and fire brigade, is carrying out search and rescue operation in the town, around 170 kilometres from Mumbai.According to residents, the 10-year-old Tariq Garden building collapsed at around 7pm. It housed more than 40 apartments.President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed his distress over the tragedy. The news of the building collapse at Mahad, Raigad in Maharashtra and loss of lives is distressing. My thoughts and prayers are with the accident victims. I wish speedy recovery of the injured. Local authorities and NDRF teams are coordinating rescue and relief efforts.Earlier, Union home minister Amit Shah had also expressed shock over the incident and assured all possible assistance with the rescue operations.“The collapse of a building in Raigad, Maharashtra is very tragic. Have spoken to DG @NDRFHQ to provide all possible assistance, teams are on the way and will be assisting with the rescue operations as soon as possible. Praying for everyone’s safety,” Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-his-condolences-to-families-of-victims-of-raigad-building-collapse/story-qvTCBiyxAE7Nc0ytAs9myJ.html
25-08-2020||India||With 60,975 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 3.1 million; recovery rate at 75.9%||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases rose to more than 3.1 million after 60,975 fresh infections and 848 deaths were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday morning.According to the health ministry, there are 704,348 active cases and 58,390 people have succumbed to the disease till date. India’s Covid-19 total recoveries crossed 2.4 million as 66,550 patients were discharged between Monday and Tuesday morning.With this the recovery rate is now at 75.91%, which the government has attributed to “effective implementation of the policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively”.“Effective clinical management of the patients in the ICUs has been instrumental in keeping the Case Fatality Rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.85% today,” the ministry said on Monday.Delhi may be facing a fresh challenge to control an outbreak it had contained to a considerable extent, data has shown. The Covid-19 positivity rate has started rising again in Delhi, with 7.4% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, the highest this number has touched in over a month.Experts say positivity rate shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase in new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast.India has tested more than 3.5 crore people for Covid-19 so far, resolutely following its ‘TEST TRACK TREAT’ strategy, the health ministry also said on Tuesday morning.However, India’s daily testing for Covid-19 dropped sharply on Sunday, as 609,917 tests were conducted, the lowest in two weeks, according to health ministry data. The daily testing count was around 200,000 fewer than that of the previous day.Sunday’s was the lowest test count since August 10, when 477,027 tests were conducted. India had conducted its first Covid-19 test on January 23 at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) National Institute of Virology in Pune and has conducted 3,590,213 tests till date.Meanwhile, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will start the Phase II human clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India from Tuesday. The observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ‘‘Covishield’‘ on healthy adults will begin at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in Pune.Serum Institute has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, developed by the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-60-975-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-surges-past-3-1-million-recovery-rate-at-75-9/story-F45sN1aLuzmigwc7HSRqgP.html
25-08-2020||India||Maharashtra records over 500k Covid recoveries||Maharashtra has achieved a milestone of treating over 500,000 Covid-19 patients after 14,219 recoveries were recorded on Monday. It is also the highest single-day recoveries recorded thus far that has pushed the tally up to 502,490.Also read: Health ministry advisory against spraying disinfectant on peopleThe state has crossed the 500,000 mark within ten days after it recorded 400,000 recoveries on August 14. It had reached even that milestone in nine days as it crossed 300,000 recoveries on August 5. It had taken the state 11 days for that as 200,000 recoveries were reported on July 25. In the beginning, it took 116 days for the state to reach 100,000 recoveries on July 2 and 23 days to arrive at 200,000 recoveries, show the statistics.Since August 1), the total number of recoveries reported, at 246,332, is a wee bit short of the total number of new infections at 271,719.The recovery rate has also seen an improvement. It has improved to 72.47% from 70.9% a week ago on August 17 and 55.99% on July 24, a month ago. The national recovery rate was 75.27%, as on Monday.However, the number of daily cases in the state continued to be the highest in the country and is still rising gradually.On Monday, Maharashtra inched closer to 700,000 mark with 11,015 new infections taking the count to 693,398.The number of active cases is 168,126, which comes to 24.24% of the total cases reported so far.Death toll in the state has reached 22,465. Of the 212 deaths reported this month, 164 were reported in the last 48 hours, another 19 deaths from last one week while the rest 29 deaths from the period before that, the health officials said.It is still the lowest since July 20, when 176 deaths were reported. On July 27, the state reported 227 casualties.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that the state is going through its most crucial phase. “We are facing very challenging situation as festivals and monsoon, which led to the spread of other diseases, have come at the same time and local authorities will have to be more vigilant even if cases are reducing at some places,” he said during a review meeting on Covid-19 situation of Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporations where the Covid-19 cases had shot up since early June.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said the different cities are witnessing a peak at different times and they are hoping for flattening of the curve soon. “Going by the experience of other countries, there is a plateau after reaching a peak and then, cases start declining after sometime. In our state, peak is coming at different times in different cities. For instance, Mumbai has experienced a plateau but Pune, Solapur and Sangli are currently experiencing peak,” he told HT.State health minister Rajesh Tope had recently said they expected the downward trend of infection after mid-September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-500k-covid-recoveries/story-WPWBpAUwsRW0pN002t8USK.html
25-08-2020||India||Lucknow’s KGMU pins hopes on asymptomatic donors for Covid-19 plasma therapy||King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has started obtaining plasma from asymptomatic people for transfusion to Covid-19 patients in different hospital. Although these donors have developed antibodies for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, they have never tested positive for the Covid-19 infection earlier nor were they hospitalised.The medical university is understood to be the first institute in Uttar Pradesh to resort to this method. It had earlier given the plasma of cured Covid-19 patients to those under treatment for the disease.“We took plasma from five people after antibodies (for the virus) were found. Their antibody levels were good enough. Their plasma can be transfused to Covid-19 patients in the hospital. They never tested positive (for the coronavirus infection earlier), neither were they admitted for Covid-19 treatment,” Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU, said on Tuesday, Also read: More than 700 have been administered plasma therapy for Covid-19 in DelhiPlasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those antibodies into an active coronavirus patient to boost the immune system to fight the disease.Out of the five asymptomatic plasma donors, the antibody level in three was higher than the normal range. For the two others, the level was within the range.Antibody test was conducted to check if the person ever had Covid-19 infection and whether she or he recovered as an asymptomatic patient.Till now, 59 people have donated plasma. Five of the donors were asymptomatic people and the remaining by cured Covid-19 patients, who were admitted in hospital and then discharged.“Hopefully, as the second option of getting plasma from asymptomatic people is open now, donations will go up manifold in a few days and we shall be able to help more patients in the state,” said Prof Chandra.She said efforts will be made to get plasma donation from regular voluntary blood donors if they have antibodies for coronavirus.For this, blood donors will be tested for antibodies. If antibodies are found, they will be motivated to go for plasma donation.“They are coming for donation themselves. Hopefully, they will agree to donate plasma instead of whole blood. This will be done at the same blood bank. So, it will hardly make a difference to the donors,” said Prof Chandra.“But certainly this will increase the stock of plasma with antibodies manifold,” she said.Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, who test positive for antibodies, can volunteer for plasma donation. Besides, other voluntary blood donors will be tested for antibodies. If antibodies for the virus are found, these people will be asked to donate plasma, instead of whole blood.Every day between 50 and 100 blood donors go to the KGMU blood bank to obtain blood for a patient and donate a unit in exchange. The number includes voluntary blood donors. All of them will be tested for antibodies.“Even if we get four blood donors a day, who test positive for antibodies, we hope it will be a good number for plasma donation. This will be apart from those who got treated for Covid-19 and came for plasma donation,” said Prof Chandra.She said a shift from whole blood donation to plasma in some cases will make ‘no or very little’ impact on the stock of blood units at the blood bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-s-kgmu-pins-hopes-on-asymptomatic-donors-for-covid-19-plasma-therapy/story-7MXOsJSRz7IruMTAkuCBKI.html
25-08-2020||India||Serum Institute to begin phase 2 trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate today||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to begin its phase II/III clinical trials of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield, to check its efficacy at Pune’s Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday.SII is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by the number of doses produced and sold globally. It has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine.Also read: 172 countries engaging with global Covid-19 vaccine plan, says WHOAccording to the Clinical Trials Registry of India, 17 sites have been selected to conduct the phase II/III trials, observer-blind, randomized, controlled study, to check the safety and immune response of the vaccine candidate among healthy Indian adults.Around 1,600 adults above 18 are expected to be recruited for the trials across India. Dr Prasad Kulkarni will be the principal investigator for SII and spearhead the process.On August 3, India’s drugs controller gave approval to SII for conducting phase II and III clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country. The results of its phase I trial held in the UK had shown promise in generating an immune response against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Covishield will be administered as a two-dose schedule on days 1 and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly. Placebo will be administered as a two-dose schedule on days 1 and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified.Even though confirming that the trial process has started, representatives of SII have been declining to divulge more details regarding the development.In a statement issued on Sunday, SII said, “The phase-3 trials for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine are still underway. And only once the vaccine is proven immunogenic and efficacious, SII will confirm its availability, officially. COVISHIELD will be commercialized once the trials are proven successful and all the requisite regulatory approvals are in place. …Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-begin-phase-2-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-today/story-mTOqPWxtLKp3IldyyA9zeK.html
25-08-2020||India||SC grants bail to 77-year-old rape accused on DNA evidence||The Supreme Court on Monday granted bail to a 77-year old retired Army pensioner from West Bengal accused of raping a 13-year old girl after the DNA report showed that he was not the father of the child born to the rape survivor.A division bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul overturned a June 5 order of Calcutta High Court in this regard after the state government conceded before the Supreme Court that the DNA report showed that the accused, Jayanta Chatterjee, was not the father of the child as claimed by the survivor.“In view of the aforesaid, we have no hesitation in saying that the petitioner (Chatterjee) should be enlarged on bail on the terms and conditions to the satisfaction of the trial court,” the bench which also comprised Justice Ajay Rastogi said.“The petitioner was falsely implicated by the father of the victim because of personal enmity on account of a landlord-tenant dispute between them. The DNA test did not match with the accused meaning thereby that the petitioner was not the father of the child. Therefore, the court granted bail,” Chatterjee’s lawyer, Jayant Mohan told HT.A case was registered against Chatterjee on May 11 at the Matigara police station based on the complaint by one Dilip Karmakar, the father of the rape survivor. Karmakar had alleged that his daughter had showed unnatural behaviour and on questioning, the girl revealed that Chatterjee had raped and impregnated her. Chatterjee was charged for offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO) and was arrested on May 12. He was remanded to judicial custody on May 26. The rape survivor gave birth to a baby girl on July 5.Chatterjee had contended before the Supreme Court that Karmakar, who was his tenant, was neither paying the monthly rent nor vacating the premises and the false complaint was filed to incarcerate Chatterjee.He had also repeatedly raised the argument before the high court and top court that he is incapable of sexual activity since he is 84 years old. The state government had, however, submitted that Chatterjee was only 77 years old as per official records.“The ludicrousness of the allegations are rife on the face of it considering the age of the petitioner. As per the well-established principles of medical jurisprudence, such allegations are improbable due to the age of the petitioner and due to ailments of diabetes and high blood sugar (which the petitioner is suffering from),” the plea stated.The petitioner had also requested for a DNA test to prove his innocence. The Supreme Court after hearing Chatterjee’s lawyer, senior counsel Kapil Sibal, had ordered a DNA test on July 9.With the DNA test absolving Chatterjee, he also claimed compensation against Karmakar for filing a false case.“Senior counsel for the petitioner (Chatterjee) further submits that it is out of a landlord-tenant dispute that a false case has been filed and that he should be given appropriate compensation. If that be the position, it is for the appellant to take necessary steps in this behalf in accordance with law claiming compensation in accordance with law,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-77-year-old-rape-accused-on-dna-evidence/story-QA8hi6fi4fIITGntqKTlGI.html
25-08-2020||India||India tests more than 3.6 crore people for Covid-19: ICMR||On the track of “Test Track Treat” strategy, India has tested more than 3.6 crore people for coronavirus (Covid-19) so far, the Indian Medical Council of Research said on Tuesday. The total number of Covid-19 samples tested so far is at 3,68,27520. COVID-19 Testing Update . For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/TD9Jp9t3YjClick here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia registered more than 60,900 cases new cases of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, pushing the tally to 3,167,323, including 704,348 active cases and 2,404,585 others were discharged after recovery, according to the numbers published on union health ministry’s website. The death toll stood at 58,390.As of Monday, the recovery rate improved to 75.27 per cent. While the case fatality rate was at 1.86%, one of the lowest globally. Also read:  India added over 397,000 Covid-19 cases in a week; tally surges past 3 millionThe health ministry had said earlier that the gap between recoveries and active cases continued to widen, with the number of patients recovering currently more than three times the active cases. “The gap between recoveries and Covid-19 active cases continues to widen. The recoveries are more than 3 times the active cases,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-more-than-3-5-crore-people-for-covid-19/story-Gv2Pn7XecxW85P3QBCf0rN.html
25-08-2020||India||Varanasi, India’s spiritual capital to get smart makeover with retro look||India’s spiritual capital, Varanasi, is being beautified under the old Kashi rejuvenation project worth Rs 80 crore. Work is on to give the city’s narrow lanes a retro look along with smart facilities. Six wards, including Dashashwamedh, Jangamwadi, Kameshwar Mahadev, Kaal Bhairav, Rajmandir and Garhwasi Tola, will get a facelift as part of this project. Lanes in these wards will get theme-based wall paintings showcasing the culture of Kashi while dilapidated square stones will be replaced with new ones. New underground water supply pipelines and sewerage lines will also be laid, work for which is already in progress. Each lane will have duct chambers so that in future, electricity lines and water supply line could be laid without damaging the square stones and water/sewage pipelines. Roughly, there are around 400 lanes, including sub-lanes, in Kashi. Hundred of these are prominent ones, said officials. Also read: Eight assembly seats vacant in Uttar Pradesh, EC to decide on bypollsThe estimated cost of rejuvenation and developmental work for Kaal Bhairav ward comes to Rs 16.24 crore while Kameshwar Mahadev ward will get a facelift at a cost of Rs 17.09 crore. Jangamwadi ward has been allotted Rs 12.65 crore, Rs 16.22 crore for Dashashwamedh ward. Rajmandir ward and Garhwasi Tola ward projects will be carried out for Rs 13.53 crore and Rs 9.60 crore respectively. The deadline for the completion of work in Kaal Bhairav ward, Kameshwar Mahadev ward and Rajmandir ward is September 2021, while work in Jangamwadi and Dashashwamedh wards will be completed by December 2021. “Work is already in progress at Dashashwamedh ward. Sewage and water supply pipelines are being replaced with new ones. At a time, work is being undertaken in a few lanes. As soon as the work is completed in these lanes, the same will be done for the next set of lanes,” said an officer of the Varanasi Nagar Nigam associated with the project. Temporary pipelines have been installed as an alternative arrangement so that locals and tourists don’t face any inconvenience, the officer said. Chief executive officer, Smart City (Varanasi) project and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said, “The project is aimed at beautifying and rejuvenating the ancient look of the lanes in six wards of the ancient city. Various developmental works would be carried out. Work has already started under the project in certain areas.” “The lanes will have theme-based wall paintings and new square stones. Rejuvenation will conserve the lanes and attract tourists from across the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-india-s-spiritual-capital-to-get-smart-makeover-with-retro-look/story-w4wf9gj9yKKdlxAhmQnnLP.html
25-08-2020||India||SC to hear two contempt of court cases against Prashant Bhushan today||The Supreme Court will hear two contempt of court cases against advocate Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday. One of the two is based on two tweets put out by Bhushan criticising the court and the chief justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde. It will be heard with regard to the sentence to be handed down to Bhushan.The court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt in this case and had kept the matter for further hearing to decide on the punishment. When the case was heard on August 20 to decide on the sentence, Bhushan refused to apologise.Also read: Former judges say contempt of court provision vagueThe court granted him time till Monday to reconsider his stance but Bhushan stood his ground and submitted a statement on Monday that he stands by his tweets. He said that the views expressed by him through his tweets represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, an apology for expressing such beliefs would be insincere.ALSO WATCH | Vikram Chandra on SC asking Bhushan to ‘reconsider’ remarks, other stories A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra will now consider this statement on Tuesday and decide on the course of action to be adopted.According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both.The same bench, which also comprises justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, will hear a second contempt of court case against Bhushan. This case dates back to 2009 and relates to Bhushan’s comments calling past CJIs corrupt in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine.Senior advocate Harish Salve brought the comments to the attention of the court based on which contempt action was initiated against him in November 2009.The case was listed by the top court on July 24 over eight years after it was last heard. Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court regarding his remarks. The court on August 10 rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail.When the case was heard on August 17, the court said that certain larger legal issues need to be settled including whether allegations of corruption against judges can be made by way of public statements and the procedure to be adopted when such allegations are raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-two-contempt-of-court-cases-against-prashant-bhushan-today/story-MY1H2QLubG4RAi4daxgBSN.html
25-08-2020||India||BDC member shot dead in Azamgarh during argument over panchayat polls||A block development council (BDC) member was shot dead in a clash between two groups in Nawada market of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday night, police said.A bullet hit BDC member Surendra Yadav, 35, when a man allegedly opened fire during a heated discussion over the panchayat elections. Locals rushed Yadav to hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.A senior police officer said teams had been formed to solve the murder case. The local administration has deployed a police contingent in the area as a precautionary measure to maintain peace after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bdc-member-shot-dead-in-azamgarh-during-argument-over-panchayat-polls/story-xVIpxIMzyEKichyjPphFfL.html
25-08-2020||India||Eight assembly seats vacant in Uttar Pradesh, EC to decide on bypolls||Uttar Pradesh may witness a mini-assembly election of sorts in the coming months if the Election Commission (EC) decides to hold bypolls to eight vacant seats in the state assembly along with the Bihar elections.Five of these eight seats fell vacant after the death of sitting members.“The Election Commission of India has to take a call about holding by-polls to the eight assembly seats. As of now, we have no information about the possible timing of the bypolls,” said a senior officer. A bypoll to a vacant seat in the state assembly is generally held within six months from the date of vacancy. However, EC has not yet given any indication about holding these bypolls. “For seats, where the six-month time period is complete, EC has given a certificate, saying a decision about holding the bypoll there will be taken later,” said the officer. Legal expert CB Pandey, a former advisor to the governor, said, “Yes, EC should ideally hold an election to a vacant seat in six months. The poll panel can defer the elections in special circumstances like Covid-19 or any other reasons. These vacancies have no impact on the state assembly.” The Uttar Pradesh assembly has a strength of 403 members. The five members who died include two ministers Kamal Rani Varun, who held the Ghatampur seat in Kanpur Nagar district, and Chetan Chauhan, who represented Amroha’s Naugawan Sadat assembly constituency.While Varun died on August 2 after contracting Covid-19, Chetan Chauhan succumbed to the disease on August 16. BJP’s Janmejaya Singh (Deoria Sadar) died on August 21 and Veerendra Singh Sirohi (Bulandshahr) passed away on March 2. Samajwadi Party’s Paras Nath Yadav, who represented Malhani in Jaunpur, died on June 12. The other seats declared vacant include the one that had been held by BJP member Kuldeep Singh Sengar (Bangarmau, Unnao) who was disqualified following the life sentence awarded to him in a rape case. His seat has been declared vacant with effect from December 20, 2019. The Swar seat was declared vacant with effect from December 16, 2019 after the Allahabad high court declared the election of Samajwadi Party’s Mohammad Abdullah Azam invalid. Earlier, the Tundla assembly seat of Firozabad was declared vacant on June 4 following the resignation of former UP minister SP Singh Baghel when he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Agra. The Election Commission also will have to take a call about holding the biennial election to 11 seats of the Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Parishad. The term of 11 MLCs from graduate and teachers constituency of the state legislative council ended on May 6. Another seat fell vacant in the council following disqualification of former Bahujan Samaj Party leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui, who had switched loyalties to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-assembly-seats-vacant-in-uttar-pradesh-ec-to-decide-on-bypolls/story-3QWijJzDxkgzGQQ0VcWJMI.html
25-08-2020||India||At least 11 dead after Raigad building collapse, rescue op continues||The death toll from the collapse of a decade-old five-storey building in a town of Maharashtra’s Raigad district rose to 11 on Tuesday, officials said, as rescue operations continued to remove those trapped in the rubble.The bodies of six men and five women have been pulled by rescuers, including the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), so far from the accident site in the Kajalpura area of Mahad town, around 170 kilometres from Mumbai. Earlier in the day, a four-year-old child was rescued from the debris after the accident on Monday evening. “As per official status from collector’s office, 17 more may be feared trapped,” Alok Kumar, NDRF officer, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI earlier. T5️⃣ʀᴀɪɢᴀᴅ ᴄᴏʟʟᴀᴘsᴇ Update👇25/8/20🔶 𝕄𝕀ℝ𝔸ℂ𝕃𝔼-ℂℍ𝕀𝕃𝔻 ℝ𝔼𝕊ℂ𝕌𝔼𝔻 𝔸𝕃𝕀𝕍𝔼-God’s Child🙏🏻🔶@NDRFHQ teams find 4 yr old Boy🔶ops will continue🔶Canines used🔶Let’s All pray for more miracles 🙏🏻🇮🇳@PMOIndia @HMOIndia @PIBMumbai @PIBHomeAffairs @ANI pic.twitter.com/nJ3q436GGXOfficials said Mohammad Bangi, the rescued child, was rushed to a nearby hospital and that he has suffered minor injuries. His aunt, Rupasa, said the boy was trapped under the debris along with his two sisters and mother. “His three family members are still trapped under the rubble. I pray for everyone’s survival,” she said.Police said they have started the process of filing the first information report (FIR) against five people. Anil Paraskar, Raigad superintendent of police (SP), said the FIR would be filed against the builder as well as the contractor, engineer, architect and the building consultant.Paraskar said the collapsed building had 95 residents. “Fortunately, 75 had managed to come out before the incident occurred. The person, who died in the incident, is not a resident of the building. He has been identified as Sameer Sayyed,” he added.The Tariq Garden building collapsed at around 7pm on Monday, according to local residents. The 10-year-old multi-storey building housed more than 40 apartments.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet on Tuesday he was saddened by the accident and President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed his distress over the tragedy. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-raigad-building-collapse-rises-to-2-more-feared-trapped-reports/story-tIFjLWZmLpSJhOyaCeS4jJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Supreme Court defers 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan, requests CJI to take it to appropriate bench||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred the hearing in the 2009 contempt of court case against senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan and requested the Chief Justice of India to take it to an appropriate bench. Justice Arun Mishra said the matter can be listed before an appropriate bench on September 10.The Supreme Court is also expected to pronounce its order on Tuesday on the sentence to be imposed on senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan in the contempt of court case against him for criticising the Supreme Court and the CJI on Twitter in late June this year.The top court had on August 20 asked Bhushan to reconsider his stance and offer an apology for the tweets he made criticising it and Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde by Monday while hearing on the sentence to be awarded to him. The court had on August 14 ruled that Bhushan was guilty of contempt of court.Bhushan had on Monday refused to tender an apology and said in a supplementary statement it would be “contempt of conscience.”“An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to be sincerely made. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution (Supreme court ) that I hold in highest esteem,” his statement submitted through advocate Kamini Jaiswal read.The case against Bhushan was filed on July 5 and the court had pronounced its verdict on August 14.The Supreme Court had given the senior advocate till August 24 to reflect on his statement and asked him to tender an apology within the given time. It can now begin proceedings to punish the senior advocate for criminal contempt of court. He faces up to six months in jail or a fine of Rs 2,000 or both.Bhushan had said on August 20 that the judgment was not delivered based on any evidence and highlighted that the statements made by him were directed towards the benefitting the nation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-prashant-bhushan-s-contempt-case-deadline-for-apology-ends-today/story-4sOsINWxfGYtyMH3DK8V8K.html
25-08-2020||India||Use Aadhaar to get GST registration in just three days||An aspiring entrepreneur is saved from the hassle of physical verification for obtaining the registration for the Goods and Services Tax (GST), if the person opts for authentication through his Aadhaar number.Also read: I-T crackdown against those holding multiple PANsThis is a new process that the Central government launched last Friday, a Union finance ministry official said.Besides hassle-free registration, an applicant opting for authentication through Aadhaar to get a GST registration would get the approval within three working days without any physical verification, the official said requesting anonymity.Those, who do not opt for Aadhaar authentication for GST registration, would get the approval only after physical verification of the place of business or verification of documents that could take up to 21 working days, he said. In such cases, more time might be required, if a notice is issued to ascertain certain details, he added.The official said proper verification of the commercial premises and other details are required to keep the fake and fraudulent entities out of the GST mechanism.In both cases, the tax authorities need to act within a specified time frame. It would take three days for a person opting for Aadhaar authentication, and 21 days for those opting not to undergo the verification, he said. “An application shall be deemed to be approved, if no notice for rejection is issued after the stipulated time frame,” he added.The new mechanism of Aadhaar-based GST registration was approved in the 39th meeting of the GST Council held on March 14 for new taxpayers.The mechanism, which aims to enhance the ease of doing business, could not be implemented immediately following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that prompted an imposition of nation-wide lockdown restrictions from March 25 that were in place for over 60 days, he said.He said the person, who applies for GST registration, would get options of verification either through Aadhaar or in the physical form. If the person opts for Aadhaar authentication, a link would be shared on the promoter’s registered mobile number and email ID. Upon clicking the authentication link, a screen would come up with a declaration, where the applicant needs to enter an Aadhaar number and click to validate. On successful matching of the details, a one-time password (OTP) would be sent in the registered email and mobile number. On entering the OTP, the validation would be complete and a message of successful electronic-know your customer (e-KYC) authentication would pop up.If the person does not opt for Aadhaar-based authentication, his registration application would be sent to the jurisdictional tax authority that may carry out necessary documentary and physical site verification before approving the registration, he said.“The facility of quick approval of GST registration through Aadhaar authentication can be availed by all Indian nationals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-aadhaar-to-get-gst-registration-in-just-three-days/story-65e3z5ttuGqg66n9I6Ef1K.html
25-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BMC to now get 50,000 more rapid antigen kits for city and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BMC to now get 50,000 more rapid antigen kits for cityAfter using over 72,000 of the one lakh rapid antigen kits obtained in the first week of July, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now plans to procure 50,000 more kits by September, as it looks to ramp up testing from next week. Read moreCovid-19 positivity rate inching up again in Delhi, stands at 7.4%The Covid-19 positivity rate has started rising again in Delhi, with 7.4% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, the highest this number has touched in over a month, suggesting that Delhi may be facing a fresh challenge to control an outbreak it had contained to a considerable extent. Read moreSeed of letter germinated at dinner hosted by Tharoor five months agoInformal deliberations over the need for reforms within the Congress party started at least five months ago at a dinner hosted by Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor, several Congressmen who were his guests have confirmed to HT -- a disclosure that highlights that the letter sent to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi by 23 leaders was in the making for some time. Read moreApple starts assembling iPhone SE 2020 in IndiaApple has begun assembling its latest iPhone SE 2020 in India. The phone is being assembled by its manufacturing partner Wistron in Bengaluru. The move is likely to help Apple avoid a 20% import tax on smartphones. Read more‘Dalai Lama’s security being increased in Himachal Pradesh’: CM Jai Ram ThakurTibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama’s security is being tightened following the detention of two persons who were allegedly tracking his movement on the directions of Chinese national Charlie Peng. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta asks Kangana Ranaut to ‘stay strong, fight on’, actor thanks her ‘for squashing all rumours against me’Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday thanked Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti and, by extension, the family of the late actor, for acknowledging her role in advocating the case of Sushant’s death. Read more‘Winter is coming’: Health experts suggest what to do as another coronavirus wave expected in the cold seasonEven though many countries are still reeling under the first wave of coronavirus and fail to curb the escalating number of infected people, health experts warn of another wave which may be triggered in winters ahead of vaccine creation. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bmc-to-now-get-50-000-more-rapid-antigen-kits-for-city-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yhCg6SqhO0Nz2GL4xvLXUP.html
25-08-2020||India||Covid-19 patient at BHU hospital disappears, body recovered from premises||The body of a 25-year-old coronavirus patient, which went missing from the Covid-19 ward of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital’s super-speciality block at Banaras Hindu University two days ago, was recovered from the hospital premises on Monday night, a university official said. Professor SK Mathur, medical superintendent of the hospital, said it appeared that the patient had tried to come down from the second floor of the hospital building with the help of a pipe and as the pipe broke, the patient fell. The body was found below, after which the hospital staff and security personnel immediately took it to the mortuary. The hospital administration has informed the police. Earlier, an FIR was registered in connection with the patient’s disappearance following a complaint by his family members, inspector Mahesh Pandey, station officer at Varanasi’s Lanka police station, said on Monday. According to the family, the patient had suffered injuries in a road accident on August 11 and was admitted to the BHU trauma centre the same day, said the police. Two days later, he tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he was moved to a Covid-19 ward at the super-speciality block of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital. He spoke to his mother on August 22 through the window of the building, the family told the police. At that time, he had pleaded his mother to take him home, the family added. Also read: Lucknow DM orders probe after Covid patient’s complaint against public health centreOn Sunday, when the family members went to the hospital, they were informed by the guard that the patient had gone elsewhere, the family members said in their complaint to the police. BHU’s public relations officer Professor Rajesh Singh said after the patient tested positive for coronavirus, he was admitted to the super-speciality block where he was treated for his head injury and Covid-19. The patient’s condition improved significantly. The doctors had planned to discharge the patient once his condition improved and he tested negative for Covid-19, Singh said. Around 2 pm on August 22, the patient suddenly disappeared from the ward. After this, the hospital staff and security personnel launched a search op. The police were also immediately informed. The CCTV footage was also scanned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-at-bhu-hospital-disappears-body-recovered-from-premises/story-USMXfcLFlDuuRn3UjN1KVP.html
25-08-2020||India||Lucknow DM orders probe after Covid patient’s complaint against public health centre||The district administration has ordered a magisterial probe into allegations by a Covid-19 patient against the staff of the TS Mishra hospital and primary health centre (PHC) in Lucknow’s Gudamba area.The patient had made several videos exposing alleged anomalies at the hospital and they had gone viral. The complainant alleged that after he raised his voice against poor facilities, the hospital staff misbehaved with him and also beat him up. Later the hospital allegedly tried to discharge the patient on the basis of an antigen test.“The probe will be conducted by ADM finance and revenue,” said an order by the district magistrate on Monday.The probe order came on a day when Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath said that the state government was committed to providing the best treatment to all Covid-19 patients and ordered an increase in the number of beds in Covid-19 hospitals in the state to ensure that there is always a surplus of beds at these facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-dm-orders-probe-after-covid-patient-s-complaint-against-public-health-centre/story-Z3HFnNeELlpwFQIx8sqNxK.html
25-08-2020||India||CVC asks CVOs to complete disciplinary proceedings through video-conferencing to avoid delays||Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) – the anti-corruption watchdog – has directed all chief vigilance officers (CVOs) in all ministries and government departments to conduct disciplinary proceedings against officials facing enquiries for corruption or administrative lapses via the video-conference facility.Also read: Haryana plans own anti-corruption watchdogThe directive has been issued because of the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that has prompted a strict compliance with maintaining social distancing norms.The CVC has cited a Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) order as the basis of its new directive.The DoPT directed authorities in all government departments and banks to carry out the disciplinary proceedings through video-conference on condition that principles of natural justice are adhered to.The DoPT order stated that the inquiry officer (IO) should utilise digital tools to the maximum extent possible in a bid to minimise travel and should choose a location taking into account the availability of records, station/place where the misconduct occurred and the convenience of the witness.The decision to use video-conference for conducting disciplinary proceedings was taken after it was noticed that there were delays in such investigations because of the pandemic.CVOs posted in every government department are responsible for disciplinary proceeding against officials indulging in any activity in violation of the norms. They are also empowered to draw the CVC authorities’ attention to corruption complaints against officials that may necessitate a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The CVC has repeatedly reminded government departments to carry out their disciplinary proceedings on time.A July 2018 letter written by CVC to all departments stated that “the unexplained delays lead to Central Administrative Tribunals (CATs) and the high courts (HCs) quashing the charge sheet (s) on the sole ground that the disciplinary authorities concerned had issued charge sheets to the delinquents (officer under investigation) after very long periods of commission of alleged misconduct etc and also for unexplained delays in conducting disciplinary enquiries.“More so, such long delays in finalising disciplinary matters are not unjust to officials, who may be finally exonerated, but helps the guilty to evade punitive action,” the CVC had said.The time limit for completion of a department enquiry is six months from the date of appointment of the IO.However, a study by the CVC in 2016 had stated that the average time taken by the administrative authorities in finalisation of disciplinary proceedings is more than two years and the maximum time taken in a particular case was eight years and in at least 22% of the cases, the probe took over two years.In a directive issued in May, the new CVC, Sanjay Kothari, had also instructed all ministries and government departments to conduct internal investigations or disciplinary proceedings against government officials much before they are due to retire.CVC is a statutory body and derives its powers from the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2013. It is free of control from any executive authority and has the responsibility of monitoring all vigilance activities in the federal government besides advising various authorities on planning, executing, reviewing and reforming their vigilance work. A major part of its work is to refer important corruption activities to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-asks-cvos-to-complete-disciplinary-proceedings-through-video-conferencing-to-avoid-delays/story-QImGXopBIhSipEdKdo2VQM.html
25-08-2020||India||Constable killed, 3 injured as Kanpur police lines barrack roof caves in||A constable was killed and at least three others got injured when the roof of a barrack at Kanpur police lines collapsed late on Monday night, the police said.Constable Arvind Kumar died due to injuries and others were being treated, said Superintendent of Police (Kanpur West) Anil Kumar. The debris at the police lines was being cleared on a war footing as some more personnel were feared trapped under it. Senior Superintendent of Police Preetinder Singh expressed his condolences and said that compensation will be given to the bereaving family. Also read: Covid-19 - No public functions, religious gatherings in UP till September 30The barrack is one of several at the central police lines. The roof collapsed at around 10.30 pm after which other policemen rushed to the site and pulled out four of their colleagues. They were immediately taken to a private hospital where one of them died. The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has been called in to take over the rescue and relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-killed-3-injured-as-kanpur-police-lines-barrack-roof-caves-in/story-MA38xMwWooZVuxaTTxS2fK.html
25-08-2020||India||Opposition, experts rue lack of question hour in Rajasthan Assembly||The Rajasthan Assembly session, which began on August 14, was adjourned sine die on Monday after three sittings but without the question and zero hours. The Opposition legislators were prompt to say that the sole purpose of the session was to prove the government’s majority. Experts said if lawmakers cannot hold the government to account in Assembly, it was was a dangerous trend for democracy.  The government and the Assembly management said the question and zero hours were disallowed in view of the coronavirus pandemic.  The Assembly session convened on August 14 when the Ashok Gehlot government moved and won the confidence motion by voice vote. This followed more than a month-long political turmoil arising out of the rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs.  Also read: Did he say it or did he not? Rahul’s remarks on letter writers create flutterThe Assembly was adjourned until August 21 and when it reconvened that day, there was only discussion on Covid-19 situation in the state, no question or zero hour was allowed. The same happened on Monday, during the third sitting of the Assembly when 13 bills were passed in the House but no discussion on them took place even as the Opposition boycotted the business advisory committee’s (BAC) meeting over five bills tabled on Monday itself. The government tabled eight bills on August 21 and five on Monday; all were passed amid protest by the Opposition. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said they didn’t have enough time to study the new bills. The Opposition also staged a walkout. BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf, who is a member of the BAC, said, “Not holding question and zero hour is unjustified. It is happening only because the government has the mandate. We protested in the BAC meeting, too. The government wanted to have this assembly session only for the trust vote and is unconcerned about public issues.” Two other BJP MLAs echoed the sentiment.   Pratap Singh Singhvi said it is in the question and zero hour that lawmakers could grill ministers over issues of public interest. “The state is in the grip of locust invasion, parents are protesting over school fee, there’s the issue of unemployment – there was so much that we wanted to discussed but the session became a mere formality,” he said. Jogeshwar Garg accused the government of misusing its mandate in the BAC. “It called the session for its own requirement,” he added.  According to the Assembly website, there are around 1,200 questions for the session, including the starred ones. Twenty-five starred questions were listed on Monday. Assembly Speaker CP Joshi said everyone wanted the session to be longer but the BAC decided against it because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. “There was no intention to prevent the Opposition from raising questions and seeking a reply from the government but the question and zero hour would have led to the inflow of more people in the Assembly,” he said in the House. “No state assembly across the country is holding question or zero hour because of this,” he added. The speaker said that in Bihar, a one-day session happened and around 13 bills were passed. Even in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the speaker will take a call to take question hour or not.   “The session will be called again once the situation improves and all issues will be discussed,” the Speaker said while addressing the House.   Chief whip Mahesh Joshi also blamed the pandemic for not holding question and zero hour. “During these, department officials and staff are required to be in the Assembly and we wanted to prevent the flow of more people,” he said. But political commentator Narayan Bareth said that in the democratic system, questions are most important as they hold the government to account. “There is no democracy if there aren’t questions,” he said. “It’s not about the Congress or the BJP; they both are equal. It’s a dangerous trend of not addressing questions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-experts-rue-lack-of-question-hour-in-rajasthan-assembly/story-I6Ba3rd8JOqAtL1EkITaeJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Extreme rain recorded in Gujarat, Rajasthan; warning for Delhi on Wednesday||Monsoon has been in its active phase in the past five days and several parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan recorded exceptionally high rain over the weekend according to data with India Meteorological Department (IMD).Kadi and Umerpada in Gujarat recorded 33 and 26 cm of rainfall respectively. In Saurashtra and Kutch, Jodia recorded 34 cm of rain; Kadi recorded 33 cm, followed by Tankara (27 cm), Umerpada (26 cm), Morbi (25 cm), Becharaji (22 cm), Saraswati (21 cm) and Kandla Aerodrome and Surendranagar recorded 18 cm of rainfall on Sunday. Nine persons died and 1,900 people were moved to safer places in Gujarat on Monday due to extreme rain according to a report by PTI.Also read: Heavy rain lashes Bihar, flood situation remains grimOther places that recorded extremely heavy rain in the past week include several parts of Odisha with Salepur and Nischintacoil recording 30 cm of rain on August 19. Several parts of Chhattisgarh and west Madhya Pradesh reported 20 to 30 cm rain on August 20, 21 and 22. Parts in east Rajasthan, like Lohari, Banswara, Bhungra, recorded 18 to 20 cm rain in 24 hours.Gujarat has recorded 179 percent excess rain while Rajasthan saw 33 percent excess rain in August alone. The IMD has forecast very heavy rains in northwest India including Delhi on August 26 and 27.A low-pressure area is lying over southwest Rajasthan. It is likely to persist for the next 24 hours. The monsoon trough is active and south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). It is likely to remain active during the next 2-3 days. Due to these favourable conditions, widespread and heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Gujarat and southwest Rajasthan on August 25.Another low-pressure area is lying over North Bay of Bengal. It is likely to become more marked during the next 2 days. Under its influence, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand during next 3-4 days and over Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan from August 26 to 28. Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Odisha on August 25 and 26.Also read: Yamuna moves towards warning mark as Haryana releases waterDue to the convergence of lower-level easterlies from Bay of Bengal and south-westerlies from Arabian Sea, rainfall activity is likely to increase over northwest India from August 25 with peak intensity on August 26 and 27. Under its influence, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over northwest India during August 26 to 28.“Parts of central and western India have recorded very high rainfall and flooding. The low-pressure area over southwest Rajasthan will gradually weaken and the vortex in that region will break leading to moisture incursion in northwest India. That is when we are likely to see heavy rains in Delhi,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.“One or two spells of moderate rain/thundershowers with isolated heavy rain is likely on August 26 night till forenoon of August 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Monsoon trough is likely to run very close to Delhi NCR from August 25 to 28, he added.On Monday, 24 Stations (15 in Bihar, 4 in Uttar Pradesh, 2 Assam, 1 each in Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal) were flowing in severe flood situations. Severe flood is declared when the water level touches or exceeds the danger level but is below the highest flood level (HFL).Flood-affected districts include Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga, Mahi, Sabarmati in Gujarat and West flowing Rivers in Kutch, such as Narmada and Upper Chambal and Mahi in Madhya Pradesh and Chambal and its tributaries, Mahi, Sabarmati, Luni in Rajasthan.Monsoon rain since June 1 over the country is 8 percent excess with 5 percent excess over east and northeast India; 14 percent deficient over northwest India; 14 percent surplus over central India and 25 percent surplus over south peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-rain-recorded-in-gujarat-rajasthan-heavy-rain-warning-for-delhi-on-wednesday/story-YOBtuRFNVh4wUQpmrfkojM.html
25-08-2020||India||Covid-19: No public functions, religious gatherings in UP till September 30||In Uttar Pradesh, public functions, religious festivals and political meetings have been banned till September 30 in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Kumar Awasthi has issued an order in this regard. It says that all types of processions and tableaux will also be banned. This prohibition has been imposed because it is feared that anti-social elements may attempt to disturb law and order and communal harmony. However, there will be no restriction on the installation of idols and tazias in homes.Apart from all the District Magistrates and Police Officers, this order has been sent to the Police Commissioners, ADG Zone and IG-DIG Range and they have been asked to strengthen the security arrangements of all the religious places of the state, especially Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mathura, Shriram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Area Ayodhya, Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Varanasi and historic site Taj Mahal.  Along with this, instructions have been given to keep a watchful eye on anti-social elements in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-public-functions-religious-gatherings-in-up-till-september-30/story-nZdyx9bkTTmqkuH0QWMScL.html
25-08-2020||India||Phase 2 trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate set to begin today||The phase 2 human clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to begin from Tuesday.The observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ‘‘Covishield’‘ on healthy Indian adults will begin at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in Pune. Serum Institute of India has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, developed by the University of Oxford.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have got all approvals from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). We are going to start the human clinical trial process at the Bharati Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University)  Medical College and Hospital from August 25.“We are sure that in line with the philosophy of our group, we are going to make available a world class Covid-19 vaccine for people of our country and make our country ‘AatmaNirbhar’,” Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs, Serum Institute of India (SII) told PTI.    As a rapid regulatory response, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 3 had given nod to the Pune Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country.The trials are to be conducted across 17 selected sites, including AIIMS Delhi, B J Medical College in Pune, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, AIIMS-Jodhpur, Nehru Hospital in Gorakhpur, Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam and JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research in Mysore, SII sources had said.Around 1,600 people aged above 18 years are likely to participate in the trials.  To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. Initial results of the first two-phases of trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, sources had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-2-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-set-to-begin-today/story-u3khrliAC3ecI23uXM24rL.html
25-08-2020||India||Delhi BJP asks Anna Hazare to join its ‘mass movement’ against AAP govt||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Monday wrote to social activist Anna Hazare, urging him to join his party’s “mass movement” against the government led by AAP, which he alleged was the “new name of social, political and economic corruption”.  In his letter, Gupta alleged that the AAP government has demolished all parameters of “political purity” and also accused it of “planning” the northeast Delhi riots in February, which had left at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.“The Aam Aadmi Party, which came to the government in the name of clean and fair politics, has demolished all the parameters of political purity,” Gupta wrote in his letter to Hazare.No immediate reaction on Gupta’s letter was available from the AAP. The AAP has launched a sustained attack on the BJP, levelling allegations of corruption in the three municipal corporations ruled by the party and also in connection with the riots in the city.The two sides have been hitting out at each other on a range of issues, including corruption, waterlogging and civic amenities in the city along with the riots, in the run up to the civic body polls due in 2022.  “The people of Delhi have suffered the communal riots planned by the AAP,” Gupta said in his letter.Senior AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj had recently hit out at the BJP, accusing it of “orchestrating” the riots in Delhi.“Aam Aadmi Party is the new name of social, political and economic corruption and we are constantly fighting against them. Therefore, we request Anna Hazare to come to Delhi and raise voice against corruption and support us in the movement.“The voice of Anna Hazare will have to be raised again for the relief of the youth and for people of Delhi who feel betrayed by the the Kejriwal government,” Gupta said.  Kejriwal was a frontline leader of the anti-corruption movement launched by Anna Hazare from Ramleela ground in Delhi in 2011.  Later, Kejriwal and his supporters joined active politics and formed the AAP which formed government thrice in Delhi and also emerged as the main opposition party in Punjab Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-bjp-asks-anna-hazare-to-join-its-mass-movement-against-aap-govt/story-ePcHcdMZ50znqVvCnp9NSM.html
25-08-2020||India||Number of devotees from outside J-K visiting Vaishno Devi shrine to be reviewed this week||Following pandemic restrictions, the number of devotees permitted to visit the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine from outside the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is likely to be increased, according to a shrine official.At present 2,000 devotees are allowed to visit the shrine out of which 1,900 are residents are of Jammu and Kashmir and 100 from outside the union territory.Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executing Officer, Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Katra Jammu and Kashmir told ANI, “The capacity of outsiders which was fixed at 100 will be reviewed this week and is likely to be increased. However, the maximum limit of 500 people will be maintained till September.”It has also been decided that visitors heading for the shrine will have to carry Covid-19 negative report not older than 48 hours.Moreover, only those devotees with online registration will be permitted.“People above 60-years of age, children below 10, pregnant women and persons with co-morbidity will not be given permission to visit the shrine as a measure toward Covid-19 precautions,” said Ramesh Kumar.Vaishno Devi Yatra resumed from August 16 since it was closed for approximately five months due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-devotees-from-outside-j-k-visiting-vaishno-devi-shrine-to-be-reviewed-this-week/story-uPGIvo8GZBhTqLBHtYgP1K.html
25-08-2020||India||Raigad building collapse: 60 rescued, 25 to 30 still trapped, says minister||Around 60 people have been rescued and 25 to 30 are still feared to be trapped under the debris of a five-storey building in Maharashtra’s Raigad which collapsed on Monday evening, news agency ANI reported quoting district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare.Three teams of National Disaster Response Force are on the spot to carry out the rescue operations, Tatkare said, adding, “one death reported so far. Injured are being treated and some are discharged. Those with serious injuries were taken to Mumbai for advanced treatment.”“Probe has begun. We want a special investigation team to be constituted,” she also said, according to ANI.The ‘Tariq garden’ building collapsed in Kajalpura area of Raigad district, around 170 kilometres from Mumbai. The accident took place at around 6 in the evening, according to local residents.The multi-storey building, which was 10 years old, housed over 40 apartments. A few people rushed outside the building to a safe spot after the first three floors collapsed, according to Nidhi Chaudhari, the Raigad district collector.After the building collapse mishap, Union home minister Amit Shah expressed shock over the incident and assured all possible assistance with the rescue operations.“The collapse of a building in Raigad, Maharashtra is very tragic. Have spoken to DG @NDRFHQ to provide all possible assistance, teams are on the way and will be assisting with the rescue operations as soon as possible. Praying for everyone’s safety,” Shah said in a tweet. The collapse of a building in Raigad, Maharashtra is very tragic. Have spoken to DG @NDRFHQ to provide all possible assistance, teams are on the way and will be assisting with the rescue operations as soon as possible. Praying for everyone’s safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raigad-building-collapse-60-rescued-25-to-30-still-trapped-says-minister/story-GV3ggZrMLPiKGElhME7jCJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Delhiwale: A human solo||It is late in the night — about 10.30pm. The traffic has thinned down. Swiftly darting his eyes around, the man rests his gaze upon a young passerby by the roadside. He walks up to him, and whispers in English, “Brother, don’t take offence but I see that you are very lucky.” The passerby stares at him for a moment, looking puzzled, and goes away with quick steps. The man lowers his head, and then raises his eyes, staring around suspiciously. He finally sits down on a bench, here on this central Delhi street.“I’m in a very dire situation at the moment,” Sanjeev says. In dusty blue jeans and long whitish kurta, he has a green scarf hanging around his neck. His beard is scraggly. He has drooping shoulders; his eyes are sunken. Sitting away from the orange glow of the street lamp, he is reduced to his silhouette.“I collect money from passers-by,” he says in fluent English. “These are donations so that I can take care of my daily food.”Taking out a packet from his kurta, Sanjeev says, “If you don’t mind, try these.”Over Parle-G biscuits, Sanjeev gives clues about his life:• He is from Benares, UP.• He was born in 1965.• He is a graduate in Sociology.• He was employed in a TV manufacturing company.• He has parents, two brothers, a wife and a son. They all live in Benares.• He came to Delhi 20 years ago.He says, “I’m in no position to go back to Benares… for economic and maintenance (sic) reasons.”Can’t his family be a support?He answers vaguely, muttering: “Time passes.”During the day, Sanjeev sleeps under the shade of a bus stop. In the evening, he collects “donations” for a few hours and stays awake, alone. He says he has no friends.For 10 years, he worked as a repairer in a television manufacturing company. His job would take him to different states but once every month he would come to the company’s Delhi head-office to get his pay cheque. When Sanjeev lost his job and returned to Benares, his parents married him off. A year later he had a son. Soon afterwards, he left home for reasons he asks not to share publicly. “So many years have gone by since then. I haven’t seen them all this while. In fact, I came to Delhi because it is such a big city. No one can find you here if you want to be lost.“Does he regret leaving his family?“Brother, there is a saying in Hindi: Apno ki do baat nahi bardasht kar sakte. Baad mein lakhon gairon ki baatien bardasht karte hain.[While we will never tolerate even two minor barbs from our loved ones,We are later ready to tolerate far nastier words by strangers.]”He now walks away, probably in search of “donations”, his eyes darting around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-human-solo/story-tiydsK6GbtjQvONSwl0L9L.html
25-08-2020||India||Narada case: ED issues notices to 5 TMC leaders||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday sent notices to five Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders and summoned a suspended Indian Police Service officer in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. An ED official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the leaders – Lok Sabha members Saugata Roy and Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, former Lok Sabha member Aparupa Poddar, minister Suvendu Adhikari and TMC leader Ratna Chatterjee -- have been asked to furnish details of property owned by their families. Chatterjee’s husband, the former Kolkata mayor Sovon Chatterjee, is also an accused in this case. The case is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). While Saugata Roy and Suvendu Adhikari said they would reply after receiving ED notices, the other three leaders were not immediately available for comments. The case pertains to a controversy that erupted in March 2016 after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. The CBI filed an FIR in the case on March 16, 2017, acting on a Calcutta high court order, which was upheld by the Supreme Court. The CBI and ED probed bank transactions and wire transfers. The CBI also registered FIR against then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy, who later joined the BJP and became the opposition party’s election strategist in Bengal.The suspended officer is Saiyaad Mustafa Hussain Mirza, who was posted as superintendent of police in Burdwan district during the sting operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-case-ed-issues-notices-to-5-tmc-leaders/story-h40bUdOHvkrQ727aEsH2iI.html
25-08-2020||India||Tributes pour in for Arun Jaitley||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other national leaders paid their respects to the late Arun Jaitley on Monday on the occasion of his first death anniversary. “On this day, last year, we lost Shri Arun Jaitleyji. I miss my friend a lot. Arunji served India diligently. His wit, intellect, legal acumen and warm personality were legendary,” PM tweeted. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s social media handle posted a video with the message: “He left us early but he also left behind indelible imprints on the Indian economy, law, governance and probity in public life. His impeccable life will serve as a guiding path for the talented future generations.” Union home minister Amit Shah remembered Jaitley as “an outstanding politician, prolific orator and a great human being who had no parallels in Indian polity” and described him as “multifaceted and a friend of friends, who will always be remembered for his towering legacy, transformative vision and devotion to the nation.” Jaitley, 66, was admitted to New Delhi’s AIIMS on August 9 after he complained of uneasiness. He died of multiple organ failure on August 24 last year. Jaitley’s daughter Sonali Jaitley-Bakshi, a lawyer, posted a picture of her early childhood and tweeted: “Today marks one year without my father. Do I miss him? Yes. Do I miss his presence? Never, for he is always with me. I love you, dad --- thanks for everything.” His son, Rohan Jaitley, shared old photographs of the leader and tweeted, “It’s been a year since you left us, dad @arunjaitley. In many ways, it feels like it was just yesterday. The pain is still as fresh. But so is my resolve to live by your values, principles and vision. You are always with us. So missed, so loved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-for-arun-jaitley/story-ByhfqIGFNBxjtsjiono5FJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Regional BJP leaders say Congress top posts reserved for family||The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leaders took a dig at the Congress saying the top post in the party is reserved for “Gandhi family” members and the Congress leaders re-imposed their faith in the leadership of interim president Sonia Gandhi and former chief Rahul Gandhi.The comments came during the seven-hour-long virtual Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, in which party leaders asked Sonia Gandhi to continue for another six months. Gandhi asked the CWC to start the process to elect the new president.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a jibe at the Congress high command on Monday saying all the posts in the Congress are reserved for a family whereas an ordinary party worker in the BJP can become an MLA, MP, chief minister and even Prime Minister. He said this while addressing a gathering of the BJP workers in their programme in Gwalior on Monday during the party’s membership drive in Gwalior-Chambal region. Also read: Seed of letter germinated at dinner hosted by Tharoor five months ago“Congress leaders don’t have courage to hear truth. Sycophants are considered as loyal and those who tell truth are considered as traitors”, said Chouhan, while referring to a letter written by some Congress leaders to Sonia Gandhi asking for restructuring of the party. “When Jyotiraditya Scindiaji raised voice for justice to people he was accused of colluding with BJP. In the same way, the senior Congress leaders like Kapil Sibal and Ghulam Nabi Azad are being accused when they are demanding a full-fledged president in the Congress. No one can save such a party”, said Chouhan.However, Scindia refused to comment saying that the rumbling in the Congress was its internal matter.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said the “Congress was like a school where only headmaster’s child tops the class”. Former Union minister and BJP leader Uma Bharti said the Congress needs a grassroot leader like Mahatma Gandhi if it wants to revive. Hours before the CWC’s meeting state Congress president Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh, both former chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, sought to throw their weight behind the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a series of tweets late night on Sunday. Several Congress leaders asked Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president.Jharkhand Congress president Dr Rameshwar Oraon in a letter to Sonia Gandhi requested her not to resign from the post of the party president. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot earlier in the day had expressed faith in leadership of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and said the party could not survive without them. Also read: Sonia stays in charge of Congress after acrimonious CWC meetFormer Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah wrote to Sonia asking her remain as party president and convince Rahul Gandhi to take up the party’s top post if her health does not permit to continue in her role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regional-bjp-leaders-say-congress-top-posts-reserved-for-family/story-1mUIZaOsWqfLyWD8LQ2qkO.html
25-08-2020||India||Seed of letter germinated at dinner hosted by Tharoor five months ago||Informal deliberations over the need for reforms within the Congress party started at least five months ago at a dinner hosted by Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor, several Congressmen who were his guests have confirmed to HT -- a disclosure that highlights that the letter sent to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi by 23 leaders was in the making for some time. Importantly, many who were a part of the dinner meeting have not put their signatures to the letter, which was addressed to Gandhi and sent on August 7. Prominent among those who attended Tharoor’s dinner – but did not sign the letter asking for a “visible” and “active” leader – are former Union minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram, Sachin Pilot, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, and Mani Shankar Iyer.Singhvi confirmed his presence at the dinner. “I was invited to the dinner by Shashi Tharoor at a day’s notice. There was an informal discussion on the constructive issue of reforms within the party. Subsequently, I was not informed about the formulation of the letter, at any stage,” he told HT. Chidambaram said he did not want to comment on “party affairs”. Pilot, only last month, led a revolt against Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, before returning to the party fold, after a meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and did not comment on the matter. Tharoor did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.Mani Shankar Iyer was more forthright , saying, “I did not sign [the letter] because I was not asked to. Nobody approached me.” Of the dinner in March, Iyer said, “There was a general discussion to revive the party and the need to go back to our secular credentials. There was a suggestion, which nobody opposed, of the need to send a letter. Nobody, however, approached me after that dinner.” The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, discussed the controversial letter signed by the leaders at a marathon session on Monday -- and then decided to maintain status quo, although there was talk that she would now be assisted by a committee for the next six months till a meeting of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The CWC resolution, however, made no mention of a committee. One Member of Parliament, who is a signatory to the letter and was also at Tharoor’s dinner, said on condition of anonymity that he signed because he believes that there is an urgent need for reforms within the Congress. “It is about issues, not personalities. The Gandhis and other senior leaders should read the message and not shoot the messenger. We have put our names to the letter because we believe that we need to reform. There is no cloak and dagger here.”The letter represented the first direct questioning of the Gandhis. The party has faced revolts in the past but no one from within has challenged the authority of Sonia Gandhi since Sharad Pawar’s revolt in 1999. The larger point made at the end of the day, after the long meeting of the CWC, was the need for the party to stay united. It will be of little comfort to the Gandhis that there are many within the fold who did not put their signature to the letter but are in favour of seeing a reformed Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seed-of-letter-germinated-at-dinner-hosted-by-tharoor-five-months-ago/story-PzwOnvwsM5aGCIUU8ZazdI.html
25-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Do we know enough about the strains of the Sars-CoV2 virus in India? How many strains are there? Is there one dominant strain? Are there multiple strains?Last week, Malaysia claimed to have discovered a strain that was “10 times more infectious” and “easily spread by a superspreader”, but as researchers around the world were quick to point out, while this strain might have been new to that country, it was the predominant strain in most parts of the world even as far back as March and April (including in Europe). Called the G clade (a biological term meaning descendants of a common ancestor), this strain is the dominant strain in India. And it is, unfortunately, a virulent one, which could perhaps explain the virus’s run through the country; India ended Monday with 3.16 million cases of Covid-19, of which 762,051 were active. It saw 58,532 deaths till Monday night.Around the same time the Malaysian authorities made their claim – resulting in sensational headlines around the world – researchers in Singapore wrote in a study published in The Lancet that a variant of Sars-CoV2 with some of its DNA missing actually caused a milder infection than the other strain. In a small study, it was found that people in whom this strain was found did not require either oxygen support or to be put on the ventilator.Compared to many other viruses, Sars-CoV2 has stayed relatively stable – and that is both a good thing and a bad thing. It is good because it means vaccines currently under development have a high chance of succeeding. It is a bad thing because there were hopes during the initial weeks of the pandemic that, like some viruses do, Sars-CoV2 would mutate into an unviable strain and taper off.The ability of viruses to mutate is one reason why some experts are worried about Russia’s Sputnik-V vaccine, which hasn’t undergone the kind of rigorous tests any such vaccine should – an ineffective vaccine may, far from proving to be a cure, merely cause the virus to mutate, perhaps into something far more dangerous.Not that Sars-CoV2 in its current form is benign. Around the world, researchers and doctors no longer see Covid-19 as a respiratory disease – it affects everything from the kidneys to the brain – and are beginning, especially as they set out to answer questions about long-Covid, to believe that it could be much more. Long-Covid refers to the sometimes debilitating and long-drawn-out fallout of Covid-19 that some patients suffer – sometimes even without being seriously ill. Those trying to find out more about long-Covid believe that one explanation for it could be that Covid-19 affects at least some patients the same way an autoimmune disorder does. An autoimmune disease is simply one where the immune system attacks the host (or an organ of the host), or one where it weakens the body’s response to infections. While this (accepting Covid-19 as an autoimmune disease) could explain some things, more research is needed before it can be classified as such.Interestingly, one of the most promising lines of treatment for autoimmune diseases involves the use of monoclonal antibodies (called so because the antibodies are all made up of identical cells, each of which is cloned from the same parent). Several companies (Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Eli Lilly) are testing monoclonal antibodies for Covid-19. HT’s health editor Sanchita Sharma has been writing about them from early July, from around the time Regeneron’s monoclonal antibody REGN-COV2 entered Phase 3 trials. Scientists believe that the use of monoclonal antibodies early on in the treatment of Covid-19 could save more lives.Another treatment for autoimmune diseases involves the use of interferons – proteins released by the body’s immune system and which provoke, regulate, or amplify the response to pathogens. And companies are experimenting with interferons, too, in the treatment of Covid-19. A study reported in July, and conducted by the University of Southampton and a company Synairgen, showed that an inhaled interferon helped Covid-19 patients recover faster.A vaccine is necessary and important, but we’d do well to keep track of the work being done on interferons and monoclonal antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-nt3CtTuraC9oTHbj4lbwEM.html
25-08-2020||India||One killed, four injured in house collapse in Nagpur||One person was killed and four members of his family were injured when a nearly 50-year-old dilapidated house collapsed in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city early Monday morning, officials said.The ground-plus-one-storey house, located at Azad Chowk in the Sadar area, collapsed around 4.40 am, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s chief fire officer Rajendra Uchke said.Five people were pulled out from the debris and rushed to hospital, he said.Among them, a 43-year-old man, identified as Kishore Govind Teksultan, was declared brought dead, another official said.The other four, including a senior citizen, are members of his family and undergoing treatment in the hospital for their injuries, he added.A police official said 14 members of the Teksultan family were staying on the first floor, while seven tenants were residing on the ground floor of the house which was in a dilapidated condition.The Sadar police have registered an accidental death case and started a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-four-injured-in-house-collapse-in-nagpur/story-tial49l1eDBftB3Z5vkDoM.html
25-08-2020||India||3 key dissenters ‘positive’ after Sonia’s statement||Three key signatories of a controversial letter asking for structural changes in the Congress appeared to strike a conciliatory note on Monday, welcoming a statement by interim Congress chief Sonia Gandhi about bridging internal differences, and her decision to remain at the helm until the next party president is appointed.Senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Mukul Wasnik and Manish Tewari -- all among 23 leaders who signed the letter addressed to Sonia Gandhi -- met at the residence of Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, late on Monday evening after an acrimonious seven-hour-long Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting. Sibal told HT that he wanted to be briefed on the meeting, which only four of the 23 leaders -- including Wasnik and Azad -- attended by virtue of being CWC members. Also read: Seed of letter germinated at dinner hosted by Tharoor five months ago”Mrs Gandhi made a very good statement. It is a very, very thoughtful gesture on her part,” Sibal said, referring Sonia Gandhi’s statement at the CWC meeting that the letter should be treated as a part of the past. “We are a large family, we have differences on many occasions but in the end, we come together as one. The need of the hour is to fight for the cause of the people and forces that are failing this country,” Sonia Gandhi said, according to party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala.Azad also reacted positively. “The outcome is very good’’ said Azad, ”She has decided to stay on till an AICC session is called to choose the next Congress President.’’”We are heading in the right direction,’’ said Congress MP Vivek Tankha, who had also signed the letter.But a fourth Congress leader, who asked to not be named, disagreed. “This letter is not the end, it’s the beginning- at the CWC, you are trying to shoot the messenger. But we are only there to raise issues,” he said, referring to the critcisim directed at the letter’s signatories during the CWC meeting. For now, said one person aware of developments, the 23 leaders have decided to adopt a “wait and watch’’ approach.The leaders who signed the letter -- who want elections at all levels of the Congress organisation and consultations on key issues -- are waiting to see if their suggestions are taken on board, said the person quoted above. Rahul Gandhi has suggested a mechanism to help the Congress president which may include appointing members to a parliamentary board to advise the president, or picking vice-presidents.Also read: Sonia stays in charge of Congress after acrimonious CWC meetTHREE LETTERS?Although only one letter asking for an overhaul in party processes -- which HT hasn’t seen, and which has only partially been reported by the media -- triggered an internal tussle in the Congress, HT has learnt that the signatories of the first letter may have written at least two more. The first letter -- it may have up to 100 signatories but only 23 of whom are known, according to a second person aware of developments-- was sent to Sonia Gandhi on August 7, and then a second was sent to her on August 15 as a reminder.This person quoted above said that a third letter was written to an external party, and it raised “legal issues” with the functioning of the Congress and its adherence to its own internal rules and guidelines. Sibal refused to comment on this issue. The repeated letters was one of the key reasons that Sonia Gandhi was upset with the signatories, said the second person quoted above.“I have no grudge against those who have written about problems but I am pained by it appearing in the media,” Sonia Gandhi said at the meetingTo which Azad, the first of the letter writers to speak at the meeting, said, “Leaks are a problem with politicians. Whether it is Indira’s [former PM Indira Gandhi] cabinet, [former PM] Narasimha Raos or UPA’s [United Progressive Alliance], cabinet notes have routinely been leaked.’’ He went on to add, “There are four of us here at the meeting and despite Vengugopal ji (the general secretary organisation) instructing all to leave their phones, everyone outside knows what we have said here.”Former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha, who first hinted at a letter written by dissenters last week, suggested that internal decisions of the party can face a legal challenge. ”The INC Constitution is clear under Sec 18 (H) that all decisions taken by the CWC must happen under a freshly elected AICC or else it will be unconstitutional and illegal. If any violation occurs they can be challenged. They will be challenged,’’ Jha tweeted on Monday morning.According to the Congress party’s constitution, section 18 H says, “In the event of any emergency by reason of any cause such as the death or resignation of the President elected as above, the senior most - General Secretary will discharge the routine functions of the President until the Working Committee appoints a provisional President pending the election of a regular President by the AICC.’’A Congress MP, who is also a signatory in the letter, said that according to these provisions of the Congress, the CWC’s decisions were now without legal validity. But a senior leader of the Congress dismissed this stand and asked why four signatories of the letter were participating in the CWC meeting if there were doubts about its legal veracity. “Since last year, there have been four CWC meetings. Why didn't they point this out in there?’’he asked, speaking on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-key-dissenters-positive-after-sonia-s-statement/story-FdNsnVkwBjKeTeI6QE5k7L.html
25-08-2020||India||Kapil Sibal withdraws statement after Rahul Gandhi calls him||The intense drama in the virtual Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday spilled over into the public domain when, reacting to a tweet by Congress veteran Kapil Sibal, former party president Rahul Gandhi called him personally to deny remarks attributed to him.It was preceded by a bit of friction between Sibal and the Congress chief spokesperson Randip Surjewala, who rejected allegations that Rahul Gandhi accused some seniors of “colluding” with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the high-voltage CWC discussions.According to party functionaries, minutes after Sibal’s tweet, Rahul Gandhi came to know of it. And soon after, Sibal received a call from Gandhi’s key aide, Kanishka Singh. According to people close to Sibal, he conveyed his anguish to Singh, and soon after, Gandhi left the CWC meeting to call Sibal and categorically told him that he made no such comments.“Sh. Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Pl. don’t be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread,” Surjewala replied to Sibal on the microblogging site even when the meeting of the top executive body was underway. Sibal quickly withdrew his online statement. “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet,” he announced on Twitter. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad clarified later in the day that Rahul Gandhi never stated those who wrote the letter were colluding with or doing so at the behest of the BJP. “Rahul Gandhi at no point of time inside the Congress Working Committee (CWC) or outside it has said that the signatories to the letter were doing it at the behest of the BJP. This is a totally wrong thing which has been attributed to Rahul Gandhi,” Azad told HT. In his tweet earlier in the day, Sibal, listed his acts of loyalty to underline that in his 30 years in the Congress, he had never made a statement in favour of the BJP on any issue. He pointed out how he “Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress Party”, and he is “Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP Govt”. In his own tweet, Surjewala also urged Sibal to fight together with party colleagues against the BJP. “...we all need to work together in fighting the draconian [Narendra] Modi rule rather than fighting & hurting each other & the Congress,” Surjewala wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sibal-withdraws-statement-after-rahul-calls-him/story-B5Uk3SiixTDrgGQlyL6QbK.html
25-08-2020||India||7 hours of fireworks at CWC||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting saw fireworks with almost all the members coming down heavily on the 23 dissenting leaders for writing a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi and leaking that to the media. Four of the 23 dissenters - Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada - were isolated at the CWC meeting as members lashed out at them for challenging Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. These four leaders along with 19 others, including Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan, in their letter to Sonia Gandhi sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, demanded formation of a parliamentary board and maintained that the Gandhis will always be an integral part of a “collective leadership”. A Congress functionary said the letter was triggered by apprehension among these leaders that the party high command might name a third person such as Mallikarjun Kharge or KC Venugopal as the interim chief till internal elections are held as both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are not keen to occupy the post. “They wanted to scuttle that move and ensure that a leader acceptable to all occupies the post,” he said. The CWC meeting started with Venugopal reading out Sonia Gandhi’s letter addressed to him on August 20, asking him to initiate the process to elect a new president. Addressing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi told Azad that he had sent her the letter on August 9 and then a reminder on August 17. “It was hurtful. You know me so well, Azad sahib. How could you think that I will take any decision on the leadership issue without consulting party leaders? You could always come and meet me. I retired long ago. I don’t want to hang on to this chair. So what’s the motive of this letter?” a CWC member quoted her as having said at the meeting. For his part, Rahul Gandhi questioned the timing of the letter. It was written at a time when my mother was in hospital and you attacked her when she was at her weakest and also when the party was vulnerable, fighting the BJP in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,” the CWC member quoted him as having said. “Challenging her authority and talking about the collective leadership was an insult to her. I never wanted her to be the Congress president. She too didn’t want to become again,” Rahul Gandhi is said to have told the meeting. Rahul Gandhi also asked Azad how the letter was leaked when it was written on the covering note that there is only one copy that was handed over to the Congress president and all other copies were destroyed. Party treasurer Ahmed Patel criticised the dissenters. Naming Azad, Wasnik and Sharma, he said they are occupying key posts in the party and should not have written such a letter. “I had advised you not to write any letter but you still went ahead. Do you want Sonia Gandhi to sit at home? Are you doing any favour to the Gandhis by saying they too will be part of the collective leadership? One may be angry over certain decisions in the party but that doesn’t mean you start writing letters. I too am out for the last three years but that is ok,” Patel is said to have told them.“You are talking about the collective leadership. When you met Baba Ramdev at the airport, did you go after consulting the then Prime Minister (Manmohan Singh) and the Congress president (Sonia Gandhi)?” Patel said.Sibal along with Pranab Mukherjee had met Ramdev at the Delhi airport in June 2011 to dissuade him from launching a fast. Patel also told Sharma that he should have realised what he is writing when he drafted the letter. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said urged Sonia Gandhi to continue on the post till Rahul Gandhi becomes the president. Former defence minister AK Antony said if Sonia Gandhi is unwilling then Rahul Gandhi should take over. “Weakening the high command is weakening the party. How can my colleagues write such a letter? This is cruel and unfortunate.” Ambika Soni demanded action against dissenting leaders. She said when the party can take action against block and district leaders for indiscipline why can’t it do the same against these leaders who first wrote the letter and then leaked it. She also told Azad that he became the J&K chief minister only because of Sonia Gandhi. Referring to Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with Rajya sabha members, she said Rajeev Satav never questioned Manmohan Singh. “Why did you all bring it up on twitter? What does it mean?” Wasnik insisted that he is a party loyalist and would never go against the Gandhi family. “I owe a lot to Sonia Gandhi. How can anyone say that we did it when she was in hospital? I wish her a long life. Nobody can question my loyalty to the Congress party. I am ready to face any action.” Sharma said the letter is not against the Gandhis but only seeks to point out to certain issues in the Congress. “I joined the Congress at the age of 18 years and will die as a Congressman.” When Azad was explaining the reason behind the letter, Adhir Ranjan Choudhary intervened and said “You are making lame excuses and defending the indefensible”. At this point, Sonia Gandhi asked Adhir to switch off his mike and not to speak out of turn. Jitin Prasada too said he was ready to accept the CWC decision in letter and spirit and whatever action it takes against him. “We had flagged certain organisational issues and in no way it was against the Gandhis.” RPN Singh praised Sonia Gandhi for being available 24x7 to guide the party during Jharkhand elections. “We won the elections. Secondly, I want to tell all CWC members that we should all learn politics from Sonia Gandhi.” He also told the members that it is surprising that they don’t put forth their viewpoint in the CWC which is the appropriate party forum for raising such issues. Ajay Maken said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and the BJP are afraid of Rahul Gandhi only and asked him to assume the reins of the party immediately. Rajeev Satav said he is pained that 3 of the 23 dissenters were former Youth Congress presidents and know very well how the organisation functions. Sonia Gandhi has never taken any decision without consulting the leaders. Tariq Hameed Karra demanded that Sonia Gandhi should be made lifetime president of the party. He described the move by senior leaders as less of an internal desire and more of an external design to create an alternative leadership in the Congress and the move to declare her as lifetime president would defeat that external design. A Chella Kumar said when Article 370 was abrogated in Jammu and Kashmir, three former chief ministers were put under detention. “People keep asking us why the former Congress chief minister (Ghulam Nabi Azad) had not been detained and was roaming freely.” To this, Azad told him to check the Rajya Sabha records as he was the only opposition leader to have attacked Modi in the House. Jitendra Singh said there are many ‘Jaichands or traitors’ in the Congress. Some people reminded the dissenters that how many people they used to meet when they were ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-hours-of-fireworks-at-cwc/story-d93o5rAEPfRDgc7DT2pXsN.html
25-08-2020||India||Patna HC asks health workers to call off strike, resume duty||The Patna high court Monday directed health workers, paramedics and doctors to call off their strike immediately and resume their duties. Around 20,000 paramedical employees under the National Health Mission (NHM) in the state had struck work since Sunday while junior doctors, including those at the AIIMS-Patna and state-run medical colleges, had threatened to boycott work indefinitely from August 27 over their respective demands. Restraining the paramedical workers and doctors from going on a strike, a division bench of the Patna high court said the violation of the order would be tantamount to contempt of court. It listed the case for further hearing on August 26. The division bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice S Kumar also issued notice to the Bihar State Contractual Health Employees Federation (BSCHEF) and the Junior Doctors Association (JDA), Bihar. The bench, which drew upon orders by the Supreme Court, said the medical officers and the paramedical staff employed in government hospitals were duty bound to extend medical assistance for preserving human life. Failure on their part to provide timely medical treatment in the need of hour resulted in violation of right to life. “During the time of current situation and circumstances prevalent as a result of pandemic Covid-19, none of the functionaries empowered and authorised under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, can refrain from discharging their duties and functions, more so by resorting to the mechanism of strike which perhaps may be illegal. The doctors and the para medical staff(s) are constitutionally duty bound, even so on humanitarian grounds, to protect and preserve human life,” the bench said. “Perhaps, they may have some genuine grievance, but then for redressal thereof, proper mechanism has to be resorted to, but state cannot be put to ransom by resorting to an illegal method of protest, i.e. going on indefinite strike,” the bench added. Responding to the court order, secretary of the Bihar State Contractual Health Employees Federation, Lallan Kumar Singh, said, “We will share our viewpoint in court.” “The government has not revised our salary since 2011. Besides, we do not even have life insurance cover. We have also been kept out of the state government incentive to give one-month basic salary to healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty. Demand for Employees Provident Fund is also among our 17-point charter of demands,” he added. The NHM workers were on strike between July 20 and 23 as well. President of the Resident Doctors Association of AIIMS-Patna Dr Vinay Kumar said, “The government and authorities concerned must hear and solve all the genuine concerns of doctors and residents of the state. All the health professionals are working tirelessly day and night in times of Covid-19. We never want to withdraw our services as we are responsible for the lives of patients. But where do we go if no one will hear our genuine concerns?” The junior doctors are demanding a hike in stipend and relaxation in clauses of the government bond for post-graduate medicos, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-hc-asks-health-workers-to-call-off-strike-resume-duty/story-9Z9snnFQ9YcVMYAJPjF5NI.html
25-08-2020||India||Covid danger: Effects may linger long after recovery||Clinicians the world over are increasingly treating Covid-19 as more than a respiratory disease, with patients reporting neurological, autoimmune and cardiovascular symptoms that can manifest as strokes, heart attacks, multisystem inflammatory syndrome, cytokine storm, loss of taste and smell, and fatigue that may occur and last for weeks after recovery.Close to eight months since the disease first came to light, and after 23.7 millions infections and 814,000 deaths across the world, the range of effects the Sars-Cov2 has had on people adds to the volume of many unknowns about a virus that has caused the first pandemic in a century. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Around 50% patients have residual symptoms post recovery, which range from fatigue and weakness to breathlessness that requires oxygenation at home even after testing negative for Covid-19. In some people, the symptoms can persist for weeks,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior pulmonologist and critical care specialist at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals in Delhi, where he has been treating Covid-19 patients since the hospital established isolation wards on March 26.One of his patients is Achal Jain, 53, who has been experiencing breathlessness, exhaustion and headaches since he recovered from Covid-19 four months ago. “Four people from our family were hospitalised with coronavirus in April after we contracted it from a migrant camp where we went to feed the hungry. We all recovered, but I still feel tired and have trouble sleeping, even though I did not need ICU admission,” said Jain, a businessman who lives in Yamuna Vihar in north-east Delhi. Long Covid While there is no peer-reviewed data on such long Covid, a survey of 1,567 people on Facebook page called Survivors Corps showed long-term symptoms stretched from extreme fatigue to difficulty focusing and moving. While all long-haulers suffered from fatigue, more than half had difficulty breathing, concentrating, exercising and sleeping, while at least 40% had anxiety, memory problems and dizziness. A study of 110 patients treated for Covid in a hospital in Bristol, UK, found 75% were experiencing at least one symptoms three months after recovery, with breathlessness, fatigue and muscle ache reported by 81 patients long after being diagnosed free of disease. These symptoms overlap with those of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (myalgic encephalomyelitis), which is a disease of unknown etiology. “Although a causal link between Sars-CoV2 and the appearance of autoimmune and auto-inflammatory diseases has not yet been firmly established, it is suggested by the temporal association with the current Covid-19 pandemic and the history of exposure of affected patients to Sars-CoV2,” according to a study in the scientific journal, Nature Reviews Rheumatology, on June 4. Immune threat Emerging reports show Sars-CoV2 infection is followed by various autoimmune and auto-inflammatory diseases, including multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. “Early diagnosis of Covid-19-linked autoimmune and auto-inflammatory diseases, and prompt initiation of therapy, is crucial for successful recovery and preventing end-organ damage and fatality,” said the Nature study, which suggested that Sars-CoV2 could act as a direct trigger of autoimmune and/or auto-inflammatory conditions either by molecular mimicry or some other, unknown mechanisms. “When Sars-Cov2 attaches to the spike protein ACE-2, it activates the cytokine release syndrome that activates immune cells to increase inflammation. The pro-inflammation cytokines include IL-1, IL-6 and IL-10. The chief among them is IL-6 that causes direct damage to cells and triggers other cells to release cytokines, leading to damage to all organs with ACE-2, which include the lungs, heart, blood vessels, kidneys, liver and gastrointestinal tract,” said Arvinder S Soin, chairman of the Medanta Liver Transplant Institute, Medanta-The Medicity, Gurugram. “IL-6 has been implicated in triggering a cytokine story and in the pathogenesis of myocarditis, which explains why drugs that block IL-6 like the steroid dexamethasone and monoclonal antibodies tocilizumab and sarilumab benefit patents with Covid-19,” added Dr Soin, who is the national lead of the Indian multi-centre trial on Tocilizumab (a drug used to treat auto-immune conditions) in moderate and severe Covid-19. Blood vessel trouble Heart attacks and stroke after recovery have also been reported in otherwise healthy patients. Heart images of people taken 10 weeks after Covid-19 infection found 78 of 100 had cardiac involvement, and 60% had ongoing myocardial inflammation, which was independent of pre-existing conditions, severity and course of the illness, and the time from the original diagnosis, according to a study published on July 27 in the journal JAMA Cardiology.“A study of patients in Wuhan, China, found 5% experienced stroke. Neurological symptoms were seen in 36.4% of patients, but were more common in patients with severe disease according to respiratory status, which included stroke, impaired consciousness and muscle injury,” said Dr Pushpendra Renjen, senior neurologist, Apollo Hospital. The study was reported in JAMA Neurology in April. Also read: High virus in kids with Covid-19, but are they contagious?“The disease is just eight months old, and though we are learning with each passing day, it will take years to fully understand the long-term effects of Covid-19,” added Dr Renjen.Way forward With long Covid increasingly being reported in patients in India, the Union health ministry has begun formulating guidelines on the management of post-recovery long-haul complications. “A section of recovered patients experience respiratory or heart-related issues, renal or liver complications, or even ophthalmological side effects. A joint monitoring group chaired by director general health services (Dr Rajiv Garg) is studying data from Covid-19 hospitals across India to draft guidelines on the long-term care required,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. People with long Covid met World Health Organisation (WHO) director general Dr Adhanom G Tedros on Friday. “These patients want three things: recognition, rehabilitation and research. Recognition of their disease, appropriate rehabilitation services, and more research to be done into the long-term effects of this new illness. We still know relatively little about the long-term effects,” said Dr Tedros, in a statement. “My message to these patients was... we are committed to working with countries to ensure you receive the services you need, and to advancing research to serve you better,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-danger-effects-may-linger-long-after-recovery/story-dWO2z1LoOZlA5qQ99ihq1M.html
25-08-2020||India||Sonia stays in charge of Congress after acrimonious CWC meet||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday resolved that Sonia Gandhi will continue as party president until an All India Congress Committee (AICC) session is convened, rejecting the concerns raised by 23 Congress leaders who criticised the functioning of the party and asked for structural changes in a controversial letter whose contents became public last week.The CWC — held in the backdrop of the first-ever show of dissent by prominent leaders against the party’s first family — authorised Sonia Gandhi to effect any necessary organisational changes, reaffirmed its faith in both Sonia and former president Rahul Gandhi.  There was sharp criticism of those who signed the letter at the party’s highest decision-making body, which met for seven hours on Monday and witnessed stormy exchanges between the leaders.The discussion focused largely on the timing of the letter, the intent behind it, and its leak; rather than on its contents. Rahul Gandhi led the attack on the signatories by saying it came when the Congress was fighting political battles in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, and Sonia Gandhi was in hospital. The CWC, in its formal resolution, also emphasised that issues must be raised within party forums in the interest of “propriety and discipline”, and not “through the media or in public fora”.Only four of the 23 leaders who signed the letter are CWC members, which made them eligible to attend the meeting — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada. Attacked for criticising the leadership, the dissidents expressed their support for Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, claimed that the letter was not intended to question the leadership of the Nehru-Gandhi family, and it had been “misconstrued”, but asserted that it had been written within the limits of a democratic party. According to people familiar with the contents of the letter, sent on August 7, a set of leaders — which also included Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and Milind Deora, among others — criticised the lack of honest introspection after electoral defeats, and asked for a full-time, effective, “active” and “visible” president; elections at all levels in the party (including the CWC); establishing an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party; and a national coalition with like-minded parties, among other steps.HT has not seen a copy of the letter.Monday’s CWC resolution, which is the final word in the party for now, after enumerating the challenges facing the country, stated that Sonia and Rahul Gandhi are “two voices that have been at the forefront of exposing the government’s inadequate responses, divisive politics and audacious propaganda” and that the two have “inspired a generation of Indians”; it pledged to “strengthen” their hands “in every possible way”; and asserted that “no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture”. According to several leaders present in the meeting who HT spoke to, the proceedings began with Sonia Gandhi reiterating her decision to step down, as she had noted in a letter to party general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal last week. She took over as interim chief last August, after Rahul Gandhi resigned after the Congress defeat in the Lok Sabha elections. “In the interest of the party, I ask CWC to begin deliberations to put in place the process of transition to relieve me of my duties,’’ she wrote in the letter. There was, however, overwhelming support for Sonia and Rahul Gandhi — among the 52 members who spoke, a majority either wanted Sonia to continue or Rahul to take over, or the former to continue till the latter took over. According to one person at the meeting, Sonia Gandhi directly addressed Azad, the senior-most leader among the letter signatories, “You know me so well, Azad sahib. How could you think that I will take any decision on the leadership issue without consulting party leaders? You could always come and meet me. I retired long ago. I don’t want to hang on to this chair. So, what’s the motive of this letter?”Rahul Gandhi, too, was critical of the timing of the letter, and referred to the fact that the party was engaged in political battles when it was written (in Rajasthan, it was dealing with an intraparty rebellion led by Sachin Pilot, while in Madhya Pradesh, it faces a set of crucial bypolls), and that Sonia Gandhi was then in the hospital. According to a second person who participated in the meeting, referring to his mother, Sonia, Rahul said, “She didn’t want to be Congress president, and I didn’t want her to be because of her health, and yet you all insisted that she become [the president]. Why then do you have a problem with her? Challenging her authority and talking about the collective leadership was an insult to her.” Rahul was incorrectly reported on Monday morning to have alleged that the letter-writers were in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), leading to Sibal putting out a tweet defending his commitment to the party. This, in turn, led to Gandhi calling and speaking to Sibal to clarify he had never made such a remark — which, then, saw Sibal withdraw his tweet. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh said the letter was “unfortunate” and shouldn’t have been written, even as he supported Sonia Gandhi’s continued stint as president. Former defence minister AK Antony called the letter “cruel”. Ahmed Patel, among Sonia Gandhi’s closest aides, said that he was pained that three senior leaders — Azad, Wasnik and Sharma — who occupied positions in the party had signed the letter. “There are times when a person is angry over certain decisions in the party but that does not mean one starts writing letters,” he said, according to a person familiar with the proceedings of the meeting. Party general secretary Ambika Soni demanded action against the signatories, and said rules should be the same for seniors and juniors. But on behalf of the signatories, Azad said that the letter was not directed against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and was “misconstrued” by some people. Azad claimed that for the past month, there had been rumours that Rahul Gandhi did not want to return as president while Sonia Gandhi did not want to remain party chief, and that someone else may be appointed. It was in that context of a possible third person being appointed, Azad said, the letter had been written, to urge the Congress president to discuss and consult with them before appointing somebody to the post. Mukul Wasnik said he owed a lot to Sonia Gandhi, while Anand Sharma — who was accused by Ahmed Patel of drafting the letter — said that the letter was written with the permissible limits of a democratic party. Prasada said the idea was to only flag organisational issues and the letter wasn’t directed at the Gandhis. Towards the end of the meeting, however, Sonia Gandhi sought to heal the divisions. Quoting her, the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said, “We are a large family, we have differences on many occasions but in the end, we come together as one. The need of the hour is to fight for the cause of the people and forces that are failing this country.” “Organisational issues are always addressed and process of constitution and reconstitution is a continuous one.”While no one from the dissenting group wanted to comment officially, one MP told HT, “It’s the beginning of a process and not the end.”The BJP said it had nothing to do with the Congress’s internal matter. “As a former Congress person, I can say that the mirror has cracked and it is all out in the public domain,” senior leader Tom Vadakkan said.Mumbai-based political analyst Abhay Deshpande said the dissenting leaders had raised genuine concerns about the functioning of the organisation. “They are also worried not only about their future but that of the party as well. For the time being, the issue has been put under the carpet but I am sure it will resurface within next six months if the concerns raised by them are not addressed,” he said. Author and commentator Rasheed Kidwai said, “It’s going to be a fascinating, protracted battle. The dissenters have many tricks up their sleeve so let’s see what happens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-stays-in-charge-of-cong-after-acrimonious-cwc-meet/story-XcQqkzSnUgV9o9no2MZvBJ.html
25-08-2020||India||Letter written to Sonia being misconstrued, says Azad||New Delhi: Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Monday that a letter signed by him and 22 other party leaders was being misconstrued because only parts of the document, addressed to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi, were out in the public domain. Speaking to HT after an acrimonious Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, he also clarified that the letter, which criticised the party’s functioning and called for more transparent internal processes, was not against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. “What I said at the working committee meeting was that unfortunately most of the people have not seen the full text of the letter. Because in the leak, which is unfortunate, only some portion of the letter has come out. Without going into the full text of the letter, some of our Congress colleagues yesterday said that this was being done at the behest of the BJP. I have said that if any of those people and leaders will prove that it was done at the behest of the BJP, I will resign. In that context, I said that I will resign if they prove it and I did not ask Rahul Gandhi to prove that. I have not resigned,” he said. In the letter, Azad and others sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, including full-time president, a parliamentary board if a someone outside the Gandhi family became the party chief and collective leadership. Azad had sent the letter to Sonia Gandhi on August 9 and then a reminder on August 17, after which Sonia Gandhi wrote to party general secretary in-charge of organisation, KC Venugopal, to begin deliberations to put in place a process to elect a new president. Azad read the letter out at the Congress working committee meeting on Monday. Azad said there were rumours for the past one month that Rahul Gandhi did not want to return as Congress president and that Sonia Gandhi did not want to continue as the party’s interim chief beyond August 10, when she completed one-year term. There were also suggestions that Sonia Gandhi might appoint somebody to the post and the letter was written in that context, he told the CWC. Azad said the letter was written to urge the Congress president to discuss and consult with them before appointing somebody to the post. Should a third person be appointed to the top post he or she has to do certain things such as form the parliamentary board, be active and have collective leadership, he told the CWC. Azad further said the letter was actually dos and don’ts for the third person and that they should be consulted before appointing anybody because of the importance of the position of party president. Addressing a news conference at the party headquarters in Delhi after the meeting, Venugopal said Azad told him that “all of them are part and parcel” of the CWC resolution, which noted, among other things, that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora. “The CWC urges and advises all concerned to raise such issues only in party fora in the interest of propriety and discipline,” the resolution read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/letter-written-to-sonia-being-misconstrued-says-azad/story-1DCfB78YSqJIUE4kzJqEWM.html
25-08-2020||India||ED sends notices to 5 TMC leaders in Narada case, summons suspended IPS officer||The Enforcement Directorate in Kolkata on Monday sent notices to five senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders and summoned a suspended Indian Police Service officer in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. An ED official said on condition of anonymity that the leaders have been asked to furnish details of property owned by their families. The case is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The TMC leaders are Lok Sabha members Saugata Roy and Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, former Lok Sabha member Aparupa Poddar, minister Suvendu Adhikari and TMC leader Ratna Chatterjee who is the wife of former Kolkata mayor Sovon Chatterjee who is also an accused in this case. The suspended IPS officer is Saiyaad Mustafa Hussain Mirza. Saugata Roy and Suvendu Adhikari said they would give their reply to the ED once they receive the notice. The other three leaders were not available for comments. Interestingly, the TMC state leadership on Monday evening relieved Ratna Chatterjee of several responsibilities which led to speculations that her husband, with whom she has an estranged relationship may return to the TMC. Sovon Chatterjee officially joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in August 2019, but has not taken part in any activity in the party. The controversy erupted in March 2016 after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Narada was a poll issue during the 2016 assembly polls but the TMC managed to retain power despite a strong anti-corruption campaign by the BJP, Congress and the Left. The CBI filed an FIR in the Narada case on March 16, 2017 acting on a Calcutta high court order which was upheld by the Supreme Court. The CBI and ED probed bank transactions and wire transfers. The CBI also registered FIR against then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy who later joined the BJP and became the opposition party’s election strategist in Bengal. Other senior TMC leaders named in the CBI’s FIR are lawmaker Sultan Ahmed, Lok Sabha member Prasun Banerjee, urban development minister Firhad Hakim and panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee. Former minister Madan Mitra and legislator Iqbal Ahmed, who later died, were also named as accused under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Mirza was posted as superintendent of police in Burdwan district during the sting operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-sends-notices-to-5-tmc-leaders-in-narada-case-summons-suspended-ips-officer/story-gyDEtLMcjm9093YOqNTvAO.html
25-08-2020||India||Letter-writers may have lost upper hand after leak||Senior Congress leaders who called for an overhaul of the party organisation may have aimed at exposing how Rahul Gandhi’s loyalists were allegedly trying to run the party, but a leak of the letter they wrote to Sonia Gandhi turned the tables. They lost the advantage they gained at a July 30 meeting with Sonia Gandhi and Rajya Sabha members of the party.Their key demand this time, according to the letter, was for a “full-time and effective” leadership that is “visible” and “active”. Signatories to the letter, including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, came under intense attack from colleagues at Monday’s meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), which ended with the party reaffirming its faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.A resolution adopted by the CWC, too, contained a sharp reference. “No one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture,” the resolution said. Senior leaders who were signatories to the letter cited several reasons why they had been “compelled” to write it, including difficulties in getting appointments with the party’s top brass. One leader said on condition of anonymity that in the internal WhatsApp group of Congress leaders, any suggestion for a review of the party’s functioning or detailed discussions are met with attacks by at least two MPs.He added that some leaders have also wondered why one general secretary, considered to be close to Rahul Gandhi, is present in several key panels. He did not name the leader. Some senior leaders were also got frustrated at the delay in shuffling state organisations.“Many key appointments are held back. There is no clarity on how the organisation was working and there was no consultation with senior leaders,” said a signatory to the letter. But while this section was successful in getting their agenda discussed in the meeting, several party insiders said the letter turned the tide against them. They added that the group of veterans who wrote the letter had the upper hand three weeks ago when they united, apparently to safeguarding former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s legacy after Congress MP Rajiv Satav called for introspection on the second term of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.But their attempt to “reform” the organisation is being seen as a sign of revolt against the Gandhi family members -- a charge the seniors vehemently deny. UPA ministers Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma, Milind Deora, Manish Tewari (all among the 23 signatories to the letter to Sonia Gandhi) were vocal on Twitter to defend the UPA’s achievements. Anand Sharma, a minister in the UPA regime, wrote 11 tweets to remind colleagues that “honest introspection” was always helpful and “Congressmen must be proud of UPA’s legacy.” Sharma cautioned young leaders: “No party disowns or discredits its legacy. Nobody expects the BJP to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget” its legacy. Milind Deora invoked Manmohan Singh’s words—history will be kind to me—to say: “Could he have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation & seek to destroy his legacy - that, too, in his presence”. While Manish Tewari, who had lashed out at Congres MP Rajiv Satav also spoke out strongly. “BJP was out of power for 10 years. Not once did they ever blame Vajpayee or his government for their then predicaments. In @INCIndia unfortunately some ill–informed would rather take swipes at Dr. Manmohan Singh led UPA govt than fight NDA/BJP. When unity reqd (required) they divide,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/letter-writers-may-have-lost-upper-hand-after-leak/story-hdYFvbHcLCQ298oCrl4VtI.html
25-08-2020||India||‘If it holds in future tests too’: UP doctor on promising Covaxin results||The test reports of the 38 volunteers who were given the first dose of anti-Covid vaccine in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur have shown promising results. The vaccine, known as Covaxin, has been developed by Bharat Biotech. Samples from the volunteers were taken on August 14, exactly two weeks after the vaccine was injected into them at Prakhar Hospital in the city as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. Prakhar Hospital is one of two private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh that were chosen for human trials of the vaccine. “The inputs shared with us can fill anyone with a lot of hope; the results are very encouraging,” said Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of the hospital. “The anti-bodies developed are well beyond expectations. If this holds in future tests, too, we may have our vaccine by the end of the year,” he said. The second sample of this batch, and the first sample of the second batch of 32 people, would be taken on August 28. The samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NVI) where they were tested on the lines of the ICMR guidelines. The experts here said they were expecting good results as none of the participants complained after they were given the vaccine. The hospital had set up a team of specialists to monitor the participants, with whom they spoke twice in a day in the past three weeks. “The day they were given the vaccine we had them with us for three hours against the two hours as specified. No one complained of any side effects then, nor did they in three weeks,” the experts said. “That was a positive sign and the test results have vindicated what we were feeling,” he said. The process for the human trial of the vaccine had begun in July with the hospital screening nearly 100 individuals who had listed for the programme. Their blood samples for coronavirus and anti-bodies were taken and tested twice at the ICMR recognised labs. It was done to make sure that the participant was healthy and that the level of anti-bodies could be matched after the vaccine given. The data was analysed at the NIV and shared with the hospital where the vaccines were given. The hospital has planned a trial on 100 volunteers in two stages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-it-holds-in-future-tests-too-up-doctor-on-promising-covaxin-results/story-DSWjzhGD7a10FkHrTLD6XO.html
25-08-2020||India||UP govt suspends two senior IPS officers over corruption charges, fraud||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday suspended two senior IPS officers for their alleged involvement in corruption and links with fraudsters involved in duping people on the pretext of providing them government contracts, said home department officials.They said both the cops—DIG (rules and manuals) Dinesh Chandra Dubey, Lucknow, and DIG, provincial armed constabulary, Agra, Arvind Sen are promotee IPS officers of the 2003 batch. While Sen is due to retire in January next year, Dubey will superannuate six months after Sen.In a press note issued by the home department, Sen was suspended for his alleged links with the racketeers involved in duping people on the pretext of giving contracts by the animal husbandry department.The racket involving a Noida-based senior journalist, a self-proclaimed journalist of Lucknow, some Vidhan Sabha secretariat employees and some outsiders was unearthed by an UP special task force (STF) on June 16 this year after the arrest of seven people in this connection.The STF probe had revealed that the fraudsters, who operated from a Vidhan Sabha secretariat room, had allured Indore businessman Manjit Singh Bhatia alias Rinku with a government contract worth Rs 292.14 crore, took a commission of around Rs 9.72 crore between March 2018 and March 2019. However, when the promise remained unfulfilled, Bhatia was issued a life threat allegedly by a criminal and was also warned of being framed for fraud by an IPS officer.A senior home department official said an enquiry was set up against Arvind Sen whose alleged links were established with the racket kingpin Ashish Rai, senior TV journalist Anil Rai and self-proclaimed journalist AK Rajeev.The official said further probe also revealed involvement of Dinesh Chandra Dubey in taking money promising people to provide government contracts.He said the home department had received a complaint for discrepancies and making of profit in the name of assuring allotment of contracts for construction of bus stations in Bareilly and Kaushambi, buildings for the physically challenged in Lucknow besides hostels in Rae Bareli and Hathras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-suspends-two-senior-ips-officers-over-corruption-charges-fraud/story-O7uxxAOV65beDNF5oFKYtK.html
25-08-2020||India||DRDO lists 108 items to boost local industry||From mini unmanned aerial vehicles to fire detection systems and bullet proof vehicles to tank transporters, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has come out with a list of 108 systems and sub-systems that it will help the Indian industry design and develop to strengthen the local defence ecosystem. A DRDO delegation met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday and briefed him on the 108 defence items identified for local production by the industry to achieve self-reliance in the defence sector, a defence ministry spokesperson said. It will also allow the DRDO to sharpen its focus on advanced technologies, the defence ministry said in a statement. “This initiative will pave the way for the Indian defence industry to develop many technologies towards building an AtmaNirbhar Bharat,” the defence minister’s office tweeted. The other items on the list prepared by the DRDO are NBC (nuclear, biological and chemical) shelters, missile canisters, navigation radars, satellite navigation receivers, mine-laying equipment and armoured engineering reconnaissance vehicles. The DRDO will also provide support to the domestic industry for the design, development and testing of these systems, the ministry said. “All the requirements of these systems by R&D establishments, armed forces and other security agencies can be met through development contracts or production orders on suitable Indian industry. This will allow the DRDO to focus on design and development of critical and advanced technologies and systems,” the statement added. The present industry base of the DRDO consists of 1,800 micro, small and medium enterprises, defence public sector undertakings, ordnance factories and large-scale industries. On August 9, the government announced that it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years, a significant step on the long road towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. The negative import list included artillery guns, light military transport aircraft, conventional submarines and long-range land attack cruise missiles. The detailed list of equipment published by the defence ministry has spelled out that the embargo on import will kick in between December 2020 and December 2025 for different categories of military hardware. The military hardware on the negative import list includes assault rifles, sniper rifles, short-range surface-to-air missiles, beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, corvettes, missile destroyers, light combat helicopter, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, a variety of radars and different types of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-lists-108-items-to-boost-local-industry/story-37UlsZ2T7sP4xRLnxfM99J.html
25-08-2020||India||Green concerns over Metro Phase-4 work||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has run into a conflict with the city-state’s forest department over suspected violations of guidelines that don’t permit construction on deemed forest land and for damaging trees during work on the Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor in Phase 4, and has been issued orders to stop work at least twice between February and August and, most recently, August 7. This includes the area around the Najafgarh drain, which is a birding hotspot frequented by thousands of migratory birds. Once classified as forest land, trees on the stretch cannot be cut or pruned for construction unless the required permissions are sought from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.Such work also requires the usual permissions under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. Documents accessed by Hindustan Times show that DMRC, which began preliminary work on the 17-km stretch in December, was slapped with two notices on February 28 and August 7 by the Delhi forest department for damaging and pruning trees without obtaining permissions from the department and was ordered to stop work on the stretch. It also filed a violation report on August 18 with the Union ministry of environment and forest and chief conservator of forests, Delhi government, accusing DMRC of causing severe damage to trees, disturbing the ecology of the area and for continuing work on the stretch without permissions despite warnings. “The officials of this division have inspected the site, and it has been reported that one tree has been completely felled due to excavation work in Keshopur district park, and roots of a few other trees in the project area have been found damaged due to digging work. In addition, many trees have been covered by barricading and the area around the Najafgarh drain has been filled with soil,” said the first restraining order issued by the deputy conservator (west division) on February 28. The order added, “...you (DMRC) are directed to cease all digging work near trees and take necessary steps to save trees by putting soil on the roots exposed by digging and excavation work...The portion of the Najafgarh drain coming in the alignment is a site of plantation done by the IFCD (Irrigation and Flood Control Department) and GNCTD (Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi), so you are also directed to cease all construction activity on the drain area until necessary approval.”Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai did not comment on the matter.Paying no heedDespite the order to cease work, DMRC has continued to work on the stretch. In a response to HT’s email queries , DMRC said that 2,958 trees are proposed to be cut between Krishna Park and Mukarba Chowk for the construction of the corridor.Hindustan Times visited the construction site at least five times between February and August and found that the DMRC has continued construction on the stretch despite the restraining orders. Another notice was issued to the DMRC on August 7 by the office of the Deputy Conservator of Forests (west), which stated that damage to trees continued on the stretch because digging work was under way despite the lack of permissions. Inspections conducted by forest department officials between February 25 and July 28 showed that six fully grown trees on the stretch were illegally uprooted or over-pruned during construction. The digging and construction work, leading to the tree damage, continues even though senior forest department officials have confirmed that DMRC, as of August 13, was yet to submit a permission request for tree felling or transplantation on the Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor .“I am yet to receive the permission request by the DMRC for the Janakpuri-RK Ashram stretch. If there are any violations then strictest of actions will be taken,” said Ishwar Singh, principal chief conservator of forests. DCF (west) S K Muan Guite said that the most recent reminder to stop construction work was issued to the DMRC in a meeting on August 14. “They have been intimated several times in various notices and restraining orders that the area is a deemed forest and they cannot carry out any construction work here till they obtain necessary permissions from the MoEF {ministry of environment and forest} to divert the land for the project . My staff inspected the site and told DMRC officials to stop the work despite which it has come to my notice that work is still going on,” Guite said.Records maintained by the forest department show that a portion of Road Number 26, where the Metro construction activity is currently ongoing and which spans nearly 5.3 kms in length, has been categorised as “deemed forest land” by the government.  DMRC, however, said that the exact location of the deemed forest land “could not be established by the forest department”.Guite said the identification of the deemed forest was carried out using satellite imagery in 2002 and the DMRC was informed of it.In Delhi’s context, a deemed forest is one which is spread across an area of at least 1 hectare and the number of trees per hectare is 250 or above. If both conditions are fulfilled simultaneously, the area is considered a deemed forest.Police complaintHe added that since the matter falls under the purview of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, which comes under the jurisdiction of the MoEF, the department does not have the authority to book a case. “In this case, I have submitted a report of the violations to the state headquarters a few days ago. The chief conservator of forests (CCF), who is the nodal officer {for FCA,1980},may report the violations to the MoEF,” Guite said.He added that a complaint was also sent to the local police station.Responding to the allegations, DMRC, in its statement, said that the preliminary work on the stretch was initiated on permissions from the Public Works Department (PWD). The corporation claimed that their work is ongoing in sections where “there are no trees”.“Work at the location where trees are there shall be taken up only after permission from Forest Department for which application had already been sent on April 2018 and subsequently in September 2019. The tree cutting permission from forest department is awaited,” DMRC said in the statement.In the response, it also claimed: “DMRC has not damaged any tree on the Vikaspuri- Madhuban Chowk road”.“Tree protection measures are being taken by DMRC’s contractor at work site and the existing trees are protected with the help of fencing with green garden net as per the suitability. Further, many other utility owning agencies are also working / digging on ROW (right of way) for their respective utilities,” it added, passing the buck for the damage. .Ravi Agarwal, founder of environmental NGO Toxics Link and a former member of the Ridge Management Board (RMB), said DCF has the authority to stop work and take legal action against DMRC for continuing work despite warnings. “The DCF has the power to stop work in his area, if a construction agency is not following the due procedure or is working on deemed forest land without the necessary permission. In the past, we haven’t come across instances of the DMRC ignoring the procedure, but if it is happening here then it is very much in the jurisdiction of the concerned officer to get the work stopped and report to the CCF (chief conservator of forests) for legal action,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-concerns-over-metro-phase-4-work/story-QShNJyT6MnEoziE6DVqLiI.html
25-08-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis in India: 600k tests on Sunday, lowest in 2 weeks||India’s daily testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped sharply on Sunday, as 609,917 tests were conducted, the lowest in two weeks, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The daily testing count was around 200,000 fewer than that of the previous day. Sunday’s was the lowest test count since August 10, when 477,027 tests were conducted. To be sure, the number of samples that arrive at the laboratories to be tested for Covid-19 is lower at the weekends than on week days. Sunday’s numbers are what India was testing around first week of August, when about 550,00-600,000 tests were performed in a day.On Saturday, 801,147 tests were conducted across 1,515 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved laboratories in the country. Last Friday, India had achieved a milestone, when it had conducted a million tests.On average, the country has been conducting 850,000 tests per day over the past week.On August 1, 525,689 tests were conducted. The number rose to 6,64,949  on August 6; and 746,608 on August 16. ICMR officials said that during weekends the number of swab samples that arrive for testing is usually lower, but the rising average daily tests in the past three weeks are a pointer towards progress being made in the aggressive Covid-19 testing mechanism put in place across the country. “On weekends and public holidays, the number of samples getting tested usually goes down a bit. There could be several reasons, including fewer swab samples being collected and reduced work shifts of laboratory technicians. This is more an aberration than a norm. It doesn’t mean that the country’s testing capacity has reduced. The daily testing count is only going to increase from here on,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.India, which had conducted its first Covid-19 test on January 23 at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune, has conducted 3,590,213 tests till date.Almost all states are performing more than 140 tests per day per million population, the minimum norm prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to determine adequate testing. India’s national average is close to 600 tests per day per million population.“The number of tests has been significantly scaled up in a short span of time, which is commendable, but at the same time we have to ensure there is equal access to testing in all parts of the country, especially in remote areas,” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, senior epidemiologist, National Institute of Epidemiology.Some experts say that the focus should be on increasing the real time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing as that is recognised as the gold standard of testing.Given that the RT-PCR test has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment, it needs a sophisticated laboratory to carry out the test, and ICMR has been making efforts to identify and add as many laboratories as possible. Currently, close to 750 of the total 1,500 labs are equipped with RT-PCR machines for Covid-19 testing.“RT-PCR has higher sensitivity which means it is more reliable, and that is what is required to know the exact disease burden when dealing with a pandemic,” said Dr VK Monga, chairperson of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/600k-tests-on-sunday-lowest-in-2-weeks/story-D1sEMfGPDeak7qYTEZEleM.html
25-08-2020||India||NEET aspirants stuck abroad can be brought back: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to ensure that Indian students in the Gulf who have to appear in the September 13 National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) are allowed to travel to India by special flights operating under the Vande Bharat Mission to bring home Indians stranded abroad.Close to 4,000 students in the Middle East who have to appear in NEET for admission to medical and dental courses had pinned their hopes on a petition in the Supreme Court filed by a social worker, Abdul Azeez. The petition filed on behalf of 21 such students demanded opening of NEET examination centres in Dubai, Doha and Qatar, as has been done by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for holding the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for admission to engineering schools every year. Azeez’s demand was rejected by the Kerala high court on June 30 and the top court was hearing an appeal against the decision.Both the NTA and the Medical Council of India (MCI) were opposed to setting up examination centres abroad. An MCI affidavit stated that holding the examination in different time zones will compromise the uniformity of the NEET examination.The Centre had submitted that the time was too short to consider the request of the petitioner; the process of identification of exam centres, appointment of invigilators, and transport of question papers requires careful planning and execution. The government was also concerned about possible leakage of question papers as it would not have any control over the examination centres abroad.The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhatt asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to consult the concerned government departments and ensure the overseas students appearing for NEET are allowed to travel by the Vande Bharat special flights. Before the Kerala high court, the ministry of external affairs had stated that students are eligible to take Vande Bharat flights.The petitioner represented by advocate Harris Beeran also sought a relaxation in the 14-day mandatory quarantine period. The bench refused, saying, “We are afraid such a direction cannot be made as it involves public health of citizens pertaining to state governments.” Beeran pointed out that in Kerala, the quarantine period has been extended to 28 days. At his request, the bench allowed the petitioner to approach the state government, seeking a relaxation in the quarantine period.The bench favoured having online examination for NEET beginning next year in order to avoid hassles for students faced with similar situation in the future. The bench told MCI, “Why are you not having NEET online when JEE is online and can be written from examination centres abroad. There are a number of students in the Gulf, Singapore and Malaysia appearing for NEET. Why can’t you think of something for next year? It will avoid troubles for so many people studying abroad.” MCI counsel Gaurav Sharma told the bench that he will convey the suggestion to the Board of Governors of MCI.Less than 20 days remain for the NEET examination and for those students in the Gulf who have to appear in both NEET and JEE, it will be a hard choice, Beeran said.“Nealry 60% of students writing NEET have to appear in JEE as well. This examination will be held online and offline from September 1 to 6. If they manage to take a flight after this, there is hardly a chance for them to appear for NEET exam in India.” The bench understood the predicament of such students, but refused to pass an order because no student faced with such a situation appeared before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-neet-aspirants-stuck-abroad-can-be-brought-back/story-jFWz9h20bJNaJhQvbyMK7L.html
25-08-2020||India||Covid-19 positivity rate inching up again in Delhi, stands at 7.4%||The Covid-19 positivity rate has started rising again in Delhi, with 7.4% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, the highest this number has touched in over a month, suggesting that Delhi may be facing a fresh challenge to control an outbreak it had contained to a considerable extent.Positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive -- is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast.The Capital added 1,061 new cases and 13 new deaths according to the government’s Monday bulletin, taking the total number of infections in the city to 162,527 and fatalities to 4,313, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin on Monday. In terms of the single-day positivity rate, 8.9% of samples tested on Sunday came back positive. This is the highest proportion in nearly a month-and-a-half. Around 10.3% of tests came back positive on July 13 – when cases in the Capital were dropping from the peak. To be sure, single-day positivity rates can be influenced by low testing figures that are generally reported on weekends. This is why experts generally look at average positivity rate, which shows a clearer trend.The developments come as the number of daily tests in Delhi continued their steady drop from peak levels – 11,910 samples were tested on Sunday, with 8,084 (67.9%) of these being antigen, or rapid tests. Though the number of tests generally reduces on Sundays and holidays, at its peak, the city conducted 24,592 tests a day on August 8. The seven-day average for tests stands at 17,985 -- off the peak of 21,660 for the week ending July 10.With daily tests hitting a plateau, the average positivity rate has started inching up in the past few weeks. The number, which had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, was 7.4% in the past week – the highest since July 19, or 36 days ago.When asked about the positivity rate and the increasing number of infections, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, said in his daily media briefing that the infection rate in the Capital is still below 10% and “under control”.“We see the infection rate in ranges of 5-10%, 10-20%, 20-30%, and so on. As on date, the infection rate is well below 10%, whereas Delhi has also seen a time when the infection rate had hit 40%. The current variation of 1-1.5% we are seeing these days is understandable and keeps happening. It is just day-to-day variation,” Jain told reporters.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%. Delhi has never dropped below this threshold.To be sure, Delhi has consistently had one of the highest testing rates in the country. The city has conducted over 75,947 tests per million residents against the national average of 26,935.The Capital was the first major hot spot in the country to have successfully reined in the outbreak last month. At the end of June, the city was reporting over 3,400 cases every day at an average, which then dropped in the 900s in the first week of August. But a recent spurt in cases has meant that this number has been steadily rising again and currently stands at over 1,300 new cases a day. HT reported on Sunday that the new-case trajectory in Delhi is currently at a month’s high.There were 1,200 new recoveries reported on Monday taking the total number of people who have recovered to 146,588.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-positivity-rate-inching-up-again-stands-at-7-4/story-JHTfUtu7soOEUkUDVOjiXO.html
25-08-2020||India||54 ex-bureaucrats write to Facebook CEO, seek audit of hate-speech policy||A group of 54 former bureaucrats have written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to perform a serious audit of the implementation of the social media company’s hate-speech policy in India in a manner that its India policy head, Ankhi Das, is not in a position to influence investigations. “We are writing to you in the expectation that you will make serious efforts to audit the implementation of Facebook’s hate speech policy in India and, while such an audit is underway, ensure that the present Public Policy Head of Facebook, India, is not in a position to influence the investigations,” the former All India Service Officers said in a statement on Monday.The controversy was spotlighted by the Wall Street Journal earlier this month in a report that said Facebook India intervened in content moderation processes to ensure hate speeches by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader were not taken down – a claim the company has since denied. Facebook India on Friday evening reiterated that it acts in an unbiased manner. WSJ named Ankhi Das in the report.The 54 former officers include ex-Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers Salahuddin Ahmad, Wahajat Habibullah and Harsh Mander, and former Indian Police Service (IPS) officers Shafi Alam, Vappala Balachandran and K Saleem Ali.The letter said Facebook had “failed to implement its own policy of discouraging hate speech in India, or has implemented it in a clearly partisan manner.” The former officers also highlighted the fact that posts on Facebook have often to led to hate crime in India, including lynchings and torture, primarily of Muslims and oppressed castes. “That this (not censoring hate speech by members of the BJP) seems to have been done to protect Facebook’s commercial interests is even more reprehensible… We note that such behaviour on Facebook’s part has become a subject of debate in other countries as well. Commercial interests at the cost of human lives? If these are the crass calculations Facebook indulges in, it is no surprise that the calculus of hate is spreading like a virus in many parts of the world,” the letter said.Hindustan Times reached out to Facebook for a comment, but had not received a response as of press time. Hindustan Times on Friday reported that members of at least three opposition parties are backing Congress MP Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon officials from Facebook to answer a parliamentary panel over allegations that the social media company acted in a politically partisan manner to benefit the BJP. Facebook has been asked to appear in front of the panel on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/54-ex-bureaucrats-write-to-facebook-ceo-seek-audit-of-hate-speech-policy/story-JAeVjs1fwO07sOqnnpOu5I.html
25-08-2020||India||Anti-dumping measure: Tariff on Chinese optical fibre likely||India has found large-scale dumping of optical fibre from China, days after Beijing extended an anti-dumping duty on the import of Indian-made fibre for five years, which could trigger a similar tariff measure by New Delhi against the Chinese product in the local market, two officials aware of development said.The government is considering imposing remedial duty on the import of “single mode optical fibre” after an investigation by the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) confirmed its dumping mainly from China, the officials said, requesting anonymity. The DGTR is a single-window agency tasked with providing a level-playing field to domestic industry against unfair trade practices by countries like China.After a detailed investigation, DGTR on Friday concluded that import of single mode optical fibre at below cost is threatening to cause “serious injury” to Indian manufacturers and recommended imposition of a 10% safeguard duty on its import from all countries except developing nations, barring China, the officials said. The government had already raised basic customs duty (BCD) on it by 5% in July 2019.The finance ministry is expected to take a final decision on the matter soon, they said. Single mode optical fibre is used in manufacturing optical fibre cables used in telecommunication operations such as community access televisions (CATV).“Effectively, the measure is against Chinese firms as combined import from all other developing countries is less than 9%. China alone has a share of over 84% in its import,” one of the officials said.The DGTR’s recommendation came close on the heels of Chinese commerce ministry’s punitive tariff on the same product imported from India for five years, effective from August 14. HT reported the measure on August 13.According to officials, China is resorting to tariff barriers because its companies are suffering from overcapacity, and also diverting its exports to the Indian market in the face of a global boycott of the Chinese products. “Based on complaints by the domestic optic fibre industry, DGTR had initiated the investigation on Chinese dumping on September 23 last year. It had issued a primary finding on November 6 last year, but its recommendations could not be implemented at that time,” the first official said. The second official said India was very cautious about Chinese unfair trade practices, especially after June 15. Sino-Indian tensions have shot up after a violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian army personnel and an unspecified number of Chinese were killed.“Given the domestic economic scenario, the finance ministry is expected to accept this,” Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said. The move cannot be linked to China alone as the government has been indicating its intentions of protecting domestic industry.“In the budget, customs duty was increased for more than 10 products. Since China is a major supplier for India with a huge trade surplus, any action on imports across the board would impact China. Atmanirbhar Bharat {Self-Reliant India} itself is to restrict the influence of China on Indian markets and with relationships soaring, indirect economic sanctions will help both in hurting China and giving a boost to the fortunes of the domestic industry,” he said.Dumping is an unfair trade practice that entails the export of a product at a price lower than its value and is countered by punitive actions, which are an acceptable measure under multilateral trade agreements, the officials said. Remedial actions include imposition of anti-dumping duty (against under-priced imports), safeguard measures (imposition of a duty, a quota, or both against an unexpected import surge) and countervailing duty (against export subsidies) to protect domestic units.India has taken a tough position against unfair Chinese trade practices as it is committed to protecting domestic industry under the government’s Make in India campaign, the officials said. India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-dumping-measure-tariff-on-chinese-optical-fibre-likely/story-LHhTYR5IyP7txmCVAEKKwM.html
25-08-2020||India||China dismissed Indian claims over Valley, says Pak minister||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi told a press conference in Islamabad on Monday that during his recent visit to China, the issue of Indian occupied Kashmir also came up, where Beijing dismissed Indian claims over the valley. Qureshi said that China had rejected India’s August 5 move and termed it ‘unilateral’.Qureshi also explained that the purpose of his recent visit was to “understand [China’s] current state of mind and gauge their stance on India”. “I can tell you that I didn’t see any hesitation, their (China’s) stance is very clear,” he said.“China has made clear that it views India’s measures of August 5, 2019 [in Kashmir] illegal,” said Qureshi. China does not stand in agreement with India’s position on Ladakh and Kashmir, he added.According to Qureshi, the stand off between India and China remains unresolved despite five rounds of negotiations between the two. He categorically rejected India’s objections to the China Pakistan Economic Corridor as well.The foreign minister also touched upon the relations of other regional countries with India, saying that the impression that Saarc member countries were “leaning towards India” was “dissolving”.He referred to India’s conflict with Nepal and the recent resolution passed by the latter’s parliament in that regard in addition to “a lack of warmth” in India’s ties with Bangladesh.Speaking on Indian atrocities, the minister said that India has failed to project the impression that things are improving in occupied Kashmir.“The International Crisis Group called the situation in the valley a resistance movement, and has demanded that India rescind its August 5 decision,” he said.The Pakistan foreign minister said that Prime Minister Imran Khan raised the matter of IoK before the United Nations, adding that “India is running away from the matter and lying to the global community”.Qureshi said that New Delhi’s August 5 move had made matters worse for the people of the occupied territory. He said that anger and frustration are on the rise in the region due to restrictions and a communications blackout imposed by authorities.The foreign minister said that India’s move had crippled occupied Kashmir’s economy, wondering how investment could thrive with so many armed personnel holding the local population hostage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-dismissed-indian-claims-over-valley-says-pak-minister/story-J86sraZLjuYigsbTnMnmPL.html
25-08-2020||India||Bhushan stands ground, says he will not apologise||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan stood his ground on Monday, refusing to apologise to the Supreme Court for his posts on Twitter criticising the top court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.In a statement he submitted to the apex court, Bhushan said the views he expressed represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, offering an apology for expressing such beliefs would be insincere.“An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to be sincerely made. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution (Supreme court ) that I hold in highest esteem,” he added in the supplementary statement submitted through advocate Kamini Jaiswal .According to the details available on the Supreme Court website, the case will be taken up on Tuesday to consider the effect of the supplementary statement submitted by Bhushan.The Supreme Court , on August 20, asked Bhushan to reconsider his stance and offer an apology by Monday failing which, it cautioned the activist lawyer, it would proceed against him and punish him for criminal contempt of court. Even at the time, Bhushan said that while he appreciated the court’s move of giving him time, he would not change his mind. “I believe that the Supreme Court is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, Today in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this Court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive. This casts a duty, especially for an officer of this court like myself, to speak up, when I believe there is a deviation from its sterling record,” Bhushan said.He maintained that the tweets put out by him were in good faith and were not intended to malign the apex court or the CJI but only offered constructive criticism so that the court could arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution.In the written arguments submitted separately by Bhushan’s counsel, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, reliance was placed on attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal’s opinions regarding corruption and nepotism in the judiciary. The AG , during the hearing of the matter on August 20, asked the apex court not to punish Bhushan while highlighting that he himself made a speech in 1987 pointing out certain ills plaguing the judiciary.“Contemnor’s (Bhushan) comments were opinion made in good faith founded on true facts. Similar opinions were made before (in 1987) by the Attorney General. On this basis, the Attorney General has counselled against punishment,” Bhushan said in his written submissions.The court found Bhushan guilty of the offence of criminal contempt on August 14. According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both.Bhushan posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Bhushan’s first tweet said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second referred to CJI Bobde and said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Mehek Maheswhari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. Based on Maheshwari’s petition, the court took suo motu {on its own}cognizance of the matter and listed the case for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.After a day-long hearing on August 5, the Supreme Court pronounced its verdict on August 14, holding Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt of court. It however, kept the matter for further hearing on August 20 to decide on the sentence to be imposed on Bhushan.When the case was taken up on August 20, Bhushan read out a statement prepared by him. In his statement, Bhushan expressed dismay at the judgment of August 14 convicting him, stating that the conclusion against him was arrived at without providing any evidence of his motives. He said that he was standing by his tweets, which he described as an attempt to discharge his duty towards the country. He also invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s stance in a case slapped against him by the British government.“I can only humbly paraphrase what the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the Court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen,” Bhushan said.The three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra maintained that it could show leniency only if Bhushan expresses regret and reconsiders the statement made by him on August 20 declining to apologise. “We have given time to the contemnor to submit unconditional apology, if he so desires. Let it be filed by August 24,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-stands-ground-says-he-will-not-apologise/story-da2TIjctrhB2IKfBxkq8FO.html
25-08-2020||India||In Bengal, tribal woman gang-raped over relationship||A 30-year-old tribal woman, a widow with two children, was allegedly gang-raped in the early hours of August 19 in the Mohammad Bazar area of West Bengal’s Birbhum district because she defied the residents of her village and had a relationship with a man from a non-tribal community. The woman and the man were allegedly made to face trial at a kangaroo court that asked them to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively, residents said. Instead of paying the money, the woman went to the police and filed a complaint. “All five men named in the FIR {first information report} have been arrested for rape. We are conducting an investigation into the alleged kangaroo court as well,” Subimal Paul, additional superintendent of police (headquarters), Birbhum district, said on Monday afternoon. In her police complaint, the woman said that a religious ritual took place in her village on August 18 and on that afternoon she and the man were forcefully locked up inside a community club and beaten up when they were caught together on the road. Hours later, in the early hours of the next day, five men took her to a desolate place and took turns in raping her, the victim alleged. She and her partner were released on the morning of August 19. In her complaint the woman, however, did not mention the kangaroo court. Police arrested all the five accused between Friday and Sunday. One of them is an elderly leader of the local tribal community. The Suri court on Sunday remanded them in police custody for a week. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the incident had once again exposed how unsafe women are in West Bengal. “There are numerous incidents that the media never comes to know of. In many cases the rape victims are too scared to lodge a complaint. Also, Kangaroo courts are quite common in rural Bengal because the ruling Trinamool Congress encourages its workers to take the law in their hands,” said Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-tribal-woman-gang-raped-over-relationship/story-X3uZBxwEHLfVAHZPyN73DI.html
25-08-2020||India||Haryana CM, speaker test Covid+ve ahead of session||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, ahead of an assembly session scheduled for 2pm on August 26. Both Khattar and Gupta tested positive for Covid-19 in a span of about seven hours, said officials. Khattar announced that he has tested positive for Covid-19 through a tweet in the evening, while Gupta’s test report was made public early in the afternoon.Until Monday evening, three BJP MLAs, excluding the CM and speaker, were Covid-19 positive. Ratia member of legislative assembly (MLA) Lakshman Napa and Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, while BJP’s Ambala City legislator Aseem Goel had tested positive for the virus on August 21. Goel is currently in home quarantine. Another BJP MLA, Mahipal Dhanda, of Panipat Rural constituency, who had tested positive for Covid-19 early this month, recovered last week, while MLA Subhash Sudha, of Thanesar constituency, had contracted the infection a month ago and recovered. On Monday, three employees — a sweeper, cook and room attendant — posted at Haryana MLAs hostel in Chandigarh also tested positive for the coronavirus disease. On Sunday, six Vidhan Sabha employees, including speaker Gupta’s political aide, had tested positive for the infection. More than 350 employees of the Vidhan Sabha were tested for the infection on August 22 in view of the monsoon session of the assembly. The Vidhan Sabha premises will be out of bounds to all, including the lawmakers, until they have a Covid-19 negative report that is not older than three days, according to the regulations in place. Informing about his Covid-19 positive status, Khattar wrote on his Twitter handle : “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine.” Last week, on Thursday, Khattar went into self-isolation after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and a few officials posted at the CM’s residence in Chandigarh had tested positive for coronavirus. Khattar had met Shekhawat iin Delhi to hammer out a solution to resolve the SYL canal logjam. Khattar underwent another test on Monday, the fifth day after his meeting with Shekhawat. DEPUTY SPEAKER TO PRESIDE OVER SESSION Deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa will preside over the assembly proceedings in Gupta’s absence. According to Vidhan Sabha secretary RK Nandal, speaker Gupta informed him on telephone on Monday that he had been declared Covid-19 positive. “Therefore, under Article 180 (2) of the Constitution of India, in the absence of Speaker of the Assembly, deputy speaker of the assembly shall act as Speaker,” Nandal said in an order. The communication says that in the present situation, deputy speaker shall act as the speaker in Gupta’s absence and all the files/works pertaining to the ensuing session from August 26 shall be put up for approval of the deputy speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-speaker-test-covid-ve-ahead-of-session/story-JggCzpq9z2Vm7OJbAsBSYM.html
25-08-2020||India||India’s answer to China-backed Thai Canal plan is a huge military upgrade in islands||With Chinese Navy positioning itself for dominance in the Indian Ocean through strings of ports in Myanmar, Pakistan and Iran, India is planning rapid infrastructure upgrade in its Island territories to ensure that there is no restriction on navigation or a replay of the South China Sea in Indian backyard.According to top military officials, India will upgrade the airstrip at INS Kohassa, Shibpur in north Andamans and at the Campbell strip at Nicobar into full-fledged fighter bases. The airstrip at Agatti, in Lakshadweep will also be upgraded for military operations to secure both the Bay of Bengal upto Malacca Straits and Arabian Sea up to Gulf of Aden.“The two Island territories will be like the new aircraft carriers for India, extending the navy’s reach in the region far from the mainland. Both the Islands sit on the busiest sea lanes of the world with more than half the world trade going through this route,” said a tri-service commander. Lakshadweep sits on the Nine Degree Channel, so named because it lies on the 9-degree line of Latitude, north of the equator. The Andamans and Nicobar Islands will allow the navy to dominate the Six Degree and Ten Degree Channels towards Southeast Asia and North Asia.Officials said the infrastructure upgrade had also acquired urgency due to efforts by China, much of it backroom, to get Thailand to start work on the Thai Canal aka Kra Canal that has been on the drawing board for the last 70 years. The canal has been proposed to slice through the Malay peninsula some 800 km south of Bangkok and connect the Gulf of Thailand with the Andaman Sea.It would let ships bypass the choked Malacca Strait, the main shipping channel between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean that has become the world’s busiest trade route. For ships passing between the Indian and Pacific Oceans, it would shorten the distance by at least 1,200 km.There is no unanimity in India’s strategic community on the approach to the Kra canal. One view is that the canal, promoted by China under its Belt and Road Initiative, would pose a risk to India’s long-term maritime security but there is an influential section that sees the construction of the Thai Canal as inevitable given the money China is believed to be throwing at powerful elements in Bangkok.Like when Thailand was to decide on setting up an ad-hoc committee to carry out a study earlier this year, there were raised eyebrows at how Thailand’s fragmented political class demonstrated unprecedented unity in supporting the move. Even parties that are known to be anti-China had ended up supporting the canal. The Thai King, however, is still opposed to the Kra Canal.National security planners believe that India should capitalise on the opportunity - bundled with its own set of challenges - that the Kra Canal offers and offer transhipment ports to vessels bound for either Malacca or Kra Canal. As of now, ships wait for their turn at Sri Lankan ports, earning Colombo precious foreign exchange as well as leverage.Building pressure on ChinaUSS Ronald Regan - The US Navy’s aircraft carrier Ronald Regan and its strike group recently returned to the South China Sea to carry out air operations to demonstrate, what the navy called, the US’ enduring commitment to allies and partners.B-2 Bombers - The US Air Force has deployed three B-2 Spirit Stealth Bombers to its naval facility in Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. The heavy strategic bomber has the ability to deliver lethal, ready, long-range strike options.66 F-16 jets for Taiwan - Taiwan has signed a pact to buy 66 latest F-16s from the United States, the first sale of advanced fighter jets to the island since then US President George Bush cleared 150 F-16s in 1992.It is argued that the infrastructure upgrade in the island territories would serve twin objectives: one, enable India to maximise the economic gains as well as raise its military presence in the Indian Ocean Region.The continuing focus on the infrastructure upgrade also comes against the backdrop of China’s aggressive moves in Ladakh and its reluctance to restore status quo ante. The Chinese aggression has not only prompted New Delhi to reinforce force deployment along hotspots along the LAC but also in the high seas.The Indian Navy is on high alert from the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait in the context of the standoff with China. The instructions to the navy are clear: That they should be prepared for military action if China mounts an attack along the Line of Actual Control, people familiar with the matter said.Indian military officials stressed that the upgradation of air bases in the Island territories would ensure that China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy under its President and commander in chief Xi Jinping, does not dominate the area to extract leverage from all countries in the region.Also Read: Military option on table if talks fail: CDS General Rawat on ChinaFor now, the United States earlier this month flew in its three B-2 stealth bombers to the naval support facility in Diego Garcia in the south Indian Ocean to support the Pacific Air Forces’ Bomber Task Force to deter China from flexing its muscles in the region. Around the same time, the US decided to sell 66 new American-made F-16 fighter jets in the biggest arms sale to the island, a democracy of 24 million people that Beijing claims to be an inseparable part of its territory.A few days later, the United States also moved aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan and its strike group for maritime air defence operations to the restive South China Sea. The US Navy said the training said the Carrier Strike Group participated in cooperative sea drills with the Air Force’s B-1B Lancer to improve “joint readiness response capabilities. The US Navy said the units conducted air-to-air operations, combat search and rescue drills and air defence exercises, according to the Navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-thai-canal-project-propels-india-to-upgrade-military-infra-in-a-n-lakshadweep/story-EcDEGU2XXGgwdJmRNwm4LN.html
