26-08-2020||India||Raigad building collapse toll at 16, rescue ops end||The toll from the building collapse at Mahad in Maharashtra’s Raigad district went up to 16 on Wednesday as all the missing people were accounted for with the recovery of the last body from the debris, rescuers said.On Wednesday, Mehrunissa Abdul Kazi, 60, and four-year-old boy Mohammad Bangi were pulled out alive, but Bangi’s two sisters and mother were found dead. Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said the boy was rescued after 19 hours and Kazi after 27 hours of the collapse on Monday. They added that nine people were found alive while 16 bodies were recovered from the site.NDRF public relations officer Sachinand Gawade said they are carrying out a final search to ensure that nobody is buried, although the administration said all missing people have been traced.The Mahad police on Tuesday booked five people, including the builder of the building, for the collapse. The building had 40 flats and was occupied in 2013 after a two-year construction period.District collector Nidhi Chaudhari said most residents ran out of the building as it started shaking. She added that as a result, most survived. Chaudhari said around 95 people lived in the building and 75 of them managed to get away when the structure came crashing down.Maharashtra rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of those who died and Rs 50,000 for those injured.His ministerial colleague, Eknath Shinde, visited the site and directed the police to act against all those responsible for the collapse. “We will not spare anyone responsible for the building collapse. Information is being gathered on whether the structural audit of this building was conducted or not.”District guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said a committee will be formed to probe the incident. “The committee will probe how and why this happened. At the same time, the structural audit of other buildings will be carried out to prevent similar incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raigad-building-collapse-toll-at-16-rescue-ops-end/story-Aa7Oxe2gUWOpKgdRcWhGBP.html
26-08-2020||India||This ‘Yamraj’ saves lives by ferrying people across flooded streams||Known locally as ‘Yamraj’, the God of Death, according to Hindu mythology, this Uttarakhand man saves lives of people from being washed away in flooded mountain rivulets in Pithoragarh district of the Himalyan state. The man, 50, whose real name is Diwani Ram, has been working towards safely helping people cross rivulets since the age of 14 in the remote Bangapani area of Pithoragarh district. Due to heavy rainfall, many times bridges over the rivulets that connect villages or roads get washed away due to rise in water levels or sudden flash floods. “When the rivulet Jaulagar swells during monsoon it becomes difficult to cross it as it has no Pukka bridge on it. Voluntarily, I started helping people to cross the flooded rivulets as my forefathers had also done the same for three generations in our family,” said Ram. Ram won the last panchayat elections to become the gram pradhan of his village Siling in Baram region because of his philanthropic work. “Due to lack of a permanent bridge over a swollen rivulet in Bangapani, people are not able to reach the main market or sub-divisional offices. This monsoon also, I, along with my team, have helped over 500 villagers from Talla Johar and Talla Darma villages to cross the flooded rivulet,” he added. When asked if he charges people for his work during monsoons, Ram said, “I do it only for helping people. I earn a living by working as a blacksmith. Sometimes, the youth working in the army whom I have helped to cross a river or rivulet come to meet me with a box of sweets as a ‘thank you’ to me, which I think is the biggest reward for my work.” Ram claims that in the past 36 years, he has helped over 18,000 people to cross flooded rivulets in the Bangapani sub-division of Pithoragarh district. On why he is named ‘Yamraj’, when he works to save lives, he said, “I once had a male buffalo and used to ride that for work at times. Since then people started calling me Yamraj. People can call me whatever they want, what matters is that they love and respect me for my work.” Umesh Dhami, a social worker and gram Pradhan of Madarama village in Pithoragarh, said, Diwani Ram is doing such an appreciable work by helping villagers cross swollen rivulets. “His family has been doing this work for the past three generations. The entire region of Munsiyari, Bangapani and some parts of Dharchula get flooded every monsoon with connecting bridges getting washed away often. Against this backdrop, his work is exemplary and unique,” he said. People in the area have acknowledged his services by electing him as Pradhan of Siling village, said Dhami. Anil Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dharchula area of Pithoragarh, said, “The work that Ram is doing is very helpful for people here and is highly appreciated by the locals. During monsoons, it is common for rivers and rivulets to swell in the mountains. In the Bangapani region, there has been more than normal rainfall this year. However, all connecting bridges and roads have been repaired in the area”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-yamraj-saves-lives-by-ferrying-people-across-flooded-streams/story-pDzgmdtOaLh2Xb5ytAjalI.html
26-08-2020||India||Narcotics bureau files FIR against Rhea, five others||MumbaiThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registered an FIR on Wednesday against deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi, and one Gaurav Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Pyschotropic Substances Act. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) have already registered cases to probe the actor’s death. The narcotics FIR was filed after the Enforcement Directorate sent a letter to the NCB asking the agency to join the investigation. NCB director Rakesh Asthana confirmed that an FIR was registered, saying, “We received a letter from the ED on Tuesday evening stating that during their probe into financial aspects they found that drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and the people involved will be questioned.” The NCB has been roped in by the ED to probe if drugs were supplied to Chakraborty and Rajput. ED officials said during their questioning of Saha, Chakraborty’s talent manager, they found a conversation between the two about drugs. However, none of the three agencies provided any details of the drug in question or whether it was consumed by any of the people involved in the case. Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime ever. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” The ED has again called Saha to its south Mumbai office for questioning. Meanwhile, on the sixth day of its probe, the CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, and roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani.Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.Section 20 of the NDPS Act invoked in the case prescribes punishment for anyone who cultivates, produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-state, exports inter-state or uses cannabis. Section 20 (ii) (a) states that a person found with small quantity can be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term up to six months, or with fine, which may extend to Rs 10,000 or with both. Section 20 (ii) (b) prescribes rigorous imprisonment which may extend to 10 years and with a fine which may extend to Rs 1 lakh when a person is found with cannabis which is lesser in quantity than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity. Section 20 (ii) (c) prescribes a punishment for commercial quantity where a person can be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less than 10 years and may extend to 20 years and shall be liable for a fine not less than Rs 1 lakh which may extend to Rs 2 lakh.The case, which initially triggered a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers), has taken more serious twists with charges of, first, money-laundering and, now, drug peddling brought in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-bureau-files-fir-against-rhea-five-others/story-zb57i3XFN57WupZIQpW3QL.html
26-08-2020||India||Kerala secretariat fire: Test for Vijayan govt as opposition steps up pressure||A minor fire that gutted ‘important’ files and furniture at the Kerala secretariat on Tuesday was doused in 40 minutes but it was enough to flare up the whole state which witnessed a series of protests, tear-gas shelling, baton charging and sit-ins. Unmindful of Covid-19 protocol, many district headquarters turned a battle ground on Wednesday after protestors clashed with the police injuring many. While opposition parties alleged the fire was deliberate to destroy key evidence in the sensational gold smuggling case, the ruling party put up a brave face saying it was a mere accident and some parties were adding politics to it. The police first information report says many files were destroyed but government and senior officers swear those were not important ones and had nothing to do with the smuggling case. Both they do agree many files were destroyed but the lingering question is whether they were important or not. Many questions, however, remain unanswered-- why it happened at the protocol office a week after its officers were summoned by the National Investigation Agency, why they delayed CCTV visuals to the NIA and how reinforcements were delayed during the accident are some of them. The government which is in the shadow of gold smuggling after the exit of the CM’s powerful secretary M Sivasankar will have to answer many tricky posers. The general administration department (GAD), where the protocol office falls, said gutted files relate to the government guest house bookings and ministers ‘swearing-in details. But nobody is willing to believe GAD secretary P Hani’s claims. At the same tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran claimed e-filing was there but later the government admitted e-filing was not complete in all departments. Some also say backup files are there but their explanations are as ambiguous as their claims-- insiders said files which destroyed have no back up. But a section of the employees allege that it was a well planned and executed fire and important files dealing with the exemption certificates in UAE consular office, tour itinerary and travel history of some controversial bureaucrats and ministers were destroyed. They say the room in which the fire originated was closed for the last two days after one of the employees tested Covid-19 positive. And they also allege that the secretariat has a small fire unit and it was missing in action and officials waited for reinforcement to arrive from outside. They also question the suspicious movement of some government trade union leaders on the premises. According to the FIR the fire started from a fan after overheating and its remains fell on curtains and later spread to an ‘alimirah’ where files were kept. While the government congratulated Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta who is said to have avoided a major flare up at the seat of power, the opposition was not amused. It said his role was mysterious and he was in a hurry to keep out the media and politicians from the scene. When asked about this he refused to comment saying investigation was on. The government is also planning to book BJP state president K Surendran who was among the first to reach the spot. It views his presence at the secretariat as a breach of security. Two inquiries are in place now-- one led by the police and other by the disaster management secretary. But it is a fact that the fire is turning into another major embarrassment for the state government. “Many IAS officers’ names also cropped up during the investigation. You don’t need an in-depth inquiry to find out it was an orchestrated one. There are chances of more such manmade fires. We want the NIA to take custody of the remaining important files,” said N K Premachandran, RSP MP from Kollam. After meeting Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Tuesday UDF leaders sent another written submission seeking his intervention on Wednesday. Some officials say video clippings of smuggling accused Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair with some officials of the GAD department were doing the rounds on social media for the last few days. There are reports that Suresh was a frequent visitor to the GAD department and she religiously invited officials for important functions at the consulate and after every foreign trip she allegedly gifted them with latest mobile phones and other gadgets. “When CCTV visuals were sought the government said they were destroyed in lightening. Later it said some of them can be retrieved. CM’s office knew everything about Swapna and Co. Now they are desperately destroying evidence. We hope NIA will reach them soon,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said both Congress and BJP have aligned to unseat a democratically-elected government. Now all eyes are on the NIA how it will respond to the latest incident and what it will do in pending notice for CCTV visuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-secretariat-fire-test-for-vijayan-govt-as-opposition-steps-up-pressure/story-hjvdQSEJtuI72kFMM8CyVI.html
26-08-2020||India||Trust to advertise seeking donations to build Ram temple in Ayodhya||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will soon issue advertisements requesting people to donate for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the trust’s general secretary Champat Rai said. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, people from all across the country are donating for construction of the temple.People are transferring money directly into two bank accounts of the Trust operating from State Bank of India’s main branch in Ayodhya. “Now, the trust is in a position to advertise in all prominent newspapers of all languages across the country, requesting people to donate for construction of the Ram temple,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust.“The quarter-page advertisement will have all details of the two bank accounts (in SBI), including bar code of the bank. This will help people donate easily to the trust,” Rai added. On the issue of some Non Resident Indians (NRIs) wanting to contribute to total construction work of the Ram temple, Rai said: “First, let people of this country contribute (for the Ram temple), then we will think about it.” Till August, the Trust had received around Rs 30 crore donation through online transfers to its two bank accounts. “Devotees are making online donations daily. A large number of devotees have donated Rs 5 lakh (each). Online transfers of Rs 1 lakh (each) are in abundance. There are a large number of donations of a small amount,” Champat Rai had said earlier. 12 old temples to be demolishedAround 12 old temples on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus will be demolished to pave way for construction of the temple. “Before construction of the Ram temple starts, some temples in the Ram Janmabhoomi campus will be demolished to pave way for construction of the Ram temple,” said Champat Rai.“Temples like Sita Rasoi, around 250 years old and in a dilapidated condition, Anand Bhawan, Ram Khajana and Manas Bhawan, among others, will be demolished,” said Rai. However, the deities of these temples will be preserved and installed in temples which will be constructed alongside the main Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-to-advertise-seeking-donations-to-build-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-Fn6YnhFrtHSZrrSfeWR97O.html
26-08-2020||India||Indian software engineer becomes US citizen in rare ceremony at White House hosted by Trump||President Donald Trump has presided over a rare naturalisation ceremony at the White House where five immigrants, including a software developer from India, were sworn in as American citizens, as the US leader welcomed them to the “magnificent nation” that is comprised of every race, religion and colour.  Trump hosted the naturalisation ceremony at the White House and the video of the ceremony was played during the second night of the Republican National Convention on Tuesday.Immigrants from five countries - India, Bolivia, Lebanon, Sudan and Ghana, stood in a line during the ceremony in the White House. With their right hand raised and a US flag in their left hand, they were administered the Oath of Allegiance by Acting United States Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf, while Trump looked on. Sudha Sundari Narayanan, a software developer from India, was among those sworn in as American citizens.Also read: 5 ways Joe Biden’s presidency will affect US immigration policy“Today America rejoices as we welcome five absolutely incredible new members into our great American family. You are now fellow citizens of the greatest nation on the face of God’s Earth. Congratulations,” Trump said.Trump said the newly sworn-in American citizens followed the rules, obeyed the laws, learned the nation’s history, embraced American values and proved themselves to be men and women of the highest integrity.“It’s not so easy. You went through a lot and we appreciate you being here with us today. You’ve earned the most prized treasured, cherished and priceless possession anywhere in the world. It’s called American citizenship. There is no higher honour and no greater privilege,” Trump said adding that it is an honour for him to be their President. Later, Trump read out the names and a few details of the five new citizens.Trump said Narayanan is a “phenomenal success”, born in India, who came to the United States 13 years ago. “Sudha is a talented software developer and she and her husband are raising two beautiful, wonderful children ‘the apples of your life’. Thank you very much and congratulations. Fantastic job.” Trump handed Narayanan, who was wearing a bright coral pink sari, her Certificate of Citizenship.In his remarks, Trump congratulated the new citizens and said it is his honour to be with them. He added that with the rights and freedoms each of them now enjoy as citizens, there is no dream beyond their wildest reach because Americans can do anything.“Today you have also accepted the profound duties and responsibilities that come with American citizenship. By swearing the Oath of Allegiance, each of you has entered a sacred and unbreakable covenant with our nation.” Trump said the five new citizens have pledged their “undying loyalty” to the American people, the American Constitution and the American way of life. “The history and heritage of the United States are now yours to preserve and pass down to the next generation. Our culture, our traditions and our values are now yours to uphold and live by.” He added that the US Bill of Rights is “now yours to support, protect, and defend. As citizens, you’re now stewards of this magnificent nation, a family comprised of every race, colour, religion, creed, united by the bonds of love.” The United States Bill of Rights comprises the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution.  First Lady Melania Trump also recalled her immigrant journey in the US. During her address at the Rose Garden, she said she arrived in the US when she was 26 years old, adding that living and working in the land of opportunity was a dream come true for her.“But I wanted more. I wanted to be a citizen. After 10 years of paperwork and patience, I studied for the test in 2006 and became an American citizen. As an immigrant and a very independent woman, I understand what a privilege it is to live here and to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities that we have,” she said. Immigration featured in addresses during the second night of the convention. Florida Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nuñez said that as the daughter of Cuban immigrants, her story began in 1959, before “I was born, when my parents’ dreams of a prosperous life became a nightmare. Chaos spread quickly when Fidel Castro took control of Cuba.” Trump’s son Eric Trump said Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden “has pledged to stop border wall construction and give amnesty and healthcare to all illegal immigrants.”  Immigration has been a very critical agenda of the Trump campaign and his presidency, with Trump asserting throughout that as the American President he will ensure job security and safety for American citizens first. As job losses mounted and the American economy suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Trump ordered some stringent immigration restrictions, including suspending the H1B visas, which is popular among Indian IT professionals, along with other foreign work visas for the rest of the year.Trump has said the step was essential to help millions of Americans who have lost their jobs due to the current economic crisis. Indian IT workers form the majority of H1B visa holders in the US and have to wait decades for Green Cards due to a huge backlog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-software-engineer-becomes-us-citizen-in-rare-ceremony-at-white-house-hosted-by-trump/story-vhhB2gPnPR2K9aTbOiqsFI.html
26-08-2020||India||Karnataka Cong accuses Yediyurappa’s son Vijayendra of being ‘super CM’, corruption||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M Lakshman on Wednesday alleged that chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s second son BY Vijayendra was acting as a ‘super CM’ of the state and had indulged in corruption running into several thousand crores. Vijayendra is currently a vice president in the Karnataka BJP unit while his elder brother Raghavendra represents the Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituencyAddressing a press conference at Congress Bhavan in Mysore, Lakshman said that even BJP MLAs themselves had written to the party high command complaining of the high handed ways of Vijayendra and how he was indulging in corruption by interfering in government transfers, awarding of tenders and purchases made.Lakshman released what he claimed was a letter written by seven BJP MLAs themselves to the party high command saying that if things continued like this the party would lose the next elections. Mentioning Vijayendra’s alleged corrupt ways, they accused him of being responsible for Yediyurappa being briefly jailed in 2011. The Congress spokesperson said, “A coterie of 31 people from Vijayendra’s close circle are controlling and running the state government. Yediyurappa is in a helpless situation and his son is the Super CM of the state.”Congress also claimed that it has more evidence of the alleged corruption of Vijayendra and said audio-video evidence would be released in Delhi next month. Congress district president Vijay Kumar and city unit chief R Murthy were also present at the press conference.Responding to the allegations, Vijayendra took to Twitter and denied the charges. Vijayendra wrote, “Congress is an expert in storytelling and naked lies. Targeting me in Mysore, laughable allegations have been made against me. This is nothing but allegations made due to political conspiracy and with bad intentions. I am not the one to run away showing my back to such false allegations. They will not dent my spirit.” (Translated from Kannada).A BJP spokesperson refused to comment further saying, “Vijayendra is the vice president of the state BJP and he has already given his reaction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cong-accuses-yediyurappa-s-son-vijayendra-of-being-super-cm-corruption/story-NL09PrshiIFb7J74USJbVP.html
26-08-2020||India||Parliamentary committee business not to be leaked: Venkaiah Naidu to MPs||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu has written to heads of Parliamentary committees to ensure that proceedings of the committees related to the subject matters or legislative bills under their consideration and examination are not leaked to the media. In the letter, Naidu has asked committee chairpersons to urge the members of their respective committees to strictly adhere to the existing provisions and directions related to confidentiality and refrain from divulging information to the media till the reports are presented to the House. Pointing out that the proceedings are confidential, the Rajya Sabha chairperson has said it is not permissible for a member of the committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate directly or indirectly to the media any information regarding its proceedings, including any part of the report for any conclusion arrived at by the committee, finally over tentatively, before the report has been presented to the house. “Such actions tantamount to breach of privilege of the house,” the letter said.Parliamentary committees are mandated to undertake detailed scrutiny of legislative proposals of the government that are not found feasible for Parliament to do so in transaction of its day to day business for various reasons. The committees also study in great detail various subjects chosen by them in a non-partisan manner.On Tuesday, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also asked the chairpersons of House panels to not take up any matter that is sub judice or is related to national security, and to ensure confidentiality of the proceedings.The Speaker drew the attention of the chairpersons to Direction 55 of ‘Directions by the Speaker’, which says “the proceedings of a Committee shall be treated as confidential and it shall not be permissible for a member of the Committee or anyone who has access to its proceedings to communicate, directly or indirectly, to the press any information regarding its proceedings including its report or any conclusions arrived at, finally or tentatively, before the report has been presented to the House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-business-not-to-be-leaked-venkaiah-naidu-to-mps/story-FhhZpN0g3BnCJnWt7j5YzK.html
26-08-2020||India||Cyber police stations to be set up in each range headquarters of Chhattisgarh||To deal effectively with increasing cyber crime in the state, Chhattisgarh police has planned to set up five cyber police stations at each range headquarters. According to the Chhattisgarh police records; there has been an increase in the reporting of cybercrime over the years. In 2019, a total of 237 offences were registered while 255 offences have already been registered till July of 2020. The new cyber police stations will not only help the department in building capacity to tackle cyber crimes but will also help in strengthening cyber infrastructure, senior police officials said. “These newly notified police stations will start functioning as soon as the state government sanctions the required new (technical) posts. Currently, cyber cells are functional in each district headquarters,” said senior IPS officer and in-charge of police planning and traffic, RK Vij. “Cyber criminals have been found mostly to use social engineering tools, like, fraudulently asking bank account holders to reveal their credit/debit cards details, alluring online users to deposit some amount or provide bank details to withdraw award/lottery money, blocking of Aadhaar card etc. Unfortunately, people fall into their trap despite various warnings issued by banks and the police department and people lose their money in no time,” Vij said. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh police’s technical section has already issued some standard operation procedures (SOPs) which assist the field staff in investigating various cyber crimes, including online pornography and financial fraud. The technical cyber forensic lab of Police Headquarters (PHQ) is also the state nodal agency to co-ordinate with the Cyber Division of the Ministry of Home Affairs and NCRB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-police-stations-to-be-set-up-in-each-range-headquarters-of-chhattisgarh/story-tzOSoW3ElEaGHGHCA5hAUM.html
26-08-2020||India||Upset over police attacks, Nagaland doctors observe 24-hour strike||Health services across Nagaland remained affected on Wednesday due to a 24-hour complete shutdown declared by doctors in the state in protest against police atrocities against them. All medical services in government and private hospitals across the state except emergency services were affected by the shutdown called by Nagaland In-Service Doctors’ Association (NIDA) from 6 am on Wednesday till 6 am Thursday.“All the emergency services are functioning and indoor patients in hospitals are being taken care of. Things will come back to normal from Thursday morning,” said Dr Vizolie Suokhrie, principal director, health and family welfare, Nagaland. Doctors in Nagaland are upset and angry at alleged attacks by security personnel on three doctors since April this year with the last incident taking place on August 21. “In spite of the barbaric assault by erring police personnel on Dr Nosezol Sezo on April 3 at Dimapur and Dr Mongshithung on April 17 at Wokha, NIDA as a matured organization has refrained from taking any drastic action, keeping in mind the sacred responsibility of public health as its top priority,” NIDA said in a release issued on Monday. “The brutal attack on Dr Atoka Wotsa on the night of August 21 by some Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel goes to show that the concerned authority has not taken any corrective measures in disciplining its personnel,” the released signed by NIDA president Dr Ritu Thurr and secretary Dr Ahu Shekhose added. The association expressed confidence in the state government’s assurance to expedite inquiry into the attacks within four days and requested to implement the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020, which was promulgated on April 22 in the state. Following the attack on Dr Wotsa, the state government had constituted a three-member inquiry committee on August 23 and directed it to submit its report within seven days. Nagaland has recorded 3778 cases of Covid-19 till Wednesday with 8 deaths and 2611 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-over-police-attacks-nagaland-doctors-observe-24-hour-strike/story-32nNT2TqbL4ozmDg8yIESI.html
26-08-2020||India||India formally writes to UN on Pakistan’s false claim of making statement in Security Council||India has formally written to the United Nations about Pakistan’s false claim of making a statement in a Security Council meeting on terrorism, which was not open to non-Council members. India on Monday exposed Pakistan’s litany of lies it peddled in the UN after Islamabad’s UN envoy claimed to have given a statement in the Security Council meeting that was not open to non-members of the 15-nation UN body. India has now formally written to the UN and put on record about Pakistan’s claim that it had made a statement in the Council, which is false. India on Monday had put out a strong point-by-point rebuttal of the remarks that Pakistan said it made to the Security Council meeting. The Pakistan Mission falsely claimed that its UN envoy Munir Akram had given a statement at the Security Council debate on Report of the Secretary General on Threats to International Peace and Security posed by Terrorism Actions. However, the Security Council meeting on threats to international peace and security was not open to non-members of the Council. A photograph of the meeting tweeted by the German Mission to the UN showed only envoys of the 15 Security Council members participating in the meeting. Pakistan is not a member of the Council. “We have seen a statement put out by the Pakistan Mission to the UN, claiming that these remarks were made by the Permanent Representative of Pakistan at the UN Security Council. “We fail to comprehend where exactly did the Permanent Representative of Pakistan make his statement since the Security Council session today was not open to non-members. Be that as it may, the five big lies of Pakistan lies exposed,” India’s Permanent Mission to the UN had said. Calling out Pakistan’s lie that it has been a target of cross-border terrorism for decades, India had said “a lie repeated a hundred times will not become truth. The biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against India now tries to masquerade itself as a victim of terrorism by India,” India’s Mission to the UN had said on Monday. On Akram’s claim that Pakistan has decimated al-Qaeda from the region, India said perhaps the Permanent Representative of Pakistan is “not aware that Osama bin Laden was hiding in their own country in plain sight, and it is the US forces which got him inside Pakistan. Nor have they heard their Prime Minister refer to Osama bin Laden as a martyr.” Giving a strong rebuttal to Pakistan’s lies, New Delhi termed Pakistan’s claim that India has hired terrorists as mercenaries to hit them as “laughable”. “Coming from a country which is a known sponsor of cross-border terrorism which has made the world suffer due to its actions, this claim is nothing short of being preposterous!”, India said, adding that Pakistan is home to the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN and many of the sanctioned terrorists and entities continue to operate with impunity inside Pakistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan himself had admitted at the General Assembly last year about the presence of 40,000-50,000 terrorists inside Pakistan. Laying bare another lie by Pakistan about Indian nationals in the 1267 al-Qaeda Sanctions List of the UN Security Council, India said the Sanctions List is “public and the world can see none of these individuals are in it. The 1267 Committee works on the basis of evidence and not random accusations thrown in to divert their time and attention,” India said in response to a lie made by Pakistan that it has submitted names of some Indians to be proscribed under the Sanctions List. In a strong response to Islamabad raking up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in the remarks it falsely said Akram gave to the Council, India said Pakistan makes “ridiculous assertions” about internal affairs of India. “This is a country whose minority population has dropped drastically from 1947 to what it is today, which is just about 3 per cent, which is nothing short of systemic cleansing. This is in addition to false allegations about India’s sovereign actions in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which are for the welfare of the people,” India said. PTI YAS PMS AKJ PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-formally-writes-to-un-on-pakistan-s-false-claim-of-making-statement-in-security-council/story-jfFWalZGZ3ZlyKDFbD2RgK.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Can’t have one nation-one political party system’: Mamata after seven CMs meet||India seems to be moving towards a one nation-one political party system, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee quipped on Wednesday afternoon, minutes after conducting a virtual meeting of chief ministers from seven non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. “Let us forget which party is ruling a particular state. To save democracy, we have to unite,” Banerjee said without naming the BJP, her main threat in poll-bound Bengal. She alleged that the Centre is taking policy decisions unilaterally and thrusting those on the states without consultation. “All the chief ministers complained that they are facing intimidation. Central (probe) agencies are being used. The states are being financially deprived,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat after the meeting. Banerjee and Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi jointly convened the meeting which went on for two hours. Significantly, Gandhi asked Banerjee to conduct it. Though the demand for postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) was the primary cause, the meeting’s agenda went far beyond. Gandhi, who opened the discussion, said the states were facing a lot of problems because of the policies of the Centre. She referred to the rise in fuel prices, arrears in the states’ share of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), disinvestment in public sector enterprises, privatisation of airports and several other issues. Besides Banerjee, others who took part in the meeting were Uddhav Thackeray from Maharashtra, Amarinder Singh from Punjab, Hemant Soren from Jharkhand, Bhupesh Baghel from Chhattisgarh, V Narayanasamy from Puducherry and Ashok Gehlot from Rajasthan. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not attend. This was the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic started that chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states spoke out against Central policies from a common platform. Asked by the media whether the meeting was a precursor to a united movement for bargaining with the Centre, Banerjee said, “Words such as blackmailing or bargaining do not apply here. We are talking about the problems of the common man. It’s been a long time since we got our share of the GST that is collected from the state. We are not getting financial aid for combating the Covid-19 pandemic.” “The Centre is disinvesting shares in public sector units at random but we are not supposed to talk about the interests of the people. The role of the states and the Centre in our federal structure has been clearly defined by the Constitution. Under the current circumstances, a conflict between the Centre and the states is inevitable. That will be harmful. We don’t want it. Only strong states can make a strong Centre. Let us work for a united India,” said Banerjee. During the meeting, Soren said, “These days the opposition appears to have become weak. We have to take a stand.”In her reply, Banerjee said, “Yes, we must raise our voice. Otherwise other political parties will not exist.” Reacting to this, Sonia Gandhi said, “I agree.” The BJP Bengal unit said Wednesday’s exercise was an attempt by the Congress to find a proxy fighter. “The Congress is in the doldrums and Sonia Gandhi needs people to fight her war. Banerjee stepped in because she is afraid of losing the 2021 assembly polls. It is because of the election that she is showing concern for the students,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. Political columnist Suvashis Maitra said, “The Congress is now in a position where Sonia Gandhi will need people like Banerjee who were once faces of the party but left because they were disgruntled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-have-one-nation-one-political-party-system-mamata-after-seven-cms-meet/story-3QcBt3Dr6gJnBaqE82dejJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Money put in Pakistan bank accounts of JeM commander before Pulwama blast: NIA||Mohammed Umar Farooq, the nephew of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, had received Rs 10 lakh in his bank accounts in Pakistan to execute the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed in February last year, the NIA has said in its chargesheet.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe has shown that Rs 10 lakh in Pakistani currency was credited into three accounts of Farooq, the main accused in the suicide attack case who was later killed in an encounter with security forces, in Allied Bank and Mezaan Bank in that country days before the incident, officials said.They said the money was deposited by top leadership of the terror group JeM between January and February 2019.Also read: The proof of PulwamaThe terrorists had spent around Rs six lakh on procurement of explosives and the Maruti Eeco car used in the attack, the NIA said in its chargesheet filed on Tuesday before a special court in Jammu.A major chunk of the fund, about Rs 2.80 lakh, was used to procure around 200 kilograms of explosives including ammonium nitrate to trigger a massive car-laden IED attack on the CRPF convoy moving from Jammu to Srinagar on February 14, 2019, they said.The 200 kilograms of explosives comprised of a lethal concoction of RDX brought from Pakistan, gelatin sticks procured by Mudasir Ahmad, four kilograms of Aluminium powder bought on Amazon by accused Wazi Ul Islam and Calcium Ammonium Nitrate. The IED was fitted into the Eeco car in two containers weighing 160 kilogram and 40 kilograms to trigger the blast, the NIA said.Charge sheeted accused Shakir Bashir allegedly collected the explosives -- RDX, Gelatin sticks, Aluminium power and Calcium-Ammonium Nitrate -- and stocked them at his house for making the IED, the agency said.The terrorists had spent another Rs 2.5 lakh on purchasing and modifying the car to be used in the attack which was also parked in the front-yard of Shakir Bashir’s house, it said.Some money was spent on miscellaneous expenses too, which included purchase of containers for fabricating the Improvised Explosive Devices, officials said.  The NIA probe has shown three bank accounts of Farooq, the main perpetrator, who received the money from January 2019 till February of the same year. The agency had filed a 13,800-page chargesheet against 19 accused persons in an NIA Special Court at Jammu in connection with last year’s terrorist attack on the CRPF convoy at Lethpura, Pulwama, they said.Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist Adil Ahmad Dar, who was driving the car laden with explosives, had rammed it into the convoy killing 40 CRPF personnel and grievously injuring eight others.  “The investigation has revealed that Pulwama attack was a result of well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammad. The JeM leaders have been sending their cadres to the terrorist training camps of Al-Qaida-Taliban-JeM and Haqqani-JeM in Afghanistan for receiving training in explosives and other terrorist tactics,” the NIA said in the chargesheet.  The agency said the main accused Umar Farooq was trained in Afghanistan for explosives. He visited Afghanistan in 2016-17 and had infiltrated into India through the International Border at Jammu-Samba Sector in April, 2018, it said.Farooq took over as the Jaish-e-Mohammad Commander of Pulwama.  “Accused Shakir Bashir, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmad Shah and Bilal Ahmad Kuchey provided all logistics and harboured the JeM terrorists in their houses,” the NIA has said.Bashir allegedly did reconnaissance of the movement and deployment of security forces on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway.  A propaganda video clip of Mohammad Umar Farooq, Sameer Dar and Adil Dar was allegedly prepared at Insha Jan’s house which was released immediately after the suicide attack, it said.The terrorists had prepared the car for the attack by fitting it with the IED on February 6, 2019 but suspended their nefarious plans because of heavy snowfall which led to closing of the National Highway for vehicular movement, the agency said.They attacked the convoy on February 14, 2019, when the National Highway reopened, they said.Bashir drove Adil Ahmad Dar till the National Highway, after which Dar drove the car and carried out the blast, it alleged.Damage to the tune of Rs 32.90 lakh was caused to public property, the probe agency said.The NIA found that JeM leadership consisting of Masood Azhar, Rouf Asgar and Ammar Alvi alias Chacha alias Chota Masood handled the operation by continuously giving directions and guidance to the Pakistani JeM infiltrators before and after the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-put-in-pakistan-bank-accounts-of-jem-commander-before-pulwama-blast-nia/story-N22wPJaLcqZiNwT1FjMLDO.html
26-08-2020||India||SG Tushar Mehta refuses permission to prosecute Swara Bhasker for criminal contempt||Solicitor General of India (SG), Tushar Mehta on Wednesday declined permission for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the Supreme Court and its 2019 judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.Mehta said in his letter to the petitioner, one Usha Shetty from Karnataka that the Attorney General for India (AG), KK Venugopal had earlier rejected a similar request by Shetty and hence the request made to the SG is misconceived.“The AG, on August 21, has declined to provide his consent for the reasons stated in the reply of the AG. Considering the fact that the AG has already declined to grant his consent, the present request made to me is misconceived,” Mehta said in his letter to Shetty.Bhasker had, on February 1, said that the Supreme Court acknowledged the illegality of the demolition of Babri Masjid in its November 2019 judgment and yet rewarded the perpetrators who brought down the mosque by handing over the land to them.The plea seeking initiation of a criminal contempt case against Bhasker, which was filed by Shetty on August 17, was initially placed before AG for his consent to list the matter before the court.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of the AG or SG is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.After the AG declined permission, Shetty’s lawyers had approached the SG.The November 9 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya dispute, which was delivered by a bench headed by former CJI Ranjan Gogoi, had awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to Ram Lalla Virajman, the child deity. The bench had also ordered that 5 acres of land at an alternative site should be granted to Muslims for construction of a new mosque.The top court had, interestingly, acknowledged the existence of a valid mosque at the disputed site and had expressly stated that the acts of Hindus in placing idols inside the mosque in 1949 and destruction of the mosque in 1992 were illegal.Bhasker had, on February 1, attended a panel discussion organized by NGO Mumbai Collective on the topic ‘Artists against Communalism’. During the discussion, Bhasker, as alleged by the petitioner, made the following statement:“We are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states in a judgment that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.”Shetty submitted that the statement by Bhaskar is derogatory and intended to scandalize the Supreme Court. It is not merely a cheap stunt for publicity but a deliberate attempt to incite masses to “resist and revolt against the apex court”, she added.“The statement intends to incite feeling of no confidence amongst public with respect to the proceedings of the Supreme Court. It amounts to criminal contempt,” the petition said.Venugopal in his response to the petitioner said that Bhasker’s statement on Ayodhya judgment “appeared to be a factual statement” and reflected her perception of the incident.Regarding Bhasker’s statement about courts not believing in the Constitution, the AG said that it is a vague and general statement not related to any particular court and cannot be taken seriously.Venugopal had recently urged the Supreme Court not to punish activist lawyer, Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court in relation to his tweets against the Supreme Court and current Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde. The top court is yet to pronounce its judgment in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sg-tushar-mehta-refuses-permission-to-prosecute-swara-bhasker-for-criminal-contempt/story-HG1S11JU7ZEMAO9U4q8ScJ.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP to bank on PM Modi’s development plank to fight TMC in Bengal polls||To take on the Mamata Banerjee government in the state assembly polls next year, the BJP will rely on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “development agenda” as a poll plank, said persons aware of the details. Even though the party has started a concerted campaign to highlight what it alleges is the “misrule” of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government; the party has opted to proceed with PM Modi as the face of the election. This is not the first time that the BJP has refrained from naming the chief ministerial candidate; though in states where it seeks re-election it usually prefers leading with the incumbent as it did in Madhya Pradesh with Shivraj Singh Chouhan and in Haryana with Manohar Lal Khattar. A senior party functionary in the state said, it is too soon to suggest a CM candidate and the party will leave it to the leadership in Delhi to take a call on the issue. “The focus right now is the misrule and the governance failures of the TMC. Party cadres have been instructed to create awareness across the state about the benefits they will stand to gain if the BJP forms government. A scheme like Ayushman Bharat that has changed the healthcare delivery is not allowed in Bengal, there is widespread violence and lack of development,” the functionary said. While the BJP is resting its hopes on PM Modi’s popularity with the masses to help them wade through the choppy waters of electioneering in the state where the party has traditionally found little support, there are concerns about the cohesion in the party unit itself. Differences between state unit leaders have surfaced and the national leadership has had to intervene more than once. More recently, statements made by state in charge Kailash Vijayvargiya that the state unit will contest under the leadership of Modi were perceived as a snub to former governor of Meghalaya Tathagata Roy, who has expressed his desire to re-join the party as a full-time worker. “There are many claimants to the CM’s post and there are differences between the party unit chief Dilip Ghosh and some of the team members. The central leadership has had to step in to bury differences,” said the functionary quoted above. Roy, who had earlier served as the governor of Tripura and the party president of the West Bengal unit, has been vocal about joining the party full time after his gubernatorial term came to an end this month. He however said that while he is eager to serve the party in the state of West Bengal he leaves it to the party high command to choose the role in which he can contribute. “It is not for me to decide what role I should have in the party since I am just about to enter the party. It is for the party leadership, the president and the observers to decide. But what I have made plain is that I am prepared to shoulder any responsibility that the party gives me. I will turn 75 next month and if the party holds that I am too old for any kind of active post so be it. If the party decides that I am physically fit then also so be it. Meanwhile, there is enough scope for me to work in the party in different capacities,” Roy said. He also brushed aside claims that differences have surfaced in the state unit ever since he expressed his intention to join the party. “There is no party in the country which is free from any kind of internal differences and different parties manage them in different ways. For instance, the communists keep it under wraps and you get to know it only when the party splits. The Congress handles it by allowing everyone to say anything at the public forum. You find five different people saying five different things in the media. The Trinamool Congress handles it by throwing bombs at each other. As opposed to that we have internal dissensions too but we handle them well by arguing among ourselves, by talking it through and ultimately by the Central leadership. What we do is the most civilised way of handling internal dissensions,” he said. Roy and other state leaders said not announcing a CM candidate will have no adverse impact on the party’s performance at the polls to pick a new 249-member assembly Abhay Deshpande, a political commentator, said not naming a CM candidate in states where the party is not seeking re-election is a strategy.“They have been strategically consistent in not naming a chief ministerial candidate in states where they are not seeking re-election to avoid infighting in the party and also to rule out trouble with allies. For instance, in 2004 they never projected Devendra Fadnavis as a CM in Maharashtra but when they sought re-election, Fadnavis was the face of the party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-bank-on-pm-modi-s-development-plank-to-take-on-tmc-in-bengal-polls/story-pTpH2fUG2mVoF8LtA4jt9M.html
26-08-2020||India||Sri Lanka to have ‘India first’ approach for security policy, says foreign secretary Colombage||President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has made it clear that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though Colombo remains open to dealing with other key players for economic development, the country’s new foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage has said. Colombage, a retired admiral who commanded Sri Lanka’s navy during 2012-14 and is perceived as close to Rajapaksa, made the remarks in two interviews to the media. He also said Rajapaksa’s administration has adopted a posture of neutrality in its dealings with key powers at the regional and global level as Sri Lanka cannot become a “staging area” for any country to do “anything against another country – especially...India”. “Very categorically, the president has stated that we have a strategic security-wise ‘India first’ policy because we cannot be, we should not be, we can’t afford to be a strategic security threat for India, period,” Colombage said in an interview to Derana 24 news channel that aired on August 20. “We can’t be and we don’t have to be [a security threat to India]. They are a very big power, [the] fastest developing major economy in 2018, 1.34 billion people, a 7,500-km coastline, it’s a huge country. We need to benefit from India,” he added. Colombage made similar remarks in an interview with the Daily Mirror newspaper, pointing out Sri Lanka is “between two economic giants”. He added: “That is why the president mentioned that as far as strategic security is concerned, Sri Lanka will always have an India-first approach. That means Sri Lanka will not do anything harmful to India’s strategic security interests.” However, he said Rajapaksa had made it clear to India’s leadership that Sri Lanka cannot depend on any one country for economic development. “We are open to anyone. We know China is one country willing to invest and develop. They have the capacity to do it. We have to benefit from it. We have to balance,” he told the Daily Mirror. Colombage also told the news channel: “Even to India...very firmly, the president has said, you are my first priority in so far as security is concerned but I have to deal with other players for my economic prosperity.” Colombage, who was appointed foreign secretary on August 14 and previously served as additional secretary to the president for foreign relations, also said the Sri Lankan government will not hand over total control of strategic national assets to a foreign power following the experience with Hambantota port, which was given to China Merchant Port Holding for 99 years. “Now in that deal, roughly...about 85% of that project’s stakes are for China Merchant Port Holding and only 15% for Sri Lanka. We will do everything so that no one can use our country against another country but then giving total control for a long period, of majority 85% is a very high stake,” he told the news channel. In future ventures, Sri Lanka will retain a 51% stake in any project with foreign investment, he said. Colombage told the Daily Mirror that China understands Sri Lanka’s position and “is pushing for commercial things”. He added, “China also understands it isn’t ethical to push Sri Lanka beyond a certain point that is worrisome to India.” He also told the daily that in 2015, India feared “we had moved towards China too much”, and that India, Japan and the US considered it was wrong for Sri Lanka to give Hambantota port on lease to a Chinese firm. “We actually made India jittery during the period between 2015 and 2019. But India is comfortable with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa,” he added. The Modi government has focussed on improving ties with Rajapaksa’s administration. Modi was the first world leader to congratulate Rajapaksa even before the final results of Sri Lanka’s parliamentary elections were declared earlier this month, after his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party took an unassailable lead. Last month, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and officials said Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion was also being considered. When Rajapaksa visited India last November, just 10 days after becoming president, New Delhi announced a $400-million line of credit to boost infrastructure and development, and offered another $50 million to fight terrorism and enhance intelligence gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lanka-to-have-india-first-approach-for-security-policy-says-foreign-secretary-colombage/story-RXHgJlYecIxu5JzOtQJy1L.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays on DFC after concerns raised by PMO and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays on DFC after concerns raised by PMOFollowing concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), Railways has cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments. Read more Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio gets nod for sub-sea cable gateway in BengalTelecom giant Reliance Jio would be coming up with a cable landing station in West Bengal that would increase the state’s connectivity with European and Asian countries and attract investment, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Read more Despite opposition concern, Education ministry moves to conduct NEET, JEE examsEven as pressure piled from several states and opposition parties about the wisdom to conduct the NEET and JEE exams in September, the Union Education ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) continued working towards what would be the biggest entrance tests to take place during an epidemic. Read more IPL 2020 | ‘Skipper Virat Kohli can tap into Aaron Finch’s experience’, says RCB director Mike HessonCoping with anxiety after the long break due to Covid-19 will be the challenge for players as Royal Challengers Bangalore resume quest for their first IPL title, say head coach Simon Katich and Hesson.Read more Diljit Dosanjh’s day was made after watching this 62-year-old woman’s bhangra on his song G.O.A.T. WatchDiljit Dosanjh’s title track from his music album G.O.A.T. seems to be making everyone get up and get their bhangra on. Just a few days ago, a video of a group of women in Switzerland grooving to the song caught the singer and actor’s attention. Read moreRhea Kapoor uses star power to help small businesses get back on track amid coronavirus pandemicIn late June, Rhea decided to use her star power for the better and launched “The Good Influencer Project” to help those small business who had been affected on account of the coronavirus pandemic, and ensuing lockdown. Read more Samsung Galaxy M31s to be available on Amazon once again starting August 27The Samsung Galaxy M31s will be on Amazon India at a price of ₹19,499 for the 6GB RAM and 128GB memory variant and ₹21,499 for the 8GB RAM and 128GB memory variant. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-xx-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jOoDglp08DQAxHWovVX32H.html
26-08-2020||India||Railways cite poor progress by contractors, delays, on DFC after concerns raised by PMO||Following concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), one of the largest rail infrastructure projects, Railways has cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments. According to officials aware of the development, railways has identified delays in both the Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors and revised the completion target to 2022.Railways’ project implementing arm the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) in an internal report reviewed by HT, has cited slow progress of Road over Bridge (ROB) approaches by Uttar Pradesh (total 46 ROBs out of which only 3 have been completed, 30 in progress and work on 13 is yet to start). It has also pointed towards law and order issues in Meerut, Muzzafarnagar and Saharanpur District as an area of concern for the delay in the Eastern corridor. It also pointed slow progress in construction of ROBs in Haryana and Punjab.In the Western Corridor, DFCCIL also mentioned slow progress by the Gujarat government citing “slow acquisition of land for approaches”.DFCCIL in its observation identified delays by the following contractors: GMR group, Alstom, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, TPL-Aldesa a joint venture, Hitachi and Texmaco rail & engineering limited. Railways have citied “inadequate mobilization” as one of the reasons for delays, followed by “slow pace of work” by the contractors and cash flow issues.“The project is monitored on a weekly basis now. Another meeting is scheduled to be chaired by MR next Monday with all stake holders. Railways would listen to all. If contractors are unhappy we can’t be happy, idea is to take all with you. However, Railways will not tolerate any slippages in timelines of the contracted works. Action would be taken against any entity causing delay in the project of such importance. This strict monitoring is for all the working parties involved including entities in Railways. Rules of monitoring are applicable for all. Development of these freight corridors will bring faster, dedicated network for Railways to usher in a transformational change in freight operations which will benefit the business and economy of the nation,” the spokesperson for the railway ministry said. A review of the DFC is scheduled to be held on August 31 with the contractors. Railways will also hold a review with state government officials of UP, Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra on September 1. When contacted by HT, a spokesperson for the GMR Group said: “GMR group has a history of delivering world class projects ahead of schedule. GMR Group constructed and operationalised Terminal 3 in a record time of 37 months besides delivering international projects in multiple countries ahead of schedule.” “Despite the adverse effect of Covid which has impacted availability of manpower, raw material and other resources, due to support from government agencies we have overcome it to large extent over the last few month. Group’s DFCC project stretches more than 400 Km and requires supplies of construction material from multiple sources, even from beyond the state. Owing to COVID, movement of skilled manpower & supervisory staff along with efficient supply of construction material has adversely affected the project progress. More than 40 of our engineers and supervisors were impacted with Covid and there has been one fatality as well. Various village bodies have objected to free movement of outside labor due to the fear of Covid spread. We are also balancing the need of local employment and requirement of trained labour which is taking some time…It is noteworthy that in such projects, earthwork and bridges completion takes more time while the track work, which is about 40% of total work is carried out very fast. Despite these challenges, the rate of progress of works on this project is better than other sections of DFCC, which was recognized recently & project was awarded “Certificate of Appreciation,” he added. A spokesperson for Alstom said the company has completed 90% of the work awarded to it.“As the only company to have fast-tracked the execution of electrification and signaling on key stretches of EDFC, the 200 km section of 102/103 (Bhadan to Khurja), completed by Alstom in 2019 has enabled successful run of over 1250 fully loaded freight trains. This also makes it the only electrified section of DFC in the country… In all, we have completed 90% of our scope of work on the EDFC project and are on track to complete rest of the work at the earliest. We expect that very soon, the entire 345 km freight corridor from Bhaupur-Khurja will be fully functional… Due to the scale and complexity of the project, there have been persistent ongoing challenges which impacted the speed of execution. While COVID-19 slowed down the progress, with Unlock 1.0, our teams restarted with an undeterred spirit following all necessary permissions and kept safety as a priority by adhering to protocols. Despite all the unprecedented challenges, Alstom has only accelerated the pace of the project. As on date, we have more than 900 employees on site, working round the clock to deliver as per timelines. We also accord highest priority to maintain safe conditions at site, absorbing all additional costs, considering the significance that we attach to this project,” the spokesperson said.HT also reached out to the aforementioned firms for a response.On June 18, HT had reported that DFCCIL has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays.“A review meeting was held on the DFFCIL and Shri Goyal directed the DFFCIL management team to necessary steps to speed up the project to compensate the loss of time due to lockdown during COVID. He also advised the officials to identify the most challenging area and come up with solution in a mission mode. He suggested that involving young fresh minds to suggest best solutions may be encouraged.”“During the meeting, it was decided that strict monitoring of work of all contractors to be done. Resolution of all issues, including coordination with the states to be done on a Mission mode. Innovative mechanisms to constantly monitor the weekly progress of the project to be evolved,” DFCCIL said.DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways’ quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Howrah, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. .The overall cost is pegged at Rs 81,459 crore. In the first phase the organisation is constructing the Western DFC (1504 Route km) and Eastern DFC (1856 route km) spanning a total length of 3360 route km. These corridors were targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021. DFCCIL had completed a total of 500 kilometres till January this year.“There are also issues around land acquisition, encroachments which are adversely impacting progress in certain stretches,” said Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-cite-poor-progress-by-contractors-delays-on-dfc-after-concerns-raised-by-pmo/story-B7V6wDjHDu7ICzE0C0R4xH.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Will Modi govt guarantee no one will contract Covid-19’: Cong slams Centre over JEE, NEET||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the Centre saying the government is putting the health and safety of nearly 25 lakh students in jeopardy by conducting Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in September. Party’s national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala’s tweets came hours after an opposition meeting convened by Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi decided to move the Supreme Court to review its decision rejecting the plea to postpone the engineering and medical entrance tests in the country. In a series of tweets, Surjewala accused the “obstinate Modi Govt” of refusing to listen to students’ grievances and thereafter coming up with a universally acceptable solution. Also read: At Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEE“Health & safety of 25 lakh students is being jeopardised in the ensuing #JEE_NEET exams. Students are protesting across the country.Why is an obstinate Modi Govt even refusing to listen to their grievances, deliberate upon them and find a solution acceptable to all?,” he wrote on the microblogging site.  Health & safety of 25 lakh students is being jeopardised in the ensuing #JEE_NEET exams.Students are protesting across the country.Why is an obstinate Modi Govt even refusing to listen to their grievances, deliberate upon them and find a solution acceptable to all?1/3He also pointed towards the plight of students who have been holding virtual protests seeking postponement of the two exams amid the coronavirus outbreak. Members of the Congress-affiliated NSUI on Wednesday began an indefinite hunger strike demanding the deferment of exams and a fee waiver for six months during the pandemic. At a time when there are over 3.23 million confirmed cases of Covid-19 in India, Surjewala questioned the government if it was ready to guarantee that the candidates appearing for exams and the faculty at the exam centre will not get infected with the virus. Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatOn the safety protocols put in place to prevent the spread of the disease, he asked the Centre as to who was going to oversee if the guidelines were actually being practised and not remained a formality on paper. “Will Modi Govt guarantee that no student of #JEE_NEET or faculty will catch COVID infection during the exam? What safety precautions & protocols have been put in place? Who will oversee that the guidelines & protocols do not remain an empty paper formality?,” he tweeted.  2/4Will Modi Govt guarantee that no student of #JEE_NEET or faculty will catch COVID infection during the exam?What safety precautions & protocols have been put in place?Who will oversee that the guidelines & protocols do not remain an empty paper formality?Surjewala also brought to the Centre’s notice that the candidates may face trouble in commuting given the travel restrictions in place and enquired if any special arrangements were made for those in the flood affected states like Bihar and Assam. “Due to #COVID__19, transportation across the country has either not started or normalised. How will #JEENEET students arrive at the destination with absolute safety & return? What arrangements have been made for their stay etc.? Has Modi Govt left the students in the lurch?” he said. “What are the spl arrangements for students of flood affected #Bihar & #Assam ? Are there only 2 centres set up in the State of Bihar for NEET examination? Does it not mean a virtual denial of opportunity to students from Bihar?,” he added.  3/4What are the spl arrangements for students of flood affected #Bihar & #Assam ?Are there only 2 centres set up in the State of Bihar for NEET examination?Does it not mean a virtual denial of opportunity to students from Bihar? 4/4Due to #COVID__19, transportation across the country has either not started or normalised.How will #JEENEET students arrive at the destination with absolute safety & return? What arrangements have been made for their stay etc.?Has Modi Govt left the students in the lurch?The Opposition meeting earlier in the day and Surjewala’s sharp remarks came after the National Testing Agency (NTA) also on Tuesday refused to defer the exam schedule citing the apex court order stating “a crucial year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.”Nearly 8.58 lakh and 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the JEE (Main) and NEET examinations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-modi-govt-guarantee-no-one-will-catch-covid-19-cong-slams-centre-over-jee-neet/story-PkCcGBwf8BcHB9E5LYJVwK.html
26-08-2020||India||FIR against Rhea Chakraborty over drug probe in Sushant Rajput case||In the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the Narcotics Control Bureau has registered an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty and others after reports emerged that drugs were supplied to her and the late actor.The case was registered under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, which makes possessing, selling of drugs a crime.The other people named in the FIR are: Rhea’s brother Showik, her talent manager Jaya Saha, Sushant Singh Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Gaurav Arya.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says actor was drugged unknowingly, this is ‘ultimately what led to his death’The NCB is the latest agency to be drawn into the case, which is already being investigated by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate.The FIR was filed after the Enforcement Directorate sent a letter to the NCB asking the agency to join the probe. Rakesh Asthana, the NCB director, confirmed that an FIR was filed. “We received a letter from the ED on Tuesday evening stating that during their probe into financial aspects they found that drugs were supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and people involved will be questioned,” said Asthana. The NCB has been roped in by the ED to probe if drugs were supplied to Rhea Chakraborty and Sushant Singh Rajput. ED sources said that during their questioning of Jaya Saha, Rhea’s talent manager, they found some conversation between them about drugs. However, none of the three agencies provided any details into the form of drug or if it was consumed by any of the persons involved in the case. Satish Maneshinde, senior counsel and Rhea’s lawyer, said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her lifetime. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” Meanwhile, the ED has once again called Jaya Saha to its South Mumbai office for questioning. On day 6 of the probe, the CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to the CBI by the Supreme Court court after it upheld the validity of an FIR filed by the Bihar police in response to a complaint filed by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-control-bureau-registers-case-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-hMEemAtHfdE3haall8nQ2M.html
26-08-2020||India||I am a bit sceptical taking up new work due to the ongoing crisis: Aditi||Hailing from Jhansi in UP, youngster Aditi Sanwal is doctor by profession and actor by choice. “I think the acting bug was in me always. I always find myself being fascinated by TV and films. To keep my mischief in check, my parents used to tell me we will remove the TV and I used be all in check. In small towns, acting is still considered as a hobby and never a career. As I was a bright kid, my doctor parents wanted me to complete my degree in any field before taking up any other career option. After clearing my examination, I got selected for from MS Ramaiah Medical College, Bangaluru, for my MBBS degree,” she said over the phone. Telling more about how acting happened, Aditi said, “During my MBBS, I read an article about acting and photography contest and I was not able to keep my mind of it. And then I decided to try my hand in acting too. So for a course I joined an acting school in Bangaluru. So mornings were all about my medical college and then afternoons were for my acting classes. I was head-down busy with studies, acting but couldn’t complain as it was all my own choice. My friends at college had no idea that I was also training in acting. In final year, I did cut down on plays and also missed on many opportunities, but I was sure that first I have to complete my degree.” Aditi has done a number of TV and print commercials and reached Mumbai after her degree and internship. “Once in Mumbai, I was autioning round the clock before landing up a meaty role in the show ‘Chandragupta Maurya.’ The show gave me chance to play role of a warrior princess. It had every shade a newcomer would love to portray. Currently, I’m glad to play Kuki Bajaj in ‘Kasauti Zindagi Kay,’a fun-loving, bubbly girl who loves her parents and family. Also talks are on for other projects, especially for web. But for now, I am a bit sceptical taking up new work due to the ongoing crisis,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-a-bit-sceptical-taking-up-new-work-due-to-the-ongoing-crisis-aditi/story-TpK2X3DhOtj0uMmxO54tEM.html
26-08-2020||India||Armed Forces Tribunal begins hearing cases through video-conferencing||The Delhi-based principal bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal on Wednesday initiated hearing of matters pertaining to regional benches through video conferencing, said a defence ministry spokesperson. The AFT chairperson Justice Rajendra Menon inaugurated hearings by video conferencing for all 10 regional benches of the tribunal. “With this provision of hearing by video conferencing, an immense relief has been brought to the armed forces personnel, whose applications are awaiting justice at various Regional Benches,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The AFT’s principal bench is the only court that has been conducting physical hearings since June 8 amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Physical hearings are being conducted at the Principal Bench taking into account hardships and limitations faced by armed forces personnel, retired as well as serving, primarily due to their far-flung locations and various security related issues,” the statement said. All precautions are being taken during the physical hearings at the principal bench. These include high hygiene standards, the court premises being sanitised twice daily, entry to the court being restricted to a bare minimum and social distancing norms being followed. The advocates appearing in the AFT are separated by a transparent sheet, from the judges and proper social distancing is maintained between court staff and judges, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-tribunal-begins-hearing-cases-through-video-conferencing/story-DAjuJWjSRSvKOeWUQC3j7J.html
26-08-2020||India||UAE-Israel deal has opened ‘lots of opportunities’: S Jaishankar||The normalisation of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has opened up “lots of opportunities” at a time when ties between New Delhi and Abu Dhabi too are growing, external affairs minister S Jaishankar has said. India has welcomed the deal between the UAE and Israel, both key allies in West Asia, and also called for the resumption of direct talks between the Israeli and Palestinian leadership for a “two-state solution”. Referring to the normalisation of ties between the UAE and Israel, Jaishankar told Gulf News: “When two strategic friends come closer it opens up lots of opportunities.” India and the UAE, he said, have a “fast growing relationship”. He added, “UAE is central to India’s extended neighbourhood. We see UAE on the crossroads of international trade. As Singapore is in the East, UAE is in the West.” The report in the Gulf News stated Prime Minister Narendra Modi had personally directed officials to give a new thrust to ties with the UAE after coming to power in 2014. Over the past few years, New Delhi has expended considerable diplomatic capital in improving ties with West Asian countries, particularly members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and Saudi Arabia, and the relations now extend from energy security to security and defence cooperation, including intelligence-sharing and counter-terrorism. The presence of some 8 million Indian expatriates in West Asia has been a key factor in these efforts. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have also played a role in improving India’s ties with the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), though differences remain on issues such as Kashmir. Jaishankar’s visit to the UAE while he was foreign secretary in 2015 helped him build rapport with minister of state for foreign affairs Anwar Gargash and gave a boost to ties, the report said. Modi’s team also sought to go beyond the perception formed about West Asian countries through a narrow focus on the Israel-Palestine issue or merely as sources of energy, the report added. In 2015, Modi became the first Indian prime minister to visit the UAE in 34 years, and Sheikh Mohammad Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, was the chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations in 2017. During the past six years, Modi visited the UAE three times. Jaishankar said: “It is a relationship where the highest leadership of both countries have invested goodwill and energy. As a result, you can see the transformation during the last five years.” In his new book The India Way – Strategies for an Uncertain World, Jaishankar has listed the UAE among the five countries that India must concentrate on while conducting its foreign policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-israel-deal-has-opened-lots-of-opportunities-s-jaishankar/story-nS364lj7ccwqihpAfSJClK.html
26-08-2020||India||‘Let’s go to SC’: Mamata Banerjee at Sonia Gandhi’s CMs’ meet over exams||Chief ministers of opposition-ruled states on Wednesday resolved to work together and fight against the Centre for undermining the rights of states as they also decided to move the Supreme Court and seek a review of its earlier verdict giving go-ahead to the government in holding the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September. In a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the issues of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation, NEET and JEE exams in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, chief ministers of West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), Jharkhand (Hemant Soren), Punjab (Captain Amarinder Singh), Rajasthan (Ashok Gehlot), Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and Puducherry (V Narayanasamy) stressed the need to protect federalism, claiming that all powers were now concentrated in just one hand. The Congress had not invited the chief ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal), Andhra Pradesh (YS Jaganmohan Reddy), Telangana (K Chandrashekhar Rao) and Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan). For his part, Thackeray said the opposition-ruled states have to first decide whether they want to “fight or fear” the Modi government. “Opposition-ruled states should speak louder as the Centre is trying to suppress our voices. But we are together, we will be together and we will fight together,” he said Thackeray promptly got support from Banerjee who said the situation was “very serious” and the opposition-ruled states should launch a united fight against the Centre. Gandhi also endorsed Thackeray and Banerjee. “We have to work together and fight together,” she said. Soren alleged the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was using agencies against the opposition and undermining the federal structure. Earlier in her introductory remarks, Gandhi said refusal to pay GST compensation to states is “nothing short of betrayal” by the Narendra Modi government. “GST compensation being paid to states on time according to the laws passed by Parliament is crucial and I know this is not happening. Dues have accumulated. The finances of all states have been affected badly,” she added. The Congress chief said GST was enacted as an example of cooperative federalism and it came into existence because the states agreed to forego their constitutional powers of taxation in the larger national interest and on the solemn promise of compulsory GST compensation for a period of 5 years. In the meeting of the standing committee on finance on August 11, she said the union finance secretary has reportedly stated that the Centre is not in a position to pay the mandatory GST compensation of 14% for the current year. “This refusal to compensate the states is nothing short of a betrayal by the Modi government and a betrayal of trust of the people of India. On the other hand, the central government continues to profiteer from unilateral cesses which are non-shareable with states and corner this revenue,” added Gandhi. The Congress president further claimed that ordinances have been issued without consulting states on agricultural marketing, saying the Punjab chief minister has already highlighted how these will destroy the MSP regime and adversely impact the PDS as well. “There has been a nationwide outcry against the draft EIA notification which is deeply anti-democratic. Laws meant to protect the environment, livelihoods and public health are being weakened. The auction of coal mines too, I am aware, has been objected to by some chief ministers.” Gandhi said public sector assets created over decades are being sold off despite some state governments expressing their strong opposition. “Six airports have already been given to private hands. The railways are the lifeline of the country and they are being privatised too.” She said other announcements such as the National Education Policy were worrying as it is a “setback for progressive, secular and scientific values and reveals insensitivity” to what the states have been saying. “Problems of students and examinations are being dealt with very uncaringly,” Gandhi added. Banerjee urged all chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared. Amid a growing chorus for postponing the JEE and NEET exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has maintained that these will be conducted in September as scheduled. While the JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6, NEET is planned on September 13. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Banerjee alleged that states were being “bulldozed” by the Centre which is not giving money to them. “The situation today is dangerous. We cannot speak freely. From Facebook to everywhere, there is fake and distorted news to destroy the opposition,” she said. Banerjee said she had raised her concerns about the NEET and JEE exams with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the Prime Minister, but there has been no response. If the Prime Minister does not listen to us, then we all collectively should approach the Supreme Court,” she said. “I request the state governments, let us do it together. Let’s go to the Supreme Court and request it to postpone it for the time being till the Covid-19 situation improves. We stand by our students, whatever help they require, we are willing to provide that,” the West Bengal chief minister added. Thackeray said the time has come to revisit the GST model and see if it is helping or not. “The old tax collection model was good? If there are lacunas in the GST, those need to be addressed so that states don’t suffer,” he said. Thackeray further said they were not “begging” before the Centre for the GST compensation as it is their money and they have to fight for it. “Maharashtra has not got the GST refund from the Centre. We keep reminding them by writing letter after letter. Some letters do get replies but others remain unanswered.” The Maharashtra chief minister said no one can suppress the voice of the opposition-ruled states because theirs is the common man’s voice and they are democratically elected like the Modi government. Urging Gandhi to hold more such meetings, Thackeray reminded her about the “excellent Panchayati Raj decision” of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for decentralisation of power. “But today exactly the opposite is happening. Powers of all institutions are being concentrated in one person’s hand and that is not good for democracy,” he said. Singh said the Covid-19 situation is getting worse and Punjab might face a deficit of Rs 25,000 crore this year due to the pandemic. “I agree with Mamata ji that we should collectively meet the Prime Minister and apprise him of the revenue situation. And all of us should go to the Supreme Court on the issue of NEET and JEE exams,” he added. Baghel claimed that the Covid-19 situation has aggravated while Narayanasamy said the Centre will be responsible if students get infected during the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-go-to-supreme-court-mamata-banerjee-to-cms-at-meet-over-neet-jee/story-tlVjVKBkUpqHzclgfkuFSP.html
26-08-2020||India||Lockdown norms extended in Bengal till Sept 20, nod for flights, metro and local trains||The Mamata Banerjee-led administration in West Bengal has no issues if local trains and metro rail services are resumed in the state and has even allowed resumption of flight services from six cities to Kolkata that had been suspended since July 6. The chief minister also announced that there would be complete state-wide lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12. The state government, which was earlier planning to reopen schools on September 5 if the Covid-19 situation improved, said that schools and colleges would remain closed till September 20. “Flight services from six cities were suspended. From September 1, flight services to Kolkata from the six cities may resume and can operate on three days. We cannot allow complete resumption of flight services as of now,” Banerjee said after a cabinet meeting. Flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad were stopped from July 6 as the state government stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The dates were extended multiple times. “We have no problem if Metro wants to resume services in and around Kolkata after maintaining physical distance (between passengers). Local train services may also start in a phased manner - one fourth at a time. We have no problem. Railway authorities can speak with us,” Banerjee said. After months of deliberations, the Centre is finally likely to allow resumption of Metro services from September 1, when the fourth phase of unlocking economic activities will begin, people familiar with the development said. The government is considering opening local rail transportation from the first week of September. Officials of the Union government had earlier told HT that modifications were being worked out on how to resume Metro services. “Total lockdown would be enforced on September 7, 11 and 12. If the situation calls for more lockdown-days the dates would be announced later in September,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-norms-extended-in-bengal-till-sept-20-nod-for-flights-metro-and-local-trains/story-pxKSjrvLio3GVZqAj4gIIK.html
26-08-2020||India||Karnataka to reopen colleges from October, online classes to begin soon||Karnataka’s deputy chief minister C N Ashwathnarayan who also holds the higher education, IT & BT, skill development portfolios has announced that the state will commence the academic year for degree colleges in the state starting September 1, with online classes and then in October offline classes (in-person) would commence.In a series of tweets, the minister said, “We have decided to use the online medium to get the ball rolling on all academic activities from next month as we will need to conduct a few degree exams in September.”Even as he gave a timeline for resumption of classes, the minister, however, cautioned that the state was also awaiting detailed guidelines from the Centre regarding the resumption of offline classes and said the state would follow any additional directions that may come from them.Asserting that the Karnataka government was working with the sole intent of ensuring a bright future for students, Ashwathnarayan said, “Once the academic year begins, final year exams will be scheduled for all undergraduate, diploma and engineering students. Backlog exams will also be conducted accordingly.”If the government goes ahead with the plan, the state is likely to be the first in the country to reopen in-class and in-person coaching. Usually, the academic year for colleges in the state starts from June but this year, it has been delayed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-reopen-colleges-from-october-online-classes-to-begin-soon/story-JdO9hQ9iUKSSGba3VTRFUM.html
26-08-2020||India||Stranded foreign pilgrims visit Badrinath as Char Dham shrines open||For the first time since pilgrims were allowed to visit Char Dham shrines in the state, a group of foreigners from different countries visited Badrinath shrine this week. They have been living in Rishikesh for the past six months and went for the pilgrimage with the help of a travel company. The group of seven foreigners followed all safety norms and got themselves tested for Covid-19 before visiting the shrine. “It was an amazing feeling to have been able to visit Badrinath, amid the pristine mountains and experience the holy vibrations of the shrine,” said Carolina, from Lithuania who visited the shrine on Monday.The pilgrims were from Canada, United States of America (USA), Netherlands, among others. This is likely the first shrine out of the Char Dham shrines to welcome foreigners this year. Ravinder Negi, district information officer Chamoli district where Badrinath shrine is situated, said, “Over 10,000 pilgrims have visited the shrine since pilgrims were allowed this year, including some foreign visitors. Antigen tests are conducted for everyone entering the district and then at the temple premises thermal screening is carried out after which hands and shoes are sanitised. Even the vehicles in which the pilgrims come, those are also sanitised in the temple premises.” Seema Nautiyal, tourism officer for Haridwar district, said that since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, 27 foreign tourists were stranded in the district, however, as per the records of July, there are three foreign tourists in the district. Officials from Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that around 35,000 e-passes have been issued to pilgrims for visiting the shrines of which over 20,000 have visited the shrines. The response has been good despite the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said, “It is the effort of the state government that there should be a gradual influx of pilgrims in the four shrines so that tourism and pilgrimage can get momentum. The yatra is getting a good response also, and now people from outside Uttarakhand can also travel by making e-pass for Char Dham Yatra and fulfilling the health related standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-foreign-pilgrims-visit-badrinath-as-char-dham-shrines-open/story-1pVLx653k4JIcr4CezJ7ZI.html
26-08-2020||India||MP govt to use drones to assess disaster impact and development work||The Madhya Pradesh government will use drones to assess impact of natural disasters and the implementation of developmental works across the state, a senior minister said.At a virtual meeting on Tuesday evening, the state cabinet discussed the use of drones which is a part of suggestions by a ministerial group, At the same time, the state government will also work on creating a unified web portal which will be a single source for providing all information related to different departments and provide all kinds of certificates to people. “The ministerial group on good governance submitted its suggestions to the cabinet. The suggestions include short term and long term goals. Use of drones for assessment of natural disasters impact and implementation of development schemes is a part of the suggestions,” home minister Narottam Mishra said.He said, “As per suggestions a unified data portal will have all the information and documents related to various services so that people don’t have to approach different departments for their work. The same facility will be available through a mobile phone App too. Developing the App is a part of long term goals but most of the suggestions are targeted to be completed in the next three years.” Mishra said all these suggestions would be presented before NITI Ayog. He said as per suggestions the CM Helpline service which is used to receive complaints from public would be known as CM Citizen Care and it would be connected to a Mobile phone App also through which people would be able to track the progress on their complaints, get permission for various facilities and get no dues certificates inter alia. Mishra said the government would also consider if a gun licence could be granted to people for entire life instead of renewing it every year and if permits for certain services too could be granted in the same manner. He said other suggestions included providing filtered water to every home by 2024, enhancing irrigation facilities from present 40 lakh hectare to 53 lakh hectare, eradication of tuberculosis from Madhya Pradesh by 2025, development of 75,000 acre land in Chambal region, laying of massive road network to connect each and every tourist centre and setting up of Deendayal kitchen at every pilgrimage spot.The ministerial group also suggested the setting up metro rail services in Bhopal and Indore at the earliest, of 4,400 MW solar plant, multi-model logistics hub in the state and broadening scope of Ayushman scheme.At the cabinet meeting, a decision was taken to exempt police recruitment from the provision of reserving 20% posts for contractual officers and employees, Mishra said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-use-drones-to-assess-disaster-impact-and-development-work/story-RO9aPslos1CrZiMe5JzazL.html
26-08-2020||India||Experts divided over resuming Delhi Metro as Centre plans to allow services from Sept 1||The Centre is planning to allow metro service to resume at a time when Covid-19 cases in the national capital are on the rise--1,544 Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, the highest daily tally in the last 40 days. While transport exports say that resumption of Metro services is crucial for economic revival, the medical fraternity is divided over the issue.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s operations were shut on March 22.With nearly six million passenger journeys daily, the Delhi Metro is the transport lifeline of Delhi and the National Capital Region. As a majority of commercial activities have been allowed in the city, people are facing a lot of problems while commuting due to inadequate public transport and the restriction on the number of passengers who can travel at a given point of time. Transport expert Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment, cites Hong Kong as an example where the services were never shut. “For the economy to revive, it is essential to reopen public transport, especially Metro services. A lot of cities such as Hong Kong, London have the metro system operational. In Hong Kong, metro operations were never stopped. They have adopted a lot of precautionary measures to ensure social distancing. This can be done here too,” Chowdhury said.But the medical community is divided over it. While some say it should start as offices, markets, hotels restaurants etc have opened, others say starting metro services will result in faster spread of the contagious infection.Epidemiologists point at the increase in positivity rate in the Capital and the recent serological survey report—29% of Delhi’s population is exposed to Covid-19 as per the second sero survey -- and say that the opening of metro services should be deferred.“As per the second sero survey report, nearly 2/3 of the population is still unexposed. The positivity rate is already on the rise and if you create opportunities for people to mingle, then it will increase the chances of transmission of the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR.As the Metro connects Delhi with Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad, experts say that this will result in crowding at stations. “How will social distancing be ensured at stations? Currently, a lot of people from neighbouring areas are not able to come to Delhi as Metro operations are closed. Starting it would only allow more movement of people and increase the chances of infection,” said Dr PK Sharma, epidemiologist and former medical health officer with the New Delhi Municipal Council. But community medicine expert Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department at Safdarjung Hospital, disagrees. He said, “It is about time the government starts Metro services, as people are facing a lot of inconvenience while commuting. People are using their own vehicles which are causing air and sound pollution. People will use metro but should follow all the precautions such as use of face masks, social distancing etc.”The DMRC has taken measures to ensure social distancing at its stations and trains. It has also prepared protocols, which will be modified as per the Centre’s guidelines, to ensure contactless and cashless travel. Completely cashless transaction at ticketing counters, earmarking designated spots for passengers to stand while waiting for trains or at ticketing counters, use of face masks and Aarogya Setu mobile application, separate entry and exit point to the station premises are some of the measures the agency is likely to include in its protocols, said a DMRC official.Roychowdhury, too, says that there is a need to build confidence among people. “We have anyway started bus and other public transport services and people are using it. We need to build confidence among people that this mode of travel will be safe by ensuring stringent implementation of precautionary measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-divided-over-resuming-delhi-metro-as-centre-plans-to-allow-services-from-sept-1/story-F1DJDpk673sXNfA9oPdvoN.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Net tax liability to be considered for interest on late GST payments from Sep 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Net tax liability to be considered for interest on late GST payments from Sep 1Interest will be charged on the cash component of delayed settlement of Goods and Services Tax (GST) liability from September 1, the government has said, in a move which will bring relief to the industry. Read moreAt Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEECongress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which are scheduled to be held next month, saying it does not care about students. Read moreMilitary tension up as US planes intrude into China airspace during drillsThe US military aircraft’s intrusion into Chinese airspace during live-fire military exercises was “blatant provocation” and could lead to “misjudgments and accidents”, China has said even as a second US reconnaissance aircraft is said to have flown over the South China Sea on Wednesday. Read more‘The list is very long’: Zaheer Khan explains what makes Rohit Sharma a great captainFormer India left-arm fast bowler Zaheer Khan feels Rohit Sharma’s ability to maintain a cool head in pressure situations which in turn, brings the best out of his players, is one of the many great characteristics about his captaincy. Read moreRani Rampal: I dedicate the Khel Ratna award to our corona warriors, who are working selflessly to keep all of us safeIndian women’s hockey captain Rani Rampal’s story is a perfect example of one that’s built on grit and determination and the dream to make the country proud. Read moreTamannaah Bhatia’s parents test positive for Covid-19, actor and her staff test negativeActor Tamannaah Bhatia has said that both her parents have tested positive for coronavirus. The actor and her staff have tested negative. Read moreHonda Jazz 2020 launched at starting price of ₹7.49 lakhHonda Jazz 2020 has been officially launched in the country on Wednesday at a starting price of ₹7.49 lakh. The updated premium hatchback from Honda is available in three trims - V, VX and ZX, and two transmission options. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-net-tax-liability-to-be-considered-for-interest-on-late-gst-payments-from-sep-1-and-all-the-latest-news/story-rFCyVN5bF3GunQRzPIEOjI.html
26-08-2020||India||GST Council may discuss market borrowing by states on Thursday||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to discuss at a meeting on Thursday a market borrowing mechanism to help states leverage recently enhanced borrowing limits to compensate them for revenue shortfalls and debts thus raised to be eventually repaid from the compensation cess fund, two officials said.Other options like levying cess on more items, increasing cess rates on existing products or raising overall GST rates to raise revenue appears difficult at a time when demand is subdued and the economy is badly hit by Covid-19 pandemic, the officials added requesting anonymity.The special GST Council meeting has been convened to discuss how to compensate states for their revenue shortfalls when the economy is facing headwinds and the compensation cess kitty for 2020-21 is almost empty, the officials said.The pandemic and a 68-day nationwide lockdown to check its spread from March 25 hit the country’s economic growth, which had already slowed. India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the lowest in 11 years.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2020. It also guarantees them that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be addressed through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products like liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.As cess collection fell sharply due to subdued business activities, states could not be paid compensation on time. According to official data, the last tranche of the GST compensation worth Rs 13,806 crore for 2019-20 was paid towards the end of July. So far, states have been paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation for 2019-20 against Rs 95,444 crore cess collection.“With promised 14% year-on-year revenue growth, the gap is expected to be unmanageable this financial year without borrowing from the market,” one of the officials said. The compensation requirement for 2020-21 is expected to exceed Rs 1.88 lakh crore even if the GST collection in 2020-21 remains at the same level as last financial year, he said.Some states have a misconception that it is the commitment of the Centre to compensate states and therefore it should borrow the money to pay to states and union territories, the officials said. In fact, paying compensation is the collective commitment of both the Union and state governments, and the GST Council is the apex body to take a decision on this matter, they added.“The GST law is clear that states will be compensated for their revenue shortfall only from the compensation cess fund. There is no legal provision that the compensation money will come either from the Consolidated Fund of India or the Union government will borrow from the market. Therefore, this matter will be resolved at the GST Council on the principle of collective responsibility. Ideally, states should leverage their enhanced borrowing limits,” a second official said.To give fiscal space to states in this time of crisis, the Centre raised their borrowing limits. Announcing the last tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India campaign) on May 17, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre had accepted the demand of states to raise their borrowing limit from 3% of their respective gross state domestic product to 5%. She said it would give them additional resources of Rs 4.28 lakh crore during the crisis.Experts say the shortfall in compensation cess collection is mainly because of unforeseen circumstances as the architects of the GST regime could not foresee a pandemic-like Covid-19 that would batter the economy. India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year especially because of the hard lockdown for two months of the quarter--April and May.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer of the financial technology platform ClearTax, said: “Increasing state borrowing seems to be an option to fund the revenue shortfall for states. The other option suggested was to allow the GST Council to borrow, and repay from cess collection in future years.”He said these measures are short term. “...states need to become more fiscally responsible, reduce their debt and make attempts to become fiscally self-reliant to a large extent.”Pratik Jain, partner and leader of the indirect tax practice at PwC India, said it is evident that cess collected is not enough to compensate the states, particularly in current economic slowdown due to the pandemic. “However, at this point, neither increasing the rate of cess nor the ambit look like feasible options.”Jain said the Centre will need to negotiate the quantum of compensation, possibly by reducing the 14% annual increment and increasing the period of compensation beyond five years as initially envisaged. “In the long term, we will have to find ways for the states to be more economically independent and enhance the tax base.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-council-may-discuss-market-borrowing-by-states-on-thursday/story-rW2XLrZBNpshh4pIrRz3GI.html
26-08-2020||India||Two children among six killed as truck overturns on car in Jharkhand||Six people including two children were crushed to death when a truck overturned on their car on Dumka-Deoghar road in Jharkhand on Tuesday night, police said Wednesday.Dumka Superintendent of police (SP) Ambar Lakra told reporters that the horrific accident took place around 9.15 pm and the a family was going to Deoghar from Dumka in their car when the truck which was loaded with rice and was coming from the opposite direction, overturned on it killing all occupants on the spot.Police and locals first tried to rescue the family but failed. A crane was brought to lift the truck after which the victims were taken out of the car.The deceased were identified as Shantanu Kumar, his mother Archana Singh, sister Neha Singh and her two children and car driver Sanni Kumar.Police officials said truck was coming from Sugnibad village in Deoghar district. The truck driver escaped from the spot after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-children-among-six-killed-as-truck-overturns-on-car-in-jharkhand/story-fTsyvmZ8B990URIuJrSgXP.html
26-08-2020||India||Phase II trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune, 2 get first shot||The Phase II clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, being manufactured by the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), began at a medical college and hospital here on Wednesday.Two male volunteers were administered the vaccine at Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital, a senior office-bearer of the hospital said.The trial began around 1 pm, he said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Doctors at the hospital administered the first shot of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine to a 32-year-old man after his reports of COVID-19 and antibodies tests came out negative,” Medical Director of Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, Dr Sanjay Lalwani, said.Another 48-year-old male volunteer was also given the vaccine, he added.While the 32 year-old volunteer works for a private company, the other one is associated with the healthcare sector, he said.“Before administering the vaccine, doctors checked their temperature, blood pressure and heart beats,” he said.Five volunteers had enrolled themselves for the trial after the doses were received from the SII on Tuesday, he added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The COVID-19 and antibodies tests were conducted on all the five volunteers. Of them, the reports of three volunteers’ antibodies test came out positive. So they became ineligible for the trial,” Dr Lalwani said.“The two other volunteers, who were administered the vaccines are being monitored,” he said.According to Dr Lalwani, in all, 25 candidates will given the vaccine in the next seven days.SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-ii-human-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-begins-in-pune-two-get-first-shot/story-R3HaGxrWLWHmnX0IK4ZozN.html
26-08-2020||India||Rain brings relief to Jammu and Kashmir after months of dry weather||Rain lashed parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday bringing down the temperatures and triggering landslides on the Srinagar-Jammu highway. Moderate to heavy rain started in the night and drenched various parts of the Union Territory. “There was widespread rain in the region today and it is expected to continue till Thursday, “ said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir. The rain also brought relief to farmers reeling under dry weather conditions for the past three months. “We have been facing very dry conditions for the past more than three months. The temperatures have also remained abnormally high. The rains have come as a major relief, “said Mohammad Sultan, a vegetable farmer of Srinagar. The weather office has predicted more rain.“Analysis of various weather models, widespread light to moderate rain with isolated heavy showers in Jammu and Kashmir and light to moderate rains at scattered places of Ladakh is very likely during August 26 and 27,” said director meteorological department, Sonam Lotus. A weather advisory by the MeT office has predicted flash floods and landslides in vulnerable parts. “IMDs experimental model shows that the soil at various places of J&K especially Jammu region is fully saturated and has low water absorbing capacity. Continuous rain may lead to flash flood and flash flood at vulnerable places, “ read the advisory issued to secretary disaster management. It said that the precipitation may lead to disruption of traffic on Srinagar- Jammu National highway, Srinagar-Leh highway and the Mughal Road. Traffic officials said that there were further landslides on the Srinagar-Jammu highway which was already closed on Tuesday after a large stretch part of the road was washed away in Ramban.“There have been landslides at Panthal and the highway is already closed,” said an official at the traffic control room. Scanty rainfall this year has led to very low output in water bodies causing shortage of portable water across the Valley and also affecting the agricultural and horticultural produce. The temperatures have also hovered above normal. On August 17, the highest temperature had reached 35.7 degree Celsius in Srinagar six degrees above normal, a record in 39 years. “The temperature has fallen now and will go further down,” Mir said. Last week, divisional commissioner of Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole had chaired a meeting of officers to take stock of the water crises like situation that has been looming due to dry season and no rainfall in the past three months.To mitigate portable water supply crises in affected areas, the divisional commissioner instructed officers concerned to use water tankers and ensure continuous supply to the residents in affected areas.He also directed officers to facilitate required irrigation supply to paddy, maize and other crops through community and individual bore well in all affected areas so that the yield is not damaged due to water supply shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-brings-relief-to-jammu-and-kashmir-after-months-of-dry-weather/story-3HSvjvBqE4vDIMlVrATDLK.html
26-08-2020||India||Should together fight Centre for undermining states’ rights: CMs of opposition-ruled states||Chief ministers belonging to various opposition parties on Wednesday got together and discussed the issue of GST compensation to states, with Congress president Sonia Gandhi saying the Centre’s refusal to reimburse the states was nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government.Gandhi convened a virtual meeting of chief ministers of opposition-ruled states to discuss the key issues confronting them.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting.In her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said she agreed with Banerjee and Thackeray that all opposition-ruled states should together fight the Centre for their rights.“We have to work together and fight together against the Central government,” Gandhi said at the meeting while endorsing Banerjee and Thackeray.“We should decide whether we have to fight or fear,” Thackeray said at the meeting.Banerjee earlier said the situation was “very serious” and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly.Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatGandhi termed the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation as “anti-democratic” and alleged that the laws to protect the environment and public health are being weakened by the Modi government.She said announcements like the National Education Policy should worry the opposition as they are a setback for secular and scientific values and reveal the “insensitivity” of the government.On students’ problems and the issue of exams arising out of the pandemic situation, she said it is being dealt with uncaringly by the Centre.Banerjee urges all chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the ruling party was using agencies against the opposition and was undermining the federal structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-together-fight-centre-for-undermining-states-rights-cms-of-opposition-ruled-states/story-tDoZDyYM13G2XJ4TG2IgcN.html
26-08-2020||India||Lucknow municipality mulls using 30% cow dung cakes for cremation||The Lucknow municipal corporation (LMC) is mulling over making the use of 30% cow dung cakes mandatory for traditional cremations citing their low cost and negligible impact on environment as opposed to wood, said Dr Arvind Kumar Rao, additional director, animal welfare, LMC.“The idea came from municipal commissioner Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, who visited Kanha Upvan on Sunday and found around 3,769 cows, 4,578 bulls and 796 calves inside it. They are producing waste in huge quantity, which can be used for making cow dung cakes and compressed natural gas,” he said.The municipal commissioner has also ordered the officials to initiate talks with companies who could market products involving cow urine and compressed natural gas.The LMC controls the crematoriums at Gulalaghat, Bhaisakund and Alambagh where more than 900 quintals of wood is sold in a month.The idea is to reduce pollution by replacing 30% of wood with cow dung cakes.“This would not only save trees but also help individuals in saving money as cow dung cakes come at a much cheaper cost than wood,” said Dr Arvind Kumar Rao.However, the use of cow dung cakes would be made mandatory only after the proposal is passed by the executive committee of the LMC.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath says UP has reduced vector-borne diseases mortality rate by 95% since 2016Some of the corporators have advised the municipal commissioner to take the advice of some religious leaders before making the use of cow dung cakes mandatory in traditional cremation of bodies.Senior Congress corporator Girish Gupta said, “No one should be forced to use cow dung cakes as cremation of bodies is an emotional issue. We must encourage its use without making it mandatory.”“We will have to use every available resource to run Kanha Upvan. The place has the potential to produce gas, cow urine, cow dung cakes and cow urine based medicines,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-municipality-mulls-using-30-cow-dung-cakes-for-cremation/story-17CxnS8xOfkNUVegO7lygI.html
26-08-2020||India||Tripura handing out Swami Vivekananda’s books to Covid-19 patients for ‘mental toughness’||In order to keep Covid-19 patients mentally strong and motivated, the Tripura government has started distributing books written on Swami Vivekananda to them. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb handed over a few books on Swami Vivekananda to the medical superintendent of Tripura Medical College and also to the in-charge of Hapania Covid Care centre in Agartala. “To keep the Covid 19 patients motivated and mentally strong, we have decided to distribute books written on Swami Vivekananda to every Covid patient so that they can read these books and get inspired by his thoughts. It is very important to stay calm and energetic when we are fighting against Covid-19,” Deb wrote on his Facebook on Tuesday. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%The state has recorded a total of 9,213 Covid-19 cases so far and 6,574 patients have recovered. Till now, 83 patients have succumbed to the disease and two others have died by suicide.The state health experts recently said that the 9-10% Covid-19 positivity rate in the state suggests the possibility of it spreading in the communities in the next few weeks. With a hike in such cases, the government would conduct antibody tests in the state from September 15 so that they could start plasma therapy for the Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-handing-out-swami-vivekananda-s-books-to-covid-19-patients-for-mental-toughness/story-LUJZ3IgCV6BqD0PeVWif2M.html
26-08-2020||India||Let’s appeal to Supreme Court to postpone NEET, JEE: Mamata Banerjee to non-BJP chief ministers||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday proposed that all non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- ruled states appeal to the Supreme Court to allow the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to be postponed. As of now, they are scheduled to be held in September.Banerjee made the statement at a virtual meeting, attended by chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states, that she and the Congress’ interim president Sonia Gandhi jointly convened. The meeting started at 2.30pm. Also Read: 10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversyThe agenda, however, was not restricted to the examinations alone. Gandhi, who opened the discussion, said that state governments were facing a lot of problems because of the Centre’s policies. She referred to the rise in fuel prices, disinvestment of PSUs, privatisation of airports and other issues. This was the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out that chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states spoke out against Central government’s policies on a common platform. Gandhi then let Banerjee conduct the meeting. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not attend because of urgent business. The Jharkhand chief minister said, “These days, the opposition appears to have become weak. We have to take a stand.” Banerjee seconded the statement and said, “Yes, we must raise our voice. Otherwise other political parties will not exist.” Thackeray also spoke on a number of issues and said the Centre had failed to deliver on many of its promises. Amarinder Singh spoke at length on the lack of Central funds to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and said, “We should all go to the Prime Minister with our problems.”Gehlot started speaking at 3.30 pm.On Monday and Tuesday, Banerjee had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the examinations, saying students would be exposed to risk if they travelled during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-appeal-to-supreme-court-to-postpone-neet-jee-mamata-banerjee-to-non-bjp-chief-ministers/story-Zf9IMZ5ROg9sozgfIDiBGI.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said what||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday convened a meeting with the chief ministers of seven states to discuss issues regarding the Goods and Services Tax collection and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) (NEET), which are due to be conducted in September.Here is who said what in the virtual meet:Problems of students, exams being dealt uncaringly, says Sonia GandhiAnnouncements such as those related to the National Education Policy should really worry us as it is actually a setback. Other problems of students and exams are also being dealt with uncaringly, said Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Also Watch: Explained | JEE-NEET exams amid Covid: What students must do; NTA rules  Refusal of GST compensation to states betrayal on part of Centre, says Sonia Gandhi“There are a number of issues related to Centre-state relations and since Parliament is expected to meet in less than 3 weeks. I thought we should have an interaction so that we can have a coordinated approach. GST compensation seems to be a big issue. GST compensation being paid to states on time according to laws passed by Parliament is crucial. But it is not happening. Dues have accumulated and finances of all the states are badly affected,” Sonia Gandhi said.“In the meeting of the Standing Committee of Finance on August 11, 2020, the finance secretary clearly stated that the Central government is not in a position to pay their mandatory compensation of 14 per cent for the current year. This refusal to compensate the state is nothing short of betrayal on the part of the Narendra Modi government, betrayal of State governments and people of India,” she said.Let us go to Supreme Court, says West Bengal CMThis will be my request to all state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to sit for exams, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the PM, but there has been no response, she also said. It is Satyamev Jayate for us, not ‘Sattamev Jayate’, says Maharashtra CMIt is never ‘Sattamev Jayate’ (power alone triumphs), it is ‘Satyamev Jayate’ (Truth alone triumphs) for us, said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav ThackerayWe will fight together, says Maharashtra CMWe are together, we have to work together and we will fight together, Maharashta chief minister gives message of unity among opposition parties. Let’s take this up with Supreme Court, says Punjab CMWe have written to the Prime Minister three times on this issue of University Grant Commission being told to hold other college exams or delay them. Like Mamata ji said, let’s take this up with the Supreme Court and fight there, said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.They have not consulted us or any of my colleagues also. They have just gone and thrust the new education policy on us; without knowing what they are planning. Without us knowing what is going to cost us, the chief minister also said.Day after tomorrow our Vidhan Sabha is starting and we have said that every MLA must have a Covid-19 test done. A few were done today and 23 of my MLAs are positive as of today, the Punjab chief minister said.The situation is fearful, says Chhattisgarh CMCentre has not paid GST compensation to the states for the last four months. Today, the situation is fearful, said Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel. Conducting of examinations will lead to a rise in a number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Government of India will be responsible for it. We will jointly fight the battle against the Central government on this issue, said Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-president-sonia-gandhi-holds-discussion-with-7-state-cms-who-said-what/story-T1kQv1SbLon0m1jiZ7dzJO.html
26-08-2020||India||At Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet, Mamata and Amarinder call for moving SC over NEET, JEE||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which are scheduled to be held next month, saying it does not care about students.Gandhi was speaking at a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of seven states to work out a united opposition response amid growing chorus for deferring the entrance exams for engineering and medical courses amid the coronavirus crisis. Also Watch: Explained | JEE-NEET exams amid Covid: What students must do; NTA rules  The meeting was attended by Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry’s V Narayanasamy.Gandhi said that the announcements such as those related to the National Education Policy are worrying and termed it as a set back for progressive, secular and scientific values. The Congress chief also accused the Centre of “uncaringly” dealing with the other problems of students and exams.During the virtual meeting, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggested approaching the Supreme Court again for postponing the exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.“This will be my request to all the state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to appear for the exams,” she said.Banerjee also referred to the two letters she wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the week seeking the postponement of the entrance exams.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh also backed Banerjee’s call to move the Supreme Court to intervene in the matter. Also read| Sonia Gandhi holds meet with 7 state CMs on JEE, NEET and GST collection: Who said whatUddhav Thackeray cited a US report that said 97,000 children in the country were infected by the coronavirus disease when schools were reopened. “What will we do if such a situation arises here?”He also said that the schools could not even be opened in June when the number of cases was relatively less, then how can the situation be considered conducive to hold examinations now.Jharkhand’s Soren also expressed similar concerns and said that the states were not yet ready to hold exams. “When candidates come to exam centres, their parents also accompany them, especially female candidates, which is why the place is likely to become too crowded that may lead to a risky situation,” he said.The opposition meeting comes a day after the National Testing Agency (NTA) refused to change the exam schedule citing the August 17 Supreme Court order that rejected a petition to postpone the exams as “a crucial year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-holds-oppn-meet-on-jee-neet-mamata-banerjee-suggests-approaching-sc/story-fGt5ngFfMzeVPVNcENQcfM.html
26-08-2020||India||POCSO accused jumps into river, leaves video alleging harassment behind||After a video clip, of a POCSO (Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences) Act accused, Akshay Kumar, jumping into a swollen Tawi River after accusing the police, health authorities and the complainant of harassing him went viral, the police has ordered a high level probe into the incident and promised not to spare anyone found guilty of driving him to possible death.“An incident relating to a video with the heading ‘Frustrated youth... jumped over Tawi river, ended his life’ has come to our notice. We are deeply saddened by the unfortunate incident. A high-level enquiry into the matter to ascertain the facts and circumstances of the case, headed by SP City North, has been ordered. The responsible people will be strictly dealt under the law,” said a police spokesperson.The spokesperson added that an FIR under section 309 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) has already been registered at Nowabad police station and an investigation has started.The 25 year old youth, facing trial under section 376, 511 of the IPC and 7 of the POCSO Act, jumped off the third Tawi Bridge into the river on Tuesday afternoon alleging harassment by Janipur police, authorities of the government medical college and hospital and the mother of the minor rape survivor. An electrician by profession, he professed his innocence and blamed the woman and her daughter of harassing him and driving him to the point of suicide. Also Read: POCSO accused jumps into river, missingIn the video, he is heard claiming that the girl had voluntarily travelled with him to Amritsar, Jalandhar and many other places. He alleges he was falsely implicated under the POCSO act at the behest of the mother. Shan Ahmad, his friend, said, “Around 1.45 pm on Tuesday, he jumped off the third bridge into the swollen Tawi River. At 1.42 pm, he sent me two videos from his cell phone wherein he clearly blamed administration, the health department and Pooja Mehra along with her daughter for his extreme step. He said that he was being harassed by the Janipur police station since morning for getting a Covid test conducted before being sent back to jail and also by the hospital authorities, who asked him to bring a police order for the purpose.” The accused was on an interim bail since March 13 on humanitarian grounds, citing ill health of his father. However, on Monday, the principal session judge Sanjeev Gupta refused to extend his bail citing the gravity of the crime and the critical juncture of the case, where statements of the survivor and her mother have to be recorded. SHO Naresh Sharma said the requirement of getting a Coved-19 test done was as per the standard operating procedure and not because of any court order.Also Read: Kathua woman succumbs to virus, family alleges medical negligence “His bail had been refused and considering the crime he was asked to surrender before the jail authorities. Under the Covid protocol, he had to get himself tested for the virus before surrendering to the jail authorities as directed by the court. Had he not complied with the court order then we would have had to arrest him and produce before the court,” said the SHO. The police officer added that the accused perhaps didn’t want to go to jail and hence was frustrated. A search was on for the youth, who had not been traced so far.“Due to heavy rains Tawi River is in spate but we, along with the SDRF team, are still searching for him,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pocso-accused-jumps-into-river-leaves-video-alleging-harassment-behind/story-JX9ajAHoa0pNxlYUcrABbL.html
26-08-2020||India||SC refuses to interfere in High Court order on three capitals for Andhra Pradesh||In yet another setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s plan to form three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, the Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to grant stay on the high court order for status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital.A division bench of the Supreme Court comprising justice Ashok Bhushan, justice R Subhash Reddy and justice M R Shah set aside the special leave petition filed by the state government, challenging the high court order.The bench said it cannot interfere in the matter, as it is already pending in the high court and is coming up for hearing on Thursday.The Supreme Court also rejected the plea of the state government to direct the high court to expedite the hearing. “We cannot fix a deadline to the high court to complete the hearing. But we hope it will settle the issue at the earliest,” the bench said.Senior counsel Fali S Nariman, arguing for the farmers of Amaravati, said the high court was formed in Amaravati as per a presidential order. As such, the state government cannot decide the judicial capital at Kurnool, he said.The development comes as a big disappointment for the Jagan government which is keen on shifting the executive capital to Visakhapatnam at the earliest.More than 55 public interest litigation petitions have been filed in the high court challenging the laws pertaining to creation of three capitals and abolition of the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA).The HC granted status quo on the two Acts till August 27. The case will come up for hearing in the high court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-interfere-in-high-court-order-on-three-capitals-for-andhra-pradesh/story-96Sdmq6AfZpJAsv9Uy9jLK.html
26-08-2020||India||Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, demands pre-screening||Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, has moved the Delhi high court against a documentary to be aired at OTT platform Netflix.The documentary titled ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ focusses on the fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster released by Netflix shows Choksi’s nephew Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy (of the Sahara Group), now defunct Kingfisher Airlines chairman Vijay Mallya and Ramalinga Raju (former chairman and CEO of Satyam Computer Services).In his petition, Choksi has sought the postponement of the documentary, which is slated to be released on September 2. The petition, filed by lawyer Vijay Aggarwal, further said that Choksi got to know of the documentary’s release on August 24 when he saw the trailer following which he started receiving phone calls from various persons across the world, including from Delhi, asking him whether he was part of the documentary and to solicit his comments.Choksi further discovered, says the petition, that one of the persons seen speaking in the trailer was the writer of the book titled “Flawed: The Rise and Fall of India’s Diamond Mogul Nirav Modi” where his name had been co-mingled with Nirav Modi. Every move decoded, every paisa tracked down.Bad Boy Billionaires coming to Netflix on 2nd September.@Minnow_Films pic.twitter.com/PEZtTfgwxHThe petition said that Choksi fears his name may have been used in connection with Nirav Modi in the documentary even though his relation to the fugitive diamantaire is only that of an uncle and nephew.The petition also said that the series might have an episode on Choksi which has potential of leading to a media trial. It said that the petitioner has the right to innocent and free and fair trial and such a documentary would cause serious prejudice to his case.The petition claimed that Choksi has been falsely accused of various crimes in India.A brief hearing was held in the high court today where lawyer Vijay Aggarwal demanded a pre-screening for the petitioner and if his apprehension regarding his image getting tarnished is settled, then a chance may be given to him for agitating.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, said that the documentary has a two-minute piece on Nirav Modi where mentions of Choksi has been made. He also said that that there is no regulation of content on the OTT platform.The court then adjourned the matter till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-moves-delhi-high-court-against-netflix-series-bad-boy-billionaires-demands-pre-screening/story-lqkfWksB3pGxtpk3Cy8dmM.html
26-08-2020||India||24 Covid patients escape narrowly after fire breaks out in hospital in Andhra Pradesh||Twenty-four Covid-19 patients had a providential escape after a fire broke out in the record room adjacent to their ward in the government general hospital in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur town around midnight on Tuesday, police said Wednesday.Superintendent of police Satya Yesu Babu said the fire began in the record room, supposedly due to a short circuit at around 12.30 am. Hospital staff noticed the fire and alerted the police immediately.“Luckily, the fire station is very close to the hospital. Fire tenders were pressed into action immediately to douse the fire,” he said.“There was no big damage to the hospital, except that some records were burnt to ashes,” he said.However, Covid-19 patients in the adjacent ward felt suffocated as smoke started spreading in the ground floor. “We immediately shifted all the 24 patients to another ward, as fire fighters brought the situation under control,” the SP said.Quick response from the fire fighters averted any major damage, he said.Local MLA Ananta Venkatarami Reddy and assistant collector Surya rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operations.“There are no injuries to anybody. Quick steps were taken to see that fire did not spread to other areas,” the MLA said.Earlier, on August 9, a similar fire mishap at Covid care centre run by Ramesh Hospital at Swarna Palace hotel in Vijayawada claimed 10 lives and left many injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-covid-patients-escape-narrowly-after-fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-in-andhra-pradesh/story-v5vOkuGG9VKVa8wRM72VeI.html
26-08-2020||India||SC disposes of plea seeking payment of salary to doctors, healthcare workers||The Supreme Court Wednesday disposed of a plea seeking payment of salary to doctors and healthcare workers on the ground that the Delhi High Court was already seized of the matter.A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the high court had already taken suo motu cognizance of multiple media reports about the non payment of salary.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In light of the suo motu proceedings being taken up by the Delhi High Court, we dispose of the plea with liberty to petitioner to raise issues, if any before the Delhi High Court,” the bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, said.The top court also noted that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started paying salary to doctors.Senior Advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for the petitioner, raised the issue of ASHA Workers who have not been paid salaries.The court, however, said the issue does not fall within the purview of the petition before it.The bench was hearing a plea of Arushi Jain, a private doctor, questioning the Centre’s May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors.Jain had also alleged in her plea that front line healthcare workers engaged in the fight against Covid-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-disposes-of-plea-seeking-payment-of-salary-to-doctors-healthcare-workers/story-PgSpAf7Ess37iiSj0JuqoI.html
26-08-2020||India||Bhopal killer who murdered parents and live-in partner, sentenced to life in Bengal||‘Bhopal killer’ Udayan Das, who had shocked the country in 2016 with the murder of both parents and live-in partner Akansha Sharma was sentenced to life by a fast track court in Bankura in West Bengal on Wednesday. Das was convicted on Tuesday. On Wednesday additional district judge Suresh Biswakarma sentenced him for life. Das, now in his mid-30s, had killed his parents in 2010 at their home in Raipur and buried their bodies in the garden. He killed Sharma in July 2016. Later he allegedly placed her body in a metal box and poured concrete to create a mausoleum of sorts inside his bedroom. He covered the block with marble. “We had appealed for a death sentence. The court has sentenced him for life. We welcome the order. He has been sentenced to life and fined Rs 20,000 for murder and another two years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 2,000 for tampering evidence,” said A Chatterjee, public prosecutor. “The initial case was that of abduction. Later he was charged with murder and tampering evidence. The prosecution could not prove that the woman was abducted,” said Abhishek Biswas, Das’ lawyer. Although the courtroom used to remain packed during the earlier hearings, hardly anyone was allowed on Tuesday and Wednesday because of Covid-19. Das was, however, nonchalant and told the judge inside the courtroom in fluent English that he wanted to challenge the order in a higher court. “I have no repentance. Definitely we will go to the High Court and Supreme Court if necessary,” Das told reporters outside the court. Das was the only child of his parents and used to live with them at Raipur. His father was a foreman with BHEL while his mother worked as a data analyst at Vindhyachal in Bhopal. They had three houses at Raipur, Delhi and Bhopal. Das came in contact with Akanksha Sharma through ‘Orkut’, a defunct social networking portal, in 2007, and had convinced her that he was professional based in the US. Sharma, a native of Bankura district in West Bengal had left her parents’ house in June 2016, and met Das in Delhi. The duo then reached Bhopal, where their relationship turned sour, ending in her murder in December 27 that year.Police arrested Das from near his home in Bhopal’s Saket Nagar area on February 2, 2017. The murder came to light when a team of West Bengal Police came to Bhopal looking for Sharma after her parents lodged a complaint in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-killer-who-murdered-parents-and-live-in-partner-sentenced-to-life-in-bengal/story-7n3uVfFXCBZzb8C3X9p18M.html
26-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Narcotics Control Bureau to join probe||After the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Narcotics Control Bureau will also join the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The ED wrote to the NCB, asking it to probe if drug was supplied to Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput. NCB director Rakesh Asthana said, “We received a letter from ED on Tuesday evening, stating that during their probe into the financial aspects, they found that drug was supplied to Rhea and Sushant. An NCB team will now conduct an inquiry and people involved will be questioned.” ED sources said that during their questioning of Jaya Saha, Rhea’s talent manager, they found some conversation between them about some drug. However, none of the three central agencies provided any details into the form of drug or if it was consumed by any of the persons involved in the case. Satish Maneshinde, senior counsel and Rhea’s lawyer, said, “Rhea has never consumed drugs in her life. She’s ready for a blood test any time.” At the same time, the ED has once again called Jaya Saha to its South Mumbai office for questioning. Meanwhile, CBI continued to question the late actor’s cook Neeraj Singh, roommate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East). Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of a first information report (FIR) lodged by Bihar Police in response to a plaint filed by Rajput’s father, KK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-narcotics-control-bureau-to-join-probe/story-h1YzXYiyYTcL0SnVkSwXHM.html
26-08-2020||India||Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix documentary ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’||Fugitive Indian businessman Mehul Choksi on Wednesday approached the Delhi high court against streaming platform Netflix’s upcoming web series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’.Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal says that he is not seeking a stay on the documentary but he is seeking that he be shown the preview.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, said that the documentary has a two-minute piece on Nirav Modi where Choksi has been mentioned. He also said that that there is no regulation of content on the OTT platform.The court then adjourned the matter till Friday.The petition filed by lawyer Naman Joshi cited precedents where the courts had protected the accused from media trials including by restraining release of certified motion pictures to ensure that the accused’s right to a free and fair trial and presumption of innocence is not rendered naught before the court considers the accused’s defense and his ultimate innocence or guilt. The poster released by Netflix shows Choksi’s nephew and fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy (of the Sahara Group), now defunct Kingfisher Airlines chairman Vijay Mallya and Ramalinga Raju (former chairman and CEO of Satyam Computer Services).“This investigative docuseries explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up - and ultimately brought down - India’s most infamous tycoons,” Netflix has described the series.Choksi, along with Nirav Modi and his wife Ami, have fled from India. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has charged Ami Modi for conspiring and money laundering with her husband Nirav Modi apart from Choksi and others under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The Interpol global issued a red notice against Ami on Tuesday.Nirav Modi (49), is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March, 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India. He has been declared a fugitive economic offender by a Mumbai court early this year and the court had also ordered confiscation of his assets.The ED has already confiscated about Rs 329 crore of his linked properties.The businessman, Choksi and others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges in connection with an over US $2 billion alleged bank fraud at a Punjab National Bank (PNB) branch in Mumbai.The Centre on Tuesday said that PNB has informed the Ministry of Corporate Affairs that it has received US $3.25 million (Rs 24.33 crore) as the first tranche of recoveries in fugitive Nirav Modi case from the USA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-moves-delhi-high-court-against-netflix-documentary/story-r18vd02KWQiNMf38lmLP5K.html
26-08-2020||India||Postpone or find an alternative way to conduct JEE, NEET exams: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday urged the Central government to either postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) or find an alternative way of conducting them.“I think the Central Govt should postpone the NEET and JEE exams or they should find an alternative way of conducting the exams. Examination system across the world is evolving, there are 1,000 alternate ways to conduct exams,” Sisodia told reporters.Despite opposition from several quarters and appeals to postpone the national level entrance exams for professional courses amid Covid-19 crisis, the National Testing Agency (NTA) gave directive to conduct JEE from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13.On August 17, the Supreme Court also rejected the plea seeking postponement of these exams saying a crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and “life has to go on”. Meanwhile, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi have jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states at 2.30pm on Wednesday to demand postponement of these exams.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy will be attending the meeting, a top TMC leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpone-or-find-an-alternative-way-to-conduct-jee-neet-exams-says-manish-sisodia/story-BJEuktZOyeA27YtcPRyfPL.html
26-08-2020||India||Amid heavy rains in Odisha, water level of Baitarani River likely to cross danger mark: Report||The Central Water Commission (CWC) on Tuesday said the water flow of Baitarani River, located at Swampatna in the Kendujhar district of Odisha is very likely to cross the dangerous mark due to heavy downpour in the state. The Baitarani is one of the six major rivers in the state and acts as a source of water for agricultural irrigation.  River Baitarni at #Swampatna in #Kendujhar District of #Odisha is rising rapidly and is expected to cross Danger Level. Hydrograph is appended. pic.twitter.com/BAejjkUEvcMeanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its All Weather Warning Bulletin said, “Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) is very likely over Southwest and adjoining Westcentral Arabian Sea; (wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph) over North Bay of Bengal along and off Odisha-West Bengal coasts.”Odisha has been witnessing torrential rains for almost a week and waterlogging was been reported in several low lying areas. Since Tuesday, three areas- Champua (Keonjhargarh district) Boudh and Marshaghai (Kendrapara) have recorded the highest amount of rainfall. The MeT department has predicted thundershower along with moderate rainfall in other districts of Odisha such as Balasore, Bhadrak, Deogarh, Sundergarh, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Baragarh, Boudh, Sonepur. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into these areas over the next few days.Officials on August 20 said at least two fishermen died and crops along with thatched and mud houses were damaged after torrential rains which were triggered by a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal hit Odisha. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-heavy-rains-in-odisha-water-level-of-baitarani-river-likely-to-cross-danger-mark-report/story-JAG5V7KxcCTimtKXUOyClJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Cancel IT Panel meeting, BJP MP Dubey tells Tharoor||Nishikant Dubey, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) and a member of the Information Technology (IT) parliamentary panel, on Wednesday wrote to the committee’s chairperson Shashi Tharoor, a Congress Lok Sabha MP, urging him to cancel the panel’s upcoming meeting next week while citing that its agenda is in contravention of the rules of the House. Dubey’s letter to Tharoor comes a day after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla wrote to the chairpersons of all the parliamentary panels, asking them to select subjects based on the rules and keeping in mind the convention that the House does not discuss issues that are “pending in courts”. “In this connection, I may like to bring to your kind notice that recently, you have convened yet another sitting of the committee on 1 September to discuss the issue of 4G (fourth generation mobile telephony) services in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K),” Dubey wrote in his letter on Wednesday. “Since this issue is presently pending before the Supreme Court (SC)… any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant rules/directions as well as the recently issued advisory of the Speaker,” added Dubey, who represents Jharkhand’s Godda constituency in the Lok Sabha .On Tuesday, Speaker Birla wrote to the chairpersons of all the parliamentary panels and urged them to follow rules and conventions, including not taking up subjects that are pending in courts. “The committees should give due consideration to Rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination,” Birla said in the letter, which is accessed by HT. “In addition, I would like to point out that as per the convention, the committees do not take those subjects for examination, where the issue is pending in courts,” he added.According to Rule 270, “a committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the panel, the question shall be referred to the Speaker, whose decision shall be final”.The rule stipulates that the government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state.The Speaker’s letter came around a week before the IT panel is slated to discuss two contentious topics such as internet shutdowns in J&K and Facebook’s alleged bias towards the ruling BJP. The IT parliamentary panel’s discussions are slated to be held on September 1 and 2.The SC is still hearing the matter of internet shutdowns in J&K. On August 11, the Centre had told the apex court that 4G connectivity would be restored in the Union Territory (UT) of J&K in a staggered manner after August 15, the day the nation celebrated its 74th Independence Day. The Facebook controversy broke out following a recent report in The Wall Street Journal (WSJ), which revealed how the social media company had deliberately turned a blind eye towards hate speeches by a BJP lawmaker from Telangana and did not take them down from its platform fearing that it might hurt the firm’s business interests in India, its biggest market. Facebook denied The WSJ report and reiterated that it acts in an unbiased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancel-it-panel-meeting-bjp-mp-dubey-tells-tharoor/story-Dauzg0VlqSAxcnTqXMirRO.html
26-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation after three staffers test Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers including an officer on special duty (OSD) tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days, officials said on Wednesday. Rawat informed his decision about self-isolation through his official Twitter handle on Tuesday evening. “As a precaution, all the staffers and security officers deployed at CM residence were tested for Covid-19. I along with my family members also took the test and with the grace of God tested negative,” he tweeted. “However, as a precautionary measure I will be going into self-isolation and will carry the works related to public and administration through phone and virtual platforms,” he said in another tweet.The CM’s media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat said, “On August 15, one of his OSDs and economic advisor had tested positive for the virus. Later on Tuesday one his personal security officers and a driver in his team tested positive for Covid-19.” “Considering the development, he will be into self-isolation from Wednesday onwards and carry his works from his residence only,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-goes-into-self-isolation-after-three-staffers-test-covid-19-positive/story-37cDL8LxsMXdIVMOIrbLUO.html
26-08-2020||India||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi tests positive for Covid-19||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi has tested positive for Covid-19. The 85-year-old, who was tested on Tuesday, wrote of his health status on Twitter Wednesday. According to Gogoi, he is asymptomatic and does not have any problems. “I have been tested COVID-19 positive yesterday. People who came in contact with me during the last few days they should go for COVID test immediately,” the former CM tweeted. Talking to Hindustan Times, Gogoi informed that though he had slight cold few days ago, he was not experiencing any health complication. His wife Dolly tested negative. “I was tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday and informed about my status on Wednesday morning. I had a slight cough and cold a few days ago, but am fine now,” Gogoi said. “I am staying at home. Some are saying I can stay at home while others are saying I need to get admitted at a hospital. I will go wherever the doctors asked me to,” he added. There are speculations that Gogoi, who has been busy travelling and meeting several party leaders, may have picked up the infection from Congress MLA Ajanta Neog of Golaghat, who had visited the former CM’s Guwahati residence recently and also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “I wish speedy recovery to former chief minister Tarun Gogoi as he has been found COVID-19 positive. We have kept a team of doctors ready for best possible medical care and assistance to our revered senior leader,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Wednesday. On Saturday, a meeting of several senior Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) leaders was held at Gogoi’s residence where a decision on forging a ‘grand alliance’ between the two opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls was finalised. Gogoi had hit headlines recently when he stated that former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, a nominated Rajya Sabha MP, could be the ruling BJP’s candidate for Assam CM’s post for 2021. The BJP dismissed the assertion as false. Gogoi is the latest among several MLAs and prominent politicians from Assam who tested positive for Covid-19 in recent weeks. Till date, seven legislators from BJP, three from Congress, two from Asom Gana Parishad and one from AIUDF have tested positive for the disease. Besides, BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Assam Kamakhya Prasad Tasa and the president of All India Mahila Congress and former Silchar MP Sushmita Dev tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JFkQY5inM2PolSVgKDdSpI.html
26-08-2020||India||Declining rain in 100 years pushing Uttarakhand’s treeline higher in the Himalayas||Amid a declining trend of rainfall in Uttarakhand, an analysis of data of the past century shows that vegetation development and regeneration is being affected in the Himalayas in the state. The recent State of Environment report of Uttarakhand, released by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) states that certain plant species like Sal, Oak, Telonj Oak are dependent on monsoon rain for regeneration. “Due to fluctuation in monsoon period and changes in temperature their regeneration and flowering time is getting affected... Lichens are also gradually shifting towards higher elevation due to the warming in the Chopta-Tungnath landscape (approximately 12,000 feet high), which comes under Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary protected area,” the report states. The rainfall pattern in Uttarakhand during 1911-2012, shows that the fluctuation in the quantum of rainfall is quite evident. Apart from Haridwar, all the districts in the state are in rainfall deficit, says the report. “It is quite evident that the hilly regions of the state are becoming drier while the rainfall is declining from south to north and from west to east. It is noteworthy that except for the months of March, May and November, other months are rainfall deficient.” The report also mentions that studies found that “xerophytic plants like Euphorbia royleana are gradually invading upward specifically in the tectonic valley of Kakarighat in Almora district. Due to the increase in temperature the aridity of the place rises which causes shifting in vegetation.” Similar changes have been noticed for palm trees and Lichen in Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary. “Upward invasion of such colonies of the palm trees is a sharp signature of aridity and beginning of the process of desertification in the region being accelerated by climate change.” SP Subudhi, member secretary of UEPPCB said that in a cold climate, tree species are visible till a particular height known as treeline, which is shifting upwards now. “Due to climate change and an increase in temperature, the treeline is shifting upwards. With a rise in temperature, the plant species are adapting themselves and they are growing in areas where they find the suitable temperature needed for them to grow. With the upward shifting of the treeline, the position of glaciers will shrink, which can lead to disasters in the future,” said Subudhi. A district-wise breakup of decrease in rainfall shows Chamoli, Udham Singh Nagar, Rudraprayag, Pauri Garhwal, Tehri Garhwal, Uttarkashi and Dehradun are districts witnessing decreasing rainfall.The decrease in rainfall is even more pronounced in the districts of Champawat, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora and Nainital.RK Srivastava, professor and head of department on environmental sciences at GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology said that with change in rainfall, temperature also changes and vegetation which is at the bottom keep on shifting higher to find conditions they are acclimatised to and thereby causing a change in the treeline. “The shift in treeline happens through the natural ecosystem with seeds being dispersed by natural forces, animals and birds. It is only happening due to change in climate as the temperature is rising in the current height where trees are growing. With the shift in timberline, the whole ecosystem of the area changes,” said Srivastava. Ravi Chopra, an environmentalist said, “Over the years, we have noticed that as the earth is getting warmer, species from warmer climates are moving upwards (which normally were colder). Whenever there is a remarkable shift in the treeline, it has to be due to a significant shift in the rainfall and obviously, the biodiversity will change, particularly plant life along with wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declining-rain-in-100-years-pushing-uttarakhand-s-treeline-higher-in-the-himalayas/story-RWRirCDrelzZesSOAmUlMJ.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Experts hold different views over resumption of Delhi Metro services and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Experts divided over resumption of Delhi Metro servicesTransport experts have backed the resumption of Metro services in Delhi for economic revival even as the medical fraternity appears divided over the issue amid rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Delhi reported the highest number of cases in 40 days —1,544— on Tuesday. Read more8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal TunnelThe 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000 metre above sea level between Himachal Pradesh’s Manali and Leh in Ladakh, will be opened by September-end. The Rs 3,200-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours. Read moreHP Envy 15 review: Gets you what you need but at a priceRight now all of us are relying extensively on our laptops as we stay bundled away at home. If the laptop you had at home was something that you would use for lighter and more recreational purposes, that has been placed front and center on your work desk and that’s all that you have to tackle this work from home situation, it may have stuttered, sputtered and given up, or it may have muscled its way through whatever you throw at it. Read moreVirat Kohli has shown more faith in fast bowlers than MS Dhoni, says former India pacerVirat Kohli and MS Dhoni are regarded as two of the most successful India captains of the modern era. While under Dhoni’s leadership, India went on to win three ICC titles, Kohli led India to first-ever Test series win in Australia in 2018/19. But even though both the captains found major successes, one can clearly point out how different are Kohli and Dhoni in their styles of captaincy. Read moreRussian YouTuber pours 10,000 litres of Coca-Cola in baking soda, viral video gets over 7 million viewsMany of us may have mixed baking powder or Mentos with soda just to see how it would react. The mini ‘volcanic eruption’ that occurred after combining them was not just interesting but incredibly fun to watch too. Now, a Russian YouTuber has taken that experiment to a whole new level and it may just leave you surprised and wowed, all at the same time. Read moreWatch: Girl shot by Kasab during 26/11 attack urges govt to fulfill assurancesWatch: Girl shot by Kasab during 26/11 attack urges govt to fulfill assurancesDevika Rotawan was all of 10 years when she was shot at by Ajmal Kasab during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. Devika, who had been given many assurances by the government, is now urging it to fulfill the promises made to her. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-experts-hold-different-views-over-resumption-of-delhi-metro-services-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ydYA8OGhoE65ojE2myFHlO.html
26-08-2020||India||Ex-Assam CM Tarun Gogoi tests positive for Covid-19||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi said on Wednesday that he has been diagnosed with Covid-19.The veteran Congress leader urged all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested.“I have been tested Covid-19 positive yesterday. People who came in contact with me during the last few days, should go for Covid test immediately,” he tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis wife Dolly Gogoi has tested negative, party sources said.Doctors have advised the 85-year-old politician to stay in home isolation, a party spokesperson said.Gogoi, who represents the Titabor assembly constituency in Jorhat district, is the 13th Assam legislator to be diagnosed with Covid-19.His former cabinet colleague Ajanta Neog, the MLA from Golaghat, tested Covid-positive on Tuesday and was admitted to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.Another former Congress minister and legislator from Samaguri constituency in Nagaon, Rakibul Hussain, and his wife had earlier tested Covid-positive.Of the 13 legislators who have been diagnosed with Covid-19, seven are from the BJP, three from the Congress, two from the AGP and one from the AIUDF.BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kamakhya Prasad Tasa tested positive on Saturday and has been admitted to the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital.The BJP MLAs to be found Covid-positive are Mihir Kanti Shome from Udharbond, Deputy Speaker Aminul Haq Laskar from Sonai, Krishnendu Paul from Patharkandi, Narayan Deka of Borkhetry, Bolin Chetia from Sadiya, Nabanita Handique from Sonari and Atul Bora of Dispur.AGP’s West Gauhati legislator Ramendra Narayan Kalita and Dergaon MLA Bhabendra Nath Bharali have also tested positive for Covid-19.AIUDF’s Algapur MLA Nizamuddin Choudhury and eight members of his family were also diagnosed with Covid-19.Another prominent politician from the state to test positive for Covid-19 was All India Mahila Congress president and former Silchar Lok Sabha MP Sushmita Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tXkAozFaKcrSGGZAjM6ZvK.html
26-08-2020||India||Officer who arrested Asaram has written a book with an important message||After Jodhpur police and commandos had pushed Asaram into a vehicle and raced towards Indore airport on August 31, 2013, Ajay Pal Lamba got a call on his mobile phone. “Mukta kisi bhi gaadi mein nahin hai. Woh humare saath nahin hai, sir. Woh peechche ashram main hi chhoot gayi hai lagta hai!’ (Mukta is not in any of the vehicles. She is not with us, sir. It seems that she has been left behind at the ashram!)” Sub-inspector Mukta Pareek, SHO of the Women’s Police Station (West), Jodhpur, went missing in the melee that preceded the arrest of controversial godman Asaram Bapu at the Indore ashram. Amid the sudden, unforeseen action, the team members’ detailing and who would sit where and in which vehicle, had been disturbed. Mukta was safe. She called Lamba to tell him that she hopped on to an Indore Police vehicle and was also headed to the airport. This is one of the many tales from a new book that Lamba has written, calling it the true story behind Asaram Bapu’s conviction. The book, titled Gunning for the Godman, will be released on September 5. Lamba, a 2005-batch IPS officer, was posted in Jodhpur East as Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) when the FIR against Asaram was registered in August 2013. After Asaram was pronounced guilty and imprisoned for life in March 2018, Lamba decided to pen the journey that involved difficulties, pressures, inducements and threats during the arrest and trial in the case. The book narrates how a team of 20 officers, called ‘the tough twenty’ in the book, investigated the charges, collected evidence, arrested the accused and filed a charge sheet despite all efforts made by the godman’s high profile battery of lawyers to get the man off the hook using all the tricks of the trade. “It is the story of foiling the Baba’s many attempts to get away scot-free; they arrested him in a matter of only ten days, and how they assiduously saw the victim and her family through a four-year long trial. This, despite the countless threats not only to the girl and her family, but also to DCP Lamba’s own family and the team. A testimony to unrelenting courage, this story of a dynamic police officer’s pursuit of justice is a lesson for these troubled times,” said the description of the book on the publisher’s website. Also Read: Asaram verdict: All you need to know about the case against himLamba said there were several moments during the trial when it seemed like an endless judicial process, but the doggedness of senior officers and public prosecutors led to the case reaching a logical conclusion.“The examination and cross-examination of all the witnesses lasted for more than three years. The victim was cross-examined for twenty-seven days, her mother, for nineteen days, her father, for eighteen days and the investigating officer, ACP Chanchal Mishra, for several months,” the book said. Also Read: Asaram case: Self-styled godman’s journey from puritanical preacher to rape convictLamba, currently the additional commissioner of police in Jaipur, is happy that the book will soon be converted into a motion picture by Anubhav Sinha. “I decided to write the book because I wanted the tale of Asaram’s conviction told so that people know that no one, no matter how influential they are, is above the law,” said the officer, who is an electrical engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officer-who-arrested-asaram-has-written-a-book-with-an-important-message/story-jsBAmkGPrG9Je28zEj9McO.html
26-08-2020||India||Vaishno Devi yatra’s online registration, helicopter booking starts from today||The online registration and helicopter booking for the holy pilgrimage (yatra) to the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Jammu and Kashmir started from Wednesday and will continue till September 5.“Vaishno Devi online yatra registration and helicopter booking is available from August 26 to September 5, 2020,” Ramesh Kumar Jangid, Chief Executing Officer of Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Jammu and Kashmir told news agency ANI.The Mata Vaishno Devi yatra resumed on August 16, nearly five months after it was suspended due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Jangid said that devotees will not be allowed to enter the temple without a Covid-19 negative test report.He said that people above 60 years of age, children below 10, pregnant women and persons with co-morbidity will not be given permission to visit the shrine as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Jangid said that at present 2,000 devotees are allowed to visit the shrine out of which 1,900 are residents are of Jammu and Kashmir and 100 from outside the union territory.Last week, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had paid obeisance at Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine and inspected the facilities for pilgrims. He also directed to continue precautionary measures for the safety of pilgrims.The shrine board said it is abiding with all central health norms to contain the spread of coronavirus outbreak.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-yatra-s-online-registration-helicopter-booking-starts-from-today/story-CXXjAWqGzsXsbNrloQZhjJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Interest on loans in moratorium: SC seeks Centre’s stand||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday took exception to the Central government’s refusal to take an independent stance regarding levy of interest by banks on loans in moratorium even after Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced the relief on borrowings between March and August owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.An apex court bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said that plight of people due to Covid-19 and the resultant nationwide lockdown restrictions should be considered by the Central government while taking a call on the issue and ordered the government to file a separate affidavit.The SC gave its order after solicitor-general (S-G) Tushar Mehta told the apex court that its stance on the matter is the same as that of RBI. Earlier in June, RBI had filed an affidavit before the SC stating that it would not support the move to waive off interest, as it could affect the financial viability of banks. “You should make your stand clear instead of relying on RBI,” Justice MR Shah, who was part of the bench, told Mehta.“Government of India has ample powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to take a decision. You should clarify two issues: whether interest can be charged and whether interest on interest can be levied,” Justice Bhushan said.The court adjourned the matter for further hearing on September 1 prior to which the Centre has to file its response. The moratorium announced by RBI expires on August 31. “The issue was created by your lockdown. Now, you cannot look into business (of banks) alone, but the plight of people should also be looked into,” the bench remarked.The petition, which was filed by Gajendra Sharma, an Agra resident, had demanded a waiver on interest charged by banks citing the relief announced by RBI on the payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) between March and August 31 due to the pandemic.Petitioner Sharma specifically cited RBI’s March 27 and May 22 notifications announcing a moratorium on loan repayments while permitting banks to levy interest.“The imposition of interest (by banks) during the moratorium period is devastating and wrong,” he had submitted before the apex court. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-take-a-stand-on-levy-of-interest-on-loans-in-moratorium/story-n4e2JDiFkR0I8K3HYmTMNN.html
26-08-2020||India||Central Rly installs foot-operated hand wash vending machines at 4 stations in Mumbai||Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) will now be able to use a foot-operated hand wash vending machine. The Central Railway has placed the hand wash vending machine at platform number 14 of the terminus.The vending machines have been placed under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at four stations and four passengers can simultaneously wash their hands.“This machine dispenses liquid handwash and water separately in a zero contact manner for passengers during the coronavirus pandemic.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.The machines will also be installed in other suburban railway stations. The zonal railway has also manufactured a medical robot ‘Jivika’ that will be used to monitor a patient’s temperature, blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation. Earlier the Western Railway has manufactured a similar medical robot that is being used to treat coronavirus patients at railway-run Jagjivan Ram hospital. The Central Railway has also started health screening camps at Dadar, Kurla, Thane, Dombivli, and Ghatkopar railway stations. Passengers will be able to check their pulse rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure. The reports will be analysed by doctors and will then be provided to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-rly-installs-foot-operated-hand-wash-vending-machines-at-4-stations-in-mumbai/story-tSggwmYcBEDxjY61nMhHBO.html
26-08-2020||India||Hooda, Moily happy as Sonia agrees to lead Congress||Veteran Congress leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda and M Veerappa Moily, who are among the 23 signatories to a letter to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party, have expressed their satisfaction over her decision to stay on. Hooda, a former Haryana chief minister and the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, and other Congress lawmakers passed a vote of thanks to Sonia for agreeing to lead the party. The vote of thanks was passed in a special Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting ahead of the monsoon session of the state assembly that started from Wednesday. “Sonia Gandhi is the most accepted leader of the Congress. The decision would strengthen the party and has filled party workers with enthusiasm and lifted the morale of all those who are fighting for the party,” the statement read. M Veerappa Moily, a former Union minister, who is also one of the signatories to the letter that was later leaked to the media sparking a row, said they were sorry if their action had hurt Sonia’s feelings. “If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” Moily said.He asserted that the signatories never questioned the Gandhi family’s leadership. However, he defended his action as a signatory to the letter and contended that there is a need to rejuvenate and restructure the party. Moily also disapproved of the media leak of the letter and called for an internal party probe to find out who were behind it and wanted them to be punished. “Soniaji is like a mother to the party. There is no question of any intention to hurt her feelings. If we have hurt her feelings, then we are sorry for it,” he said. Refusing to comment on the developments in his former party, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said it was the Congress’s internal matter. “I would not like to comment on it. Now, I am a BJP worker and commenting on internal affairs of any other political party would not be appropriate,” Scindia told media persons in Nagpur after visiting the residence of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) founder KB Hedgewar. In Kochi, Congress leader PC Chacko expressed discontentment over the letter but insisted that there is “adhocism” in the party. He said despite being a permanent member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) – the highest decision-making body of the 134-year-old party -- he was not invited for the crucial meeting on Monday.However, according to party functionaries he had ceased to be a CWC member after his removal as the Delhi in-charge following the Congress’s debacle in the last year’s assembly polls, where it had drawn a blank. Chacko said that the leaders should have avoided writing a letter and releasing it to the media before the CWC meeting. “I am not against the spirit of the letter. But I am against the way they wrote a letter and released it to the media a day ahead of the CWC meet. They were all in Delhi, and only a phone call away for a meeting. I sent a message to Soniaji on Monday... there is a lot of adhocism prevailing in the party,” Chacko told ANI. “I feel certain things need to be corrected in the leadership…all over India, the Congress has its footprint. All regional and smaller parties want the Congress leadership to call and discuss issues with them. This is what they expect from the Congress, but, unfortunately, this is not happening. They are disappointed with the party,” he added. Congress leader Anil Shastri said most of the problems within the party could be resolved if the party top brass is accessible. He also demanded that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra should be considered for the Congress president’s post. “There are certain things that are lacking in the Congress leadership. Significantly, meetings are not held between party leaders. For instance, if a leader from a different state comes to Delhi, it’s not easy for him to meet other leaders in the national capital,” Shastri told ANI. “If Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi start meeting party leaders, then, I think, 50% of all the problems will be solved,” he said.Shastri maintained that the Congress president should only be from the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hooda-moily-happy-as-sonia-agrees-to-lead-congress/story-jAvmcIhYrRrPtyE4z4wKGM.html
26-08-2020||India||Jharkhand launching food security scheme for 15 lakh people uncovered under NFSA||More than 15 lakh people under the poverty line (BPL) deprived of benefits under National Food Security Act (NFSA) would soon get subsidized ration under a proposed state-sponsored scheme, which will be known as Jharkhand State Food Security (JSFS) scheme, officials said on Wednesday.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has given an in-principle nod to the scheme, which will be tabled in the next cabinet meeting for approval, as per a press communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Tuesday evening.The scheme proposes to provide five kilograms of food grains per month to around 15 lakh beneficiaries at Rs 1 per kg. The CMO said it has been proposed to set a district-wise target in order to reach 15 lakh eligible beneficiaries.Secretary, food and public distribution, Arun Singh, refused to speak on the development until the scheme gets approved by the cabinet, however, a senior official in the department, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the scheme would be an extended version of the NFSA.The NFSA was rolled out in the state from October 1, 2015. Around 57 lakh households covering 2.63 people, around 80% of the state population, have been receiving rice at Rs 1 per kg in Jharkhand under NFSA. “The NFSA was designed based on the 2011 census, when the state’s population was 3.29 crore. The population has grown substantially since then based on rough estimates keeping the previous growth rate of 22%, registered in the previous decade, in mind. So, the poor among the additional population are deprived of the benefits under the NFSA, which caps the number of beneficiaries,” he said. Also Read: JMM chief Shibu Soren shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital for further treatment“If we go through the application pending for ration cards under NFSA, we find the waiting list has reached 22 lakh. So, it has been a big deal for the state to feed these people. Therefore, we have decided to provide subsidized ration to these left out people from the state’s own pocket so that no one goes hungry,” the official quoted above added. Out of the 22 lakh who have applied for ration cards under the NFSA, 15 lakh would be accommodated under the state sponsored scheme, while vacancy would be created in the NFSA to accommodate rest of the people. “A massive drive is on in the state to scrap duplicate or fake ration cards apart from cancelling cards from people who are not eligible for it,” he said. Also Read: Ranchi University to hold final year UG, PG exams offline in SeptemberON the question of eligibility for the new state-sponsored scheme, the officials said there will be three categories including priority households, Antyodaya and PVTG like in NFSA. However, old people and differently-abled persons would get priority in the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-launching-food-security-scheme-for-15-lakh-people-uncovered-under-nfsa/story-fAkEUbD3xSGuHRIUESf1aI.html
26-08-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks direction for appointment of govt nominee to Ayodhya mosque trust||A petition has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking a direction for the appointment of a government nominee to the Ayodhya mosque trust constituted for the construction of the mosque. The petition was filed by one of the lawyers from Hindu side in the Ayodhya case, Karunesh Shukla, through his lawyer, Vishnu Jain.The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has created an ‘Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation’, a 15-member trust for building a mosque and other facilities on the land allotted in Ayodhya by the Uttar Pradesh Government on the Supreme Court’s instructions.In the Ayodhya-Babri Masjid land case, the Supreme Court had, on November 9 last year, directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a temple and set up a trust for the same.The apex court had further directed the government to allocate an alternative five acres of land at a prominent location in Ayodhya for the construction of a mosque to the Sunni Waqf Board.According to a press release by the Board, “In compliance of the Judgment and order of the Supreme Court of India, in Babri Masjid case, the Government of Uttar Pradesh had allotted 5 Acres of land in village Dhannipur, Ayodhya and the Board had accepted it in February 2020. The Board has created a Trust named, Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, for building the Mosque and other facilities for the benefit of the general public.”The Trust will have a maximum of 15 trustees, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board being its founder trustee, while Zufar Ahmad Faruqi will be chief trustee/president.In February, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board accepted the five acres of land provided for construction of the mosque in Ayodhya.Apart from this, the Trust will also construct a charitable hospital, public library and a centre showcasing the heritage of Indo-Islamic civilisation which will also serve as a research and study centre for the same, according to a press release by the Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-direction-for-appointment-of-govt-nominee-to-ayodhya-mosque-trust/story-xa5rqxn01ElG9J1sOmMSNN.html
26-08-2020||India||Jammu Srinagar National Highway remains blocked due to landslide, clearance work underway||The Jammu Srinagar National Highway (NHW-44) continued to remain blocked on Wednesday as clearance work following landslide and heavy rains is underway in the area, Jammu and Kashmir Police said.“Jammu-Srinagar NHW-44 is still blocked, clearance work is going on,” J-K Police tweeted. Earlier on August 21, the highway was blocked due to landslides between Ramban and Ramsu.Meanwhile, rain lashes several parts of Gandhinagar area in Jammu. According to police, the overnight rainfall had aggravated the situation due to which the shooting stones blocked the road at Panthial, Trishul Mod, Marog, Monkey Mod, Iron shed Digdol, Anokhy Fall and Battery Chashma.Also, a flood-like situation has prevailed in Rajouri district as Saktoh and Dharhali rivers are overflowing following heavy rainfall in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-remains-blocked-due-to-landslide-clearance-work-underway/story-JmZjIquqflkbPj5e06N4fL.html
26-08-2020||India||Maharashtra plans to waive excess amount in inflated power bills||After the shock from inflated power bills, citizens are likely to get some relief in the coming months as the Maharashtra government is likely to provide waiver in electricity bills, officials said.It plans to bear the financial burden of the surplus amount from the inflated bills for three months of the lockdown period - April, May and June.According to the proposal moved by the state energy department, the waiver has been divided into three slabs based on power consumption by each household. It will bear the entire cost if usage is up to 100 units in excess to the usage of the corresponding period last year. For 101-300 units, it has proposed to waive off 75% of the excess amount and 50% if units in excess are up to 500, said, a senior official requesting anonymity.The proposal which is likely to cost around Rs 1,500 crore is likely to come up for discussion in the next cabinet meeting.Officials said that giving a waiver means the amount is going to be adjusted in the next month’s bill as it is not possible for them to provide cash.“The waiver will be implemented in the form of adjustment in the next power bill. The excess amount will be deducted from the current power bill and people will have to pay only the remaining amount,” an official said.The proposal will be applicable for both private and government power distribution companies.Consumers across the state have been complaining about inflated power bills for the past few months, but power distribution companies have maintained that there was no error on their part and that there has been an increase in power usage owing to summer and Covid-19-induced lockdown, with most people at home and the meter-reading suspended.Following hue and cry on the issue, state energy minister Nitin Raut declared to provide relief to the people after holding several meetings. The state also approached Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) for the same.According to energy department officials, they had two options — rebate up to a certain percentage in the existing power bill or reduce charges in the current slabs — that could be implemented to bring down consumers’ power bills from next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-plans-to-waive-excess-amount-in-inflated-power-bills/story-fpJ7PuvoWdKh4yvxob4WtI.html
26-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in coma, renal parameters ‘slightly deranged’: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection and his renal function parameters have deteriorated since yesterday, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said in a medical bulletin on Wednesday morning.He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support.The 84-year-old former President underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He was also tested positive for coronavirus at the time of his admission to the hospital. He later developed a respiratory infection.Pranab Mukherjee served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-in-coma-renal-parameters-slightly-deranged-hospital/story-V3UHrulAU8Rx9zbuYoHbXO.html
26-08-2020||India||Most JEE, NEET candidates this year from Maharashtra, UP||With a total 228,914 candidates who will take National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in 615 centres, Maharashtra has the highest number of students appearing for the exam followed by Uttar Pradesh with 166,582 students, according to data released by the National Testing Agency (NTA).For the JEE (Main) exam, which, like NEET, is also slated to be held in September, it is Maharashtra again which has the highest number of candidates followed again by Uttar Pradesh.According to the NTA data, there are 110,313 who will take the test in 74 centres in Maharashtra while for Uttar Pradesh, 100, 706 candidates will take the test in 66 centres.Also Read: Despite furore, JEE, NEET to be held in SeptemberNEET, which is a pen and paper-based exam for entrance to top medical colleges, will be held on September 13 while the JEE (Main), which is for entry to engineering colleges, is a computer-based test to be held from September 1 to 6.There has been much opposition to the tests being held in the time of Covid-19 with famous activist Greta Thurnberg and actor Sonu Sood being the latest celebrities suggesting the exams by postponed. Chief ministers of some states, like West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, have also asked the Centre to not hold the exam when the number of coronavirus cases is on the rise. The NTA, meanwhile, has been citing the academic interest of the students and emphasising on the detailed safety protocol it has prepared.Also Read: 10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversyAccording to the data released by the NTA, after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the state with the highest number of NEET candidates is Karnataka with 119, 587 candidates while Tamil Nadu has 117,990. Kerala is close with 115, 959 candidates. The NTA has set up 298 centres in Karnataka, 322 in Kerala and 238 in Tamil Nadu. Rajasthan also has over 108,000 candidates.According to the NTA data, 1,597, 433 candidates will take the NEET exam in 3,842 centres in September. Last year, 1,519,375 candidates had taken the exam in 2,546 centres.For JEE (Main), the highest number of candidates after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh will take the test in Andhra Pradesh. As many as 82,748 candidates will take the test in the state in 52 centres while 67,319 candidates will take the test in Telangana in 27 centres.Among the other states with a high number of candidates is Bihar. A total of 61, 583 students will take the test in 43 centres. There are over 50,000 candidates in Tamil Nadu while the states of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala have over 40,000 candidates, according to NTA data. Delhi has 37,790 candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-jee-neet-candidates-this-year-from-maharashtra-up/story-bA7NT7to7adgnVgC34eDWO.html
26-08-2020||India||Over 3.76 crore samples tested for Covid-19 so far, says ICMR||A total of 8,23,992 samples were tested for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples tested to 3,76,51,512 so far, informed the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday. In a tweet today, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said that testing has worked as an ‘effective’ tool to contain the spread of the deadly virus. “India has exponentially scaled its TESTING from one in January to 10 lakhs/day in August 2020,” the tweet read. COVID-19 Testing Update . For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/tATuvKKKT7“With Positivity Rate progressively falling, testing has worked as an effective tool to limit the spread of #Covid19 infection,” the Ministry said in another tweet.According to a GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) shared by the Ministry, the average daily positivity rate in India has fallen from 11 patients per 100 in July to about eight patients in the last week of August. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%With 67,151 new Covid-19 cases, India surpassed the 32-lakh mark in the last 24 hours, according to the MoHFW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-76-crore-samples-tested-for-covid-19-so-far-says-icmr/story-JwaROThmZv8AALpar7VvXI.html
26-08-2020||India||Bombay HC directs Mumbai, Pune police to decide afresh on licenses for rummy tournaments||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the licensing police authorities of Mumbai and Pune city police to pass fresh orders on applications filed by Competitive Tournament Rummy Players Association (CTRPA) for licenses for organising competitive rummy tournaments in Maharashtra.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht directed the licensing authorities to decide within eight weeks the applications filed by CTRPA for premises license, performance license and license for sale of tickets, after giving an opportunity of hearing to the representative of CTRPA.The directive was issued in a petition filed by Milind Limaye, founder and president of CTRPA, through advocate Shivani Samel, challenging March 2, 2020 order passed by the additional chief secretary, home department, holding that Rummy tournament sought to be conducted by CTRPA was in the nature of gambling activity and that the association was not entitled to premises license, performance license and sale of ticket license, to hold Rummy skill game tournaments in a Card Court Café.Limaye’s counsel, advocate Shruti Tulpule pointed out that though the appellate authority rejected their appeal, it directed the licensing authorities of both Mumbai and Pune police to decide pending applications filed by CTRPA. She pointed out that applications dated February 14, 2020 were pending before the licensing authorities when the order of March 2 was passed, but the licensing authorities of Mumbai and Pune police have not decided the applications yet.Additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik responded by complaining that though the applications are rejected by licensing authorities, appeals against the same are rejected, multiple applications and petitions were being filed by the association on the same issue.HC, however, accepted Tulpule’s contention and directed the licensing authorities to decide the pending applications after hearing CTRPA representative. The bench also clarified that the licensing authorities shall not be influenced by the observations made and conclusions drawn by the additional chief secretary in his March 2 order.Also Read: IIT-Bombay records two-fold rise in number of patentsThus, the licensing authorities will have to decide afresh, if holding of game of skill rummy tournaments would amount to gambling and whether the activity is exempted under Section 13 of the Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act, 1887.Also Read: Son-in-law held for Navi Mumbai woman’s murderLimaye, in his petition, has stated that CTRPA proposes to promote the concept of Card Court Café, which integrates an eating house and a place for amusement in the form of games. Thus, the petition states, a Card Court Café will have an eating section - Café and a playing section - Card Court. A ‘Card Court’ will be similar to a Tennis Court or Badminton Court, where a particular game is played in a specific competition format, designed to increase the skill, and where skill will determine the overall outcome of the game, rather than chance, which is peculiar to gambling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-directs-mumbai-pune-police-to-decide-afresh-on-licenses-for-rummy-tournaments/story-tVDODZtri46zKNVMirZtxM.html
26-08-2020||India||Bengal sets up 3-tier scanner to monitor senior citizens during Covid-19 pandemic||The West Bengal government is setting up a three-tier scanner to monitor senior citizens living alone in high-rises and gated communities in urban areas after it emerged that one out of every five people who died in the state due to Covid-19 belonged to this category.The three-tier scanner will comprise three arms of the government – the police, district and health officials and public representatives who would keep a check on the senior citizens. This would help the authorities to send medical help and ambulance during a crisis which in turn could help to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR). “At the ground level, officers from the local police station, the block development officer, block medical officer and public representatives such as ward councilor and ward coordinators will keep a tab on the senior citizens living alone in housing societies, flats, high rises and gated communities, particularly in urban areas,” said a senior official of the home department. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Till Tuesday, 2,909 people have died in West Bengal after testing positive for Covid-19. Nearly 20% of them were found to be citizens above 61 years of age. While 6.2% were found to be in the age bracket 61–75 years, 13.7% of the victims were above 75 years of age. Hypertension was the major comorbidity factor among senior citizens. Under the monitoring plan, the ground level government staff and public representatives will visit the highrises and gated communities and speak to the members of the managing committees. They will exchange numbers so that the citizens can contact the police and health officials whenever a senior citizen falls sick or tests positive for Covid-19. “They can be immediately rushed to the hospital and treatment will start at the earliest. With comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases also taking a heavy toll we will be starting a survey on this,” said a senior health official. The police have already started taking stock of senior citizens living in Kolkata, Howrah, Salt Lake and Barrackpore.The police and administration in other urban areas such as Asansol-Durgapur, Siliguri and Chandannagar have been asked to start the process as well. The decision was taken in an administrative review meeting chaired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. “With a three-tier checklist we hope to plug the gap that exists in urban areas. This would in turn help us to bring down the mortality rate,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sets-up-3-tier-scanner-to-monitor-senior-citizens-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-9NTmPGivkRGKTR4SGxM8vO.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown results in more teens tuning in to radio programmes, targeted ads||After nationwide Covid-19 lockdown there has been a noticeable growth in radio content consumption among teenagers in four metropolitan cities, according to a press release shared by Association of Radio Operators for India.In Kolkata, there has been a 72 per cent growth in Teen Segment Listenership (TSL) whereas Mumbai has seen a 50 per cent growth in TSL followed by Delhi and Bengaluru, that have seen 35 per cent and 34 per cent increase respectively.“It may be noted that research by AZ Research PPL in April 2020 for top 6 metros had indicated that 82 per cent of population (22 per cent increase) had tuned in to FM Radio post covid -19 with a significant increase in listening time ( 23 per cent increase) . The research also positioned FM Radio as the most credible media amongst Print, TV and Radio,” the press release said. The growth in TSL has resulted in a higher per centage of advertisement targeted at teenagers. The significant increases have been in publications/books (438 per cent), music albums (319 per cent), education-other courses (313 per cent), cellular phone service (120 per cent), and educational / vocational training institutes (157 per cent).“It is not surprising to see that Radio engagement has also grown phenomenally in teen segment, as is has done in all other segments. Teens are the future of India and I am sure that their engagement with Radio will only grow with time, especially as the very active teen segment can listen into radio even while doing most other activities, be it walking, playing, biking or studying. Advertising growth definitely follows growth in listenership and engagement,” said Anurradha Prasad , President of Association of Radio Operators, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-results-in-more-teens-tuning-in-to-radio-programmes-targeted-ads/story-FNV0nTZfTXhoncpGXMrEsO.html
26-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out over RBI report, says he had warned before||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took on the government over the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) latest warning on economic contraction amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, saying “distractions through media won’t help the poor”.Gandhi said the central bank has “now confirmed” what he has been talking about for months and suggested a few ways to restart the economy.“RBI has now confirmed what I have been warning for months. Govt needs to: Spend more, not lend more. Give money to the poor, not tax cuts to industrialists. Restart economy by consumption. Distractions through media won’t help the poor or make the economic disaster disappear,” the former Congress leader tweeted.The central bank had said in its annual report released on Tuesday that the impact of the coronavirus pandemic could cause a structural downshift on India’s potential output, with the gross domestic product (GDP) likely to contract in the second quarter as well.RBI, which on previous occasions warned that the country’s GDP is set to contract at least in the first half of the current year, said, unlike the 2008 financial crisis which was man-made, the recovery this time is likely to be different and path likely more gradual.“The global crisis occurred after years of robust growth with macroeconomic stability; by contrast, Covid-19 has hit the economy after consecutive quarters of slowdown,” RBI said. Gandhi, who represents Kerala’s Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, has been leading his party’s attack on the Centre over a number of issues, including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the border standoff with China, for some time now.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has, on its part, denied his accusations with senior leaders, including JP Nadda, taking on the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-over-rbi-report-says-he-had-warned-before/story-PgGfAOacmBzUbYrBgmy3VO.html
26-08-2020||India||6 dead, over dozen injured after 2 buses collide near Lucknow||At least six people died and over a dozen were injured when two Uttar Pradesh state roadways buses and a truck collided on the outskirts of Lucknow city under Kakori police station limits on Wednesday morning, said police officials.The condition of five injured is said to be very critical. They are undergoing treatment at King George’s Medical University (KGMU)’s trauma center. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Kakori SM Qasim Abidi confirmed that six people have died while eight are critically injured.A policeman at Kakori police station said the incident took place when a roadways bus coming from Lucknow city tried to overtake a truck and collided with another bus coming from the opposite direction. The truck being overtaken also got involved in the collision. The policeman added that a two-wheeler rider, who was passing through, also got injured in the incident.The truck drive involved in the accident said that he lost his nerves and control of the vehicle when the two buses collided within metres of his vehicle.The incident took place at around 6.30 am. As many as 25 passengers were present in the two buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-buses-collide-near-lucknow-6-dead-over-dozen-injured/story-v8m2RiFyoB0t01WANGAi4O.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP Rajya Sabha tally set to get big boost||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to increase its Rajya Sabha (RS) tally. Based on the available numbers, it is comfortably placed to win the solitary by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh (UP) on September 11, a notification for which was issued on Tuesday. The by-poll will be held following the death of Samajwadi Party’s (SP) RS member Amar Singh (64) in Singapore on August 1. However, the big push for a BJP domination in the RS -- 164 is the two-third mark in the 245-member Upper House of Parliament – will occur later this year.On November 25, the tenure of 10 RS members from UP expires following which fresh polls will be held. At present, the BJP has 86 RS members. While the strength of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is 113 on the basis of the BJP’s support from its coalition partners. UP sends 31 members to the RS, the highest among all states. The BJP, which has 305 lawmakers in the 403-member UP state legislative assembly , is sitting pretty. The ruling party is poised to win eight out of 10 seats and then may try for an additional ninth seat. The current strength of the UP assembly is 395, as eight seats are lying vacant.RS elections are based on proportional representation and single transferable vote, which ensures that after the first round, surplus votes get transferred to the remaining candidate in the second round. “RS election is held on the basis of a complex equation. As per the present strength of the UP assembly, the quota of votes that each member will need for an outright win in November will be around 37,” said Brij Bhushan Dubey, the returning officer (RO) for the September 11 by-poll. The Samajwadi Party (SP) is the second-largest party after the BJP in the UP assembly, as it has 48 lawmakers. The Bahujan Samaj Party has 18 legislators, followed by the BJP ally, Apna Dal (9), Congress (7), Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) 4, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) (1) and independents (3). The BJP appears comfortable to win eight RS seats from UP. While it could make a play for the ninth seat along with its ally Apna Dal, BJP leaders said.The BJP would be left with 13 surplus votes after securing the win for its eight candidates and the tally would go up 22 on the basis of the Apna Dal’s support that has nine MLAs in the UP assembly, they added. “There are several fence-sitters in other parties. Some MLAs in the opposition are already pro-BJP,” a party leader said, requesting anonymity. Though BJP leader didn’t name any particular lawmaker, several lawmakers such as Rakesh Singh and Aditi Singh, Congress legislators from Harchandpur and Sadar, respectively, in Rae Bareli, had defied the party line in the recent past. Rakesh Singh’s brother Dinesh Singh, a former member of the UP legislative council (MLC), had also contested unsuccessfully against Congress president Sonia Gandhi from Rae Bareli in last year’s parliamentary elections. Opposition MLAs such as Nitin Agarwal, who is still a lawmaker on SP symbol, has since joined the BJP. He made the move after his father Naresh Agarwal had revolted against the SP for being denied a ticket in the RS polls held earlier this year. “The RS polls would give an indication of not just the BJP’s political domination but also about how many ‘friends’ they have in other parties, who had come to its support during the RS polls held earlier this year. Though the opposition had come together, they couldn’t ensure victory of their candidate,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer. The SP, which has 48 MLAs, is the only other party from UP that is in the reckoning to win a solitary RS seat.10 RS MPs from UP whose tenure will end on November 25 * Arun Singh* Javed Ali Khan* PL Punia* Ram Gopal Yadav * Rajaram * Vir Singh* Chandrapal Singh Yadav* Neeraj Shekhar * Ravi Prakash Verma * Hardeep Singh Puri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rajya-sabha-tally-set-to-get-big-boost/story-NhLRMU9HlvjkMMeaFPJ18H.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19 takes Odisha’s primitive tribal groups into its tentacles||After remaining untouched for long, primitive tribal groups of Odisha in remote habitations have reported half a dozen Covid-19 cases recently, triggering concerns over the infection spreading to other such tribals in the state.Five Didayi tribals in Oringi and Muduliguda villages have tested positive for the virus over the last couple of days, officials said.Didayi is a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG).The first case of infection among tribals was reported recently from Khairput block of Malkangiri district, where over 12,000 Bonda tribals, one of the 13 PVTG of Odisha, stay in hilltop villages.“The infection was reported a few days back and the infected person is doing well. His conditions are stable. We have taken all precautionary measures,” said Malkangiri district collector Manish AgarwalHe also said that movements to Bonda hamlets have been restricted.Other officials in the district said considering the isolated way of life of Bondas, it is difficult to find out how the Bonda tribal got infected. “Some of the Bondas do go to the nearby haats (community marketplace) and may have caught the infection,” said an official. In Khairput block, so far 41 people have tested positive.The Bondas scattered across 32 remote hilltop villages on in the Eastern Ghats of Malkangiri district are believed to have come to India as part of the first wave of migration out of Africa about 60,000 years ago. They were the first forest settlers in India. Though the state government set up the Bonda Development Agency in 1977, there has not been much progress in the community with malnutrition still rampant among the children.Y Giri Rao, who works with the tribal communities in Odisha, said Covid reaching the PVTG groups like Bondas was not a good sign considering the poor level of immunity of these tribals due to malnutrition. “The PVTG are our heritage. There is still no clear data whether the pandemic has affected other groups like Lanjia Saura, Dongaria Kondh, Juangs and Lodhas. Their numbers have remained stagnant and if they are not saved from pandemic they may be wiped out,” said Rao, adding that if infection spreads among Bondas, it may be difficult to isolate them considering the way they live.Officials working with the PVTG asserted that infection is yet to spread among these tribals living in the remote pockets of the state. Project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement Programme, P Arthanarisaid none of the officials have reported cases of Covid infection among the tribals on the ground even though cases have been reported from areas where these tribals live.“I have sought information from my staff about the possible Covid cases among PVTG tribals,” Arthanari said.In Bissamcuttack and Kalyansinghpur blocks of the Rayagada district, where the Dongria Kandhs tribe lives, there have been 106 and 40 positive cases respectively. Similarly, 189 Covid-19 cases have been found in Lanjigarh block of Kalahandi district, where the Dongrias live.In Gajapati’s Guma block, home to the Lanjiasaura tribals, 313 people have been infected by the Covid-19.Director of Public Health, Ajit Mohanty said the state government has not done classification of the cases on the basis of tribals and non-tribals so far even though tribals constitute 23 per cent of the total population of the state. “The number of cases is too large for our staff to do any classification. We are mostly doing classification on gender and age basis. However, the prevalence among PVTG tribals, if any, would be low as they don’t travel outside for work. Most of the tribals who were infected were migrant workers,” said Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-takes-odisha-s-primitive-tribal-group-into-its-tentacles/story-QkyFtNSFT3csaRTLxeAnhI.html
26-08-2020||India||4.1-magnitude earthquake hits West Bengal’s Durgapur||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.1 struck Durgapur in Paschim Bardhaman district of West Bengal on Wednesday morning, officials said.Tremors were felt in the industrial town and its nearby areas, they said.The quake, with its epicentre at 110 km east-northeast of Durgapur, occurred at 7.54 am at a depth of 10 km, the National Centre of Seismology said.There has been no report of damages in the area so far, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-1-magnitude-earthquake-hits-west-bengal-s-durgapur/story-CRQNSEq3aLHMZ5V6upGTEJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Nomad, buffaloes die as cattle shed collapses in J-K’s Poonch in heavy rain||A 35-year-old nomad and four to five buffaloes were killed after a cattle shed collapsed in Mendhar area of Poonch district during heavy rains that lashed Jammu and Kashmir early Wednesday, police said.A foot bridge also collapsed in adjoining Rajouri district while the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained blocked for the second straight day after a stretch of the highway was partially washed away in rains on Tuesday at Dalwas.“A cattle shed collapsed in Sangiote village of Mendhar in Poonch district early Wednesday. Several cattle were stuck in it. A rescue operation has been launched by the locals,” said Ramesh Kumar Angral, senior superintendent of police, Poonch.He also said that Mohammad Shokit, 35, son of Mohammad Hussain, a resident of Kallar Mora in Mendhar also died in the incident. Angral said that the cattle shed belonged to Mohammad Aslam, son of Sab Din.Power supply to Mendhar sub division was also affected following damage to transmission lines between Draba and Manjakote due to flash floods. “Men and machinery have been pressed into service for early restoration”, said an official of the power development department.A foot bridge that connected Manjakote with the main highway in Rajouri also collapsed in the rain this morning.There were no reports of injuries in the incident. In view of heavy rainfall in the past 12 hours, most of the water bodies were heavily flooded. Keeping in view torrential rains and flooded rivers, Jammu and Kashmir Police an alert advising people to stay away from rivers and rivulets till the weather turns stable. The Rajouri SSP Chandan Kohli has issued helpline numbers in case of any emergency. SDPO Thanamandi - 9419170220 (For Darhal and Thanamandi), SDPO Manjakote - 7006548253 for Manjakote, DySP HQrs Rajouri - 7006108119 for Rajouri town and peripheral areas, SDPO Nowshera - 7889882440 for Nowshera sub division area, DySP DAR Rajouri - 9419113171 for Kotranka sub division, and PCR Rajouri - 01962262515 “Any police officer of police post and police station level can be contacted by public in case of any need while all the field officers are in regular touch with PRIs and village Numberdars to keep a close eye on the situation,” said Kohli. Another advisory by Poonch police SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said “Due to incessant rains in Mendhar sub division of Poonch district, rivers are swollen. Therefore people are requested to stay away from water bodies and in case of any emergency can call the Mendhar Police. A bridge over Balol Nullah (rivulet) that connects Jeevan Nagar with Dharap on the outskirts of Jammu city was washed away in the flash floods on Wednesday morning. The video of the bridge collapsing like a toy in the strong currents of the water has gone viral on social sites. However, no vehicle was passing over it when it was swept away. 15 people trapped in flood rescued in Kathua Fifteen people from different families were rescued after they were caught in flash floods in Ujh river in Kathua district, police said. The police acted swiftly after getting information about the trapped people of a nomadic tribe in their temporary shelters near the river in Rajbagh area, a police official said. He said a police team immediately rushed to the spot and shifted all 14 marooned people belonging to three different families, including women and children, to safety. Another person, who was found trapped in his house on the bank of Ujh river in Rajbagh, was also rescued, the official said.Sonam Lotus, director of the IMD in J&K and Ladakh said warned of flash floods due to the rain.“Light to moderate rain occurred at many places of J&K with heavy to very heavy shower at isolated places of Jammu region whereas weather is generally cloudy in Ladakh with light rain in some areas,” he said. “Currently it is raining at many places of central and south, southwest of Jammu region. The present system most likely to continue for the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rain with isolated heavy rain is most likely at widespread places of J&K and light to moderate rain is likely at scattered places of Ladakh region especially in Zanskar, Drass, Minamarg -Zojila area.”He said people should remain alert over the next two days. “All concerned are requested to remain alert to respond to any eventuality, like flash flood and landslides and remain cautious during the next two days”, said Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nomad-buffaloes-die-as-cattle-shed-collapses-in-j-k-s-poonch-in-heavy-rain/story-oqDb10hwgvrmkS3FG7d3yH.html
26-08-2020||India||Films on Gandhi, Sardar Patel most watched during virtual patriotic film festival||Shyam Benegal-directed documentary The Making of the Mahatma, Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi along with National Film Development Corporation’s (NFDC) Sardar Patel --- A Nation Stands United and Satyajit Ray’s Ghare Baire emerged as the most-watched films in the first-ever patriotic film festival that was organised by the Union Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry between August 7 and 21.The festival, which was organised in virtual mode because of the unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day, showcased a variety of movies ranging from Mani Ratnam’s Roja to Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Khakee.According to the I&B ministry data, accessed by HT, the two films on Gandhi, Ghare Baire, Roja, Heda Hoda, Veera Pandiya Kattabomman, Sardar Patel: A Nation Stands United, and Chittagong have attracted most viewers in the first week of the festival. Over 60,000 cineastes from 147 nations, including the United States of America (USA), the United Kingdom (UK), the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Canada, and Germany, had watched these films in the first week of the festival. “The first-ever patriotic film festival got an encouraging response. Several movies have had thousands of viewers and despite it being a modest festival, as compared to the much bigger IFFI (International Film Festival of India), which is slated to be held in Goa in November. People across the globe are keen to watch good cinema on Indian history. Attenborough’s Gandhi, which is one of the most viewed movies, was made accessible for hearing-impaired viewers as well,” said a person aware of the developments.A majority of the audience was in the age group of 25 and 34 and the gender ratio was 72.5% males to 27.5% females, the ministry data showed. NFDC’s Cinemas of India platform had reported a spike of 3,156.18 % traffic on its website between August 7 and 21, when the festival was held.Other popular films were Udayer Pathey, Chota Sipahi, Shahadat, Abhi Kal Ki Baat Hai, Ae Vatan Ter Liye, Andhra Kesari, The Flag, Harun Arun, 1971: Beyond Borders, Battalion 609, Khakee, Qayamat, Tango Charlie, and Spread The Light of Freedom.Around 84.76 % users watched these films on mobile devices, as compared to desktops and tablets, according to the data.Nearly 88.% of the viewers were from India, the USA, the UAE, Germany, Canada and the UK.“The festival received a lot of support from several celebrities. Music composer A R Rehman gave a video message, urging cinema lovers to seize the opportunity to watch patriotic films free of cost. He was also nostalgic about Roja that was screened at the festival, as he was the music composer of the film,” said the person quoted above.The patriotic film festival is a precursor to IFFI, which will be held in Goa in November. “The lessons learnt here will also be put to good use in Goa,” the person said. Former I&B secretary Uday Varma said it was a positive sign that many people, especially youngsters, were keen on watching movies about those who made history. “It is a positive trend and will help them develop a better perspective,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/films-on-gandhi-sardar-patel-most-watched-during-virtual-patriotic-film-festival/story-dz2Wjtw7923qzJxK0KAhlJ.html
26-08-2020||India||10 get life imprisonment for smuggling explosives from Pakistan||A special court in Rajasthan’s Barmer pronounced 10 people guilty of smuggling explosives from Pakistan for supply to Sikh terror organization, Babbar Khalsa, on Tuesday and sentenced them to life imprisonment besides slapping fines. The convicts include one Babbar Khalsa member, who came to Barmer, to collect the consignment of explosives. The ten have been held guilty under different sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Explosive Act, Arms Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code. Barmer SC/ST court special judge Vamita Singh said the accused were guilty of bringing explosives to India with the help of Pakistani smugglers for supply to Babbar Khalsa. “The accused have helped the terrorists by forming an unlawful organization to spread terrorism in India with smuggled explosive,” the order said. Barmer police booked 14 people, including two Pakistani smugglers Aliya Khan and Fotiya Khan and three Babbar Khalsa members Harjot Singh, Parmajit Singh and Jagmohan Singh in 2009 after recovering 6 kg of RDX, 8 foreign pistols and 420 rounds of cartridges during a raid at a location 13 km from Barmer town on September 8, 2009. Three people were arrested during the raid, and on the basis of information given by them, 9 kg of RDX, one timer device, 3 detonators, 910 cartridges and some other material was recovered. Ten people, included Jagmohan Singh of Babbar Khalsa, were arrested; investigation against the remaining four is pending because they are outside India. Also Read: NIA files charge sheet in Pulwama attack case; names Jaish chief Masood Azhar, his brothers and PakistanThe Barmer special judge sentenced the 10 to life imprisonment (14 years) after pronouncing them guilty under section 4 of Explosive Act; sections 5 and 6 of Explosive Substances Act; sections 3/10, 18 and 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, section 7(25)(1)(D)(1-AA) of Arms Act and section 120B of IPC. They were given five years imprisonment under section 3/25 of Arms Act, three years under sections 5, 9 (B) of Explosive Act, two years under sections 6, 9 (B) of Explosive Act, seven years under section 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and three years under section 153A of the IPC. The conviction order said the sentences will be served concurrently and the time in police and judicial custody will be included in it. The court acquitted the accused of charge under section 29 of the Arms Act giving them benefit of doubt. The convicted people are Sodha Khan alias Sodiya alias Luniya, Najeer Khan (son of Meeru Khan), Najeer Khan (son of Jiya Khan), Khanu Khan, Musa Khan, Meeru Khan, Kalla Khan, Ramdha Khan, Mubarak Khan and Jagmohan Singh. Six of them – Najeer Khan (son of Jiya Khan), Meeru Khan, Kalla Khan, Ramdha Khan, Mubarak Khan and Jagmohan Singh – are out on bail; Sodha Khan, Najeer Khan and Khanu Khan are in jail since 2009, and Musa Khan is in jail since 2011. The court accepted the prosecution story according to which the consignment of explosive, arms and ammunition was smuggled from Pakistan for supply to Babbar Khalsa. Aliya Khan and Fotiya Khan of Pakistan smuggled the consignment to their India connections in Barmer. Jagmohan Singh came to Barmer to receive the consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-get-life-imprisonment-for-smuggling-explosives-from-pakistan/story-hBODPoXxm7wusvgxnY3GBM.html
26-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%||With 67,151 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,059 deaths in a single day, India’s tally has crossed 3.2 million, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday.The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 59,449 and the number of active cases is 707,267, according to the health ministry dashboard at 8am. India reported its first Covid-19 fatality in mid-March and over 22,000 deaths have been recorded in August so far.Recoveries saw further increase with 63,173 Covid-19 patients being cured between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, data showed. There have been 2,467,758 discharges till date, which has taken the country’s recovery rate to 76.29%.The health ministry had said on Tuesday that there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate of Covid-19 despite an exponential increase in testing, underlining that the number of active cases has reduced by 6,423 in a day for the first time. Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, said the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 8% now from 11% during the first week of August on the basis of a seven-day rolling average.Bhushan also said 36% of the deaths have been reported in the age group between 45-60 years and 51% deaths in people aged 60 and above. He added that 11% of deaths were reported in the age group of 26-44 years and 1% each among people aged 18-25 and those below 17 during a press briefing. Covid-19 fatalities include 69% male and 31% female, he added.The testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, with India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far, Bhushan said.India, which is the third worst-hit country, had reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases globally on Tuesday for the 18th straight day, ahead of the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-3-2-million-recovery-rate-rises-to-76-29/story-FvIBnIhbALQluOe0GuDRmK.html
26-08-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal calls crucial meet to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has on Wednesday called a high level meeting to discuss the overall Covid-19 situation in the national capital amid the rising number of infections. The meeting will take place at 11am and will be attended by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev and other officials of the state’s health department. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi over the past few days has witnessed a slight rise in Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, the state registered 1,544 cases- the highest single day tally in over a month. The total number of cases in the national capital are over 161,000 and the death toll stands at 4330, according to the union health ministry’s dashboard. As many as 147,743 people have recovered from the infection till now. Also read: How metro travel will look in Covid-19 eraMeanwhile, 67,151 fresh cases and 1,059 deaths in the last 24 hours pushed India’s Covid-19 tally to over 3.2 million. The total cases include 7,07,267 active cases 2,467,758 discharges and nearly 60,000 deaths. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-calls-crucial-meet-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-RGNuIaBhDVHJjw0cG75DrL.html
26-08-2020||India||Congress likely to elect new president in January||The Congress party is likely to call its All India Congress Committee (AICC) session as early as January next year to elect its new president, two senior party leaders involved in the matter told HT. At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday, a section of the leaders had initially suggested that the session be held within a year, but party leader Rahul Gandhi and many others preferred holding it in the next six months. A January schedule for this mammoth organisational exercise also suits the party, as there would be no major elections round the corner after this year’s Bihar assembly poll. In 2021, elections for five assemblies—Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry—are slated in April, providing enough time for the Congress to come up with a rejigged team headed by a new leader. Sonia Gandhi, who has been the interim president of the party since August 2019, had offered to resign and asked the CWC to start the process to find a new chief, but amid heated debate over a letter signed by 23 senior leaders seeking major changes in the functioning of the Congress, many leaders, including former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, urged her to continue until such time as the new president is elected.Also Read: CWC meet: Leaked letter puts Congress seniors on back footParty leaders also added that Rahul Gandhi, who led the party for two years between 2017 and 2019, is against returning to the hot seat, but thousands of Congress workers and many leaders are keen to see him as the leader and may not accept a non-Gandhi. Also Read: At CWC meeting, Congress leaders ask Sonia Gandhi to continue as party chief, criticise letterSonia Gandhi has already completed one year as the party’s interim chief. She was the party president for over 19 years, from May 1998 to December 2017—the longest uninterrupted tenure in the history of the Congress—when Rahul Gandhi took over the reins. He resigned in May 2019, taking moral responsibility for the party’s rout in the Lok Sabha elections. An AICC session is a marathon process that starts with a membership drive and election of delegates from the state-level. In the recent history of the party, the president has been selected unanimously, barring the one instance when Jitendra Prasada decided to contest against Sonia Gandhi in 2000. He lost miserably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-likely-to-elect-new-president-in-january/story-fiPbbEdDAqigKKKNj5oqAJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Pak ‘masquerading’ as a terror victim: India at UN||India hit out at Pakistan for its litany of lies at the United Nations after Islamabad’s UN envoy claimed to have given a statement in a Security Council meeting not open to non-Council members and said that the biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against it now tries to “masquerade” itself as a victim of terror.Calling out Pakistan’s lie that it has been a target of cross-border terrorism for decades, India said “a lie repeated a hundred times will not become truth. The biggest sponsor of cross-border terrorism against India now tries to masquerade itself as a victim of terrorism by India,” India’s Permanent Mission to the UN said on Monday. The Pakistan Mission falsely claimed that its UN envoy Munir Akram gave a statement at a Security Council debate on Report of the Secretary General on Threats to International Peace and Security posed by Terrorism Actions. However, the Security Council meeting on threats to international peace and security was not open to non-members of the Council. A photograph of the meeting tweeted by the German Mission to the UN showed only envoys of the 15 Security Council members participating in the meeting. Pakistan is not a member of the Council.“We fail to comprehend where exactly did the Permanent Representative of Pakistan make his statement since the Security Council session today was not open to non-members of the Security Council. Be that as it may, the five big lies of Pakistan lies exposed,” India’s Mission to the UN said in a post on Twitter.On Akram’s claim that Pakistan has decimated Al-Qaeda from the region, India said perhaps the Permanent Representative of Pakistan is “not aware that Osama bin Laden was hiding in their own country in plain sight, and it is the US forces which got him inside Pakistan. Nor have they heard their Prime Minister refer to Osama bin Laden as a martyr.” Giving a strong rebuttal to Pakistan’s lies, New Delhi termed Pakistan’s claim that India has hired terrorists as mercenaries to hit them as “laughable”. “Coming from a country which is a known sponsor of cross-border terrorism which has made the world suffer due to its actions, this claim is nothing short of being preposterous!”, India said. India also said that Pakistan is home to the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN and many of the sanctioned terrorists and entities continue to operate with impunity inside Pakistan. Prime Minister Imran Khan himself had admitted at the General Assembly last year about the presence of 40,000-50,000 terrorists inside Pakistan. Laying bare another lie by Pakistan about Indian nationals in the 1267 Al-Qaeda Sanctions List of the UN Security Council, India said the Sanctions List is “public and the world can see none of these individuals are in it. The 1267 Committee works on the basis of evidence and not random accusations thrown in to divert their time and attention,” India said in response to a lie made by Pakistan that it has submitted names of some Indians to be proscribed under the Sanctions list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-masquerading-as-a-terror-victim-india-at-un/story-O7KvD5kDEPCQwnMWqT4Z8I.html
26-08-2020||India||8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal Tunnel||The 8.8-km strategic Rohtang Tunnel, being built at 3,000 metre above sea level between Himachal Pradesh’s Manali and Leh in Ladakh, will be opened by September-end. The Rs 3,200-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours.The tunnel is also called Atal Tunnel after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had announced the project on June 3, 2000. The work was entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).The project has faced geological challenges which have pushed the deadline since digging started in 2011. The project was to be completed in February 2015, but water ingress from Seri Nullah, ban on rock mining and delay in allotment of land needed for quarrying, and loose rock strata in the middle caused the slow progress.Here is everything you need to know about the Atal Tunnel:• More than 700 men are working in shifts to complete the work of the tunnel. When the coronavirus pandemic-enforced lockdown was imposed, proactive measures were taken to recommence work in active coordination with the state government.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh was to inspect the work at the tunnel last month, but due to the stand-off between India and Chinese troops, this trip was cancelled. Singh is likely to visit the Rohtang tunnel in at the end of this month.• The speed limits in the tunnel will be 80km per hour. The tunnel will accelerate troop mobility to strategic frontiers in Jammu and Kashmir, besides providing a road link to Lahaul and Spiti in the winters.• The tunnel has the capacity to ply 3,000 vehicles per day under any weather condition. The cost of the project has escalated from Rs 1,700 crore in 2010 to almost its double to Rs 3,200 crore by September 2020.• Himachal Pradesh will run Vistadome buses inside Atal tunnel when it is inaugurated next month. Vistadome buses will have a glass rooftop for a panoramic view through the hilly region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-8-km-long-3-000-metre-above-sea-know-everything-about-atal-tunnel/story-oCTBzaruSchVIXXDYccSXM.html
26-08-2020||India||IIT-Bombay records two-fold rise in number of patents||The Indian Institute Technology, Bombay, recorded an almost two-fold increase in the number of patents granted to it for its innovations in the academic year 2019-20 as compared to the previour year.According to the data released during the 58th annual convocation ceremony of the institute, the premiere technology institute, which has been identified as an Institute of Eminence by the Centre, received 86 intellectual property rights (IPR), including patents and trademarks in the year 2019-20. This translates into a success rate of 56% as the institute had applied for 153 IPRs. In comparison, it had applied for 133 IPRs in 2018-19, of which only 48 were granted _ a 36% success rate. Of the 97 Indian patent applications filed in 2018-19, only 20 were granted. However, in 2019-20, the institute received 42 Indian patents against an application of 97. In 2019-20, applications were filed in the fields of battery storage system, biochemistry for therapeutic treatment, biomedical devices and blockchain technologies, among others. Professor Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, attributed the increase in number of applications to the innovations by the IDC School of Design and the start-ups incubated at the institute. “With startups, there is a lot of technology disruption and innovators want to patent their work,” he said.The institute was witnessing higher success is converting its application as the patent filing process is more streamlined now, said Atrey. “With streamlining of the patent filing process by the Indian Patent Office, the applications are now processes faster,” he said. While earlier innovators had to wait for five to seven years to get a patent, now the process takes around three years.For all Indian patents, the institute bears the expenses for the application process. “Thereafter, if an innovator wants to apply for a patent abroad, we take a call on the financial aspect of the application process taking into account the commercial aspect of the technology,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-bombay-records-two-fold-rise-in-number-of-patents/story-Dotpd4Lc2edOpHiRUzSBCP.html
26-08-2020||India||ISI wanted a Hurriyat-like body in Kashmir, says NIA||Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s spy agency, sought to create a non-government organisation (NGO) parallel to the All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) because of a perception that Kashmiris had lost faith in the latter , according to a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in July against Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), J&K Police, and four others. ISI authorities delegated the job to Irfan Shafi Mir, 31, a lawyer from Kashmir, who was trusted by both the Pakistani establishment and the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), the primary terrorist group in the Valley, the charge sheet says.According to the charge sheet, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT, the Central anti-terror probe agency has named at least six ISI officials – Umar Cheema, Eshan Chaudhary, Faizal, Sohail Abbas, Arbaaz and Sheikh Sahab – who were in touch with Mir.Also read: ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after BalakotShafkat Jatoi alias Hussain, a Pakistani high commission official, who was repatriated from New Delhi to Islamabad in June for allegedly engaging in anti-India activities, paid Rs 2.5 lakh to Mir in two instalments to organise two seminars to fuel separatist sentiment -- How to defend Article 370, and Violation of Human Rights in the Kashmir Valley -- the charge sheet said.These seminars were allegedly chaired by Hameeda Bano, an academician based in Kashmir and the wife of the separatist activist Nayeem Khan, who was charged in 2017 in the NIA’s Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) terror funding case, it added.Professor Bano, however, denied that she chaired these seminars. “It’s a white lie. I have not attended any such seminar”.Mir is alleged to be the key person in the conspiracy to revive HM’s activities in the Valley; he used to regularly visit the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi “to receive instructions and money, and also facilitated the (Pakistani) visa applications for a number of Kashmiris,” according to the charge-sheet.He was arrested along with Davinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), J&K Police, and two HM terrorists – Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmad Rather -- on January 11 in Shopian, south Kashmir. Davinder Singh was suspended from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police after he was arrested while ferrying the two HM terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway.APHC, an alliance of 26 political, social and religious organisations from Kashmir, was formed in March 1993 as a united front to raise the cause of Kashmiri separatism, but has been ineffective in Kashmir for over the past two years. APHC’s leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani , 90, the face of Kashmir’s separatist movement for over three decades, resigned in June.There has been consistent action against separatist leaders by the NIA and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the past two-three years and many of them have either been jailed or put under house arrest.The NIA charge sheet stated that Mir has known senior ISI operatives since 2016 through a person identified as Majeed, who invited him to Pakistan to meet the HM leadership. During his 10-day trip to Pakistan four years ago, Mir met HM chief Syed Salahuddin, Khurshid Alam, Najar Mahmood, who are HM’s operations and finance heads, respectively, among others.Also read| Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama caseIn 2018, he made two trips – in February and September– to Pakistan, during which he was instructed by Alam to find a contact in West Asia, preferably in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), for obtaining funds transferred through hawala channels for keeping terror activities alive in Kashmir, the charge sheet said.Mir’s father Mohammad Shafi Mir used to be a J&K police constable who turned rogue and joined HM and was eventually killed near the Line of Control (LoC) in the 1990s by Indian security forces while trying to cross over to Pakistan.Mir used secure messaging applications such as BBM, Zangi, KiK, Just Talk, Corp Chat, Cover Me and Sure Spot in a bid to keep in touch with HM terrorists in the valley, the charge sheet added.Sameer Patil, a fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, a think tank, said: “A combination of factors such as the action by the NIA against its leaders, their inability to hold large gatherings and address the public, a decline in stone pelting incidents etc, shows that the Hurriyat leadership has definitely lost its sheen. This is evident from Geelani’s decision to quit the organisation. He wouldn’t have done so if the Hurriyat had any influence left over (the Kashmiri) people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isi-wanted-a-hurriyat-like-body-in-kashmir-says-nia/story-L3P8HlrQK5FNQTJPGkGpoI.html
26-08-2020||India||Expedite projects worth Rs 5.88 lakh crore: Pradhan tells oil PSUs||Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan has told state-run energy companies to expeditiously implement oil and gas sector projects worth Rs 5.88 lakh crore to generate employment and revive growth after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic blows over, an oil ministry official said.Out of the total capital expenditure of Rs 5.88 lakh crore, about Rs 1.20 lakh crore capital expenditure is expected in the current financial year, the official said, requesting anonymity. Pradhan reviewed the progress of these projects on Monday, he said.“These projects will create a virtuous cycle of investments and will play a crucial role in revival of the Indian economy after the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the official quoting Pradhan.In the current financial year, companies have spent about Rs 26,576 crore on these projects until August 15. These firms have spent about Rs 3,258 crore on labour-related issues of these projects, he said.Public sector undertaking (PSU) companies and their joint ventures are implementing 8,363 projects that include laying pipelines, upgrading refineries, setting up of petrochemical, exploration and production projects.PSUs such as Oil and Natural gas Corporation (ONGC), Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Hindustan petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), GAIL India Ltd, Oil India Ltd (OIL) and HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd (HMEL) are implementing these projects.“A total of around 33.8 crore man-days (direct as well as indirect) of employment is expected to be generated towards the completion of these 8,363 projects, out of which more than 9.76 crore man-days of employment generation is targeted in FY 2020-21 itself,” he said.Over 2.2 crore man-days of employment have been generated through execution of these oil and gas projects until August 15, he added.Energy companies have reported that in 2020-21, they have planned an employment oriented operational expenditure (OPEX) of around Rs 41,672 crore, out of that Rs 11,296 crore has been spent.“This OPEX of Rs 41,672 crore has potential to generate around 14.5 crore man-days (direct/indirect). In FY 2020-21, direct/indirect employment of around 4.4 crore man-days have been generated through OPEX until August 15,” he said.In 2020-21, a total of around Rs 1.62 lakh crore is targeted to be spent by these companies, including both capital and employment oriented operational expenditures, as they have the potential to generate around 24 crore man-days of employment, he added.“The amount spent will create a virtuous cycle of investments. It will play a crucial role in the revival of the Indian economy. It will also provide employment opportunities to the people,” he said. Out of the total 8,363 projects, the anticipated cost for major 25 projects is Rs 1.67 lakh crore, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedite-projects-worth-rs-5-88-lakh-crore-pradhan-tells-oil-psus/story-1t9kmLJtMNeYAgex9LryQP.html
26-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s porn OTT service involving models has a Pakistan link, 3 arrested||Madhya Pradesh police on Tuesday arrested two men including a software engineer, who launched an over the top (OTT) media service to circulate obscene video contents in the name of adult movies shot illegally, across 22 countries and have named a Pakistan resident for alleged involvement in the crime. The two arrested by the cyber cell of Indore police include Deepak Saini, 30, a software engineer from Gwalior and his partner Keshav Singh, 27, a resident of Morena. Three other accused were arrested by police on August 10. Seven other accused are absconding. All of them have been booked under section 66 and 67 of Information Technology Act, 2000, said police. The maintenance of their media services was done by one Hussain Ali, a resident of Pakistan, police said and added that no case has been registered against Ali as police is still looking into his role in the crime.“Saini and Singh used to pay up to Rs 5 lakh to distributors for a movie containing obscene contents and they used to earn money through subscription charges decided as per the boldness of the contents. The basic subscription charge was Rs 249 per month. In just one year, they released as many as 84 such movies on their platform,” said Jitendra Singh, superintendent of police, cyber cell, Indore. Also Read: Pakistan hackers target personal website of MoS G Kishan Reddy, now temporarily unavailable“The matter came to light when an Indore-based model lodged a complaint with the city cyber cell on July 25 that three men had signed her for acting in a web series of a reputed OTT platform. The accused shot bold scenes of the models in a farm house in Indore and later uploaded it on different porn sites. Later, a few more women came forward with similar complaints against Milind Dawar, who runs a modelling agency, Brijendra Gurjar, who posed as the director of movies, cameraman Ankit Chawda and five others. They were arrested on August 10,” said Singh. Also Read: 10 cops win Medal of Honour from Madhya Pradesh; 3 inspectors among them cracked rape and murder casesIn the investigation, it was found that the accused used to lure the models in the name of casting them in a popular web series of reputed web channels and used to shoot obscene movies. Later, they used to sell the movies to Mumbai-based Ashok Singh and Vijayanand Pandey, distributors of these adult movies,” said the cyber cell SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-porn-ott-service-involving-models-has-a-pakistan-link-3-arrested/story-voQuWlRcvALfFL9UzkTMyI.html
26-08-2020||India||India inches closer to 60k Covid deaths||On Tuesday, at least 1,066 coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related deaths were reported and the toll from the contagion is inching towards the 60,000 mark and stands at 59,598 to date.Of the 1,066 fresh deaths, the maximum was reported from Maharashtra at 329 – the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the country --- followed by Karnataka (148) and Tamil Nadu (107). The Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) officials are maintaining that the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) is below 2% and are trying to bring it down to under 1%.“The Covid-19 mortality rate in the country is among the lowest in the world. India has managed the viral outbreak well so far,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan during Tuesday’s briefing on the pandemic.India has reported 3,229,351 Covid-19 cases so far, including 66,781 fresh ones on Tuesday. While 64,562 Covid-19 patients recovered from their viral infection on Tuesday and the total recoveries stand at 2,465,081.“The active caseload is only about 22.24% of the total positive cases; and the overall recoveries have crossed the 75% mark,” said Bhushan.Though Covid-19 tests have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate, he added.Bhushan highlighted that the number of Covid-19 active cases reduced by 6,423 for the first time within a span of 24 hours. “While the tests for detection of Covid-19 have increased exponentially, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. For the first time, active cases of Covid-19 have reduced by 6,423 within a span of 24 hours,” he said.Bhushan said on the basis of a seven-day rolling average the positivity rate of Covid-19, which was 11% during the first week of August, has currently come down to 8%.The ministry data also underlined the aggressive testing mechanism. It has increased from 363 tests per million population per day on August 1 to over 600 at present, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-closer-to-60k-covid-deaths/story-HQEjvtMz2SS3cVv02O7SaI.html
26-08-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee furious as embankments repaired after cyclone Amphan collapse||Several villages in the coastal districts of West Bengal have been inundated after portions of many river embankments which were repaired after cyclone Amphan in May, collapsed recently. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed her displeasure over the matter and has asked senior officials of the district administration to look into the matter. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has already raised allegations of corruption involving ‘cut money’ or bribe in exchange of government welfare scheme. “Several areas have become inundated as there were breaches in the embankments. In many places the embankments, which were repaired after Amphan, have also collapsed. Those involved in the process should have been more serious. Does this mean that the work was done in a hurry and not given due importance?” Banerjee said in an administrative review meeting on Tuesday. She, however, added that embankments repaired during the monsoon don’t hold for long because the rivers swell and the high tidal waves hit the embankments with great force. The ruling Trinamool Congress was on the backfoot after allegations of massive corruption and nepotism had surfaced against many local leaders of the party in the distribution of relief work in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan. Banerjee had to intervene and a few leaders were suspended. With less than a year remaining for the crucial Bengal assembly elections, Banerjee is not in a mood to face any more allegations. The chief minister has already asked senior officials to look into the matter. The BJP, however, lashed out at the state government and the ruling TMC with allegations of corruption. “The Trinamool Congress is synonymous with cut money. Embankments were also repaired after cyclone Bulbul in November 2019. The more the repair work the greater is the amount of cut money that would reach party leaders. Hence they would repair embankments and roads in such a way that they need to be repaired frequently,” said Sayantan Basu, BJP state general secretary. Around 160 km of river embankments and four kilometres of sea dykes were damaged by cyclone Amphan which had hit Bengal on May 20. Around 100 million people were affected. The breaches in the embankments have hit the districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas badly.“Particularly hit are the two coastal districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. Many villages have become inundated and the district administration is carrying out relief and rescue measures. But the situation has improved as there was no rain on Tuesday,” said a senior official. In North 24 Parganas, several villages in Minakha, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj and Haroa have been hit because of breaches in the embankments. River water has gushed in and more than 900 people have been shifted to flood shelters, a senior official of the district said. In South 24 Parganas several villages in at least four blocks – Sagar, Patharprtaima, Namkhana and Kakdwip – were inundated after water gushed into the villages through breached embankments. More than 2,000 people had to be evacuated. The state government apprehends that more areas could get inundated after the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of heavy rain in till Thursday because of a low pressure developing over the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-furious-as-embankments-repaired-after-cyclone-amphan-collapse/story-wGhCoCTBHVu2OEXEi1GIuL.html
26-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chattisgarh, Odisha likely to receive heavy rainfall, Orange warning issued for Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Orange warning for Delhi; Odisha, Chhattisgarh on alert for extremely heavy rainThe Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi has issued an orange warning for Delhi today. An orange warning implies that disaster management authorities should be prepared to avert any rain related disasters or flooding. Read moreYogi Adityanath says UP has reduced vector-borne diseases mortality rate by 95% since 2016Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Tuesday night that better inter-department coordination would make the state health mission more successful. He said an example to prove this was the effectiveness of the state in controlling vector-borne diseases through well-coordinated efforts among various departments. Read moreBattle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural IndiaMore than half of all Covid-19 cases recorded in August came from 584 districts that are classified as “mostly rural” or “entirely rural”, reflecting the spread of the coronavirus disease from the large urban centres into the Indian hinterland where health care challenges, from testing to treatment, are much more significant. Read moreManchester United defender Harry Maguire found guilty of assaultManchester United defender Harry Maguire was found guilty of assault at a trial on Tuesday and handed a 21-month suspended sentence following his arrest after a brawl last week on the island of Mykonos, court officials in Greece said. Read moreChina protests US spy plane watching live fire military drillsChina has lodged “stern representations” with the United States, accusing it of sending a US U-2 reconnaissance plane into a no-fly zone over Chinese live-fire military drills on Tuesday, further ratcheting up tensions between Beijing and Washington. Read moreWomen’s Equality Day 2020: History, significance and all you need to knowThe Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was adopted, giving women the right to vote on this day in 1920. Amendment XIX prohibits any US state and the federal government from denying the right to vote to any American citizens on the basis of sex. Read moreGoogle’s mask song is catchy and creative. Heard it yet?Masks are a necessity of the current times and wearing this safety equipment whenever one is going out is something everyone should follow. Time and again, various posts on social media remind people to wear masks whenever one is going out. Read moreWatch| ‘Another split in Congress imminent?’: Watch Sanjay Jha’s response||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chattisgarh-odisha-likely-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-orange-warning-issued-for-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AqvWcHYHo39oZCZROUK0pI.html
26-08-2020||India||10 things you need to know about NEET-JEE exam controversy||From international environmental activist Greta Thunberg to Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, several political leaders, activists, students, parents, and other stakeholders have raised concerns over holding the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in September amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While NEET is scheduled to take place on September 13, JEE (Mains) will be held from September 1 to September 6.Here are 10 things you need to know about the NEET-JEE exams so far:– Exam dates extended twice due to Covid-19: Over 8.58 lakh and 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) respectively this year. Generally, the JEE (Mains) exams for engineering aspirants are conducted in April while NEET is conducted for medical aspirants in May. These exams were postponed twice in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to restrict the spread of the disease.– Number of centres increased: In order to ensure that social distancing is maintained, the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is responsible for conducting these exams, has increased the number of centres this year. While the number of centres for JEE has been increased from 570 to 660, for NEET the number stands at 3,843, an increase from 2,546.– Admit cards available online: While NTA has released admit cards for JEE (Mains), the apex examination body on Tuesday said it would soon release admit cards for NEET as well. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told a news channel in an interview that over 80% students had already downloaded the JEE (Mains) admit cards till Tuesday.– Social distancing in exam halls: As per the standard operating protocols developed by NTA, a reduced number of candidates will be seated in exam rooms to maintain social distancing. In case of NEET (UG), the number of candidates per room has been reduced from the earlier 24 to 12. While students have been asked to use gloves and masks at all times, centres will be equipped with extra supplies in case students or staff need it at the centre.– Precautionary measures: There will be hand sanitiser will be present at entry and exit points. Students will disperse in a staggered manner to avoid overcrowding. There will be thermo-guns to check the temperature of all staff and candidates. If any examination functionary fails to meet the self-declaration criteria or thermal scanner check, they will be asked to leave the examination centre immediately. Isolation rooms will also be set up for students with a body temperature of over 99.4° Fahrenheit. NTA has said that “no one will be denied permission to appear for the examination, if he/ she violates the Covid-19 directives/advisories of Government (Central/State) applicable on the day of exam and instructions mentioned in the Admit Card.”– Students cite problems: Apart from the Covid-19 threat, several stakeholders have pointed out that students from flood-hit states such as Bihar, Gujarat, and Assam or the rain-hit districts of Kerala or those from areas such as Jammu and Kashmir facing Internet connectivity issues will have to struggle more to appear for the entrance exams. Activists have also pointed out that students travelling to different centres and returning home to multigenerational families may further spread the disease in the country.– Several districts in lockdown: Of the 734 districts in the country, lockdown orders related to Covid-19 of varying degrees are in place in 345 districts across the country. Students from these areas are likely to face problems while commuting to the exam centre with a reduced number of operational public transport facilities.– Political leaders against it: Leaders from various political parties, such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Trinamool Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal among others, have expressed reservations about conducting exams amid a pandemic and urged the Centre to come up with an alternative solution for admission to medical and engineering courses. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee are also slated to hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers of non-BJP states on Wednesday.– Students’ protests: Students’ organisations, such as AISA, SFI, NSUI among others, have been holding consistent social media campaigns to demand the cancellation or postponement of the exams. Twitter hashtags such as #ProtestAgainstExamsinCovid garnered over three million tweets on a single day. The student community has also been holding relay hunger strikes to protest against the issue. Other exams scheduled to be held in September include Delhi University Entrance Test, Common Law Admissions Test, IP university entrance exams, and UGC-NET exams. – Loss of an academic year is a concern: Academicians said a further delay in examinations can disrupt the academic calendar and put the future of students in jeopardy. They also emphasised that conducting the exams in September would allow institutes to start online classes at the very least. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court too said that “life must go on” and students “cannot waste a whole year”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-things-you-need-to-know-about-neet-jee-exam-controversy/story-7sr84qHGTtXu35T9VzLu8N.html
26-08-2020||India||US to probe Pak’s ISIS terrorists in Syria, may complicate Imran Khan woes||The United States has started an investigation into the role of Pakistanis in the Islamic State movement in Syria, complicating the situation for Prime Minister Imran Khan who is still to emerge from Tuesday’s setback to his attempt to get two “critical” FATF-linked legislations enacted, people familiar with the matter said.The US backed and predominantly Kurd Syrian Democratic Forces have shared a list of 29 Pakistanis among others who are in their custody for fighting for the Islamic State, the ultra-conservative radical Sunni movement that swept Iraq-Syria in the past decade. The shortlist, according to counter-terror officials in Delhi and Washington, include four Pakistanis who had acquired citizenship of another country such as Turkey and Sudan. Nine of the 29 captured ISIS fighters are women.“The American security forces are currently interrogating these Pakistani nationals including who sent them to fight for IS in Syria and their past affiliations with terrorist groups like the Al Qaida or any other pan-Islamic group based in Pakistan. As the Pakistani deep state is involved with the so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province in Afghanistan, the interrogation will also reveal its role if any,” said a counter-terror official in know of the list. Also Watch | BSF shoots down 5 infiltrators at India-Pakistan border in Punjab, arms recoveredThe reference to the IS presence in Afghanistan is a pointer to the Islamic State-Khorasan Province, or ISKP, which had carried out several attacks on civilian installations including a gurdwara in the heart of Kabul. ISKP chief Aslam Farooqui, also a Pakistani national with clear links to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence, was arrested for this bombing. Farooqui was earlier associated with the terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba before switching over to the ISKP. Farooqui is currently in custody of Afghan government after it rejected the Pakistani request to extradite him.While Pakistan with the help of China wants to exit out of the FATF Grey List, this new revelation substantiates the Indian claim that Islamabad is the epicentre of terrorism. While two Punjab based terrorist groups—Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayebba—target India, Rawalpindi supports Taliban through Haqqani Network and ISKP to cause mayhem in Afghanistan. The Pakistani involvement in attacks in US, UK and the Middle-East have come out in the open in the past.While the Islamic State does not hold any territory in Iraq or Syria, the remnant fighters are operating as free-lancers in the Syrian civil war and its ultra conservative Sunni ideology is still radicalizes the Muslim community in the name of puritan Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-probe-pak-s-isis-terrorists-in-syria-may-complicate-imran-khan-woes/story-MeMBUffYP8ObWnSxmPNLKO.html
26-08-2020||India||Podcast: Pratap Bhanu Mehta on Indian Democracy at 73||On August 15, 2020, India celebrated its 73rd birthday. To reflect on the state of Indian democracy and to kick off the podcast’s fourth season, Pratap Bhanu Mehta joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) for a wide-ranging conversation on India’s past, present, and future. Pratap is a professor of political science at Ashoka University and contributing editor and columnist at the Indian Express. He is a noted author, scholar, and commentator, not to mention arguably India’s finest public intellectual.Pratap and Milan discuss what the Covid crisis says about Indian democracy, the future of secularism in India, the popular yearning for strongman rule, and the maladies plaguing India’s rule of law institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-pratap-bhanu-mehta-on-indian-democracy-at-73/story-jNQG55204VcIGAPOhStirM.html
26-08-2020||India||500 stressed cops in Uttar Pradesh turn to psychological therapy||Overstressed personnel of the emergency response unit of Uttar Pradesh Police are getting assistance from psychological counsellors with support from Lucknow University to fight depression, stress and other issues they suffer from while performing their duties. According to senior officials of the 112 emergency unit, close to 500 personnel have sought help from over 27 counsellors from across the country. The counsellors were arranged with the help of the psychology department of Lucknow University. “The workload on 112 personnel has increased manifold due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. They are now handling calls from people with no food or medicine along with the usual crime incidents. This excess work has put undue stress on our staff,” said a senior UP police official. Considering this, 112 and the Lucknow University signed an agreement in April, naming it ‘samvad.’ The partnership has come a long way since then. Police personnel from the emergency unit have been asked to fill a form which is shared with experts. The personnel is then connected with a psychologist personally or via phone to discuss issues. The 112 administration makes it a point to keep all these communications a secret. The 112 unit has made some fundamental changes in the working style. The working hours have been reduced to eight hours from the previous 12 hours. Also cops on patrol vehicles are kept closer to their homes. The officials also make sure that the 112 personnel get time to spend with their families. “We have also set up a dedicated phone line where family members of 112 personnel can call,” an official said.In July, when several 112 employees tested Covid-19 positive and even the unit’s building was closed, it put more pressure on the police personnel posted there. The UP 112 has now imposed stringent measures to screen the workers and sanitise the workplace. Personnel who are over 55 years of age have been given tasks that require very little human interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-stressed-cops-in-uttar-pradesh-turn-to-psychological-therapy/story-AEqhWTCnDP9CyOkNHquEcM.html
26-08-2020||India||ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after Balakot||Around the time New Delhi and Islamabad scrambled fighter jets at their borders following India’s airstrike on a terror camp in Balakot in February last year, Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) asked Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) operatives in Jammu and Kashmir to find out and pass on information on the location of Indian Air Force (IAF) bases, according to a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Pulwama terror attack case on Tuesday.The audacious February 14 strike by the Jaish in southern Kashmir’s Pulwama killed 40 Indian security personnel, triggered the IAF action against the terror camp deep inside Pakistan 12 days later, resulted in a dogfight between fighter jets of the two nations on February 27, and brought them on the brink of a war.In its 13,500-page charge sheet filed in a special NIA court in Jammu, NIA named 19 people, including Jaish leader Masood Azhar and four of his relatives, for planning and carrying out the attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy at the behest of Pakistan. Of the 19, six are dead, three are absconding, and seven have been arrested. Azhar and his two brothers are believed to be in Pakistan.According to the charge sheet, Azhar’s 24-year-old nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq was sent to Kashmir in 2018 to execute the bombing. Farooq, who was killed in an encounter by security forces on March 29, 2019, was in constant touch with Azhar’s brothers Abdul Rouf Asghar Alvi and Ammar Alvi, and received directions from them before, during and after the attack, the charge sheet said. It also included transcripts of the chats between them.Alvi told Farooq, the key figure behind the blasts, during one of these chats after the Balakot strike that ISI wanted Jaish operatives on the Indian side to find out about IAF’s bases from where the fighter jets were being scrambled, said an official who asked not to be named, sharing details of the charge sheet.NIA’s charge sheet also said Jaish planned to carry out a second suicide attack after the Pulwama bombing, but aborted its plans due to international pressure for action against the Pakistan-based terror group.“Mufti (a reference to Azhar) has asked for the (second) attack to be put on hold,” read a message received by Farooq from Pakistan, according to the agency.“The Pakistan-based leadership of Masood Azhar, Asghar, and Ammar Alvi, alias Chota Masood, were continuously giving directions and guidance to the JeM terrorists (who infiltrated into India) both before and after the attack. They also planned to carry out another suicide attack, which was averted due to Balakot strikes and due to the killing of main conspirator Umar Farooq by the security forces,” said NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang, who was involved in the investigation into the case.Farooq, according to NIA, was the son of Azhar’s younger brother Ibrahim Athar. Athar and four others hijacked the IC-814 Indian Airlines flight in December 1999, seeking Azhar’s release. Azhar was freed from an Indian prison in exchange for the 155 passengers of the hijacked aircraft, and went on to found the Jaish in 2000.Farooq infiltrated into India using a tunnel in the Jammu-Samba sector in April 2018, and took over as the Jaish commander of Pulwama, according to the agency. Since then, he spent most of his time planning, arranging for logistics and convincing the suicide bomber, Adil Ahmad Dar.Another Pakistani terrorist related to Azhar’s family, 25-year-old Mohammad Ismail, alias Saifullah, who is currently said to be hiding in the Kashmir valley, infiltrated along with Farooq. He is believed to be heading the Jaish in the Valley.“After infiltrating into India, Umar Farooq took over as Jaish-e-Mohammad commander of Pulwama and along with his Pakistani compatriots — Kamran Ali, Ismail, Qari Yasir — and local associates Sameer Dar and Adil Ahmad Dar planned and prepared for the attack on security forces using IEDs,” Narang said.“Investigation also revealed a well-crafted mechanism by Pakistani establishment to push terrorists into the Indian territory from the launch pads located in Shakargarh (Pakistan) opposite Samba-Kathua sector in Jammu,” she added.Apart from Azhar, Asghar Alvi, Ammar Alvi, Farooq, Mohammad Ismail, Kamran Ali and Qari Yasir – all Pakistani nationals – and Indian nationals Adil Ahmad Dar and Sameer Dar, the NIA charge sheet also named Shakir Bashir Magray, Insha Jan, her father Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Waiz-ul-Islam, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Mohammad Iqbal Rather, Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey, Sajjad Ahmed Bhat, Mudasir Ahmad Khan and Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo.Farooq, Kamran Ali, Sajjad Ahmed Bhat, Mudasir Ahmad Khan and Qari Yasir have been killed in encounters. Shakir Bashir Magray, Insha Jan, Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Mohammad Iqbal Rather, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey and Waiz-ul-Islam were arrested. Mohammad Ismail Alvi, Sameer Ahmad Dar and Ashaq Ahmed Nengroo are absconding.Farooq, a skilled bomb-maker trained in hybrid camps of al Qaeda, Taliban, Jaish and the Haqqani network inside Afghanistan in 2016-17, prepared improvised explosive devices (IEDs) using two jerrycans (one weighing 160kg and another 40kg), gelatin sticks, ammonium nitrate, ammonium powder and RDX on February 5 night, according to the charge sheet.Ali, also killed in the same encounter as Farooq, Sameer Ahmad Dar and Magray, helped Farooq at Magray’s house. While the RDX was smuggled into India from Pakistan, other explosives were collected by Jaish operatives and overground workers from stone quarries in Kashmir, according to the NIA probe.On February 6, 2019, the jerrycans filled with explosives were loaded in a Maruti Eeco car that would eventually ram the CRPF convoy eight days later, according to the charge sheet.HT reported exclusively on March 4 this year that Jaish planned to carry out the attack in the first week of February, but postponed its plans since roads were closed and convoy movement stopped due to inclement weather.According to the NIA probe, Adil Ahmad Dar drove along with the CRPF convoy for a while before ramming it in the bus that was carrying the maximum number of troops.He was inspired to become a suicide bomber after watching a vitriolic video of Azhar, recorded in October 2018 after the killing of his nephew Usman Haider in Tral by security forces, the NIA said. In the video, the Jaish chief exhorted young Kashmiris to sacrifice their lives for jihad. “Lot of digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence establishing a fool-proof case for this dastardly and barbaric attack has been collected. The charge sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan-based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth,” Narang said. She added that non-bailable warrants were issued against Azhar, Alvi, Asghar and other absconding accused persons.Officials said the charge sheet was an irrefutable piece of evidence — technical, material and circumstantial — on Pakistan’s role in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isi-pushed-jaish-for-intel-on-iaf-bases-after-balakot/story-aVOWAlwnCil37OOKzikdGJ.html
26-08-2020||India||Battle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural India||More than half of all Covid-19 cases recorded in August came from 584 districts that are classified as “mostly rural” or “entirely rural”, reflecting the spread of the coronavirus disease from the large urban centres into the Indian hinterland where health care challenges, from testing to treatment, are much more significant. The trend is very different from that seen in the initial months of the pandemic, when the cases were largely in the urban areas, especially the three metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. This Hindustan Times analysis is based on district-level data by How India Lives, which is available till August 24, although even a cursory look at the HT dashboard suggests that, if anything, this trend has been strengthening for weeks. The front lines of India’s fight against the viral disease have clearly moved. Experts said the lack of adequate health infrastructure in villages will be a major challenge. “The first challenge that villages will likely face is of testing. Most of the RT-PCR labs are currently located in big cities or district headquarters, and are very rare if one looks for them at the subdistrict level. There is also the issue of the lack of medical equipment and physicians. Machines like pulse oximeters and radiology facilities such as good quality chest X-rays, which are crucial tools to monitor the health of Covid patients, are not as easily found in rural areas,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Delhi’s Maulana Azad Medical College. To be sure, there is a counter view as well: “There are reports of cases coming from rural areas, but the advantage that we have there is that population density is low because of which cases can be identified, isolated, and treated early. In these areas, surveillance can be far better and also compliance, and that is instrumental in controlling spread of the disease effectively,” says Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Aayog, who also chairs one of the National Task Forces on Covid-19 management. “Having said that, we have to be careful and concentrate on rural areas as some of the villages may suffer from lack of adequate health infrastructure to manage positive cases,” he added. The analysis also shows that few of India’s 734 districts are untouched by Covid-19: More than 700 districts and the national capital have reported cases so far. When a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, just over a hundred districts had reported cases (many of them just had one case). The number of affected districts was more than 600 by the end of May.Experts said that the spread of the disease in rural pockets may lead to a long-drawn battle. “We’ve seen the disease spread like wildfire in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. But equally fast, the governments were able to bring the outbreak into relative control. What we are likely to see in villages will not be like this – it will be a slow- and long-burning fire, which will be much harder to contain. But in general, villages are already disadvantaged because of their inadequate health care system, so this may end up becoming a much longer battle,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.The analysis classifies districts into five categories based on the proportion of the rural population – entirely urban (under 20% of the rural population), mostly urban (20%-40% rural), mixed (40%-60% rural), mostly rural (60% to 80% rural) and entirely rural (over 80% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 census (the latest data available). According to the analysis, 55% of the about 1.4 million new Covid-19 cases reported in August (those cases where the district is known) have come from 584 districts in the last two categories. This was not the case earlier. Only 23% of new cases reported in April came from these districts. This share, though, has been steadily increasing every month – it was 28% in May, 24% in June and 41% in July.As Covid-19 shifts away from the urban centres, 16 urban districts (15 districts plus Delhi) where the share of rural population is less than 20% reported only 13% of the country’s Covid-19 cases in August. More than 44% new cases reported in April, May and June came from these urban districts. In July, 23% of the cases came from these districts.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The bulk of the rural challenge is likely to be centred around two states that have sizeable rural populations – Uttar Pradesh and Bihar – which have seen a rapid and steady growth of cases in the past few weeks. The two states, which together account for more than a quarter of the country’s population, are also among the states with the lowest testing rates in the country despite a recent jump in numbers in the past few weeks. Both have conducted a little over 20,000 tests per million of their population against the national average of around 28,000.Nearly all major metropolitan cities in the country are districts among themselves, with the exception of Delhi, which consists of 11 revenue districts. However, the Delhi government does not release a district-wise breakup of cases, deaths and recoveries. The move into the hinterland has also decreased the share of metros in new Covid-19 cases. For instance, about 40% of the country’s Covid-19 cases in June were being reported from only three metro cities – Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. They accounted for only 6% of the new cases in August.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The number of Covid-19 cases reported in urban areas is still disproportionately higher than their population. The 16 districts which reported 13% of new Covid-19 cases in August are home to only 5.6% of India’s population. Similarly, the 584 districts where the share of rural population is more than 60% are home to 74% population, but reported only 55% of new Covid-19 cases this month. The disproportionate role of urban areas is also reflected in the number of cases currently active in the country. Regions with the recent outbreaks generally tend to have a higher share of active cases. Of the 10 districts with the most active cases in the country, seven are city districts or districts that constitute a single city, and thus entirely urban. This can also be explained by two other factors: the number of cases in rural India are spread over a large number of districts; and at least some of the active cases are those from June and July. The number of active cases — those still under treatment — directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in any region. It is calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally. As of Tuesday night, of the 3,229,351 total Covid-19 cases in the country, 704,672 (21.8%) were active, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. With over 44,717 cases out of the 150,207 cases in Pune active, the city tops this list. It is followed by Bengaluru with 34,877 cases active out of the 107,875 cases, and Thane, where 20,372 cases out of the 122,626 infections are active. Delhi, which is the city with the most cases in the country, had 11,778 active cases as of Monday. East Godavari (17,228 active cases as of August 23) and Chittoor (9,999 active cases), both in Andhra Pradesh; and Maharashtra’s Nashik (10,667 active cases) are the only three districts in the top 10 that are not entirely urban. The only major city-district excluded from this tally is Hyderabad as Telangana does not release recovery and death data for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-shifting-as-covid-19-threat-stalks-rural-india/story-GZJsSPOOpNR0RF9Yj5B59M.html
26-08-2020||India||After 2 letters in 24 hours, Mamata joins forces with Sonia against NEET, JEE||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the second time seeking his intervention to postpone the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) due to be held in September. Banerjee’s second letter to Modi on the issue was written a day before she and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi hold a virtual meet with the chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states in a bid to mobilize political support for their demand for postponement of the two critical joint entrance examinations on Wednesday afternoon, according to a top TMC leader close to the Bengal chief minister. Banerjee had sent a letter to Modi on Monday for the first time requesting the Prime Minister to postpone the NEET and JEE examinations. In her second letter written on Tuesday, Banerjee said Centre should consider appealing the Supreme Court decision on holding of the examinations.“I am aware that the Supreme Court has given a verdict on holding of JEE and NEET examinations and the Central government had been issuing instructions to go ahead with it accordingly. However, I would like to request your kind intervention and to consider the Central government making an appeal to the apex court to review its decision in the interest of the student community,” Mamata wrote on Tuesday. Also Read: NEET, JEE Main 2020: Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik seeks postponement of examThe West Bengal government received a letter from the National Testing Agency on Tuesday for conducting the JEE and NEET examinations starting from September 1, prompting Banerjee to write to Modi for the second time within a span of 24 hours. “We are really worried and concerned,” Banerjee wrote. On Sunday, Adhir Ranjan Chowdury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also wrote to the Prime Minister urging him to postpone the examinations. Also Read: More exam centres for safe conduct of NEET, JEE: GovtStudents in West Bengal and several other states have been demanding postponement of these examinations over the past few days. The All India Students Association (AISA), a Left front organisation, has planned protests in Kolkata and other cities. “Such intervention is very much essential in the larger interest of the students to facilitate creating a situation whereby the students will neither be subjected to grave health risk nor they will be facing a career risk,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-s-second-letter-to-pm-modi-on-neet-jee-lists-two-main-concerns/story-3gs5ZKKMg7YYIykmDJlF5I.html
26-08-2020||India||How metro travel will look in Covid-19 era||The Delhi Metro services, which have been closed since March 22 in view of coronavirus pandemic, are likely to be allowed as part of Unlock 4. Unlock 4, the ongoing process to open up economic activities in India after the nationwide lockdown imposed in the wake of the pandemic, will start from September 1. The guidelines for this phase will be issued sometime this week, ministry of home affairs officials said. Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 infection tally has gone above 3 million and as many as 58,390 people have died of the infection, according to the health ministry dashboard on Wednesday morning.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) are planning to put in place a series of measures for a smooth and safe conduct when the metro resumes operation.Here are the safety measures to be followed:• Tokens will no longer be issued to passengers. Automatic top-up and smart cards will be available for contactless travel.• All passengers arriving at metro stations will be thermally screened by CISF staff. The security personnel will also check whether the passengers have Aaogya Setu app on their phones• CISF personnel at door-frame metal detectors will mandatorily wear a mask shield, face mask, and gloves.• If the door frame metal detector does not raise an alarm when a passenger passes through it, he/she will be allowed to move ahead without any frisking. CISF officials can, however, select passengers randomly for a detailed frisk.• The security officials will use modified hand-held metal detectors to check passengers from a distance.• The number of passengers in a train will be limited to 300-350.• Only alternate seats will be used.• Air conditioners inside trains will be set at 26 degrees Celsius• Passengers will be required to keep the mask on throughout their journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-metro-travel-will-look-in-covid-19-era/story-oQeB8hIxSbkvQPg1NmqXyL.html
26-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India has seen 66,286 new cases of Covid-19 on average every day in the week ended Monday. That works out to 5.3 cases per 100,000 people (assuming India’s population at 1.3 billion). One way of looking at the Covid-19 challenge is to target reducing the number of new cases to less than one per 100,000. This isn’t a number picked without basis – it is the trend seen in countries that managed to crush the virus, if only temporarily. That’s a huge challenge for India.India’s Covid-19 numbers could well see an increase in the coming weeks – as testing increases (although states are blindly using rapid antigen tests without understanding when they should be used – a theme discussed several times in this column), and as the virus moves into rural India. Indeed, the pandemic’s progress in India has been outward – from the metros to the other cities and towns; and from urban districts to rural ones (see front page).India and the US are similar in terms of their approach to the pandemic – they opened up when cases were still rising (unlike Europe, where countries opened up only after the number of new cases started declining). Sure, the US saw a dip and then a long plateau between mid-April and mid-June, but cases rose rapidly after that. They rose till late July, when they started falling again. Interestingly, the seven-day average of daily cases in the US is well off its peak seen in late July, but still higher than the peak seen in early April. In contrast, India’s seven-day average has never dipped – the trajectory of the coronavirus disease, in terms of number of cases, has been one steady upward curve as the infection spread across the second-most populous country in the world.In the week ended Monday, India added 463,999 cases, according to the HT dashboard. This is 26% of the 1.75 million new cases recorded around the world in the same period (the second number is from the New York Times database). This statistic is worrying, although India’s case fatality rate of 1.85% is among the lowest in the world, and of the 3.16 million cases recorded till Monday night, 76% had recovered. The disease is yet to peak in India but doctors have clearly become better at saving lives.There has been some debate about a possible second lockdown in the US. There hasn’t been much talk of one in India. Through August, even some of the states that insisted on partial lockdowns (on certain days) have eased up. This is understandable – the lockdown has wreaked havoc on livelihoods and the economy. Once it became clear that the virus wasn’t going away anytime soon, and that a vaccine wouldn’t be available till early 2021, the focus moved to living and working with the virus.The buzz in Delhi is that the next set of so-called unlock guidelines issued by the home ministry could reflect that. HT reported on Tuesday that Delhi Metro could soon begin operations. This is a good move, provided the safety protocols that have been put down on paper are faithfully implemented. That could be problematic, though. Many Indians have shown poor discipline when it comes to wearing masks or practising social distancing. Police departments around the country do not seem keen to enforce the home ministry’s guidelines on masks (there is very poor monitoring in markets and parks, especially). Many people who wear masks, wear them improperly. And experience around the world has shown that crowds, especially in enclosed places, are a magnet for the virus. Talk of restarting the Delhi Metro also comes at a time when the number of cases in Delhi is beginning to inch up again (although it is still 60-70% off its peaks) – all the more reason why safety and social distancing protocols will need to be strictly followed, and monitored.There is no point in pretending things have returned to normal – because they haven’t.Note: This article has been corrected to reflect the correct weekly average of daily cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-1iYhOLMoeiMrIXtIqJpqlI.html
26-08-2020||India||Andhra govt increases annual professional tax with some exemptions||The Andhra Pradesh government has increased the annual professional tax by Rs 750 to Rs 1250 per year on some categories of professions with immediate effect. A fresh notification to this effect was issued on Monday. According to the notification, the government has increased one of the two slabs of professional tax on some categories – from Rs 1250 to Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500 per year. While commercial establishments with an annual turnover of Rs 10 lakh are exempted from the professional tax, those with a turnover between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 25 lakh would have to pay professional tax of Rs 2,000 and those having an annual turnover of more than Rs 25 lakh would pay Rs 2,500. “The maximum professional tax on all categories of professions is Rs 2,500,” it said. Workers of the film industry, district and state-level cooperative societies, video libraries and way bridge operators would have to pay Rs 2,500 towards professional tax. Public telephone operators are exempted from professional tax, but takeaway food joints, curry-sale points and canteens would have to pay Rs 2,500 as professional tax, the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-increases-annual-professional-tax-with-some-exemptions/story-vvuA8aA5TBHx84dFHXI1cL.html
26-08-2020||India||Bengal begins survey to identify people with co-morbidities to reduce Covid-19 mortality rate||With co-morbidity accounting for nearly 90% of Covid-19 related deaths in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee-led administration has started a survey to identify people with such ailments so that the death rate can be reduced in future. “We have initiated a new survey to identify people with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac diseases. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has already started the survey. Within the next one week it would be launched in other districts,” Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal said. Till August 24 at least 2,851 people, who had tested positive for Covid-19, have died. Co-morbidity was present in 2,483 patients, which is around 87% of the total deaths. In only around 13% of the cases there were no co-morbidities. “If we can identify the citizens with co-morbidities we would be able to identify the vulnerable people. This way we can hope to bring down the mortality rate which is present 2.01%,” said a senior official of the state health department. The national-average of case fatality rate has dipped to 1.85% at present according to the union government. Earlier this month, at least 13 districts across the country including five districts in the state - North 24 Paraganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Malda – had come under the scanner of the Union government for their high mortality rate. “Till June, the death rate compared to last year has dropped by 35%. But as Covid-19 patients have died the overall death rate has shot up,” Banerjee said. A door-to-door survey by ASHA volunteers has also revealed that there are around 8,500 patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and another 3.5 lakh people infected with Influenza-Like-Illness (ILI). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has directed the district magistrates, superintendents of police and the chief medical officers of health in the districts to ensure that Covid-19 patients coming from neighbouring states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha for treatment in West Bengal are not shown as local residents. Showing them as residents of West Bengal would give a false impression that the positivity rate and fatality rate is higher in the state. The state labour minister has also been asked to conduct a survey, by making surprise visits to factories including jute industries and tea gardens, to check whether social distance is being maintained at the work place. In some cases it has been reported that factories and offices have become hubs of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-begins-survey-to-identify-people-with-co-morbidities-to-reduce-covid-19-mortality-rate/story-Jo8UqHo31qCWYdagNVR7SK.html
26-08-2020||India||Not keen on contesting Assam polls next year, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam minister and convenor of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Himanta Biswa Sarma conveyed on Tuesday that he is not interested in contesting next year’s assembly polls. In a series of tweets, Sarma, the most influential BJP leader in the northeast by virtue of heading NEDA, the BJP-led alliance of anti-Congress parties in the region, said his ambition was to ensure the party retaining power in Assam in 2021. “Few people feel I am after some post and position. My only ambition is to see a BJP government with 100 plus seats. In my last few months, I want to work for my state as much as possible to have eternal satisfaction. ‘Janani Janmabhumischa Swargadapi Gariyai’ (Mother and Motherland are superior even to Heaven)” he tweeted. “As I have indicated on several public platforms that I am not interested in contesting the next assembly election, my role will be limited to contributing whatever I can for my party and for my state. For Assam(‘s) future we need to have a strong nationalist government,” Sarma said in another tweet. In the past few days, Sarma, who handles the finance, health, education and PWD portfolios in the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government, had been in headlines over news reports on his eligibility for the chief minister’s post. The issue attracted attention after Pijush Hazarika, minister of state for health, said earlier this month that Sarma has all the “merits” of becoming CM. With the statement creating ripples in state BJP, Sarma said “everyone has eligibility to be the CM”. Following veteran Congress leader and former CM Tarun Gogoi’s statement on Saturday that BJP could field ex-Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as CM in 2021, Sarma had told journalists that the party is still undecided on its candidate for the top post in the next polls. Sarma’s tweets on Tuesday come six days after he told journalists in Guwahati that he was undecided on contesting the 2021 polls and the decision on that will be taken by the BJP and his family. “There are several speculations on my contesting the 2021 polls. Right now I haven’t thought of it. My present aim is to complete all our government’s pending tasks by March next year,” Sarma said. “I don’t know if I will contest the next election or not. The decision on that will be taken by my party and family. I am not seeking any post, but am more interested in working for my people and state,” he added. In recent weeks there have been speculations that the BJP leadership might shift Sarma to New Delhi and accommodate him as a minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet. In February last year, Sarma had indicated that he would contest the Lok Sabha polls if he gets a ticket. But the BJP high command entrusted him with the responsibility of steering the party’s poll strategy and campaign in all the seven northeastern states. “As a party we can’t comment on what made Sarma say he is not interested in contesting the next assembly polls. Any decision on whether he will contest the polls or what role he will be given will be taken by the party’s core committee,” said Rupam Goswami, BJP chief spokesperson for Assam. The BJP has 60 members in the 126-member assembly while its coalition partners Asom Gana Parishad and Bodoland Peoples’ Front have 14 and 12 seats, respectively. The BJP has declared that the party along with allies aims to win 100 seats in April 2021, when the assembly polls are held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-keen-on-contesting-assam-polls-next-year-says-himanta-biswa-sarma/story-waVLkZ4UxguR5U7IuHE4NM.html
26-08-2020||India||India, Bangladesh to launch new riverine trade route on September 3||India and Bangladesh are set to operationalise a new riverine trade route on September 3, when a Bangladeshi vessel will transport a cargo of cement to Tripura as part of efforts to boost connectivity between the two countries. The route connecting Sonamura in Tripura to Daudkandi in Bangladesh is being operationalised under an agreement signed by the two sides in May to boost riverine trade by adding two new routes and five more ports in order to improve connectivity to India’s north-eastern states and reduce transportation costs. Following discussions between the Inland Water Authority of India and Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, the first pilot movement on the 93-km Daudkandi-Sonamura route is expected to be conducted on September 3, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Bangladeshi vessel MV Premier will carry 50 metric tonnes of cement from Premier Cement Ltd of Bangladesh to Tripura via Gumti River, the people said. Customs formalities will be completed at the land customs station at Srimantapur-Bibirbazar, they added. “The new route will facilitate bilateral trade with improved reliability and cost effectiveness for the business community,” said one of the people cited above. India and Bangladesh signed the Protocol for Inland Water Trade and Transit in 1972 for inland waterways connectivity between the two sides for bilateral trade and to improve connectivity to India’s north-eastern states. The protocol was expanded with the signing of a second addendum on May 20 that added two new routes and five ports of call to takes the total number of routes to 10 and ports of call to 11. During fiscal 2019-20, about 3.5 million metric tonnes of cargo were transported via the inland waterways. “The connectivity provided by the existing and the newly added routes is all the more pertinent amid the Covid-19 crisis as it will be key to economical, faster, safer and greener transportation for the business communities of both countries,” the person said. The other new route – Rajshahi-Dhulian-Rajshahi – will help augment infrastructure in Bangladesh and reduce the cost of transporting goods such as stone chips to northern Bangladesh. It is also expected to decongest land customs stations on both sides. The new riverine trade route is being operationalised against the backdrop of India’s concerted efforts to boost economic aid and connectivity with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. Last month, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh, reflecting a renewed focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. This came close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics and the first trans-shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked north-eastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-to-launch-new-riverine-trade-route-on-september-3/story-1y2UkA6GXcg4mWXxYWwQBN.html
26-08-2020||India||June 15 LAC clash unfortunate: China envoy||The June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese border forces was an “unfortunate incident” and “a brief moment from the perspective of history”, and the two sides should now “seek common ground while reserving differences”, Chinese envoy Sun Weidong has said. Sun made the remarks at a China-India youth webinar organised on August 18, though the transcript of his speech was released by the Chinese embassy only on Tuesday. The remarks came against the backdrop of India urging China to speedily address outstanding issues that have held up the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The envoy’s speech largely focused on historical links between the two countries and how the two sides, as ancient civilisations, should respect each other and seek common ground. He also said China’s “basic foreign policy towards India remains unchanged”. In the only reference in his speech to the June 15 clash, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties, Sun said: “Not long ago, an unfortunate incident happened in the border areas that neither China nor India would like to see. Now we are working to handle it properly. It is a brief moment from the perspective of history.” The envoy added, “China sees India as a partner instead of a rival, and an opportunity instead of a threat. We hope to put the boundary question at an appropriate place in bilateral relations, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and push bilateral relations back on track at an early date.” There was no immediate response to the Chinese envoy’s remarks from Indian officials. In an apparent response to the Indian government’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) initiative that was launched after the border standoff began, Sun said: “No country can be isolated from the rest of the world and seek development on its own. We should not only adhere to self-reliance, but also stick to opening up to the outside world in line with the trend of globalisation.” He pointed out China has been India’s largest trading partner for many years and the two economies are interdependent. “I think the two big economies of China and India should attract each other like magnets, rather than forcefully separate them,” he said. The envoy outlined three reasons to show that China’s foreign policy towards India has not changed – the basic national conditions of the two countries remain unchanged, their orientation as partners, friendly cooperation and common development remain unchanged, and the “general structure that China and India cannot develop without each other remains unchanged”. Sun noted the Chinese people often say it is important to have a “long-term perspective rather than only looking at the present”, and there is need to see that “friendly cooperation between China and India is...the general trend”. “Only by seeing this can we maintain objective and rational judgment and correctly handle the differences between the two sides. I am convinced that China and India...have the wisdom and ability to properly handle bilateral relations,” he added. Sun further said the two countries should “treat each other’s differences in a mature and rational manner”. He added: “We need to understand each other, seek common ground while reserving differences, and work together to build a community with shared future for mankind.” The two “rising major neighbours” should “abandon the old mindset of drawing lines by ideology, and get rid of the old game of ‘one’s gain is another’s loss’ and ‘zero-sum game’”, or else “you would be led astray and go down a wrong path”, Sun said.Mutual respect and equal treatment alone can enhance mutual understanding and trust, avoid suspicion and misunderstanding, and “realise the goal of ‘Dragon-Elephant Tango’ between China and India on the road of peaceful coexistence and common development”, the envoy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-15-lac-clash-unfortunate-china-envoy/story-Pm9ff6nM1EYj0U4ZM9DuJK.html
26-08-2020||India||Govt amends CSR rules to boost Covid-19 fight||The government has allowed companies to spend their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds on research and development (R&D) for finding vaccines, medicines and medical equipments to combat Covid-19 pandemic, two government officials said requesting anonymity.“The decision was taken in lines with the Prime Minister’s directive to encourage new drug discoveries for Covid-19, and a top official of the PMO [Prime Minister’s Office] played an active role in this,” one of the officials said.The ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) has already notified the two amendments in the CSR rules on Monday that would allow companies to spend their CSR funds in R&D activities related to new vaccine, drugs and medical devices in three financial years starting from 2020-21.The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR. Money earmarked for spending on CSR activities in a year is about Rs 15,000 crore.MCA has amended the Schedule VII to include R&D for development of drugs to cure Covid-19 as one of the approved CSR activities, a second official said. The government has specified broad areas of mandatory CSR spending in Schedule VII.Accordingly, contributions to R&D projects in the field of science, technology, engineering and medicine, funded by the central or state governments or any public sector entity would also be counted under CSR, he added. Companies can now contribute their CSR funds to public funded universities, Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Department of Pharmaceuticals, he said. They can also participate in institutions under the ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH), he said. Approved activities under Schedule VII of CSR include eradicating extreme hunger, poverty, promotion of education, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment as well as reducing the child mortality, improving maternal health and combating diseases. Ensuring environmental sustainability and prompting employment enhancing vocational skills are other activities approved under CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-amends-csr-rules-to-boost-covid-19-fight/story-vqpUZQZtU6O4u0mXsXPHGJ.html
26-08-2020||India||More exam centres for safe conduct of NEET, JEE: Govt||Increasing the number of examination centres, an alternate seating plan, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit feature among the steps the National Testing Agency (NTA) will take for the safe conduct of medical and engineering entrance exams — NEET and JEE – in September. Over 950,000 students will sit for the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE, across 660 centres from September 1 to 6, the premier testing agency said on Tuesday. In January 2019, over a million candidates took the test for admission to top engineering schools across 570 centres. According to data released by NTA, a government agency, nearly 1.6 million candidates of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will take the entrance exam for admission to medical and dental courses in 3,842 test centres on September 13 — up from the 2,546 centres that were set up for 1.52 million students in 2019. “Additionally, in case of JEE-Mains, the number of shifts has been increased from the earlier 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh (132,000) to 85,000 now,” an NTA statement said. “While JEE-Mains is a computer-based test, NEET is a pen-paper test,” it added.The steps were introduced to ensure adherence to social distancing norms at the centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A chorus to postpone the exams in view of the coronavirus disease outbreak is growing with several politicians joining a large section of students in making such a demand. “In order to ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE-Mains. In case of NEET, the number of candidates per room has been reduced from 24 to 12,” the statement said. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered, it added. “Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing, while waiting. Candidates have also been issued advisory guiding them about ‘Dos and Don’ts’ for proper social distancing,” the statement said. The agency said the exams were being held in view of the “academic interests” of the students, citing that the Supreme Court had rejected a plea seeking postponement of the two entrance tests. The agency also said over 99% candidates got their first choice of cities (for test centre) in case of both examinations. According to state-wise data shared by NTA, for both the exams, the highest number of students is in Maharashtra (228,000 for NEET and 110,000 for JEE). Several opposition leaders including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have demanded the exams be postponed. But on August 17, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea seeking the postponement of the two exams amid spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students “cannot be wasted” and life has to go on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-exam-centres-for-safe-conduct-of-neet-jee-govt/story-6vhrfV8TtDcX92k6QdcqBO.html
26-08-2020||India||Modi, Yogi mourn death of ‘Dom Raja’||Jagdish Chaudhary, 55, the 'Dom Raja' of Kashi, died on Tuesday, following a prolonged illness. Chaudhary was among the backers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he filed his nomination from the Varanasi parliamentary constituency in the 2019 general election.The Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath mourned Chaudhary’s death.“I am saddened by the death of Varanasi’s Dom Raja Jagdish Chaudhary ji. He carried forward the tradition of Sanatan Dharma. He was a keeper of the culture of Varanasi. He worked for the welfare of the society and social harmony during his entire life. May his soul rest in peace and God grant his family the strength to deal with this loss,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.The 'Dom Raja' is the head of the community responsible for cremations in Varanasi. “In Varanasi, last rites are performed at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat. At both the ghats, members of the family of Dom Raja shoulder the responsibility of setting up the pyre and cremating the bodies,” said Pandit Prasad Dikshit, an expert in Karmkand and Vedic rituals.Yogi said Chaudhary’s demise is “a loss for the entire Indian society.”“The symbol of social harmony, Dom Raja Jagdish Chaudhary’s death is saddening. His death is a loss for the entire Indian society. I pray to ‘Baba Vishvanath’ to grant you a place in his ‘Paramdham’. Om Shanti,” Yogi tweeted. According to a family member, Chaudhary suffered an injury in his thigh around two months ago. “He was undergoing treatment for the injury. On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated. He was rushed to a private hospital where he breathed his last,” a family member said.As news of Chaudhary’s death spread, a large number of people gathered at his house to pay tribute. He is survived by wife Rukmani Devi (45) and three teenaged children. His last rites were performed in the evening.There are around 500 members in Chaudhary’s extended family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-yogi-mourn-death-of-dom-raja/story-XH2D2bp3NLAfFqmUAFERVK.html
26-08-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies may take part in multilateral drills||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army may be caught in a tense border standoff along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, but both are likely to send troop contingents to Russia next month to take part in a multilateral exercise, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. Talks between the two armies to reduce border tensions are stuck in a stalemate and the disengagement process in Ladakh has hit a roadblock. The Pakistan Army is also likely to take part in the exercise, Kavkaz-2020, said one of the officials cited above. Eighteen countries are expected to take part in the exercise, including the member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), the exercise planned next month appears to have become more newsy because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector, said a second official. “Participation of Pakistan and China in this annual event as part of the SCO should not be contextualized in the perspective of the India-China border row,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). India is sending a tri-services contingent of 150 to 200 personnel to Russia for the drills scheduled from September 15 to 26. Details of the Chinese and Pakistani participation are not known. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during diplomatic talks last week, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-may-take-part-in-multilateral-drills/story-p5CsXrISZK6dqG6BpeCIYJ.html
26-08-2020||India||BJP gears up to face Oppn in Parliament||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is geared up to face an aggressive Opposition that will seek to corner the government on issues ranging from the Covid-19 pandemic to the face-off between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley when the Parliament reconvenes for the monsoon session, likely on September 14.The Opposition, primarily the Congress, has been attacking the government over its response to the pandemic and accused the government of not doing enough to stabilize the economic slowdown in the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown in March. The Congress has also accused the government of not being transparent in citing details of the Galwan clash that left 20 soldiers dead.“The questions raised by the Opposition about China and the pandemic have already been answered and they are only using these issues for petty politics,” a BJP functionary said.Over 10 ordinances that were passed this year and after the last session in March are among the issues that will come up for consideration, according to the party functionary.Ordinances expire after six months and they have to be replaced by a bill, which would lapse in six weeks if not passed, when the Parliament session begins.Among the ordinances that will be taken up are the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 22; Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, The Essential Commodities Amendment) Ordinance; The Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 7, that seeks to amend the Salary, Allowances, and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on June 5.“There are other legislative issues that are also expected to draw a lot of attention, including the Data Protection Bill and the labour codes,” said a second BJP functionary, who is familiar with the developments.The Data Protection Bill, 2019, introduced in the winter session, in December 2019, pertains to the rules for data storage and sharing, and defines the rights citizens have on their personal information. It is currently being examined by a joint parliamentary committee.“The government is hopeful that all four codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions will be implemented once the Parliament gives its nod,” said the first functionary.The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019; the Industrial Relations Code, 2019, and Social Security Code have all been referred to parliamentary committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gears-up-to-face-oppn-in-parliament/story-pfXZ97o0TBKviyY3SEZYMI.html
26-08-2020||India||Cop arrested for raping fellow officer while on duty at Covid centre||A constable of district police was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly raping a lady constable at a Covid-19 quarantine centre in Sidhgora Professional College under Sidhgora police station in Jamshedpur on Tuesday, police said.“We had detained the accused constable Anil Kumar last night and sent him to jail on charges of raping a lady constable at the Sdihgora Professional College quarantine centre after production in the court today. Both were on duty at the quarantine centre and the lady constable has stated that the incident occurred three days ago. She, however, lodged a formal complaint yesterday after which a case under section 376 (2) has been lodged against the accused constable,” Manoj Thakur, Sidhgora PS officer-in-charge (OC), said on Tuesday.The officer further said that the medical tests of the woman constable were also done today while her X-Ray and other tests would be done tomorrow. “We are investigating the case and any concrete conclusion could be reached after the medical reports,” he added.As per available information, Anil Kumar and the lady constable – from Golmuri Police Line – were deputed at Sidhgora professional College quarantine centre. The lady constable got a job in the state police force on compassionate grounds following the death of her husband while on duty at Palamu.As per the complaint by the lady constable, she was on duty with a woman arrested in connection with a dowry death case at the quarantine centre on August 20.“The accused constable, who too was on duty at the centre, came to me on August 20 evening and said the virus was more rampant on the lower floor and rooms on upper floors are safer. He then took me to the upper floor on the pretext of showing the safer rooms there and then raped me. He had also tied up my mouth so that I can’t scream and shout for help,” the lady constable has alleged in her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-arrested-for-raping-fellow-officer-while-on-duty-at-covid-centre/story-CFYQCnVCuCHCFGo3l5L7jM.html
26-08-2020||India||Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) hit an obstacle in the Pulwama terror attack probe for the initial 10 months in piecing together the sequence of events since key players such as Masood Azhar’s nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, and Pakistani terrorists Kamran Ali and Qari Yasir were killed in encounters by the security forces. Even though Farooq, the key figure in the attack, was killed on March 29, 2019, his mobile phone was lying with the Jammu and Kashmir Police for several months. In December 2019, the first ray of hope came for the agency, which took over the probe immediately after the attack, with the retrieval of numerous photos, videos and conversations from Farooq’s mobile phone; he clicked several photos of his journey from Pakistan to India through the border, his accomplices, and the bomb-making process, according to an official who requested anonymity.Also read: ISI wanted a Hurriyat-like body in Kashmir, says NIAAlso, his conversations on WhatsApp and other chat platforms with the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) leadership, primarily his uncles Abdul Rouf Asghar and Ammar Alvi in Pakistan, and other operatives from the Valley — were found around this time. Soon, the probe team, led by inspector general Anil Shukla, deputy inspector general Sonia Narang and superintendent of police Rakesh Balwal, found a picture of a Kashmiri youth, Shakir Bashir Magray, in Farooq’s phone.Magray (24) was identified as a resident of Kakapora in Pulwama. This was when NIA realised that it could have hit a jackpot. Magray, who ran sawmill near the blast site from where he conducted the reconnaissance of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy, was arrested on February 28 this year, the first in the case. It was found that his house was used for stocking explosives and making the bomb that would be used to attack a CRPF convoy and kill 40 security personnel.In a chat retrieved by NIA, Farooq was found discussing around the time when Indian and Pakistani fighter jets were engaged in a dogfight towards the end of February 2019 that “there should be a war between both countries” as it will give an opportunity for hundreds of Jaish fighters to infiltrate into India. NIA also recovered conversations that proved Farooq’s uncles in Pakistan were giving him directions to prepare for a second attack after Pulwama; the Jaish had to abort its plans in the face of growing international pressure on Pakistan. The agency found two bank accounts of Farooq — in Pakistan’s Allied Bank Ltd and Meezan Bank, in which money for the Pulwama attack was deposited. Conversations regarding the transfers were retrieved by NIA. Selfies, photos, videos and chats recovered from Farooq’s phone helped NIA establish Pakistan’s link to the terror conspiracy. Also read: ISI pushed Jaish for intel on IAF bases after BalakotDuring interrogation, Magray disclosed details of the conspiracy, including how Farooq was the one running the show and giving directions to them. Six more persons — Insha Jan, her father Peer Tariq Ahmed Shah, Waiz-ul-Islam, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Mohammad Iqbal Rather and Bilal Ahmed Kuchhey — who played in a role in providing logistics or shelter to Pakistani terrorists, were arrested in the following months. Jan’s house, NIA said, was used to make the propaganda video clip of the suicide bomber; the clip was released after the attack. In its 13,500-page charge sheet filed in a special NIA court in Jammu on Tuesday, the agency named 19 people, including Azhar and Farooq, for planning and carrying out the attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy on the behest of Pakistan. “Lot of digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence establishing a fool-proof case for this dastardly and barbaric attack has been collected. The charge sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth,” said NIA deputy inspector general Narang. The agency will soon send Letter Rogatories (LRs) — a judicial request seeking information from abroad – to Pakistan seeking information on Farooq, and the Jaish leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-chats-and-a-phone-how-nia-cracked-the-pulwama-case/story-ImJ7ZmnhnzXLYH9c7E2qcI.html
26-08-2020||India||FB row: Cong forms new panel||New Delhi: The Congress has formed an informal panel of at least four members to look into allegations that Facebook overrode its own content moderation policy to enable hate speech by politicians of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two members of the panel said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.The panel, set up under the legal cell headed by Vivek Tankha, comprises four young lawyers who are also attached to the Congress party. Varun Chopra, Vaibhav Srivastava, Kuber Bodh and Varun Tankha are the members of the group. The move comes after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi spoke against “manipulation of our hard-earned democracy” and a protest letter written by the party to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg following a report in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) that the social media company was going easy on hate speech by BJP members to protect its business interests in India. According to the two panel members cited above, they are now busy gathering information before deciding their next course of action—political as well as any possible legal recourse—against Facebook’s alleged lenience towards the BJP. The WSJ report, based on interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders, said the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects. According to a Congress functionary, the panel has already held preliminary discussions and is setting the objectives it would pursue, indicating that the party will not drop the issue. After the WSJ report was published, the Opposition launched protests against both Facebook and the BJP. Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by @WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” To be sure, the principal opposition party is still seen to be lagging behind the BJP in social media outreach. After the report was published n the WSJ, the party wrote a letter to Zuckerberg. saying Facebook may be “a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values” India’s founding leaders sacrificed their lives for. K C Venugopal, the Congress general secretary (organisation), also alleged that the social media company provided the BJP with “favourable treatment on election-related issues”. He called it a “damning and serious allegation” that Facebook was interfering in India’s electoral democracy. The informal panel formed by the Congress has been asked to look into more such cases of alleged lenience towards the BJP for making a stronger case against Facebook. The choice of four legal brains to function under the legal cell headed by Tankha, a lawyer, makes it an interesting pack. It also possibly indicates that the Congress wants to prepare a document backed by legal argument to take on Facebook. As it is, the party has decided to raise the WSJ report in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament that is due to start in September. Facebook has come out with a statement saying, it is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. “Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form. We take this opportunity to offer clarity on policy development and enforcement at Facebook. Our Community Standards define what stays on our platform and are enforced globally,” said the Facebook statement. “First and foremost, we want to make it clear that we denounce hate in any form. Our Community Standards, which outline what is and isn’t allowed on Facebook, have clear and very detailed policies against hate speech, which prohibit attacks on people on the basis of protected characteristics, including religion, ethnicity, caste and national origin,” added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-row-cong-forms-new-panel/story-rWaTsJ1hSaW4QD6Xl5DY6K.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia and Rahul speak to leaders who wrote letter||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi spoke to some of the dissenting leaders, including leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, after Monday’s stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee in a bid to address the prevailing unrest in the party, people familiar with the developments said. A Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi called up some of the senior leaders -- among the group of 23 who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi asking for structural changes in the party -- and conveyed to them that they hold no grudges. The leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi included Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Jitin Prasada, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Mukul Wasnik, Manish Tiwari, Shashi Tharoor, and Prithiviraj Chavan. Also read: Shiv Sena slams Cong MLAs’ protest, calls it akin to questioning Sonia and RahulIn the letter, they demanded a complete overhaul of the organisation, a full-time president and constitution of a parliamentary board that will include the Gandhi family as the “collective leadership” if Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were not willing to accept the party chief’s post. The people cited above said that the calls were a follow-up to Sonia Gandhi’s concluding remarks at the CWC meeting when she said that she has no “ill-will” and let bygones be bygones and the need of the hour is to fight against those who are “failing” the country -- in an apparent reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions, but, we come together as one. The need of the hour is to fight for the cause of the people and the forces that are failing this country. Organisational issues are always addressed within the organisation. And the process of constitution and reconstitution is a continuous one,” she said. “I do not hold any ill-will against any colleague or any other thought of any other nature, for I treat all of you as part of the family. Irrespective of how hurtful the remarks or in the past many years of any colleague may have been, I have always risen above them to keep the Congress family together and to fight for the cause of the people,” the Congress chief added. Also read | Congress turmoil: A look at past instances involving ‘letters’Rahul Gandhi had called up Sibal on Monday during the CWC meeting after the former Union minister tweeted in response to media reports claiming that the former Congress chief had said the dissenters were colluding with the BJP. Sibal later withdrew his tweet, saying that Rahul Gandhi had clarified that the reports were incorrect and that the words attributed to him were wrong.The Congress functionary quoted in the first instance said that Sonia Gandhi will soon form a committee that will help her in the party’s day-to-day functioning. The functionary indicated that it will be a small panel that will share Sonia Gandhi’s burden till a session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) is held within six months if the Covid-19 situation improves by then and a new party president elected. “For the AICC session, ways and means have to be devised,” he said. The decisions were taken at the CWC meeting where Sonia Gandhi was asked to continue on the post till a new president is elected. After the seven-hour meeting in which 48 of the 52 members came down heavily on the four letter-writers present in the meeting – Azad, Wasnik, Sharma and Prasada -- Sonia Gandhi agreed to continue but said this arrangement cannot remain open-ended as the new party chief has to be selected soon. She also asked leaders, especially the seniors, to desist from raising organisational issues outside the party forum. On Tuesday, many signatories took to twitter to refute those calling them “dissenters”. “Friends, we are not dissenters but proponents of revival: the letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party: universally truth is best defence whether it be Court or Public Affairs: history acknowledges the brave & not the timid,” tweeted party’s Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha. Anand Sharma agreed with him and said their intention was to convey “shared concerns” over the present environment in the county and it was done with the best interest of the party in their hearts. “Well said. The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution,” Sharma said in response to Tankha’s tweet. Wasnik also responded to Tankha’s tweet. “Well said. Sooner than later those who saw the letter as an offence will also realise that the issues raised are worth consideration,” he tweeted. Sharma further said that having a “full time, active and visible” leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the CWC in line with the party constitution were some of the key suggestions made by the 23 leaders in their letter to Sonia Gandhi to revive the organisation. Earlier in the day, Sibal posted a cryptic tweet, saying: “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most.” A leader belonging to the group of dissenters said they were satisfied with the outcome of the CWC meet but would wait and watch before deciding about their future course of action. Former Union minister M Veerappa Moily, who is also one of the signatories, said they were sorry if their action had hurt Sonia Gandhi’s feelings. “If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” Moily said, asserting they never questioned her Gandhi family leadership. However, he defended being a signatory to the letter saying there is a need for rejuvenating and restructuring the party. Moily also disapproved of the media leak of the letter and called for an internal party enquiry to find out those behind it and wanted them to be punished. “Soniaji is like a mother to the party. There is no question of any intention to hurt her feelings. If we have hurt her feelings, we are sorry for it,” he said. Meanwhile, Sonia Gandhi will also interact through video-conferencing with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, four Congress chief ministers – Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry), Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren on the GST, NEET and JEE issues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-and-rahul-speak-to-leaders-who-wrote-letter/story-DWCotOGIGVysGEkzBZ546I.html
26-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Mamata call meeting of CMs to demand postponement of NEET, JEE||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi have jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states on Wednesday afternoon to demand postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to be held in September. The virtual meeting will take place at 2.30 pm on Wednesday, a top TMC leader close to the Bengal chief minister told HT on Tuesday night. “Chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states have been invited. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has informed that he will not be able to attend as he has to attend to some urgent business,” said the TMC leader who is involved in arranging the meeting. Those who will attend include Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, said the TMC leader. In back to back appeals on Monday and Tuesday, Banerjee urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to postpone the examinations, saying students would be exposed to risk if they travel during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In our last video conference with Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji, I had been vocal against the UGC guidelines mandating completion of terminal examinations in Universities/Colleges by the end of September 2020, which had a huge potential to put student lives at risk,” Banerjee tweeted on Monday. “Now with the directive of @EduMinOfIndia to conduct NEET, JEE 2020 in Sep, I would again appeal to the Centre to assess the risk and postpone these examinations until the situation is conducive again. It is our duty to ensure a safe environment for all our students,” she said in a second tweet. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also wrote to the Prime Minster on Sunday urging him to postpone the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-mamata-call-meeting-of-cms-to-demand-postponement-of-neet-jee/story-9Yrobr0tIXFPQoIc7Sy00K.html
26-08-2020||India||FASTag mandatory to avail toll discounts||Centre has made it mandatory to allow only FASTag users to avail any discount on toll charges at highway toll plazas in a bid to promote the digital mode of payment, according to notification issued on Tuesday.The ministry of road transport and highways on Tuesday amended the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008 to allow discount for users who make the return journey within 24 hours and all other local exemptions only if the vehicle carries a valid functional FASTag. HT has reviewed a copy of the notification. “In order to promote usage of digital payments for availing all discounts on the Fee Plazas of national highways, the amendments to the Rules are made which would enable- discount on return journey within 24 hours, it would be through FASTag or such other device and automatic. There will be no requirement for a pass,” a ministry official said.“The fee payable towards discounts ashall be paid through pre-paid instruments, smart card or through FASTag or on board unit (transponder) or any other such device only. The amendment would also enable that in cases where there is a discount available for a return journey within 24 hours, there is no need for a prior receipt or intimation and the citizen would get the discount automatically if return journey is made within 24 hours with a valid and a functional FASTag on the vehicle,” the official added.FASTag is a radio frequency identification sticker typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen that allows for the deduction of toll wirelessly and automatically without requiring a vehicle to stop at plazas. The tags were introduced to encourage digital payments and to end congestion and reduce waiting time at toll plazas.The Centre mandated that all lanes of toll plazas on national highways be declared FASTag lanes by December 15 to reduce bottlenecks along the national highways. It also relaxed its rules to allow at least a fourth of the lanes at toll plazas to allow both cash and FASTags payments for a period of 30 days. That ended on January 15||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-mandatory-to-avail-toll-discounts/story-trcxhrgZiDV46rNxjrgMfP.html
26-08-2020||India||Key files gutted in Kerala fire, Opposition alleges foul play||Thiruvananthapuram: High drama unfolded at the Kerala secretariat on Tuesday after a fire even as the opposition alleged foul play and called it an attempt to destroy evidence in a sensational gold smuggling case.The fire was first noticed at 5.30pm and brought under control within 45 minutes. But opposition parties said there was a delay and many important files were destroyed — an allegation denied by the Left Front government, which suspected a “conspiracy” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. P Hani, additional secretary of the general administration department, said a short circuit caused the fire and it damaged the office of the protocol officer. The protocol officer was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week. Hani said none of the “important files have been destroyed and they are all safe”.A senior fire force official told news agency PTI: “We first opened the windows and doors to let the smoke out. As per our initial assessment, the source of the fire was a switch on the wall, from where the blaze spread to the floor. Some files were partially burnt.”BJP state president K Surendran, who arrived at the scene soon after the fire broke out, was arrested by the police for entering the complex. The police also denied entry to state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, but later he was allowed to visit the spot after he threatened a dharna. “I was told some important files were gutted. It is sad that mediamen and leaders are not allowed to inspect the place. It is a big conspiracy to destroy evidence in the smuggling case,” said Chennithala. He appealed to NIA to make this incident a part of its investigation, and later called on governor Arif Mohammad Khan.Before his arrest, Surendran said: “It is strange that the fire gutted the protocol officer’s room. He was in-charge of the CCTV visuals. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will have to answer many questions.” The BJP announced a protest against Surendran’s arrest. The government denied the allegations, saying the Congress and the BJP were trying to give a political colour to the incident. “They are trying to fuel violence even at the state secretariat. We will not allow this to happen,” said state industry minister EP Jayarajan. “It seems like a conspiracy was hatched to create a violent atmosphere there,” he said.Later, the chief secretary announced an inquiry into the incident.The gold smuggling case at the centre of the controversy came to light on July 5 after custom officials seized 30kgs of gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. The case was handed over to NIA. The main accused, Swapna Suresh, and her accomplice were arrested from their hideout in Bangaluru. Also, CM Vijayan was forced to drop his secretary M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer over his alleged links with Suresh. Last month, NIA wrote to the chief secretary to provide footages from July 2019 to July 5, 2000. Initially, officials manning the control room said some cameras were damaged but later said visuals can be retrieved. The delay in the submission of important visuals added to the mystery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-files-gutted-in-kerala-fire-opposition-alleges-foul-play/story-FvuimaMHhJz9xWs77QAOeL.html
26-08-2020||India||Monsoon session set to be held from Sept 14 to Oct 1 with Covid guidelines||Indian Parliament’s much-awaited monsoon session should start from September 14 and end on October 1 , the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended, according to people familiar with the matter. The dates will now have to be approved by the Union cabinet, which will then forward them to the President. CCPA has also suggested a total of 18 sittings as the government has a total of 11 ordinances to clear, the people cited in the first instance added on condition of anonymity. The government is also bracing for a demand from Opposition parties to debate the India China border conflict, the Covid situation, the state of the economy, problems of migrant workers and the recent allegations against social media giant Facebook. According to the people, the government is discussing with stakeholders, a plan that involves skipping the Question Hour to reserve more time for debates and legislative business. “Conducting Question Hour requires huge manpower which is not advisable amid pandemic. We are talking to different parties before taking the final call,” said one official. HT has previously reported that during wartime in 1962, 1965 and 1971 and the Emergency (1975-77), the Lok Sabha didn’t have question Hour. Officials added that the government and the two presiding officers will also decide whether the proceedings of the two Houses be in two shifts—Lok Sabha in the morning and Rajya Sabha in the afternoon, or vice versa —or spread across alternative days. According to officials, the Rajya Sabha secretariat favours shifts. The Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has called a meeting on August 27 to discuss how to prepare for the session. The Houses are being prepared for the session with measures such as ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate names of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking the two Houses. While ministers, former PMs and floor leaders will get preference in the main chamber, many party MPs — even from the ruling party — will be accommodated in the galleries. The government will aim to replace 11 ordinances during the session. This includes a cluster of agriculture-related ordinances promulgated during the Covid pandemic to help Indian farmers such as the Farmers Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) and the Farmers (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance And Farm Services Ordinance and essential commodities amendment ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-set-to-be-held-from-sept-14-to-oct-1-with-covid-guidelines/story-11ndBRuZ5pqZaosxnNLC6O.html
26-08-2020||India||Afghanistan asks Pakistan to carry out UN sanctions on Taliban||Afghanistan asked Pakistan on Tuesday to fully implement UN Security Council sanctions on terrorist groups and individuals even as foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi held talks with a Taliban delegation that included several sanctioned leaders. On August 18, Pakistan’s Foreign Office issued a statutory regulatory order to enforce UN sanctions, which include a freeze on assets, a travel ban and denying access to weapons, against scores of operatives of the Taliban and Haqqani Network. Less than a week later, a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the deputy political chief of the group, arrived in Islamabad on Monday at the Pakistan government’s invitation for talks on the Afghan peace process. A statement issued by Afghanistan’s foreign ministry, the notification issued by Pakistan on implementing the UN Security Council sanctions had been “carefully considered and thoroughly reviewed”. All nations are bound to comply with UN Security Council Resolutions 2255, 1988, 1267 and 2253, and Afghanistan “urges the government of...Pakistan to abide by its obligations and its international responsibilities to implement the above-mentioned resolutions and to be committed to their full implementation”, said the statement in Dari. The statement noted the Pakistan government has pledged to implement the UN Security Council sanctions, including travel restrictions, arms embargo and freezing of funding for individuals and groups affiliated with the Taliban. “The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan will continuously monitor and follow the process of implementation of this document and the implementation of its resolutions,” it added. Implementation of all UN Security Council sanction, “especially those that cut off funding and equip terrorist activities and prevent war and bloodshed, is mandatory for all governments”, the statement said. The Afghan government also called on the Taliban to “start peace talks as soon as possible and not to expose themselves to international sanctions by stopping the bloodshed and [making a] full commitment to a lasting and dignified peace”. Pakistan foreign minister Qureshi personally received the Taliban delegation when it arrived at the foreign ministry on Tuesday evening. The talks between the two sides lasted almost two hours. At least six members of the Taliban delegation, including Mullah Baradar, have been sanctioned by the UN Security Council. While Baradar and three others were allowed to travel under a special exemption to participate in “peace and reconciliation discussions”, two members aren’t allowed to travel abroad, people familiar with developments said. Pakistan’s recent move to enforce the UN sanctions, which also apply to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar, Dawood Ibrahim and hundreds of terrorists, was widely perceived as having been taken with an eye on an upcoming assessment of the country’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-asks-pak-to-carry-out-un-sanctions-on-taliban/story-xBUATyydr4fW6NNWUXL8DN.html
26-08-2020||India||India, Russia in talks over Covid vaccine production||India and Russia are in discussion for the potential production of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya institute, according to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan who said New Delhi has received some information about the candidate but detailed data is awaited. The Russian vaccine, called Sputnik V, was the first to be approved for use anywhere in the world even though it is yet to undergo safety and efficacy trials large groups of human volunteers – one of the most crucial steps before a vaccine candidate can be approved. Russian president Vladimir Putin said the shot is safe and effective.“As far as Sputnik V is concerned, both the countries (India and Russia) are in communication,” said Bhushan during the briefing on Covid-19 on Friday. “Some initial information has already been shared with us (by the Russian government), while some detailed information is awaited by us (from the Russian government),” he added.India currently has three vaccine candidates against Covid-19 under various stages of human trials, and there are three vaccine candidates in pre-clinical stages, said director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava.Of the three vaccine manufacturers approved to conduct human trials in India, two are working on an indigenously developed candidate, while the third has been developed by Oxford University and British pharma firm AstraZeneca, which has struck a trials and production deal with Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII). “SII has begun phase 2/3 trials on 1,700 adult participants; Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate has completed phase 1 on about 375 participants, and Zydus Cadila’s phase I trial has also taken place in about 50 participants. The vaccine is given in two doses, and the second shot is usually given on either the 14th or 28th day after the first dose. After two-four weeks antibodies response is checked in blood,” said Dr Bhargava.Around the world, there are 31 potential vaccine in human trials and the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate is largely considered as the front runner along with the one by United States’s Moderna. In India, SII has begun the phase II/III clinical trials at Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital, Pune. “We have asked for about 300-350 vials of the Covishield vaccine being manufactured by Pune based Serum Institute of India,” said Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth. The vials arrived on Tuesday evening at the hospital at its Katraj campus, and the candidates will be administered the dose between 12 noon to 2 pm on Wednesday. “Once the vials arrive, we will check the temperature logs of the vaccine. We have also called about 10 volunteers who will be tested for Covid and presence of antibodies on Wednesday morning. The eligibility criteria is that the person must be aged between 18-99 years without any comorbidities. Also, he or she has to be tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid19 and test negative for the antibodies of the virus. So the person must not be currently or previously infected with Covid. Out of the 10 volunteers, whoever is deemed fit for the vaccination process will be vaccinated. They will be kept under a close check and after a week the next batch of volunteers will be vaccinated,” said Lalwani. The hospital was earlier also part of Serum Institute’s research to determine if the recombinant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine can boost immunity to fight against the Covid19 virus which was a six months study. SII is world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced and sold globally. On August 3, India’s drugs controller gave SII approval for phase II and III clinical trials. The first make in India vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech, Covaxin, received central drugs controller’s approval for phase I/II human trials on June 29. The vaccine candidate has been developed in collaboration with ICMR as its National Institute of Virology in Pune had isolated the SARS-CoV-2 strain that causes Covid-19, and transferred to Bharat Biotech in May.Pharma major Zydus Cadila has also started phase 2 clinical trials to establish efficacy of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate, ZyCov-D. The phase 2 trial began on August 6.The company received central drugs controller’s approval for human trials on July 2.“The vaccine will be ultimate to check the disease spread but we don’t know when will be an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-in-talks-over-covid-vaccine-production/story-nSFTFjDMegVzzZhmcMuNeK.html
26-08-2020||India||What the Hong Kong reinfection case means||Researchers in Hong Kong said they have the first evidence of a repeat infection of Covid-19, a claim that the scientific community has described as both unsurprising, and worth looking into. Experts have said that since this study involved a singular case, more research is needed to establish the findings although there is some consensus on what has been established and what it could mean. THE CASEIn late March, a 33-year-old Hong Kong resident contracted Covid-19 and was symptomatic. The man was hospitalised and deemed recovered on April 14. Genomic analysis showed the infection was with a strain prevalent in Asia at the time. Also Watch | Battle shifting as Covid threat stalks rural India; 1st case of reinfectionOn August 15, the patient – while on his way back from Spain – tested positive for an infection at the Hong Kong airport. He did not have any symptoms. Analysis of the genome showed this was an infection by Sars-Cov2 of a different lineage -- one now prevalent in Europe.THE ANTIBODY QUESTIONThe researchers note that the first infection triggered antibodies that tapered off and were undetectable during the second reinfection. Neutralising antibodies are responsible for binding to free virions, inhibiting their ability to infect cells. These usually taper off after an active infection is resolved.“This is no cause for alarm - this is a textbook example of how immunity should work,” said Akiko Iwasaki, professor of immunobiology at Yale School of Medicine in one of a series of tweets. A drop in these implies a person’s immune system may not be able to stop a second infection. It is possible, as several studies have suggested, that another side of the immunity that forms a memory of a pathogen may help quickly create antibodies and other responses upon a second infection, which could help the person have a mild or asymptomatic illness. The researchers note as much, saying” “residual low titer of antibodies may have partially controlled the virus”.INFECTED = INFECTIOUS?The researchers note that the purported second infection showed high viral load that tapered off with time, all the while with the person being asymptomatic. High viral load has previously been linked with an increased likelihood of a person being infectious, even when they have no symptoms. HERD IMMUNITY QUESTIONThis case, the researchers say, has several implications with the first challenging popular notions about natural herd immunity. “It is unlikely that herd immunity can eliminate Sars-Cov2, although it is possible that subsequent infections may be milder than before,” the report. The virus thus could become similar to several seasonal coronaviruses that infect humans, becoming part of the typical flu season. IMPLICATIONS FOR VACCINESNoted virologist Jacob John told HT last week that natural infections cannot be seen in the same manner as vaccine-triggered herd immunity. “It does not work in the same way because a vaccinated person does not spread the disease, while an infected person passes it on to others in the initial days at least,” he said. This possibly leaves vaccines as the most important tool in efforts to stop the pandemic. “The only safe and effective way to achieve herd immunity is through vaccination,” wrote Iwasaki in a second tweet. The researchers said in their study, submitted to the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal, say that vaccine studies should include patients recovered from Covid-19, and that ultimately, vaccines may not offer lifelong immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-the-hong-kong-reinfection-case-means/story-Ta2L7fkKdtYa37MDO0t3UL.html
26-08-2020||India||New SC bench will hear 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan||A new bench of Supreme Court will hear a 2009 contempt of court case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for calling past Chief Justices of India (CJI) corrupt in a 2009 interview.The matter was sent to a fresh bench in view of the fact that the presiding judge of the bench presently hearing the case, justice Arun Mishra, is retiring on September 2 and will not have adequate time to address the legal questions raised by Bhushan in the matter.“There is paucity of time otherwise we would have heard the senior counsel with respect to the questions which have been proposed. Let the matter be listed on September 10, 2020 before appropriate bench as may deem fit by the Chief Justice of India,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari ordered. This same bench, on Tuesday, heard and reserved its judgment in another contempt of court case against Bhushan for his tweets against the top court and the CJI.The 2009 case was invoked against Bhushan after he said that half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt in an interview to Tehelka magazine.Senior advocate Harish Salve brought this statement to the attention of the court based on which contempt action was initiated against him in November 2009. Former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal is also a contemnor along with Bhushan. The case was listed by the top court out of the blue on July 24, 2020 more than 8 years after it was last heard. Bhushan refused to apologise for his statement but offered an explanation to the court regarding his controversial remark. The court, on August 10, rejected Bhushan’s explanation and decided to proceed with the case and hear it in detail.When the case was heard on August 17, the court said that certain larger legal issues need to be settled including whether allegations of corruption against judges can be made by way of public statements and the procedure to be adopted when such allegations are raised.When the case was taken up on Tuesday, Bhushan submitted a revised list of legal issues to be considered by the court and also prayed for reference of matter to Constitution Bench. “There is shortage of time. I am demitting office,” justice Mishra remarked before he proceeded to order that the matter be listed before an alternative bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-sc-bench-will-hear-2009-contempt-case-against-bhushan/story-PoSFNY6XvLF6GV97GXElCN.html
26-08-2020||India||Regret, martyr buzzwords as Supreme Court reserves sentencing||The Supreme Court reserved its verdict on the sentence to be handed to Prashant Bhushan -- after giving the activist-lawyer a fresh opportunity on Tuesday to apologise, withdraw his comments, or express regret -- days after it held him guilty of criminal contempt of court for two tweets against the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The court was urged by Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhawan and Attorney General (AG) of India KK Venugopal -- the top law officer of the Union government who was appearing in his personal capacity -- to not punish Bhushan, and to let him off with a reprimand.“The effect of a punishment is it will make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. Do not make Bhushan a martyr. We do not want this controversy to continue. This controversy will continue depending on the sentence that you give Bhushan,” Dhavan said.The court, which considered these requests, wanted Bhushan to apologise before it could take a lenient view in the matter. The bench, headed by justice Arun Mishra, suggested that Bhushan must “express regret” for his tweets, and subsequent statements defending those tweets.“Tells us what is wrong in using the word ‘apology’? Is it a reflection of guilt? It is a magical word which can heal. If you have hurt someone, you should apologise. There is no need to feel belittled by that,” justice Mishra, who will retire on September 2, said.At one point on Tuesday, the court on gave Bhushan time to think over his responses and consider retracting his statements. But no apology or retraction was offered by the activist-lawyer, who has maintained in his replies to the court than an apology would be ingenuous and a “contempt of his conscience”. He has also argued that his criticism came with the best interests of the court in mind as a long-serving officer of the law.The bench said that the court welcomes fair criticism, but those criticising the courts should not attribute motives to judges. “We tolerate fair criticism and welcome it. But do not attribute motives to judges when criticizing. We cannot go to the press to defend ourselves,” said justice Mishra.He added that lawyers and judges are part of the same institution and should work together to ensure that the dignity of the institution is not compromised. “You [lawyers] are part of the system. We are not separate from the Bar. We [judges] have also come from the Bar.”Several eminent jurists -- including former AG Soli Sorabjee, and justices RM Lodha and MB Lokur -- have over the past week said that the court was being overly harsh in initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan.According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence of criminal contempt carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both. The court has also, in previous instances, barred lawyers found guilty of contempt, from practising before the court for a limited period while refraining from imposing any jail sentence.The morning session of Tuesday’s hearing witnessed an engaging discussion between the bench and Venugopal on the punishment to be handed down to Bhushan -- with the AG urging the court to let off Bhushan with a warning, and the court insisting on the activist-lawyer tendering an apology.The bench said that Bhushan has declined to apologise and has also filed statements sticking to his stance. “We have given him time to think over. He says he is not ready to apologise. So, what should we do now?” asked Justice Mishra.Interestingly, the bench pointed out that Venugopal himself filed a contempt of court case against Bhushan in 2019 for a remark made by Bhushan accusing the AG of misleading the court in a case relating to appointment of CBI director.“I withdrew that case,” said Venugopal told the bench.“Yes, but only after he (Bhushan) expressed regret,” said Justice Gavai.Venugopal maintained that Bhushan should express regret, and the court should close the case. “Your Lordships should reprimand him and tell him not to repeat it in future. But do not punish him. It will be greatly appreciated at the Bar. That will be a fitting end to this case,” he said.Bhushan had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Mehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. Based on his petition, the court took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the matter and listed it for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.The court then heard the matter on August 5 and held Bhushan guilty of a contempt of court in a judgment delivered on August 14. It then posted the case for hearing on August 20 to decide the sentence to be given to Bhushan.When the matter was heard on August 20, Bhushan read out a statement expressing dismay over his conviction. He said that he was standing by his tweets, which he described as an attempt to discharge his duty towards the country.The three-judge bench last week said it could show leniency only if Bhushan expressed regret and reconsidered his statement declining to apologise. It gave Bhushan time to submit an unconditional apology by Monday failing which it would proceed against him.Bhushan submitted a supplementary statement before the court on Monday persisting with his stance and refusing to offer an apology. He submitted his views represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, offering an apology for expressing them would be insincere.His tweets were not intended to malign the apex court or the CJI but only offered constructive criticism “so that the court could arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution”, the statement by Bhushan added.Rajeev Dhavan suggested on Tuesday that court should close the case after issuing a general direction that the Bar should exercise restraint while criticising the court. He specifically requested the court not to impose any punishment on Bhushan.Dhavan also pointed out instance when lawyers and judges have criticised the court and its judgments. One of Bhushan’s main arguments was that criticising courts is protected by free speech and will not amount to contempt.“Statements have been made (criticising the Supreme Court) not just by lawyers but also by judges. This court is often criticised and it will be criticised again and again. This institution will collapse if it does not suffer criticism,” Dhavan said.It is not clear when the sentence will be announced, but it is expected before justice Mishra’s retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regret-martyr-buzzwords-as-sc-reserves-sentencing/story-MkPl82PUc8cY21Mp99XXIK.html
26-08-2020||India||Red corner notice issued against Nirav Modi’s wife||The Interpol has issued a red corner notice against the wife of Nirav Modi, the prime accused in the Rs 13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case, people familiar with the development said. The notice has been issued in connection with money laundering case registered against Ami Modi in India. A red corner notice acts as international arrest warrant. Ami had left India with Nirav Modi and other family members in first week of January, 2018, just before agencies started investigations in the PNB scam. It is alleged that she had gone to the US. Ami was director in few companies which were allegedly used by Nirav Modi for laundering money. The ED had named Ami as an accused in the PNB money-laundering case for the first time in March last year. Nirav Modi was arrested in London by the Scotland Yard authorities in March 2019. He was declared an “economic fugitive offender” under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in December last year. On June 8, a special court set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) ordered confiscation of movable and immovable properties belonging to Modi. The order was passed in accordance with section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act on an application filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money laundering charges in the fraud case.The fugitive businessman is fighting extradition to India. Earlier this month, a UK court remanded Modi to further remanded in custody until August 27. The 49-year-old has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-corner-notice-issued-against-nirav-s-wife/story-9jADpyXG4QnV0XzZRnpMqI.html
26-08-2020||India||Govt pushes hard to complete 1st all-weather route to Ladakh||India’s national security planners are pushing hard to complete an all-weather strategic route to Ladakh that will link Darcha in Himachal Pradesh to Nimu via Padum in Kargil’s Zanskar valley, people familiar with the matter said. Senior military commanders said the third route to connect Ladakh by road is urgently needed given Pakistan and its all-weather friend, China’s interest in the Siachen Glacier and Daulat Beg Oldie.Nimu is 35 kilometres from Leh town and headquarters of XIV Corps responsible for the defence of East Ladakh and Siachen Glacier.This will be the first all-weather route to Ladakh which is already connected by two other routes; the first via Zoji La in Jammu and Kashmir and the second, via Himachal’s Manali-Upshi-Leh axis. The 9.02 kilometre Atal tunnel at Rohtang La, which will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km, is set to become operational next month.The defence ministry’s road project is being pushed hard by road and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and his colleague Gen VK Singh after China provoked a standoff along the Line of Actual Control in East Ladakh and started mobilising troops in the depth areas. New Delhi perceives Beijing’s reluctance to disengage despite reminders as an effort to create a new normal at the border.Officials said the third route requires upgrading the Darcha-Padum-Nimu trekking route into a metalled road and building a 4.5-kilometre tunnel under Shingo La on the Darcha-Padum route. The project, which has been in the pipeline for a decade, is scheduled to be completed by the defence ministry within two years.In an effort to ensure that the project meets its two-year deadline, Gadkari’s ministry has proposed that the task to build the tunnel should be given to the company that constructed the 9.02 km tunnel at Rohtang La on the condition that it meets the timeline.According to military commanders, the need to build the third axis was felt as tunnelling would be required under four more high mountain passes on the existing Manali-Leh route if the road has to be kept open through the year. The Atal tunnel at Rohtang La on this route has been built at a height of 10,171 feet and is already the world’s longest at this altitude.The four passes that would require tunnels on the existing Manali-Leh route are at higher altitudes: Baralacha La (16,500 feet), Nakee La (15,547 feet), Lachung La (16,616 feet), and Tanglang La (17,480 feet). These passes are only open for traffic between mid-May and mid-November and covered with deep snow remaining part of the year.However, the Darcha-Padum-Nimu route requires only a single 4.5 km tunnel through the 16,570 feet Shingo La between Darcha and Padum to ensure that the road is closed only for two months in winter. Darcha is 147 kilometres from Manali and lies on the highway to Leh after Jispa and Keylong across Rohtang La.The distance between Darcha and Padum is about 148 kilometres with the Zanskar sub-divisional town connected to Kargil via a 230-km long single lane road. Work is already on to construct the Darcha-Padum road with another 260 km road work in progress between Padum and Nimu. “We are looking to build a road that bisects the Leh-Kargil highway around Lamayuru monastery and connects Darcha via Padum. This road will allow the Indian military and the local population to get round-the-year supplies… The route is not under the prying eyes of the Pakistan Army as in Kaksar in Kargil district or the DSDBO (Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie) route that is under the observation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA),” said a former army chief who asked not to be named.Apart from keeping supply lines open for the military guarding Siachen, Kargil and DBO sectors, the Darcha-Nimu route will also develop the new union territory of Ladakh to match the aspirations of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-hard-to-complete-1st-all-weather-route-to-ladakh/story-bG46RSR4r0xZ2V1jvP5vLM.html
26-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at Kerala Secretariat, Oppn alleges conspiracy to destroy gold smuggling case evidence||A fire broke out at the Kerala Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday which the Opposition called “a conspiracy to destroy evidence related to the gold smuggling case.”The leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a sit-in protest before the secretariat against the government.BJP state president K Surendran was arrested from the spot following the protest. “Democracy has been slaughtered,” he said before the arrest. The protesting leaders of his party have demanded a forensic examination of the fire affected areas.The fire was brought under control but many files are reported to have been destroyed which has led to several Opposition leaders suspecting foul play.P Hani, additional secretary of the general administration department, said that a short circuit resulted in the fire that damaged the office of the protocol officer probing the gold smuggling case.Kerala BJP president K Surendran alleged it was a “well-planned sabotage and an attempt to hide the involvement of ministers in the gold smuggling case”.Amid allegations that a group of officers waited to begin efforts to douse the fire till the fire force personnel arrived, the Congress and BJP have demanded a high-level probe into the matter.Chief secretary Viswas Mehta reached the spot and has assured of a detailed inquiry into the incident.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that the fire was part of a conspiracy to tamper with evidence and has sought a detailed enquiry into the incident.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the gold smuggling case had sought the CCTV visuals of the last one year but the government is yet to submit it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-kerala-secretariat-oppn-alleges-conspiracy-to-destroy-gold-smuggling-case-evidence/story-tJJW0vgtTAh6X5FR5X0qZM.html
26-08-2020||India||Questions remain over success of LPG scheme||Poor targeting, or benefits reaching undeserving recipients, has been among the most common criticisms of welfare programmes in India. The adoption of JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity was supposed to get rid of this problem. An HT analysis of unit level data from a 2018 National Statistical Office (NSO) survey shows that at least one of the government’s flagship welfare schemes, the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), has successfully addressed the challenge — and excluded undeserving beneficiaries.However, this has not helped the scheme in achieving its end objective, which is to get households to shift to less polluting methods of cooking. The reason, ironical as it may sound, is to be found in the scheme’s successful identification of beneficiaries. A large number of them are so poor that they cannot afford to buy liquified petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder refills. The experience of PMUY offers potential insights into what the next level of welfare challenges — in this case, for instance, the state may have to incur recurring expenses rather than one-time transfers.The PMUY scheme was aimed at achieving a shift from polluting to cleaner methods of cooking. It has overshot its target of giving 80 million free LPG connections. Data from the petroleum ministry shows that as on April 1, 2020, there were 80.2 million PMUY connections in India. The data also shows that in the last four years, PMUY connections account for 71% of growth in total domestic LPG connections in the country. (See Chart 1) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Also read: Prime Minister Modi’s LPG scheme for poor running out of gasThis success however has not helped the PMUY achieve its stated goal. A unit level analysis of data from the 76th round of the 76th round of the National Sample Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) across more than 100,000 households in 2018 shows that 43% of PMUY beneficiaries were not using LPG for cooking. (See Chart 2) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The share of beneficiaries not using LPG for cooking increases down the economic ladder. The fact that almost 70% of PMUY beneficiaries are from the bottom 40% of the households, shows the scheme has been remarkably successful in reaching poor households. (See Chart 3) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();How difficult can it be for the poor to buy an LPG refill? According to a December 2019 audit report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on PMUY, the market price of LPG refills (14.2 kg cylinders) varied between ₹500 and ₹837 during the period from April 2016 to December 2018 in India’s four metro cities. The 2018 NSO survey findings show that the average monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) of the poorest 20% households in India was ₹1,065. This means a cylinder refill costing ₹500 would comprise nearly half of a household’s MPCE. The same refill would comprise only about a tenth of the average MPCE of the richest 20% households (₹5,543). The cost of a non-subsidised LPG cylinder in Delhi is ₹594 right now. Even though PMUY and subsidised LPG consumers receive a subsidy on refill, they have to make the full payment upfront before the subsidy amount is transferred back to them. The high cost of gas refills, the CAG report said, has become a constraint in ensuring sustained usage of LPG.Also read | LPG cylinders still unaffordable for poor: CAGTo be sure, beneficiaries under the PMUY scheme could also opt for a 5 kg cylinder in place of a routine 14.2 kg cylinder. The government also allowed swapping the bigger cylinder with the smaller one to make it easier for consumers to get a refill. But the CAG audit found that till December 2018, only 16,032 connections with 5 kg cylinder were released and oil companies were able to convert nearly 76,000 connections from bigger to smaller cylinders, totalling about 92,000 connections which was a meagre 0.24% of the PMUY connections. The audit report said insufficient steps were taken to encourage consumption of the 5 kg cylinder.In order to ensure 100% LPG coverage in India – not only by the number of households covered but also by the number of households actually using it – it is important to make it easier for the country’s poor to buy a refill. This will require spending more on LPG subsidies. The government in March this year announced three free refills for the scheme’s 80 million beneficiaries to cope with the economic pain of the Covid-19 lockdown. Data on refills during this period will indicate how beneficial this was in increasing LPG usage in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/questions-remain-over-success-of-lpg-scheme/story-5AuhMJ5LcfmHJB2CrhNW6H.html
