27-08-2020||India||India speeds up setting up of air defence command||NEW DELHIIndia has accelerated work on setting up an Air Defence command to enhance military synergy and optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, and it is likely to come up in October, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. Air defence refers to protecting the military’s assets from aerial threats such as the enemy’s fighter planes and missiles and the new Command --- likely to be headquartered in Allahabad --- will control the air defence resources of all the three services. It will be headed by a three-star air marshal, the officials said.After taking over as the country’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) on December 31, 2019, General Bipin Rawat had asked top officials of headquarters Integrated Defence Staff (IDS) to prepare a proposal to create an Air Defence command as part of military’s theaterisation plans. Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands come under the operational control of an officer from any of the three services, depending on the function assigned to that command. The government expects Rawat to bring about jointness among the three services by 2022. One of the key objectives behind jointness, or jointmanship, is the setting up of theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles. The air defence systems in the Indian arsenal include the indigenous Akash, the Israeli SpyDer, and Soviet-origin Pechora, OSA-AK and the shoulder-fired Igla. India is also pushing Russia to speed up the delivery of S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems following border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh. India is looking at creating a distinct theatre command for Jammu & Kashmir, and integrating the western and eastern naval commands to create a Peninsular Command, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. India could have up to five theatres to address the country’s security requirements, and the new structures could start rolling out in two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeds-up-setting-up-of-air-defence-command/story-O5xpBpSyzyxXKlqgQA2cDM.html
27-08-2020||India||Rajnath, Jaishankar to visit Russia for SCO||New Delhi Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will make back-to-back visits to Russia early next month for meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) that are expected to bring them face to face with their Chinese counterparts amid the border standoff. Singh is expected to be in Moscow during September 3-4 for a meeting of the SCO defence ministers while Jaishankar is set to visit the Russian capital for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Thursday. The visits are yet to be officially announced. Asked about the matter during a news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava only confirmed that the external affairs minister has received an invitation for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting. This will be Singh’s second visit to Moscow in a little more than two months – he travelled to Russia to participate in the Victory Day parade on June 24, reflecting the importance attached to the defence partnership between the two countries. The people said bilateral meetings had so far been arranged between Singh and Jaishankar and their Russian counterparts, though there were no proposals as of now for meetings with the Chinese ministers expected to attend the SCO meetings. The people added the possibility of such meetings too appeared unlikely, given the differences that have emerged in the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The people also ruled out the possibility of Russia playing any sort of role in mediating between India and China. “The Russian side has been briefed by the Indian side on the border situation but there has been no discussion whatsoever on any sort of mediation,” said one of the people cited above. At a time when foreign trips by Indian ministers are extremely rare because of the pandemic, Singh and Jaishankar are travelling to Moscow largely because of the insistence of the Russian side, currently the chair of both Brics and SCO, the people said. These meetings will be preceded by a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on September 4, the Russian foreign ministry announced on Thursday. That meeting, to be chaired foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, will exchange views on “topical international matters”, said Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova. Zakharova said the Brics foreign ministers will discuss cooperation in three key areas – politics and security, economics and finance and humanitarian ties. The Brics meeting was to have been held in Moscow at the same time as the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting but was converted into a video conference after the Brazilian and South African ministers expressed their inability to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the people cited above said. The Brics and SCO summits are expected to be held in St Petersburg in October. Indian, Chinese and Pakistani troops are also set to take part Exercise Kavkaz 20, a multilateral tri-services drill being held in Astrakhan region of southern Russia during September 15-27. The exercise will bring together some 13,000 troops from 20 countries, including the eight members of SCO. “The scope of Ex Kavkaz 20 is vast and its aim is to provide real-time training to counter international terrorism,” a second person said. The Indian Army will send a company or about 180 troops from an infantry battalion and elements from other arms along with elements of the air force and observers from the navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-jaishankar-to-visit-russia-for-sco/story-qNSuMzJ8IgKSjuPUU8uCFO.html
27-08-2020||India||BJP’s Rao seeks NIA probe in Rajput case||NEW DELHI: Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao on Thursday said that there was scope to involve the National Investigation Agency into the alleged suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to further widen the investigation. In a series of tweets, Rao said that since the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate had already been roped in to probe various aspects of the case, NIA can also be involved. “Abetment of suicide, Unnatural death being investigated by #CBI. #ED is investigating Money laundering NCB is investigating Drug use case under NDPS Act. #NIA may have to get in – may be.!! Case is getting larger – Connecting different cases – web of networks,” he tweeted. In another tweet, Rao said that the demand for a wider probe is aimed at “helping clean the Bollywood movement”.“Entire India and Indians all over are watching keenly – intensively and emotionally, Who’ever is helping & contributing for this is not fighting for #JusticeForSSR but also – helping the clean Bollywood movement. After @KanganaTeam’s tweet to @PMOIndia, #JusticeforSSR & Clean Bollywood are now getting into one big-movement Swachha Bollywood...Swachha Bharat...” he tweeted. Referring to Rao’s tweets, a senior party functionary said the BJP’s demand for a thorough probe is aimed at getting the “underbelly” of the Hindi film industry exposed. “Now there is talk of drugs and links to narcotics traders, which is a serious issue and needs to be exposed since there are links between international drug cartels and terror industry. The idea is to uncover the truth and clean up the industry,” the functionary said on condition of anonymity. The functionary asserted that the speculation that the party was encouraging a “witch-hunt” against actors who were critical of the government is “far-fetched” and “false”. “The SC has already given its nod to the CBI probe and we hope that the investigation reveals the truth,” the functionary said. The Supreme Court last week ruled on that the ongoing probe by the CBI into the case filed against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting Rajput’s suicide is lawful, allowing the agency to continue its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-rao-seeks-nia-probe-in-rajput-case/story-HEx3AidUNKBcC2fuRNZrsM.html
27-08-2020||India||Centre reviews states with high Covid-19 case fatality, suggests plan||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday urged 10 states and Union Territories (UTs) that have reported nearly 89% of Covid-19 deaths in the last two weeks to proactively limit the transmission of the virus and keep the mortality rate below 1%.Chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir attended the meeting. The Union health secretary, DG ICMR and member (health), and NITI Aayog also participated in the virtual meeting.As the country’s coronavirus toll has climbed above 60,000, the Centre asked these states to ramp up testing and contact tracing to bring down their case fatality rate to less than 1%.The review meeting called to discuss the preparedness to deal with the pandemic focused on ways to strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The States/UT were advised to proactively take steps towards reducing case fatality in all districts by focussing on the following measures:1. Effective containment, contact tracing and surveillance2. Ensuring that at least in 80 % of new positive cases, all close contacts should be traced and tested with 72 hours3. Ensuring a minimum of 140 tests per million per day in all districts while targeting a positivity/confirmation rate of less than 5%4. Leveraging Antigen tests in containment zones / healthcare settings & retesting of all symptomatic negatives with RT-PCR5. Regular monitoring of home isolation patients (tele-calling and home visits) and ensuring timely admission to healthcare facility if SPO2 level falls below the designated level6. Putting in public domain the availability of beds and ambulances across Covid-19 facilities while significantly reducing ambulance response time7. Saving lives by effective clinical management of all cases8. Monitoring week-wise fatality rates for each health facility with particular focus on vulnerable patients (Comorbid, patients over 60 years’ age)9. Upgrading Covid-19 dedicated facilities based on case load10. Monitoring availability and usage of necessary drugs, masks and PPE kits in all facilities11. Focus on Behavioral Change Communication promoting Covid-19 appropriate behavior consisting of social distancing, wearing of masks, hand hygiene, cough etiquettes etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-reviews-states-with-high-covid-19-case-fatality-suggests-plan/story-FxAT0oSYXibVmjLusLHOML.html
27-08-2020||India||Day after Kejriwal says Delhi’s testing to double, Jain accuses MHA of ‘interfering’||New Delhi: Delhi health Satyendar Jain wrote to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday, urging the home ministry to not “interfere” in the Kejriwal government’s decision to double testing within a week in view of the spike in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the capital. “Ever since Covid-19 hit the national capital, the Delhi government has confronted the pandemic together with the Central government. But now when a few officers said that the home ministry is putting pressure on Delhi government officials to not increase testing further in the city, I was taken aback,” read Jain’s letter.A home ministry spokesperson rebutted the allegations, calling them “false” and “baseless”. The spokesperson said it was because of the Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention that testing in the Capital went up from 4,000 to 20,000 per day. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on Wednesday that his government has decided to double the number of daily tests to around 40,000 per day to catch and isolate more infections.Later in the evening, at a press conference AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that Jain had also attached a purported note with the letter, which Chadha claimed top bureaucrats of the Delhi government had drafted “under pressure from the MHA”.Senior government officials said the purported note was drafted by principal secretary (health) Vikram Dev Dutt.The MHA in a statement said the annexed note in Jain’s letter was prepared by Delhi government officers in which they proposed to take the opinion of the expert committee led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul that was set up by Shah in June when Covid-19 cases in Delhi had peaked.“It may be noted that this note has made no mention whatsoever of any instruction of MHA on the matter of increase in testing in Delhi. The note has only proposed that the views of an expert committee headed by Dr V.K Paul may be taken on the proposed enhancement in testing in Delhi, for technical guidance on various issues such as mix of RT-PCR and rapid antigen, categories of geographical areas and demographics, etc. As such, any allegation that MHA is putting pressure on Delhi government not to increase testing in Delhi is absolutely without any basis,” the ministry said in its statement.In his response to the statement, Jain said that he hopes with this clarification, officials of the city administration will now comply with the chief minister’s directions.“I hope that the officers will comply with this message from MHA. I am sure that the officers, who were reluctant to increase testing today, citing pressure from MHA, will immediately increase testing in Delhi. Our CM has acted in cooperation with the central government to tackle Covid-19 in Delhi. We should continue to act in the same spirit of cooperation for the well being of Delhiites,” Jain tweeted on Thursday.The MHA spokesperson said it was after the intervention of the Union home minister that the daily tests in Delhi, which were averaging around 4,000 per day till mid June, 2020, have gone up to around 18,000-20,000 per day in a calibrated manner. “The marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been possible due to this enhanced testing and other containment measures,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-kejriwal-says-delhi-s-testing-to-double-jain-accuses-mha-of-interfering/story-596KVeM3l4SuQIDe9zAHfN.html
27-08-2020||India||Cong set to oppose 4 ordinances during session||New Delhi: Congress, the principal Opposition party is all set to oppose at least four ordinances—including the three on farms—when the government tries to replace them in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 may face a stiff opposition from the Congress in both Houses of Parliament. Senior Congress leaders said, they have found faults with The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, too. The government has promulgated 11 ordinances—an executive route for urgent legislation when the Parliament is not in session—and will seek to replace them with bills in the forthcoming session that starts from September 14. An ordinance has a shelf life of six months and needs Parliament’s approval to make the law permanent. The amendments in the farm-related laws were rolled out in June to help farmers amid the tough pandemic crisis. They were hailed as far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector as the Centre changed the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and moved the other two ordinances to remove all restrictions on farm trade from while guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers. But the Congress remains unimpressed, especially because its government in Punjab and Haryana state unit have raised major objections and claimed these states have already started facing farmer protests against the new laws. The party last evening, announced a 5-member panel to “discuss and formulate the Congress party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the Central government.” It has former union minister P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh, former Madhya Pradesh CM Digvijaya Singh, party MPs Amar Singh and Gaurav Gogoi. At least three senior Congress leaders maintain that the move will only help corporate buyers of crops and weaken India’s MSP and other safety net for farmers. While the dilution of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees Act (APMCA) has been widely hailed by experts as better selling power to farmer and allowing them to bypass the Laxman-rekha of local mandis, the Congress will dish out government data to show that more than 50% of different kinds of farm produce including wheat, paddy, maize, mustard, bajra, cotton, soyabean, jowar, potato, sugarcane, groundnut and even coconut—are sold to local private traders and not designated mandis. A Congress leader also claimed that while transaction in traditional mandis will invoke fees, but trade zones specified under the new laws would not see any such levy, creating different systems. “The party is also studying the Bihar experiment when it removed APMCA restrictions in 2006 but instead of benefitting farmers it forced them to sell produce below MSP rates,” said a leader. Kavitha Kuruganti, Convenor of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), said, “the government talks about freedom for farmers through APMC ordinance but there has never been any legal restrictions to sell outside mandis and under the earlier APMC act they were always free. The APMC and Contract Farming ordinance will lead to asking farmers to have interface with corporates in an unequal market.” She also added that more players in the market without licenses “would not necessarily empower farmers and it will not be possible for them to find best buyers in other states since many farmers are bound by creditors and in reality, they have little choice.” The Congress may ask for a mechanism to ensure that no farmer is forced to sell anything less than the MSP. Kavitha also said there must be a registry of buyers and a strong government oversight. Talking about The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, a senior leader claimed it will only benefit hoarding and consumers would be badly affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-set-to-oppose-4-ordinances-during-session/story-jIe6zdvCpPOHR6Kpx8C8AM.html
27-08-2020||India||States with spike in deaths told to ramp up testing||Nine states and one Union territory (UT), which account for 89% of the fatalities in the last two weeks, have been told by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba to ramp up testing and tracing to increase the efficacy of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. Gauba, along with the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, held a videoconference with the chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the situation in the states. According to the press information bureau, these states and the UT account for 89% of the deaths in the last two weeks. “Union health secretary made a detailed presentation on the current status of COVID-19 in these states/UT, with a focus on districts reporting high case fatality and the need to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols,” said a statement issued by the press information bureau. The cabinet secretary told the states and UT to ensure that at least in 80% of the new cases, all close contacts are traced and tested within 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-with-spike-in-deaths-told-to-ramp-up-testing/story-DgntxhVHQZZ6tHV15tOMEN.html
27-08-2020||India||India calls for a diplomatic solution to border standoff||New Delhi India on Thursday emphasised the need for a diplomatic solution to the standoff with China based on agreements on the border issue, saying the disengagement of troops can move forward only if both sides implement actions they have agreed on in several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. The external affairs ministry outlined India’s latest position on the months-long standoff hours after the Chinese defence ministry said New Delhi should look at the “big picture” of bilateral ties and work with Beijing to bring the relationship back on track while avoiding misjudgements. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava referred to remarks made in a recent interview by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who noted that several border incidents in the past had all been resolved through diplomacy. Jaishankar further said that “when it comes to finding a solution, this must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings” and “not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally”, he added. At the same time, Srivastava pointed out, India believes complete disengagement requires redeployment of troops by both sides “towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)”. “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions. Thus, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides,” he said. In Beijing, defence ministry spokesperson Colonel Wu Qian told a monthly news briefing that China expects India to work with it to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border while “bearing in mind the big picture of bilateral ties and putting the border issue in an appropriate position in this big picture”. India should “avoid misjudgement, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track of normal development”, Wu said. Wu’s comments echoed remarks in a recent speech by China’s envoy to India, Sun Weidong, who described the June 15 border clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers as “a brief moment from the perspective of history”, and said the two sides should now “seek common ground while reserving differences”. Like the Chinese foreign ministry, Wu’s statement, published on the official military website, put the onus on India to restore normalcy in ties, currently at their lowest level in decades. The remaining issues at the LAC should be handled properly and both sides should further “cool down the China-India border situation”, Wu said. The “big picture” advice in China’s diplomatic narrative appeared to suggest that Beijing doesn’t want the border tensions to impact other components of the relationship, such as trade and economic cooperation. But it was evident at the end of the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on August 20 that the two sides had been unable to bridge differences on troop disengagement. New Delhi said there were “outstanding issues” that need to be resolved speedily at the meeting, and Jaishankar said in his recent interview the current situation was “surely the most serious situation” since the 1962 war, and that the “quantum of forces currently deployed by both sides at the LAC is also unprecedented”. Srivastava said that at the last meeting of WMCC, the two sides reaffirmed they will “continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops” in line with agreements reached by the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives (SRs) during their conversation on July 5. “Both sides also agree that full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations. The two sides had also agreed to continue their engagements both through diplomatic and military channels,” Srivastava said. Experts, however, believe the Chinese side is glossing over India’s concerns, with several statements from China’s foreign ministry projecting a positive picture of the disengagement process. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said: “I think developments are moving in the expected direction, with the level being raised from the operational military and diplomatic level to the political level. The external affairs minister’s statement about the situation being the most serious since the 1962 war is the government’s position articulated by a cabinet minister. “For the moment, we have no option but to talk to the Chinese but the gap between the two sides hasn’t been reduced at all. The Chinese are underplaying the seriousness of the situation, while India is emphasising the gravity and complexity of the total relationship with China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-for-a-diplomatic-solution-to-border-standoff/story-lfFUN1zmCro96G92yD0wdJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Our victory that Congress will have full-time president after six months, party chief should be elected: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Senior Congress Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was among 23 leaders who sent a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi calling for sweeping changes in the party, on Thursday strongly pitched for elections to the Congress Working Committee and said the party chief should be elected and it is their “victory” that the party will have “full-time president” after six months.He also pitched for elections to the key organisational posts of state chief and district chief.“Anyone who has a genuine interest in the internal working dynamics of Congress would welcome our proposal to have every state and district president as being elected. The entire Congress Working Committee should be elected,” Azad told ANI.Azad, who is Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, defended the move to write the letter and said their effort was to make the party strong and active and those who simply got “appointment cards” continue to oppose their proposal. “The intention is to make Congress active and strong. But those who simply got ‘appointment cards’ continue to oppose our proposal. What’s the harm in having elected CWC members who will have fixed tenures in the party,” he said.CWC is the highest decision-making body of the party.Answering a query, Azad referred to the stormy meeting of the Congress Working Committee and said both Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi showed statesmanship. “In fact Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi said let’s do the election within a month but we said it’s not possible, So it’s our victory that after six months we will have a full-time president,” he said.Azad said it will not be fair to compel Sonia Gandhi for elections from block to CWC.“We will raise it to next president who will be elected,” he said.Azad, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, said the party should have an elected president. “I don’t have any problem. Whosoever becomes president, should be elected, Rahulji was elected for five years but he resigned and we had to elect interim president,” he said.The CWC meeting was held in the backdrop of a letter in which Azad and 22 other leaders had called for “full time” active leadership, sweeping reforms and elections of the CWC. There was also a suggestion for a mechanism for collective leadership to guide the party’s revival.Several leaders in the party, including party chief ministers, had raised questions over the letter and the issue figured in the CWC meeting.The resolution adopted at the meeting said that “CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture”.It said the responsibility of every Congress worker and leader today is to fight the pernicious assault on India’s democracy, pluralism and diversity by the Modi Government.The resolution said inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public for and urged and advises all concerned to raise such issues only in party fora in the interest of propriety and discipline.The resolution requested Sonia Gandhi “to continue to lead the Indian National Congress” until such time as circumstances will permit an AICC session to be convened.It authorised her to make necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to take on the challenges faced by the party.Apart from hailing the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, the CWC also lauded the role of party leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he has resolutely led the fight against the BJP-led government from the front.Sonia Gandhi as interim president of the party in August last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party’s dismal performance in the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-victory-that-congress-will-have-full-time-president-after-six-months-party-chief-should-be-elected-ghulam-nabi-azad/story-1DRlOVVhXn9mtusOeBCfGJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Centre ‘betraying’ federalism by ‘refusing’ to pay GST compensation to states: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Finance Minister Manish Sisodia Thursday accused the Centre of “betraying” federalism by “refusing” to pay GST compensation to states, and demanded it take loan from the RBI on behalf of the city government which he said is facing a revenue shortfall. Emerging out of a GST Council meeting, he said the Centre has refused to pay GST compensation to states and asked them to take a loan from the RBI to meet their shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“However, under the current hybrid system (of governance), the Delhi government cannot take a loan from the RBI. The Centre should take a loan from the RBI on behalf of the Delhi government,” he said.Sisodia, also Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister, said the city government estimates a revenue shortfall of around Rs 21,000 crore in the current financial year.The Central government’s refusal to pay GST compensation to states is the “biggest betrayal” in the history of federalism in India, he said. Sisodia also charged the Centre with failing to fulfil its promise made to states at the time of launch of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime four years ago.“The Centre had promised that it will pay GST compensation to states at the rate of 14 percent for five years in case of revenue shortfall. But, today at the GST Council meeting, the Centre refused it, saying there was no provision in law for compensation in situations like a pandemic,” Sisodia said in a briefing.He accused the Centre of “double standards”. “In the first two years when the Central government earned extra cess of Rs 47,000 crore, which was supposed to be given as compensation, they kept it in their fund. Today, when the revenue is decreasing, they started taking opinion of the Attorney General on whether they are liable to give this amount to states or not,” he said. Sisodia also alleged that the Centre has “failed” to properly implement the GST which was why it could not neither control price rise nor boost revenue of the states.“I am not against GST, but the central government has failed to implement it properly. Had they implemented it properly, the states would not have to beg like this. First, the Centre failed in implementing GST reforms properly, and now they are betraying states and running away from its responsibility of giving GST compensation,” he said.The Delhi government collected Rs 7,000 crore less tax in the first four months of the fiscal. It will have a shortfall of Rs 21000 in the whole year.“The central government should take a loan on our behalf as we also need to pay salaries to our doctors, teachers, engineers and other employees,” he said. If there were no GST, the states would have managed taxes and expenses in their own way. But after joining the GST regime, they had to surrender most of their rights to the GST council, he said.Sisodia claimed that many states, including some BJP-ruled ones, demanded compensation from the Center in the meeting. They quoted the minutes of previous meetings of the GST Council where it was “clearly stated” that the Central government “takes full responsibility” to compensate them in case of revenue shortfall, he added. PTI VIT TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-betraying-federalism-by-refusing-to-pay-gst-compensation-to-states-manish-sisodia/story-hj3kDTyu31VoQlVBiq58jI.html
27-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh, Jaishankar set to visit Russia for SCO meetings next month||Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will make back-to-back visits to Russia early next month for meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) that are expected to bring them face to face with their Chinese counterparts amid the border stand-off. Singh is expected to be in Moscow during September 3-4 for a meeting of the SCO defence ministers while Jaishankar is set to visit the Russian capital for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Thursday. The visits are yet to be officially announced. Asked about the matter during a news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava only confirmed that the external affairs minister has received an invitation for the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting. This will be Singh’s second visit to Moscow in a little more than two months – he travelled to Russia to participate in the Victory Day parade on June 24, reflecting the importance attached to the defence partnership between the two countries. The people said bilateral meetings had so far been arranged between Singh and Jaishankar and their Russian counterparts, though there were no proposals as of now for meetings with the Chinese ministers expected to attend the SCO meetings. The people added the possibility of such meetings too appeared unlikely, given the differences that have emerged in the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The people also ruled out the possibility of Russia playing any sort of role in mediating between India and China. “The Russian side has been briefed by the Indian side on the border situation but there has been no discussion whatsoever on any sort of mediation,” said one of the people cited above. At a time when foreign trips by Indian ministers are extremely rare because of the pandemic, Singh and Jaishankar are travelling to Moscow largely because of the insistence of the Russian side, currently the chair of both Brics and SCO, the people said. These meetings will be preceded by a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on September 4, the Russian foreign ministry announced on Thursday. That meeting, to be chaired foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, will exchange views on “topical international matters”, said Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova. Zakharova said the Brics foreign ministers will discuss cooperation in three key areas – politics and security, economics and finance and humanitarian ties. The Brics meeting was to have been held in Moscow at the same time as the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting but was converted into a video conference after the Brazilian and South African ministers expressed their inability to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the people cited above said. The Brics and SCO summits are expected to be held in St Petersburg. Indian, Chinese and Pakistani troops are also set to take part Exercise Kavkaz 20, a multilateral tri-services drill being held in Astrakhan region of southern Russia during September 15-27. The exercise will bring together some 13,000 troops from 20 countries, including the eight members of SCO. “The scope of Ex Kavkaz 20 is vast and its aim is to provide real-time training to counter international terrorism,” a second person said. The Indian army will send a company or about 180 troops from an infantry battalion and elements from other arms along with elements of the air force and observers from the navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-jaishankar-set-to-visit-russia-for-sco-meetings-next-month/story-KHDkeOcix0L1lowx1Au1QM.html
27-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: ED grills Rhea Chakraborty’s father for 6 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money laundering angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death questioned Rhea Chakraborty’s father for the second time for nearly six hours on Thursday. Officials summoned Indrajeet Chakraborty to the Axis Bank branch in Mumbai’s Vakola and was asked to bring the keys to his family’s bank lockers, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times. After he sought police protection, a Mumbai police constable escorted Rhea’s father to the bank at around 2:30 pm. He returned home at 9.30 pm.The central agency had earlier questioned Chakraborty, her father and her brother Showik on August 10. Chakraborty’s manager Shruti Modi and Sushant Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani have also been questioned by the ED. Also read: Rhea Chakraborty shares video of her father being mobbed by the mediaAfter Rajput’s father KK Singh filed an FIR against Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28, the ED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in the case on July 31. Investigators had earlier gathered information about the formation of four companies by Rajput and Chakraborty, and her family. Two of these companies were registered while the other two were under the process of getting registered. They wanted to go through the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed during the formation of these firms to find out the profit sharing agreement. People in the agency familiar with the development have said that Chakraborty had responded to all the questions but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events. ED has also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Chakraborty’s chartered accountant Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar in the case.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ed-grills-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-for-6-hours/story-p3iBVA3mDMX7RmqF2SzdPP.html
27-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh records 1,108 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||With 1,108 new cases and 14 deaths, one of them a doctor, Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 count rose to 25,658 and toll to 245 on Thursday, a health official said.The day witnessed 462 patients getting discharge following recovery from the infection.The state now has 10,806 active cases as 14,607 people were discharged and 245 have died, he said.Raipur district, which is worst-hit by the pandemic in the state, reported 380 of the fresh cases, which took the case tally in the district to 9,116, he said.The district has witnessed 133 deaths.Other districts, where news cases were detected, are Durg (186), Raigarh (55), Rajnandgaon (53), Bilaspur (51), Surguja (50), Bastar (47), Balodabazar (38), Kanker (34), Dantewada (28), Mahasamund (24), Surajpur (22), Bijapur (20), Koriya (19), Sukma (17), Mungeli (16), Janjgir-Champa (15), Dhamtari (14), Kabirdham (11) and Balrampur (6), he said.Five cases each were reported from Balod, Jashpur and Narayanpur districts, three from Kondagaon, while one case each came from Gariaband and Korba districts, he said. Besides, two persons who had arrived from another state to Chhattisgarh have tested positive, he said. Among the 14 fatalities, 10 people were from Raipur and one each from Raigarh, Bilaspur and Mahasamund districts, while one person belonged to neigbouring Odisha, he said.A 35-year-old doctor, who was posted at the Covid Hospital in Bijapur district, was found dead at his residence there on August 25 night, he said.“After working for 14 days at the hospital, the doctor, a native of Raigarh district, was placed in home isolation and his sample was sent for a coronavirus test.After his death he was found to be Covid-19 positive,” the health official said.In another case, an 18-year-old man from Mahasamund was brought dead to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur on Wednesday after he tested positive for the infection on August 22, he said.Chhattisgarh, where the infection has spread in all the 28 districts, has recorded over 17,600 cases and 200 deaths just in the last one month, he said.Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 25,658, new cases 1,108, death toll 245, discharged 14,607, active cases 10,806, people tested so far 5,33,691.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-records-1-108-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths/story-BRsrxTiEEjLfEq8dBEwuML.html
27-08-2020||India||India speeds up work on setting up Air Defence Command||India has accelerated work on setting up an Air Defence Command to enhance military synergy and optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, and it is likely to come up in October, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday.Air defence refers to protecting the military’s assets from aerial threats such as the enemy’s fighter planes and missiles and the new Command --- likely to be headquartered in Allahabad --- will control the air defence resources of all the three services. It will be headed by a three-star air marshal, the officials said.After taking over as the country’s first chief of defence staff on December 31, 2019, General Bipin Rawat had asked top officials of Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff (IDS) to prepare a proposal to create an Air Defence Command as part of the military’s theaterisation plans. Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands come under the operational control of an officer from any of the three services, depending on the function assigned to that command.The government expects Rawat to bring about jointness among the three services by 2022. One of the key objectives behind jointness, or jointmanship, is the setting up of theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.The air defence systems in the Indian arsenal include the indigenous Akash, the Israeli SpyDer, and Soviet-origin Pechora, OSA-AK and the shoulder-fired Igla. India is also pushing Russia to speed up the delivery of S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems following border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh.India is looking at creating a distinct theatre command for Jammu & Kashmir, and integrating the western and eastern naval commands to create a Peninsular Command, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.India could have up to five theatres to address the country’s security requirements, and the new structures could start rolling out in two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeds-up-work-on-setting-up-air-defence-command/story-uBFbczJL5YXizAZJ5PUCAI.html
27-08-2020||India||‘I love entertaining people with correct dose of humour…’||Actor Kavin Dave started as a child artiste and feels those were different times but he got to learn a lot during his very first project. “Those were different times. Less competition and more freedom for children who wanted to work in TV or films. For me it was so much fun when I shot for my first show ‘Filmy Chakkar’. The shoot was fixed for weekends and it was more like a picnic for me.”The actor remembers, “Working with likes of Satish (Shah) sir and Ratna (Pathak Shah) maam made me grasp the art of acting specially figuring out the concept of perfect comic timing. Today, I feel sad seeing small children auditioning for shows. There is too much competition and they are under a lot of pressure.”Kavin has played positive, funny characters in a number of films and shows ‘Shirin Farhad Ki Toh Nikal Padi’, ‘Kick’, ‘I Hate Luv Stories’, ‘Ristha.com’ and more. “I started with a light hearted comedy show so I love entertaining people with correct dose of humour. As a kid I did shows for five-six years and left acting for studies. It was during college I took up theatre and I am still doing plays. It was in 2008 that I got a chance to be a part of four-month long workshop and production under Pt Satyadev Dubey with Prithvi Theatre. That’s where I learned it all. And then series and TV commercials followed before I got films,” said the ‘My Name Is Khan’ over phone.Talking about his first Hindi film, he shared an anecdote, “In ‘Mumbai Meri Jaan’ we had this one particular scene with Irrfan sir and during the shoot I was flooded with memories as I had done a TV series with him where he played my father. And it was like a ‘wow’ moment and the best part was when I told him that ten years back, we had worked together, he was like, ‘O! yes…I remember.’ It was an absolute nostalgic bit for me,” he said.Currently, Kavin is seen portraying a negative character for a web-series, “I was too excited to be a part of ‘Flesh’ because I was getting a chance to experiment. I believe it is important to discuss issues like human trafficking. I am playing a transporter who is part of this ugly business. It is difficult to get into skin of such characters though I had played grey role in my film ‘Crook’ but this was totally a negative guy. My next OTT series ‘Scam’ will also stream soon.”Theatre too has been keeping Kavin busy, “I love theatre and my last play ‘Catch 22’ was well received but due to the ongoing crisis the shows are on hold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-love-entertaining-people-with-correct-dose-of-humour/story-jUpM5TJuW1Ao8cEDR33VWJ.html
27-08-2020||India||I have become more productive & creative, says Rob||Craft artist Harun Robert aka Rob, feels that the lockdown and unlock phase has made him more productive and creative. He has started learning playing ukulele (musical instrument), cooking besides doing a variety of creative work at his mini home studio. Rob believes that creativity benefits all in the long run. “Honestly speaking it has been no difference as I do lot of stuff from home, now. With no social obligations, I have become more productive. I am doing a lot more stuff than before besides, my daily chores as we don’t have any domestic help these days. I hope that this pandemic gets over soon but I am actually enjoying the phase,” said the master craftsman over the phone. He is fulfilling his desire of leaning string instrument ukulele. “I can play guitar little and this is something I always wanted to learn so I am trying my hand at it. It’s taking much of my time besides, kitchen and my craft. I am not very great in kitchen but I have become better. I learnt to make dosa which I never thought I will be able to make it and can even make good chappatis now! I have been experimenting in the kitchen as well.” The master artist’s schedule was pretty similar before the ongoing crisis. “I’m a morning person, I go through my sketch book, do digital content, plan on steps and projects. But earlier, I used to meet friends, engage socially and had parties which have now stopped completely. Now, besides keeping in touch with family-friends on phone and videos I’m using that time in ideation and learning new things! Besides, on my digital platform I am sharing with people how to make use of old things that are lying waste at home like old bottle, courier boxes, jars and more.” Rob is excited about his new DIY art and craft show which started off in pre-lockdown stage but is releasing now. “It’s an entertaining fun and learn show which inspires kids and family to be more creative. The show ‘Imagine That’ is full of my experiences and fresh ideas that I learnt in my arts college, design school and with over the period of time.” He feels that this period has helped everyone to hone their creative skills. “I genuinely feel people have become more creative during this period as they have more time besides homework, studies and office work. New experiments are being done in kitchen, garden, home décor and art-craft. Young or adult everyone is curious to learn. Pablo Picasso once said: Every child is an artist it’s difficult to remain one when you grow up!” Rob thinks upcycling is the need of hour, telling more about the concept he said, “With upcycling we can reduce and recycle for creativity. Our moms and grand moms are champion of upcycling. They made best use of old kitchen items, apparels and other house hold things. More than recycling we can upcycle things and give old items a new use and purpose. By inculcating this habit in kids, they can become creative and more responsible towards our planet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-have-become-more-productive-creative-says-rob/story-e1VapQT8WD8SIfhMXnzi3K.html
27-08-2020||India||Indian state refiners halt oil imports from Chinese companies: Report||Indian state refiners have stopped buying crude oil from China-linked companies, three sources said, after New Delhi’s recent regulation aimed at restricting imports from countries that it shares a border with.The new regulation, put in place on July 23, comes after a border clash between India and China that killed 20 Indian soldiers and soured relations between the two neighbours.Also read | ‘Implement agreed actions’: India reminds China on disengagement at LACSince the new order was issued, state refiners have been inserting a clause in their import tenders on new rules restricting dealings with companies from countries sharing a border with India, the sources said and the tender documents show.Last week, Indian state refiners decided to stop sending crude import tenders to Chinese trading firm like CNOOC Ltd, Unipec and PetroChina, among others, one of the sources said.To participate in Indian tenders, the July 23 order makes registration with a department in the federal commerce ministry ‘mandatory’ for any bidders from nations sharing a border with India.India shares borders with China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan, but the government statement did not name any specific country.State refiners Indian Oil Corp, Bharat Petroleum Corp, Hindustan Petroleum Corp, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemical did not immediately respond to requests for comment.CNOOC, PetroChina and Unipec parent Sinopec also did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-state-refiners-halt-oil-imports-from-chinese-companies-report/story-vmBOPCoSoZvo8sc3jNP0HP.html
27-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi names leaders in Parliament; Ghulam Nabi Azad retains spot||The Congress on Thursday named Gaurav Gogoi its deputy leader in the Lok Sabha and also formed two groups for smooth functioning and effective coordination in both the Houses of Parliament, according to people familiar with the development. Lok Sabha member from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu was also named as one of the whips of the party in the Lok Sabha. The group for the Rajya Sabha comprises Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader Anand Sharma, party treasurer Ahmed Patel, general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal and former union minister Jairam Ramesh. Azad and Sharma are among the 23 leaders who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation and a full-time party chief. The other prominent leaders among the dissenters are Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithiviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Jitin Prasada. Apart from Gogoi and Bittu, the group for the Lok Sabha will have Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, K Suresh and Manickam Tagore as its members. While Choudhary is the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Suresh is the chief whip, and Tagore and Bittu are the whips. The appointments came ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament beginning on September 14, and are an attempt by the Congress to strengthen its team of floor leaders in both the Houses. The deputy leader’s post had been lying vacant in the 16th Lok Sabha. Even in the 15th Lok Sabha, the party had not named any deputy leader after Captain Amarinder Singh took over as Punjab chief minister in 2017. The appointments also came three days after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that asked Sonia Gandhi to stay on as the party chief till a new president is elected. The CWC members also came down heavily on the 23 dissenters who had written the letter to Gandhi. But Thursday’s decisions have caused heartburn among the dissenters. One of the dissenters said on the condition of anonymity that the leadership has ignored two former union ministers and “serious claimants” Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor for the deputy leader’s post in the Lok Sabha and also not included them in the panel. Similarly, he said including a senior leader such as Patel and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi loyalist Venugopal in the panel for the Rajya Sabha is a clear signal that the leadership wants to “keep a check” on those who wrote the letter to Sonia Gandhi. “They should have included Kapil Sibal in the Rajya Sabha group,” said the leader quoted above. On Wednesday, Sonia Gandhi had constituted a five-member committee to discuss and formulate the party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the central government. Apart from Ramesh and Gogoi, the panel consisted of former union minister P Chidambaram, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh and member from Punjab Amar Singh. Ramesh will be its convener.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-names-leaders-in-parliament-ghulam-nabi-azad-retains-spot/story-lpU38zws9ozYVY9VPBqGbK.html
27-08-2020||India||Telangana schools reopen after over 150 days, online classes from Sept 1||Around 30,000 government schools in Telangana on Thursday re-opened after a gap of 158 days to kickstart the academic year for 2020-21, amid the Covid-19 pandemic.While over one lakh teachers resumed their duties on Thursday, the actual teaching activity will commence from September 1 through online mode. On day one, the teachers began preparations for running of online classes for students as part of e-learning and distance education.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSpecial chief secretary (education) Chitra Ramachandran said the online classes would be conducted on various digital, TV, T-SAT platforms across all schools. “All the teachers shall prepare e-content, lesson plans etc,” she said.Ramachandran said the alternative calendar prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) would be followed for online classes. “Separate instructions for regular classes will be issued as per the Government of India guidelines as and when reopening of schools is feasible,” she said.The schools in Telangana were forced to close down abruptly on March 22 following the outbreak of Covid-19 and remained shut since then. In the previous academic year (2019-20), they lost 33 days and had to cancel all the examinations, promoting the students to higher classes.As per the original academic calendar, the schools were supposed to reopen on June 12, but they could not due to Covid-19 pandemic. The teachers have lost 76 days in the 2020-21 academic year. Taking into account 49 days of summer holidays, the schools have reopened after a gap of 158 days.Telangana teachers’ federation leader E Raghunandan Rao said the functioning of schools without students and conducting online classes were easier said than done. “So far, there is no academic calendar and no proper guidelines as to how to conduct the online classes from schools,” he said.Rao pointed out that most of the schools were in the interior areas and had no access to high bandwidth internet facility to conduct the online classes. “As a matter of fact, the teachers have better wi-fi facility at their homes than in schools. They can conduct classes from their homes, instead of going all the way to the schools,” Rao argued.Telangana Pranteeya Teachers Union president K Hanumantha Rao said the biggest problem for the teachers is lack of transportation facility. “On the first day today, most of the teachers somehow went to schools by making their own transport arrangements. But it cannot be done every day. There is no public transport at present and even if it is introduced, it is risky for the teachers to commute every day in this pandemic situation,” he said.Not even 10-15 percent of the school children have access to mobile phones or tablets. “They cannot afford to buy smartphones with high bandwidth at this stage. The government says those who do not have phones can follow lessons on televisions. But who will monitor the students’ attendance in the distance mode?” he asked.Meanwhile, the state government told the high court that it was preparing guidelines for distance and online education for school students, including how to conduct classes through satellite television and Doordarshan.The court, which was hearing a public interest litigation petition against online classes, questioned how will students get their doubts clarified. It asked the petitioners to come out with their objections on the government’s stand on online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-schools-reopen-after-over-150-days-online-classes-for-students-from-sept-1/story-H2lFMNy9VwqiNrw84aCB9L.html
27-08-2020||India||BJP leader demands NIA probe into Sushant Singh Rajput death case||P Muralidhar Rao, a national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said on Thursday that there is a scope for widening the investigation into the alleged suicide of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput by involving the National Investigation Authority (NIA). He said “web of networks” is emerging in the case. In a series of tweets, Rao said since multiple agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have already been roped in to the probe, the NIA too may have to be involved in the inquiry. “Abetment of suicide, unnatural death being investigated by #CBI. #ED is investigating Money laundering NCB is investigating Drug use case under NDPS Act. #NIA may have to get in – may be.!! Case is getting larger – Connecting different cases – web of networks,” he tweeted. Rao, who is also in-charge of Karnataka for the party, went on to tweet that the demand for a wider probe is aimed at “helping clean the Bollywood movement.”  #NIA may have to get in – may be.!!Case is getting larger – Connecting different cases – web of networks.#SSRCase#justiceforSushanthSinghRajput(2/4)“Entire India and Indians all over are watching keenly – intensively and emotionally, Who’ever is helping & contributing for this is not fighting for #JusticeForSSR but also – helping the clean Bollywood movement. After @KanganaTeam’s tweet to @PMOIndia, #JusticeforSSR & Clean Bollywood are now getting into one big-movement Swachha Bollywood...Swachha Bharat...” he tweeted. Also read: Rhea Chakraborty - ‘Sushant Singh Rajput used to smoke marijuana, it started during Kedarnath’Referring to the tweets, a senior party functionary said the BJP’s demand for a thorough probe is aimed at getting the “underbelly” of the film industry exposed. “Now there is talk of drugs and links to narcotics traders, which is a serious issue and needs to be exposed since there are links between international drug cartels and terror industry. The idea is to uncover the truth and clean up the industry,” said the functionary.  #JusticeForSSRAbetment of suicide, Unnatural death being investigated by #CBI.#ED is investigating Money launderingNCB is investigating Drug use case under NDPS Act.(1/4)He asserted that the speculation that the party was encouraging a “witch-hunt” against actors who were critical of the government is “far-fetched” and “false”. “The SC has already given its nod to the CBI probe and we hope that the investigation reveals the truth,” the functionary said. Last week, the Supreme Court ruled that the ongoing probe by the CBI into the case filed against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting the suicide of Rajput is lawful. The top court allowed the federal agency to continue its investigation and rejected a plea by Chakraborty to transfer the case to the Maharashtra Police. The apex court’s decision was hailed by several BJP functionaries including union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who tweeted, “Justice triumphs! The soul of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput will surely now rest in peace with the assurance of a fair investigation by CBI on the FIR filed in Patna by Bihar Police whose request for transfer of case to CBI has been validated by the Supreme Court.” On the allegations that the BJP has been using the actor’s death as a political tool against its opponents in Maharashtra and for mopping support in election-bound Bihar, where the late actor hailed from, the functionary said, the party’s intentions are only to expose the nexus between unlawful groups and some members of the film industry. In Maharashtra, the party has attacked the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government for stalling the investigation and forcing Patna Superintendent of Police (SP) Vinay Tiwari, who arrived in Mumbai to probe the case, to be under home quarantine. “What the BJP is doing is cheap politics. The Supreme Court has already directed the CBI to conduct a probe and we have faith in the agency. We have nothing to fear and we should all wait for the outcome of the probe,” Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut told HT. A former ally of the BJP, the Shiva Sena has also alleged that the BJP has been using the actor’s death to destabilize the government after it failed to topple the MVA government just as it did with the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-demands-nia-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-VXn1T206naykijebv1bLwI.html
27-08-2020||India||‘Implement agreed actions’: India reminds China on disengagement at LAC||India on Thursday emphasised the need for a diplomatic solution to the stand-off with China based on agreements on the border issue, saying the disengagement of troops can move forward only if both sides implement actions they have agreed on in several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. The external affairs ministry outlined India’s latest position on the protracted stand-off hours after the Chinese defence ministry said New Delhi should look at the “big picture” of bilateral ties and work with Beijing to bring the relationship back on track while avoiding misjudgements. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava referred to remarks made in a recent interview by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who noted that several border incidents in the past had all been resolved through diplomacy. Jaishankar further said that “when it comes to finding a solution, this must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings” and “not attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally”, he added. At the same time, Srivastava pointed out, India believes complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by both sides “towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)”. “It is natural that this can be done only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions. Thus, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides,” he said. In Beijing, defence ministry spokesperson Col Wu Qian told a monthly news briefing that China expects India to work with it to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border while “bearing in mind the big picture of bilateral ties and putting the border issue in an appropriate position in this big picture”. India should “avoid misjudgement, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track of normal development”, Wu said. Wu’s comments echoed remarks in a recent speech by China’s envoy to India, Sun Weidong, who described the June 15 border clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers as “a brief moment from the perspective of history”, and said the two sides should now “seek common ground while reserving differences”. Like the Chinese foreign ministry, Wu’s statement, published on the official military website, put the onus on India to restore normalcy in ties, currently the worst in decades. The remaining issues at the LAC should be handled properly and both sides further “cool down the China-India border situation”, Wu said. The “big picture” advice in China’s diplomatic narrative appeared to suggest that Beijing doesn’t want the border tensions to impact other components of the relationship, such as trade and economic cooperation. But it was evident at the end of the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on August 20 that the two sides had been unable to bridge differences on troop disengagement. New Delhi said there were “outstanding issues” that need to be resolved speedily at the meeting, and Jaishankar said in his recent interview the current situation was “surely the most serious situation” since the 1962 war, and that the “quantum of forces currently deployed by both sides at the LAC is also unprecedented”. Srivastava said at the last meeting of WMCC, the two sides reaffirmed they will “continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops” in line with agreements reached by the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives (SRs) during their conversation on July 5. “Both sides also agree that full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations. The two sides had also agreed to continue their engagements both through diplomatic and military channels,” Srivastava said. Experts, however, believe the Chinese side is glossing over India’s concerns, with several statements from China’s foreign ministry projecting a positive picture of the disengagement process. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said: “I think developments are moving in the expected direction, with the level being raised from the operational military and diplomatic level to the political level. The external affairs minister’s statement about the situation being the most serious since the 1962 war is the government’s position articulated by a cabinet minister. “For the moment, we have no option but to talk to the Chinese but the gap between the two sides hasn’t been reduced at all. The Chinese are underplaying the seriousness of the situation, while India is emphasising the gravity and complexity of the total relationship with China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-agreed-actions-india-reminds-china-on-disengagement-at-lac/story-cuYdJci5sdi2emuplDoRaN.html
27-08-2020||India||SC asks Centre to clear stand on winding up of Mallya’s United Breweries Holdings Limited||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to examine whether the assets of United Breweries Holdings Limited (UBHL) attached by the Enforcement Directorate could be available to save the “winding up” of the company and clearing the dues of over Rs 9,000 crore to be paid to banks. Former liquor baron Vijay Mallya holds a little over 10 percent shares in the UBHL which is majorly owned by Dutch beer maker Heineken and British spirit maker Diageo. Mallya’s shares in the company, along with other assets, were attached by the Directorate of Enforcement as alleged crime proceeds in their investigation into a case against Mallya registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Prior to his escape from the country in 2016, he took loans from a consortium of banks but failed to repay. According to Mallya’s lawyers, the outstanding dues are worth Rs 6,203 crore. Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who appeared for Mallya, informed the Court that the assets of the company are more than its liabilities. If the assets lying under the attachment with the ED are allowed to be used, this can save the company from winding up and also help banks receive their dues. He informed the Court that the banks have approached the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal with this prayer. Also read: Mehul Choksi moves Delhi high court against Netflix series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, demands pre-screeningThis submission did not meet approval from the State Bank of India (SBI), which forms part of the consortium of banks waiting to get its dues. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Court not to entertain Mallya’s request as it will be misused by him in his extradition proceedings. Mehta said, “We cannot ignore the fact that he is a fugitive economic offender. What he owes to the banks is Rs 9,777 crore. Under PMLA, a criminal trial will take place and if it is found to be part of proceeds of crime, the same shall be confiscated.” The bench of Justices UU Lalit and Vineet Saran said, “At present, we are dealing with the company, not the person. You are wearing two hats. Be clear whether you appear for both (SBI and ED).” Mehta said, “There is more responsibility on our (SBI) part to protect the interest of our nation.” The bench gave Mehta time to think over and state its stand on September 8, the next date of hearing. The bench reminded Mehta that the principle of law requires the Court to save a company from winding up. The question posed by the bench was, “Once assets are attached (under PMLA), does it mean under the law that it cannot be considered as part of the company assets.” The court on March 6, 2020, refused to consider this aspect as it had no jurisdiction to direct the ED on the attached assets. The ED has so far recovered Rs 2,877 crore under its investigation. SC reserves order on review against Mallya’s contempt Meanwhile, in a related development, the Supreme Court on Thursday reserved orders on a review petition filed by Vijay Mallya challenging the May 10, 2017 order of the top court holding him guilty for committing contempt of court. The former liquor baron was accused of transferring $40 million received from British spirit maker Diageo to the bank account of his children. Mallya was accused of not disclosing this transaction to the Court and for siphoning the amount from the bank despite the Court restraining him from dealing with any of his moveable and immovable assets. The contempt petition against him was moved by the SBI. The bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ashok Bhushan reserved orders after hearing Mallya’s lawyer Jai Munim who stated that an affidavit by Mallya was not considered before the order of contempt was passed. The bench said that the affidavit did not materially influence the finding against the contemnor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-clear-stand-on-winding-up-of-mallya-s-united-breweries-holdings-limited/story-FLLgBrMZyiUp2CMb2jw2ZP.html
27-08-2020||India||Need to change negative attitude about agriculture: Telangana CM||Agriculture was an essential part of the country’s economy and there should be a shift in the negative attitude that it was not profitable, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Thursday.The country should be self-reliant in food grains production and also reach a stage where it can export them, he said in an interaction with National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Chairman Govinda Rajulu Chintala who called on him here.“...there is a need for a major shift in the negative attitude that agriculture is not profitable as in reality the agri sector is an essential part of the Indian livelihood and its economy, an official release quoted him as saying. Rao emphasised that it was the agri sector on which the majority of the people were dependent and it provided food and also supplied raw material to industries. “Since Indian economy is agriculture-based it was able to withstand all the troubles and tribulations. He (Rao) wanted the government and institutions like NABARD to implement schemes that would encourage agriculture and agri based industries,” the release said.The chief minister favoured cultivating crops as per the natureof soil and said the objective should be not only to increase the produce but to put in place a proper marketing strategy for the produce.Rao also pitched for promoting agri-based industries, food processing and mechanisation in agriculture operations, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-change-negative-attitude-about-agriculture-telangana-cm/story-PI2Qt04o1PlwWcB5sqRm0I.html
27-08-2020||India||India best place for defence manufacturing: PM Modi tells foreign players||Wooing foreign players to join his push for defence manufacturing in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that producing defence equipment in the country is the best option for them considering the big size of its market and underscored his government’s commitment to creating a robust ecosystem for all manufacturers. Addressing a seminar on ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ in defence manufacturing, Modi said his government has ushered in a “win-win” situation for all players, from public sector to private and foreign manufacturers, and asserted that the concept of a self-reliant India is not “inward-looking”.The goal of this mission is to make India work towards larger global peace, and also to help the world economy become more resilient and stable, he said. The defence sector having self confidence is necessary for making a modern and self-reliant India, the prime minister said, asserting that a new mindset has emerged on his government’s watch. “India has the potential to become a dependable supplier of defence equipment to many friendly countries. This will further deepen India’s strategic partnership and boost its role of being a net security provider in the Indian Ocean region,” Modi said. Asserting that the recent announcement of an import embargo on 101 defence equipment is not merely confined to curbing imports but also aimed at giving a boost to the domestic industry, he said more items will be added to this list later. His government’s efforts are aimed at developing technology in India and expanding the private sector’s role in this sector to the most, Modi said. He said his government has opened the way for 74 per cent FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in defence production through automatic route. This is an outcome of the self confidence of a new India, he added. Modi noted that India has long been one of the biggest defence importers in the world and rued that enough attention was not paid to augmenting domestic production in the past despite the country having inherited a capable ecosystem of over 100 years old at the time of Independence. Very few nations had India’s abilities and potential and many countries which started (defence manufacturing) later than India have gone far ahead in the last 50 years, the prime minister said. Referring to a number of economic reforms since his government first came to power in 2014, he also mentioned the recent labour reforms in a number of states. The reform exercise is not going to stop, he said. The work on building defence corridor is also on at a rapid pace in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, he said, while adding that Rs 20,000 crore investment would be made for this in the next five years and a state of the art infrastructure will be developed. To boost domestic manufacturing, licensing process has been reformed, level-playing field created, export system simplified and offset provisions reformed, he said. The focus is now on having a “co-production model” by going for joint ventures with foreign partners, the prime minister said. “Considering India’s market size, the best option for our foreign partners is to manufacture in India,” he said. The government is speeding up the procurement process, and the size of domestic industry is set to increase in coming days, he said. Technological upgradation is necessary for developing self-reliance, he said, adding that research is being encouraged in the government-run DRDO, private sector and also academic institutions. India’s ordnance industry is being corporatised which will be a boost to its workers and also security forces, Modi said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and three service chiefs also attended the seminar, and the prime minister lauded the “tireless” efforts of his Cabinet colleague who, he added, has been working in a “mission mode” to make the exercise successful. Modi said his government has from the beginning worked with the mantra of “reform, perform and transform” and to remove red-tape and roll out red carpet for industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-best-place-for-defence-manufacturing-pm-modi-tells-foreign-players/story-H4AicVuFvoAL5DxewStQtJ.html
27-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm| Punish Mumbai and Pulwama plotters, shared enough proof: India to Pak and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punish Mumbai and Pulwama plotters, shared enough proof: India to PakIndia on Thursday demanded Pakistan should prosecute the perpetrators of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and 2008 Mumbai carnage, saying the main accused in last year’s suicide bombing – Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar – continues to be sheltered by Islamabad. Read more ‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’: GovtNine states and a Union territory have been told by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to ramp up testing and tracing to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic effectively as they accounted for 89 percent of the fatalities in the last two weeks. Read more Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy: Nirmala SitharamanThe government said on Thursday that the coronavirus pandemic has hit the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection where the shortfall is Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The announcement was made after a GST Council meeting chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Read more Govt approves 78 new routes under Udan scheme; focus on North East, islandsCentre has approved 78 new additional routes to be awarded under the fourth round of the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS)- ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik’ (UDAN) focusing on boosting connectivity in the North East, hilly states and islands, civil aviation ministry announced on Thursday. Read more Rhea Chakraborty says she saw Sushant Singh Rajput’s body for a few seconds: ‘I touched his feet, said sorry’Rhea Chakraborty has revealed that she saw Sushant Singh Rajput’s body for a few seconds as it was being transferred to the van from the mortuary for his funeral. The actor said she touched Sushant’s feet, in an interview to India Today. Read more5-year-old boy’s quick thinking saves mom’s life. Here’s what happenedJosh, without wasting any time, rang 112, the number for emergency services in Europe, which helped his mother get treatment at the right time. Read more Reliance Retail warns customers about fake JioMart websitesReliance Retail has cautioned people about unscrupulous individuals who are creating fake websites and pretending to be a part of JioMart. These fake sites are duping users by pretending to grant franchisee of JioMart services. Read more ‘If CBI arrests Rhea without hard evidence...’: Sushant Singh’s family lawyerSushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh spoke on what if CBI takes Rhea Chakraborty in custody. Singh said whole exercise would be counter-productive if CBI arrests Rhea without hard evidence. “CBI is doing its job well and no one should find faults in it. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-punish-mumbai-and-pulwama-plotters-shared-enough-proof-india-to-pak-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jMEugvNY3oFssuXMnWWQIL.html
27-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Punjab imposes lockdown from 7pm to 5am on all days to curb spread||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Punjab government on Thursday imposed lockdown in the state. The lockdown will stay in effect from 7pm to 5am on all days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe latest development comes as Punjab is witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 infections. With 1,746 fresh cases in Thursday, Punjab’s Covid-19 tally reached 47,836, according to the figures by state government. While the number of people succumbing to the disease stood at 1,256.Meanwhile, state chief minister Amarinder Singh appealed to all other legislators who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive MLAs to avoid attending the one-day Vidhan Sabha session on Friday.As of today, 29 MLAs have been tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, to curb the Covid-19 spread, state chief minister also directed Director General of Police to strictly enforce the closure of liquor shops in the state by 6.30 pm, as per the existing guidelines.In a virtual meeting on Wednesday with other state CMs and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Singh also said that Punjab may see a peak in mid-September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-punjab-imposes-lockdown-from-7pm-to-5am-on-all-days-to-curb-spread/story-tJjoO9xBW0aCo9aLajIaON.html
27-08-2020||India||Covid-19 hits Uttarakhand’s tourism sector, operators demand compensation||The ongoing season used to be quite busy for tour, travel and hotel operators in Uttarakhand because of the rush for Char Dham pilgrimage and tourists flocking the state. But for the past five months, the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the sector hard.Hundreds of pilgrim-tourist vehicles, which used to be busy on routes for Char Dham, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath, Kedarnath and other popular spots, are now parked at Bairagi camp Kumbh land and at other vacant plots.Around 15,000 people are directly involved with the travel-tour trade in Haridwar and nearly 8,000 vehicles are involved in this industry. According to Tour Travel Association, Haridwar, there are about 500 travel-tour agencies operating, of which, offices of around 95 percent of such agencies are shut for the past few months.Also read: ‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’ - GovtTraders associated to Tour Operator Association have now resorted to staging sit-in demonstrations and protests demanding adequate compensation, waiver of road tax and opening of Char Dham pilgrimage without any restrictions so that the tourism economy of the state gets back to normalcy.“We have been writing to the state government and also meeting legislators and cabinet ministers to put forth our demands. It is high time that we are provided with a relief package,” said the president of Tour Operator Association Haridwar, Abhishek Ahluwalia.Taxi Maxi State Association (TMA) president Girish Bhatia that all thirteen Akhadas are being provided one crore rupees each but the tour-travel industry has not been provided with any similar relief package or financial assistance, waiver of loan instalments for at least one year.“From ferrying pilgrims, tourists to catering to government work during elections and disaster management, it is this sector which plays a pivotal role but now when it needs assistance to sustain, we are only getting meagre assurances,” said Bhatia.Eyeing Mahakumbh fair to be held early next year, the tourism fraternity has urged the state government to ensure that the Kumbh Mela is organised amidst certain restrictions.Ranipur Trader Association (RTA) president Sanjeev Chaudhari said, “We will take to the streets if Mahakumbh is not organised in its usual set up. The trader community here has been waiting for this grand fair for past 11 years and if it is not organised then it will bring traders, teerth purohits and travel-tour-hotel industry on verge of poverty,” said Chaudhari.When contacted, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik said that state government is trying its best to ensure Char Dham pilgrimage witnesses more and more pilgrims and Mahakumbh is successfully organised but all depends on the impact of coronavirus pandemic at that time (January-April 2020).Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said the state government is making sincere efforts to help the tourism sector. “Tourism has been given the status of the industry in the state. Over 2.43 lakh people associated with the tourism sector have been provided financial assistance. Taxi-maxi, cab, auto, rickshaw, e-rickshaw, Vikram drivers are being provided Rs 1,000 each. Similarly, photographers registered with the tourism department are also being provided a similar amount,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hits-uttarakhand-s-tourism-sector-operators-demand-compensation/story-9FSWu1jGPQLgAhP0jU2fXO.html
27-08-2020||India||140 new Covid-19 cases in Manipur; tally rises to 5,725||Manipur on Thursday reported 140 new COVID-19 cases, taking the coronavirus caseload in the northeastern state to 5,725, an official said.At least 128 people recovered from Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,957, the official said.The Covid-19 recovery rate of the state increased to 69.11 per cent as 3,957 of the total 5,725 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease.Manipur now has 1,743 active Covid-19 cases of which 761 are Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel, the official said.Of the total 5,725 Covid-19 cases, 1,743 are active cases as 3,957 people have recovered from the disease and 25 have died, an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/140-new-covid-19-cases-in-manipur-tally-rises-to-5-725/story-kYnV0r6vWE4P7ErDojHcLP.html
27-08-2020||India||Govt approves 78 new routes under Udan scheme; focus on North East, islands||Centre has approved 78 new additional routes to be awarded under the fourth round of the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS)- ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik’ (UDAN) focusing on boosting connectivity in the North East, hilly states and islands, civil aviation ministry announced on Thursday.The Udan is a regional airport development scheme aimed at enhancing connectivity to remote and regional areas of the country and making air travel affordable. The scheme is a key component of Centre’s National Civil Aviation Policy led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and launched in June 2016.“Special boost is being given to connectivity in North East with routes from Guwahati to Tezu, Rupsi, Tezpur, Passighat, Misa and Shillong. People will be able to fly from Hissar to Chandigarh, Dehradun and Dharmshala under these UDAN 4 routes. Routes from Varanasi to Chitrakoot and Shravasti have also been approved. Agatti, Kavaratti and Minicoy islands of Lakshadweep have also been connected by the new routes of UDAN 4.0,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read: Uttar Pradesh gets 18 air routes under Centre’s UDAN schemeFollowing three rounds of bidding, the civil aviation ministry, in December 2019, had launched the fourth round of the regional connectivity scheme with a focus on priority areas like North East Region, hilly states, the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and islands.So far, 766 routes have been sanctioned under the UDAN scheme, 29 served, 08 unserved (including two heliports and one water aerodrome), and two underserved airports have been included in the list for the approved routes, the ministry said.“Following the three successful rounds of bidding, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had launched the 4th round of UDAN in December 2019 with a special focus on North-Eastern Regions, Hilly States, and Islands. The awarding of these 78 routes under UDAN 4 is in line with the Act East Policy of the Central Government,” Usha Padhee, aviation ministry joint secretary said.“The airports that had already been developed by Airport Authority of India are given higher priority for the award of Viability Gap Funding (VGF) under the Scheme. Under UDAN 4, the operation of helicopter and seaplanes is also been incorporated. Since its inception, MoCA has operationalised 274 UDAN routes that have connected 45 airports and 3 heliports,” she added.Under the scheme, nearly half of the seats in Udan flights are offered at subsidised fares, and the participating carriers are provided a certain amount of viability gap funding (VGF) - an amount shared between the Centre and the concerned states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-78-new-routes-under-udan-scheme-focus-on-north-east-islands/story-NDH3asvUJZK3VyeJ5GF7fK.html
27-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to pronounce verdict tomorrow whether final year university exams can be held||Supreme Court will deliver its judgment on Friday in a batch of petitions seeking scrapping of final year / terminal semester university examinations which are scheduled to be held before September 30.A 3-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan will pronounce it’s verdict at 10.30 am. The UGC had, on July 6, directed universities across the country to hold final year examinations by September 30. It had defended this decision saying that future of students will be jeopardised if examinations are not held.The petitioners have demanded the apex court to consider scrapping online/ offline examinations in view of Covid -19 threat and instead direct UGC to declare results based on the past performance of students and internal assessment. States including Delhi, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have cancelled university exams including final year exams.The UGC, however, maintained that degree cannot be conferred on graduating students without holding final year examinations and it alone can take a call on whether or not exams should be cancelled. “State governments cannot cancel examinations. That power lies with the UGC,” solicito general Tushar Mehta, appearing on behalf of UGC told the top court on August 8.The ministry of home affairs supported UGC and filed an affidavit before apex court on August 13 stating that it has permitted limited opening of educational institutions across the country for holding final year examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-pronounce-verdict-tomorrow-whether-final-year-university-exams-can-he-held/story-LGLQgz1gf6jIIsXlye6rvJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Cybercrime gang member held in Punjab for duping Rs 2.2 lakh from Muzaffarnagar resident||A member of an alleged interstate cybercrime gang was arrested in Punjab in connection with defrauding people online from other states including Uttar Pradesh and recovered several ATM cards and mobile phones, police said on Thursday. Guru Dev Singh was arrested on Wednesday by the Muzaffarnagar police’s cyber cell after Gagan Sharma, a resident of the district, lodged a complaint a few days ago that Rs 2.20 lakh was siphoned off from his bank account while he was trying to pay his electricity bill, they said. Subsequently, a case of cheating was registered in this connection. According to the cyber cell in-charge Sanjiv Bhatnagar, the gang has connections with accomplices in Bihar and Jharkhand with many cases of online cheating and a CPU, four mobile phones and several ATM cards of different banks apart from other documents worth Rs 27,000 were seized from the accused. During investigation, it came to light that the gang was active online as they transferred cash from bank accounts illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cybercrime-gang-member-held-in-punjab-for-duping-rs-2-2-lakh-from-muzaffarnagar-resident/story-I6PtsjsH6y8fcHiv5i2VzM.html
27-08-2020||India||First accused in Pulwama chargesheet still sheltered by Pakistan: India||India on Thursday accused Pakistan of continuing to shelter Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Maulana Masood Azhar, named the number one accused in the Pulwama attack chargesheet filed by the National Investigation agency. Azhar, who founded JeM in 2000 after he was freed from an Indian prison in exchange for 155 passengers of a hijacked aircraft, and his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ammar Alvi have been named as the primary accused in the charge sheet.“The charge sheet has been filed after investigation of a year and half since the attack took place on 14 February 2019. It has been filed to address the act of terrorism and to bring perpetrators of such a heinous crime to justice. Our aim is not to simply issue statements or notifications. “Jaish e Mohammad had claimed the responsibility of Pulwama attack. The organization and its leadership is in Pakistan. It is regrettable that Masood Azhar, the first accused in the chargesheet, continues to find shelter in Pakistan. Enough evidence has been shared with Pakistan but it continues to evade responsibility,” said ministry of external affairs spokesperson. New Delhi highlighted how Pakistan has still not acted on the dossiers and evidence shared after the 2008 Mumbai attack.Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed in the Pulwama attack that brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.Officials say that the chargesheet has irrefutable evidence - technical, material and circumstantial - on Pakistan’s role in the attack. It cites the roles of the JeM leadership and the arrested accused in the attack and has details like chats, calls details of terrorists.Pakistan has rejected the chargesheet filed in the Pulwama attack probe, claiming it to be a ‘mischievous attempt’ to implicate Islamabad for the attack. It said that India has failed to provide credible evidence to support its claim and that it is meant to serve ‘narrow and domestic political interests.’“At the outset, Pakistan had rejected India’s baseless allegations and expressed readiness to extend cooperation on the basis of any actionable information. India failed to provide any credible evidence for its invective and has instead been using the attack for its malicious propaganda campaign against Pakistan,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-accused-in-pulwama-chargesheet-still-sheltered-by-pakistan-india/story-POC0TKZMyeCxAjymvlciHK.html
27-08-2020||India||Papon’s mother and noted Assamese singer Archana Mahanta passes away||Noted Assamese singer and popular singer Angaraag ‘Papon’ Mahanta’s mother Archana Mahanta passed away at a private hospital on Thursday.The 72-year-old singer, wife of popular Assamese singer late Khagen Mahanta, had been undergoing treatment after suffering a brain stroke on July 14. Her last rites were performed at Nabagraha crematorium in Guwahati by ‘Papon’ with full state honours.“I am deeply saddened to hear about the demise of renowned Assamese folk singer Archana Mahanta. Today, we have lost a shining star among the cultural stalwarts of the state. I offer my deepest condolences and sympathies to the bereaved family members and join all her well-wishers in prayers for the departed soul,” Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said in a message.Also read: In self-reliance push, PM Modi says govt aims to increase defence manufacturingAssam Governor Jagdish Mukhi also condoled her demise and said, “I am deeply saddened to hear about the demise of the noted singer Archana Mahanta. She was an asset and her death is an irreparable loss for the society. She had contributed immensely to the enrichment of cultural life of the state”. Archana Mahanta and her husband Khagen Mahanta, who was known as ‘Bihu King’, used to be a hugely popular couple known for their renditions of Bihu and traditional folk songs of Assam. Both enthralled audiences at Bihu functions across the state and outside for many years.Khagen Mahanta passed away in June 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/papon-s-mother-and-noted-assamese-singer-archana-mahanta-passes-away/story-qxwwwSNhglyIhg2Tm1qOiP.html
27-08-2020||India||Odisha tribal set to come back home 30 years after he left for work||A 65-year-old tribal of Odisha who had left his home more than three decades ago in search of livelihood would come back to his village in Gajapati district on Friday after a man in Arunachal Pradesh made efforts to unite him with his family through social media.Daya Bhuyan, a Saora tribal of Abasingh village in Gajapati district, left his parents and siblings some 30 years ago after a local contractor took him and three other people for road construction work in Arunachal Pradesh sometime in the late 80s. As per his family members, Bhuyan worked there for sometime, but could not return even as the company wound up its work. Left stranded in Ziro valley of Lower Subansiri district in Arunachal Pradesh for decades, it is still not clear whether Bhuyan made any efforts to come back home or how he spent his years away from home.But his ordeal came to an end after a 32-year-old educational entrepreneur of Arunachal Pradesh started an online campaign to get him back to his home late last month. Rubu Ama, who owns the Royal Blue Pine school in Ziro area of Arunachal Pradesh, used social media to bounce around the details of Bhuyan around the virtual world so that somebody could get his family details for facilitating his return to Odisha.“Though I first met him in 2003, I never asked about his native place. He used to live in a makeshift hut of bamboo and tarpaulin near a hill deep in forest, some 7 km away from the main road and used to sell firewood for survival. He hardly spoke when I first met him,” said Ama over the phone from Ziro.Ama who used to meet Bhuyan everytime he passed by the hillside however did not attach much importance till last year when the latter’s health condition worsened. A concerned Ama asked the taciturn Bhuyan about his family, his home. However, Bhuyan did not reveal his real name and identified himself as Jagpati Karji, using another tribal surname popular in Gajapati district. He gave his father’s name as Duja Karji, mother’s name as Sukumati and elder brother’s name as Monmari Karji and younger brother as Suku Karji. He also gave false names of his parents as well as his other family members. However, he gave the correct name of his village - Abarsingh in Gajapati district.Ama then sent the details of Bhuyan to his driver, an Odia boy, who then put it out in the WhatsApp group of Odia community of Arunachal Pradesh. But it just died among hundreds of forwarded WhatsApp messages.Last month, when the Arunachal man met Bhuyan again, he made a short video clip of his place in the forest and then posted the details in a local WhatsApp group which was picked up by a journalist of Gajapati district who worked for a popular web portal. The reporter met Bhuyan’s brother and after some digging found that Jagapati Karji’s real name was Daya Bhuyan.When Ama learnt about Bhuyan’s real name he again went to meet him at the forest. “I asked him why he did not reveal his real name, but he kept on insisting that his name is Jagapati Karji. He said his mother died when he was very young. When shown the photos and videos sent by the Odisha journalist, at first he could not recognise his younger brother and elder sister. He said he did not know them. But I told him that they are his siblings. After sometime, he again asked me where I got those videos and photos. I told him I got it from his place and asked him to identify his family members by their real names so that I could send him back,” said Ama.But Bhuyan was insistent that he would not go back to his native village. “He was worried about questions from his fellow villagers about coming back without any money despite his long stay in a faraway place. He said he can’t face so many questions. He however said he might think of going there in March next year. But I told him March was too far away and he would be sent when I have more more information. But he was insistent on not going back,” said Ama, who travelled to the hut of Bhuyan on August 8 and brought him to his own home where he again made the tribal man speak to his family through video call.Odisha BJP leader Bhrigu Buxipatra, who also helped Bhuyan get back to Odisha, said when he heard about the news, he called an RSS contact in Arunachal Pradesh, who got in touch with an Odia professor living in Itanagar. But when the professor got Bhuyan to speak to his nephew and brothers through video call, he could not recognise anyone. “He however asked about his elder brother, who is no longer alive. His village people as well as his brother asked him to come back,” said Buxipatra.The Gajapati district administration meanwhile got involved and sent his nephew and a labour official to get him back. On Tuesday, the Lower Subansiri district administration of Arunachal Pradesh handed him over to the Assistant Labour Officer of Gajapati in the presence of Ama and other members who actively took part in the online campaign at Gumto police check gate on the borders of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. As he did not have any ID card such as Aadhaar, Voter ID or ration card, an identity document was swiftly made for his travel. Bhuyan along with his nephew flew to Kolkata and were supposed to land in Bhubaneswar today, but were stranded due to the lockdown in Kolkata.But before he could come back, Bhuyan had almost died as he fell sick on August 13 and had to be admitted to a local hospital in Ziro for 6 days. “I thought he would die. As he had no one with him, I stayed with him in the hospital for 6 days till he was discharged. I thought him to be my own. I can say he is my close friend,” said Ama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-set-to-come-back-home-30-years-after-he-left-for-work/story-jetWMj5kTDjBRNzUEMw5vN.html
27-08-2020||India||With self-reliance push, India can ‘Make for World’ in defence sector: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that with PM Modi’s self-reliance motto in place, India can not only achieve ‘Make in India’ but also ‘Make for World.’In the backdrop of the government’s move to ban import of 101 defence items and instead produce them domestically, the defence minister said that the country looks to become self-reliant in order to contribute to the world in a better way for which bold policy reforms are being taken. “We want to become self-reliant to contribute to the world in a better way. In this direction, some bold policy reforms have been taken like the ban on import of 101 defence items,” Singh said a defence industry outreach webinar. “I am confident that through our collaborative and cooperative efforts, we will not only achieve ‘Make in India’ but also ‘Make for World’,” he added. Also read: In self-reliance push, PM Modi says govt aims to increase defence manufacturingChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat also addressed the webinar and backed the government’s self-sustenance push and said that India has the capability, capacity and will to produce high-end indigenous weapon systems.Rawat said that the Centre’s and vision for Aatnirbhar Bharat serves as an opportunity for India to not only achieve self-efficiency but also become a net exporter of defence equipment. “We’ve the capability, capacity & will to produce high-end indigenous weapon systems. With govt’s push in right direction & vision of Aatnirbhar Bharat being promulgated, this is time to see this opportunity to achieve self-efficiency & becoming net exporter of defence equipment,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The CDS also hailed India’s response to the coronavirus pandemic at a time when the nation is “facing numerous challenges and threats.”Highlights: PM Modi addresses defence industry outreach webinar“Our collective response to COVID-19 has firmly established our ability to overcome any such unforeseeable eventuality,” he said. Earlier in the month, the government had announced a list of 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import between 2020 and 2025 to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement).Also read| Defence ministry working to announce new air defence command by October: ReportThe list includes artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini UAVs and different types of ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-self-reliance-push-india-can-make-for-world-in-defence-sector-rajnath-singh/story-9l96HnnEbZlbH9ckmx83kN.html
27-08-2020||India||68% of inmates at Barmer district jail test positive for Covid-19||After Jaipur and Pratapgarh jails, the district jail of Barmer has emerged as the new hotspot of Covid-19 cases after 126 inmates tested positive on Wednesday. Four inmates tested positive on Sunday. The jail has a total of 192 inmates, 68 percent of them have contracted the infection.Barmer’s chief medical and health officer Dr Kamlesh Choudhary said that 130 inmates of the jail are positive for coronavirus disease. He said the screening of inmates started on Monday.“The department collected 190 samples from the jail. We are suspecting that the infection has spread from four prisoners who tested positive on Sunday,” Dr Choudhary said.Also read: Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy - Nirmala SitharamanConsidering the large number of Covid-19 cases, the medical department started a new Covid Care Center in the jail on Wednesday. “Earlier, the four inmates were moved to the care center outside the jail but now we cannot move such a large number of inmates, so we have started a Covid Care Center in the jail itself. It has all the required medical facilities,” said Dr Choudhary.There are total 192 inmates in Barmer district jail, 62 of them are negative for Covid-19. The jail superintendent has written to the prisons department headquarters in Jaipur to move other inmates to Jaisalmer district jail. Twenty inmates have already been moved.Jails in Rajasthan have also been affected by the pandemic. The first Covid-19 case in prisons was reported on May 11 when a 29-year-old man lodged in Jaipur district jail tested positive. After that, the prisons department made elaborate arrangements to keep the spread in check. Director-general (prisons) BL Soni said that the wards and barracks have been sanitized several times. Sheets and clothes are changed at regular intervals. “The inmates are been given a special diet like dal, vitamin C-rich fruits, rice to increase their immunity. Those who can eat non-veg are given eggs thrice a day besides their regular diet. Health teams visit wards on a regular basis,” he said. He said the department will award appreciation shields to staff working at Covid Care Centers in prisons across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-of-inmates-at-barmer-district-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-kikpKEsOiYan5ncuhp5NeL.html
27-08-2020||India||La Niña may develop between Sept and Nov; likely to hamper post-monsoon season in India||There is a 60% chance of a weak La Niña event between September and November, according to the World Meteorological Organisation’s (WMO) update, and could result in lesser rainfall in the post-monsoon season in India.Also read: Health minister to chair meeting on status of southwest monsoon in India“We have only one more month left for monsoon and this year monsoon is likely to be normal--finishing at 102% of the long-period average with an error margin of +/-4%. The impact of La Nina during the post-monsoon season is just the opposite of what it is during monsoon season. La Nina during the monsoon season is associated with above-average rains. But during the post-monsoon season, if a cyclone develops over the Bay of Bengal, the impact can be very different and severe due to La Nina. So, we have to see,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.M Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said La Nina is good for the southwest monsoon but it does not have a favourable impact on the northeast monsoon (post-monsoon season). “We may record less rain in the post-monsoon period due to the La Nina effect.” Northeast monsoon brings rain to the Peninsular region during October and November.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite impact. In India, for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon. La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above-average rains. Last year was a weak El Nino year and June had recorded extremely arid conditions in different parts of the country and the month ended with a 33% rain deficiency.WMO said below-average sea surface temperatures forecasted in the eastern tropical Pacific are leading to La Niña conditions. Global models and expert opinion indicate a 60% chance of La Niña development during September-November. The probability of ENSO-neutral conditions is 40% and El Niño near 0%.The last La Niña event was in 2017-18. It was short-lived; a weak-to-moderate event that started developing in November 2017 and decayed in April 2018, according to WMO. Tropical Pacific has been in ENSO neutral condition since July and since May sea surface temperatures in the region have been slightly below average, it added.But WMO underlined the warming influence of climate change will not be negated by La Nina. “Even if a La Niña event does develop, its cooling signal will not be enough to counterbalance the impact of human-induced climate change,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas.“2020 remains on track to be one of the warmest years on record, with much extreme weather ranging from scorching temperatures and wildfires to devastating floods and marine heatwaves which is largely the result of greenhouse gases rather than naturally occurring climate drivers,” he said in a statement on Thursday.WMO’s Global Seasonal Climate Update indicates that sea surface temperatures for September to November overall are expected to be above average for much of the globe and this will also influence land surface temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-nina-may-develop-between-sept-and-nov-likely-to-hamper-post-monsoon-season-in-india/story-Vxwn7VukBtlUU9QwNIOD3H.html
27-08-2020||India||‘No justification for delay in elections’: J&K Apni Party||After two days of deliberations, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party on Thursday sought an early hearing on a petition challenging the abrogation of Art 370, Art 35-A in Supreme Court and pledged to strive for the restoration of statehood, domicile Laws, 4G internet, package for economic revival and upgradation of healthcare infrastructure.The two-day meeting was chaired by the party president Altaf Bukhari and was attended by all the prominent members including former ministers and legislators.“The political conviction of JKAP is based on a realistic approach to deal with socio-economic and political issues faced by the people of J&K,” Bukhari said while addressing the meeting and pledged not to compromise on the basic principles of the party.Bukhari said over the last 70 years of the history of Jammu and Kasmir, the political discourse has witnessed commotion and politics of deceit wherein people were subjugated, browbeaten and exploited on one or the other pretexts.Also read: Govt to clear $2 billion deal for Israeli-made AWACS amid stand-off with ChinaThe party spokesman said that during the meeting, the leadership resolved for an early hearing of a petition challenging abrogation of Art 370, 35-A.“The meeting resolved to file an application before the Hon’ble Supreme Court seeking the listing and an early hearing in a petition filed by one of the JKAP leaders challenging abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35-A.”He said the meeting resolved that any further delay in restoration of statehood by the Government of India will add to the already existing hopelessness and alienation among the people of J&K. “The meeting resolved that it is incumbent upon the Government of India to rise to the occasion and address the political aspirations of people, sooner the better. The party leadership also resolved that the party will further strengthen and speed up its efforts in pursuit of this goal.”The spokesman said that in the meeting it was decided that no arbitrary increase in assembly or parliamentary segments by the delimitation commission will be acceptable and the party will put forth its viewpoint based on suggestions and objections, if any, before the Commission at an appropriate time.“It was resolved that there should be no justification for further delay in elections in J&K which has no substitute in a democratic set up,” the spokesman said adding that the leadership also demanded restoration of 4G mobile internet, besides the revival of tourism and its allied industrial sector.The leaders of the party also demanded reviving agriculture and horticulture sectors and sought an economic package for farmers.“The meeting resolved that it will pursue the formulation of a comprehensive job policy to address the mounting unemployment problem in J&K and ensure a dignified livelihood for the educated unemployed youth in government and private sectors. Augmentation of healthcare infrastructure in view of Covid-19, establishing separate CAT Bench at Srinagar,” the spokesman said.He said leaders also decided to continue its struggle for a separate bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal at Srinagar and ensuring rights of locals on geology and mining activities in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-justification-for-delay-in-elections-j-k-apni-party/story-ul7X5FO60c8sIcENjYOpXO.html
27-08-2020||India||In self-reliance push, PM Modi says govt aims to increase defence manufacturing||While addressing an event on making India self-reliant in defence sector through video conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that government aims to increase defence manufacturing in India“For many years, India has been one of the biggest defence importers. When India got independence, it had great capability in defence manufacturing and an ecosystem of defence manufacturing established over 100 years. Unfortunately, this subject couldn’t get requisite attention,” the prime minister said at Atmanirbhar Bharat Defence Industry Outreach Webinar.The prime minister further said that a decision has been taken to permit up to 74% FDI (foreign direct investment) in the defence manufacturing through automatic route.“Efforts being made to boost defence production, develop new technology and give big role to private players in defence sector,” PM Modi said. Import embargo on certain defence equipment aimed at giving boost to Indian defence industry, the prime minister said.“We also saw labour reforms recently; reform exercise not going to stop now,” PM Modi said at the webinar. “Our resolve for ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ not inward-looking, but for making India capable and boosting global peace and economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-aim-to-increase-defence-manufacturing-in-india-pm-modi-at-defence-industry-outreach-webinar/story-i9GX8gTEPtkUjiXzEvjJ6J.html
27-08-2020||India||Highlights: PM Modi addresses defence industry outreach webinar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Defence Industry Outreach Webinar’ through video conferencing. During the conference, PM Modi emphasised the need of making India self-reliant in the defence sector.Here are the highlights of the speech:‘To make India capable and boost global peace’Our resolve for ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ not inward-looking, but for making India capable and boosting global peace and economy, said PM Modi.‘To boost India’s ability of being net security provider in Indian Ocean’Our work for ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ will also boost India’s ability of being net security provider in Indian Ocean, said PM Modi. ‘To permit up to 74% FDI in the defence manufacturing ‘A decision has been taken to permit up to 74% FDI in the defence manufacturing through automatic route, said PM Modi.‘Give big role to private players in defence sector’Efforts being made to boost defence production, develop new technology and give big role to private players in defence sector, said PM Modi.‘Reform exercise not going to stop now’We also saw labour reforms recently; reform exercise not going to stop now. They will continue and we will not be tired from it, said PM Modi.‘For many years, India has been one of the biggest defence importers’For many years, India has been one of the biggest defence importers. When India got independence, it had great capability in defence manufacturing and an ecosystem of defence manufacturing established over 100 years. Unfortunately, this subject couldn’t get requisite attention, said PM Modi.‘To increase defence manufacturing in India’We aim to increase defence manufacturing in India, said PM Modi during the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-narendra-modi-addresses-atmanirbhar-bharat-defence-industry-outreach-webinar/story-VNIAxVj5O8yYLzzXeE5JsJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh gets 18 air routes under Centre’s UDAN scheme||The ministry of civil aviation has approved 18 new air routes for Uttar Pradesh, enhancing the connectivity of Kanpur, Moradabad, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Shravasti and Bareilly.“In Uttar Pradesh, Kanpur has been the major beneficiary in the latest routes sanctioned,” said Usha Padhee, joint secretary, ministry of civil aviation.Specifically, the routes for Uttar Pradesh announced on Thursday are Kanpur (Chakeri) to Moradabad, Moradabad to Kanpur (Chakeri), Kanpur (Chakeri) to Aligarh, Aligarh to Kanpur, Chitrakoot to Prayagraj, Prayagraj to Chitrakoot, Chitrakoot to Varanasi, Chitrakoot to Kanpur, Kanpur to Chitrakoot, Kanpur to Shravasti, Shravasti to Varanasi, Varanasi to Shravasti, Shravasti to Prayagraj, Prayagraj to Shravasti, Bareilly to Delhi and Delhi to Bareilly.The step has been taken under the Fourth Round of the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS), UdeDesh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN).“Following three successful rounds of bidding, the ministry of civil aviation launched the 4th round of UDAN in December 2019. However, in Uttar Pradesh we have come out with 18 new routes for air services.“Besides, Uttar Pradesh there was a special focus on North-Eastern Regions, hill states, and islands. The awarding of these 78 routes under UDAN 4 is in line with the Act East Policy of the Central government. The airports that had already been developed by AAI are given higher priority under the scheme,” said Padhee. Under UDAN 4, the operation of helicopter and seaplanes is also incorporated. The ministry has operationalised 274 UDAN routes that have connected 45 airports and three heliports. In all, 29 served, eight unserved (including two heliports and one water aerodrome), and two underserved airports have been included in the list for approved routes. Overall, 766 routes have been sanctioned (across the country) so far under the UDAN scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-gets-18-air-routes-under-centre-s-udan-scheme/story-7UoZCkaEMndB277gypQVaI.html
27-08-2020||India||After 5-hr meet on GST compensation, states get 7 days to choose from 2 options||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday chaired the 41st meeting of the GST Council that focused on the agenda of compensating states for revenue shortfall and has given the states two options to choose from.After the five-hour long meeting, revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said the GST collection was severely impacted due to the coronavirus pandemic and shortfall in FY21 stood at Rs 2.35 lakh crore of which Rs 97,000 crore was due to implementation of GST while the rest due to virus outbreak. Giving the breakup of the shortfall sum, Centre said the compensation requirement by the states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore is expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime. Hence, the total shortfall is estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore.Also read| Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy: Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the council discussed two options of compensating states for the current fiscal and has decided to give seven days to choose from the two. She said the GST Council will look at issue again in April next year. Explaining the first option, Pandey said a special window can be provided to the states, in consultation with the (Reserve Bank of India) RBI, at a reasonable interest rate for borrowing of Rs 97,000 crore. The amount can be repaid after five years (of GST implementation) ending 2022 from cess collection.Also read: GST severely hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, says Centre | HighlightsThe second option before the states is to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window.Sitharaman said the economy is facing an extraordinary ‘Act of God’ situation, which may result in economic contraction.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-5-hour-meet-on-gst-compensation-fm-sitharaman-gives-states-7-days-to-decide-from-2-options/story-BJ87sP8pIu7Sv8WiPGpO9K.html
27-08-2020||India||Goa becomes first state to have 1% of its population confirmed with Covid-19||Goa’s total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 15,000-mark on Wednesday evening, making Goa the first state in India where 1 percent of the total population is confirmed to have contracted the dreaded infection.Goa, which is the country’s smallest state by size - and fourth smallest by population behind Sikkim, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh - registered most of its 15,027 cases across June, July and August. The state was largely free from the virus in April and May.The Goa government has said that the high figures are due to the state’s high testing rate which stands at around 1.2 lakh tests per million. The state has conducted 1.86 lakh tests so far. Nearly 12 percent of the state’s population has already been tested for the infection.Goa’s case fatality rate has risen from 0.6 percent a few weeks ago and currently stands at around 1.2 percent with 165 persons already having succumbed to death.Also read: Call to protect Andaman tribes after 5 Great Andamanese turn Covid-19 positiveThis comes as Goa’s director of health services Dr José de Sa was found positive for the infection and has been admitted in a private hospital in the state. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat was quick to question if the director did not have faith in the facilities of his department.“As Director Health Services himself gets admitted in private hospital after testing #CovidPositive, The preparedness of @GovtofGoa on handling & management of #CoronaPandemic & #PublicHealthCare stands completely exposed. Now, I can only pray to God for [the] well being of all,” Kamat said in a tweet. On the brighter side, 11,511 patients have already recovered from the disease in the state while the number of active cases stands at 3,351. The patients recovery rate is at 76.6 percent.Those who have contracted the disease in Goa include Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH as well as five MLAs of whom one has recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-becomes-first-state-to-have-1-of-its-population-confirmed-with-covid-19/story-48YtpKfI9xGs16Vgsv4CoI.html
27-08-2020||India||Police stop PDP rally in Srinagar, detain half a dozen leaders||The Jammu and Kashmir police detained half a dozen leaders of the Peoples’ Democratic Party on Thursday in Srinagar after they tried to take out a rally to protest the detention of political leaders and alleged human rights violations.The police also stopped the PDP leaders from taking out procession. A PDP spokesman said that police stopped the peaceful protest of JKPDP leaders against the detention of political prisoners, the harassment of youth, the gag on the media and gross human rights violations. “Police detained PDP leaders Rouf Bhat, Hamid Qousheen, Shanti Singh, Arif Laigroo and Mohd Amin,” the party spokesman. Srinagar’s senior superintendent of police Haseeb Mughal said six people were taken into preventive detention.“There have been no arrests, only preventive detention. Six people were detained as they gathered amid Covid protocols which are in force,” Mughal said.It was the first time when PDP leaders tried to take out a protest rally from the party office in more than a year. Former J&K chief minister and the PDP president Mehbooba Mufti is still in detention under the Public Safety Act. She is now the only former CM under detention while two other former CMs, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were released after their detention under the PSA was revoked in March. Although many top PDP leaders are still under house arrest, the party is now slowly resuming its political activities. Some of the leaders have now become active on social media. “How long can we wait. So we have decided to break the silence,” said a senior PDP leader who was released recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-stop-pdp-rally-in-srinagar-detain-half-a-dozen-leaders/story-tx9rskD4pjASv4B1AdyrgN.html
27-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Unicef report flags unequal access to online classes across globe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Unicef report flags unequal access to online classes across globeAt least a third of the world’s schoolchildren, which works to around 463 million, could not access remote learning since schools have been shut down because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak since early this year, according to a new report released by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) on Thursday. Read moreGST severely hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, says CentreThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection has been severely impacted due to coronavirus pandemic this year, says Revenue Secretary after GST Council meeting on Thursday. Read moreMy ODI record was good before getting dropped: Ajinkya RahaneFor Ajinkya Rahane, the 2020 Indian Premier League (IPL) will be a new start. Captain of Rajasthan Royals for major part of the 2019 edition, Rahane was traded to Delhi Capitals for two spinners. It came after a long hiatus from limited-over cricket that saw him missing last year’s World Cup in England. Read moreMelania Trump or Adolf Hitler? Diet Prada calls FLOTUS out for flaunting fascist fashion at Republican National ConventionMelania Trump may be the better half of the most talked about man on Earth, but she has always been shrouded in mystique, and her relationship with Donald Trump, the present President of the United States, looks extremely strained, from the forced smiles to the hand slapping. Read moreHonda Hornet 2.0 launched at ₹1.26 lakhHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) on Thursday launched the new Hornet 2.0 at a price tag of ₹1,26,345 (ex-showroom, Gurugram). Read more‘20-year-old mystery solved in 24 hours’: Lost wallet returned to owner after nearly two decadesIn an incident, Ireland Police reunited a person with their wallet which they lost nearly two decades ago. Taking to Facebook, the police shared this good news along with an image of the wallet. Read more‘Sushant knew some dirty secrets, was killed’: Kangana Ranaut on drugs angleAfter a sensational drugs angle emerged in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, now actor Kangana Ranaut has also waded into the debate. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-unicef-report-flags-unequal-access-to-online-classes-across-globe-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BTKnIgedumxTVo296hhB0L.html
27-08-2020||India||GST severely hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, says Centre | Highlights||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection has been severely impacted due to coronavirus pandemic this year, says Revenue Secretary after GST Council meeting on Thursday. The Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held 41st Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting today. The states were guaranteed payment for any loss of revenue in the first five years of GST implementation from July 1, 2017 under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the compensation cess collection have jumped.At the meeting, two options of compensating states were discussed, including borrowing from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The finance minister said that the options discussed for meeting GST shortfall are only for the current fiscal. The GST Council will look at the issue again in April next year.The meeting was attended by Anurag Thakur, Minister of State (MoS) for Finance, finance ministers of various states and Union Territories (UT) and senior officers from the Union Government and states. After 5-hour-long meet, the GST Council held a video press conference with the media.“GST collection has been severely impacted this year, due to Covid-19 pandemic. As per GST Compensation Law, states need to be given compensation, “ Finance Secretary said during the conference.Here are the highlights from the video conference:- Central government released more than Rs 1.65 lakh crore as GST compensation to states for FY 2019-20, including Rs 13,806 crore for March. Total amount of compensation released for 2019-20 is Rs 1.65 lakh crore, whereas cess amount collected was Rs 95,444 crore: Finance Secretary - Attorney-General said that GST Compensation has to be paid for a transition period- from July 2017 to June 2022. Revenue has to be protected compensation gap to be met from cess fund, which in turn has to be funded from levy of cess: Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Finance Secretary on GST- As mentioned by Finance Minister in GST Council meeting held in March, legal views of the matter were sought from the Attorney General of India who said that GST compensation has to be paid for transition period from July 2017 to June 2022: Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey- The Attorney General of India said that protected revenue has to be protected but compensation gap to be met from cess fund, which in turn has to be funded from levy of cess: Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey- Compensation gap which has arisen this year (expected to be Rs 2.35 lakh crores), is due to Covid-19 as well. The shortfall in compensation due to the implementation of GST has been estimated to be Rs 97,000 crores: Finance Secretary on 41st GST Council Meet- AG’s clear opinion was that compensation gap cannot be met from India’s consolidated fund. Option 1 presented to GST Council was to provide a special window to states, in consultation with RBI to provide Rs 97000 crores at a reasonable interest rate: Finance Secretary Ajay Pandey - Option 2 presented to GST Council was that the entire GST compensation gap of Rs 2,35,000 crore of this year can be met by states, in consultation with RBI. These options will be sent to states for a view within 7 Days and will apply for this fiscal year only: Finance Secretary- States have asked us to give them 7 working days to think about the options. These options would be available only during the current year, the situation would be reviewed next year. We may have another GST meet soon: Finance Minister Nirmala Sithaaraman- Once the arrangement is agreed upon by GST Council, we can proceed fast & clear these dues and also take care of the rest of the financial year. These options will be available only for this year; in April 2021, the Council will review &decide action for 5th year: FM Sitharaman- There may be some states which may prefer to get hard-wired compensation rather than going to market to borrow more. Option was tailor-made considering that states can take a call depending on compensation they expect to come: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on GST compensation to states- During April-July 2020, total GST compensation to be paid is Rs 1.5 lakh crores, this is so because there was hardly any GST Collection in April and May: Revenue Secretary, Finance Ministry- Annual GST compensation requirement is estimated to be around Rs 3 lakh crores, and cess collection is expected to be around Rs 65,000 crores, leaving us with an annual compensation gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crores: Revenue Secy, Finance Ministry- Two-wheelers may merit to go to the GST council for a consideration: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on being asked about GST cut for two-wheelers during the media briefing of 41st GST Council meet- The government will give a further relaxation of 0.5% in states’ borrowing limit under FRBM Act as 2nd leg of Option 1. States can choose to borrow more, beyond expected compensation itself, since that is the injury caused by Covid-19: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on GST compensation to states||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-severely-impacted-this-year-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-says-gts-council/story-i3rDsSfhfhhLN4ZfrsbpTK.html
27-08-2020||India||China doesn’t budge in Ladakh border row, wants India to see ‘big picture’||India should look at the “big picture” of bilateral ties and work with China to bring the relationship back on track, the Chinese defence ministry said on Thursday, adding that New Delhi should avoid misjudgments.The remaining issues at the border need to be handled properly, defence ministry spokesperson Colonel Wu Qian further added on Thursday, indicating, like the Chinese foreign ministry had done last week, that disagreements at the friction points in eastern Ladakh are yet to be resolved.Wu was speaking at the monthly defence ministry press conference on Thursday and responding to a question on the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border between the two countries.Like the Chinese foreign ministry, Wu’s statement, published on the official military website, put the onus on India to reset ties, currently at its lowest in decades.Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks haven’t led to the restoration of the status quo as it existed in April before the faceoff between the border troops led to the deadly clashes at Galwan Valley on June 15 that killed 20 Indian soldiers. “…bearing in mind the big picture of bilateral ties and putting the border issue in an appropriate position in this big picture, avoid misjudgment, keep divergences from escalating into disputes, and take concrete steps to bring the bilateral relations back to the right track of normal development,” Wu was quoted as saying.The “big picture” advice to India in China’s diplomatic narrative seems to suggest that the tension at the border should not impact the remaining components -- like economic cooperation -- in the relations between the two countries. It was evident at the end of the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs that India and China had been unable to bridge their differences on disengaging troops at the LAC.New Delhi had emphasised that there were “outstanding issues” that needed to be resolved speedily at the meeting.Chinese defence ministry’s Wu, however, carried on with Beijing’s narrative, which has glossed over New Delhi’s concerns.On Thursday, Wu said that China and India have agreed to follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of both countries and other relevant agreements.Both countries should continue to “…maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, further ease and cool down the China-India border situation, properly handle the remaining issues, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.”The spokesperson added that China and India are important neighbours. “Maintaining peace and stability in the border area is not only conducive to both sides’ respective development, but also to regional and world peace and stability,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-at-big-picture-of-ties-china-messages-india-amid-running-border-row/story-tr14cvkZnlTlnLmEidadxM.html
27-08-2020||India||DGCA releases draft rules for use of Wi-Fi on flights||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA),the country’s aviation regulator, has released draft rules for the use of Wi-Fi on portable electronic devices (PEDs) during flights. Specifying that the services would be offered only on their device’s flight mode, the aviation regulator’s draft stated that internet services through Wi-Fi on flights will be available from 10,000 ft (3000 m) above sea level after departure or before arrival. Also read: Covid-effect: Before taking flight, a three-hour deep cleanDGCA has empowered the pilot in command (PIC) of a flight to deactivate the use of PEDs during any phase of flight. The regulator has also asked cabin crew, besides their other duties, to keep a watch on the passengers to ensure they comply with the prohibitory requirements.It has asked the airlines to conduct training for their crew on the PEDs that passengers cannot use on the flight. Airlines have been asked to even educate their cabin crew on the procedures and responsibilities concerning the use of PEDs. DGCA director general Arun Kumar said, “The aircraft operator has to ensure that the In-Flight and Maritime Connectivity (IFMC) services being provided en route are approved by the department of telecommunication and the aircraft has approval from the DGCA.”This comes five months after the central government permitted internet access to passengers through onboard Wi-Fi and issued official notification regarding the same on March 2. Passengers in India have been allowed the use of mobiles and laptops to play games, listen to songs, watch videos or do offline work since 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-releases-draft-rules-for-use-of-wi-fi-on-flights/story-pthRmZ3q94hbSHPTUbv0eL.html
27-08-2020||India||Defence ministry working to announce new air defence command by October: Report||Amid the ongoing conflict with China, the Department of Military Affairs has hastened the process of restructuring the armed forces as the new air defence command under the Indian Air Force (IAF) may come up at Prayagraj around the second week of October this year.“The work has been hastened to prepare the structure of the command under an Air Force officer. Efforts are being made to put everything together and announce the creation of the air defence command at Prayagraj around the Air Force Day on October 8 this year,” government sources told ANI.The air defence command is proposed to be set up alongside the Central Command Headquarters of the IAF which controls important air bases including Agra, Gwalior and Bareilly.The aim of the command is to combine the resources of the three services under one command and activate it to protect the air space of the country.A study in this regard was done by the IAF’s Vice Chief Air Marshal HS Arora which has also suggested the structure of the proposed command comprising assets of all the three services.The Department of Military Affairs under Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat has been given the mandate to create joint military commands along with theatre commands.The CDS is also working on the creation of the combined maritime command which would come up either at Kochi in Kerala or Karwar in Karnataka.Each service has its individual air defence set-up. The air defence command would integrate the air defence assets of the Army, Air Force and Navy and jointly provide air defence cover to the country.The CDS has also made it clear to the armed forces that he would not create any additional post at a three-star level for manning any of the new commands and the new formations would be raised from the existing resources only.Meanwhile, for protecting the air space of the country, a proposal for the acquisition of two new PHALCON Airborne Early Warning ad Control Systems from Israel and Russia has reached the Cabinet Committee on Security and may be taken up for clearance soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-working-to-announce-new-air-defence-command-by-october-report/story-h5E32GFFhhgKorJuzUZuGO.html
27-08-2020||India||Over 15 lakh people covered under specialised Covid-19 policies: Irdai chief||Need for demand-based insurance schemes has grown post the coronavirus pandemic, with more than 15 lakh people already being covered under the recently launched specialised Covid-19 policies, Irdai Chairman Subhash C Khuntia said on Thursday.Insurers must come to the rescue of the policyholders during these difficult times, he added.After watching the industry for some time, Irdai was compelled to come out with standard coronavirus policies -- Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak, Khuntia said. He was speaking at industry chamber Ficci’s annual insurance conference ‘FINCON 2020: India Insurance in the post-Covid World’, that took place virtually.“We must understand that in difficult times, insurance companies have to come to the rescue of the policyholders. It is the changing needs of the customers that we need to assess carefully, and we have to cater to that. I am happy that all of you have collaborated in bringing out these products and we have allowed the pricing (freedom) to the insurance companies.“More than 15 lakh lives have already being covered under these two products within a period of about a month and that shows what is the demand of the customers,” he said.Corona Kavach is a reimbursement-based policy, while Corona Rakshak is a fixed benefit cover against COVID-19. The health insurance providers launched products after the first week of July, in compliance with Irdai’s timeframe.Urging insurers to play a greater role in bad times, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) chairman asked them to be innovative both in terms of products and business operations.He said there is a need for simple and transparent products to cater to the changing needs of the customers, and it will be easier for the distribution channels also to solicit business.Khuntia highlighted that insurance industry operations are anti-cyclical in nature, meaning nobody needs protection in good times but wants to have adequate coverage as soon as emergencies or adverse times come.So there is huge scope for the companies to do business and grow during these times, which will be good both for the public and insurers, he stressed.The Irdai chief also tried to allay concerns raised by some insurers that the business prospects are likely to be dampened this year, saying insurers need to get out of this mindset and stop thinking that they should also float along with others as the economy is down.Khuntia said there is a huge business opportunity from small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as workers would like to ensure protection through group insurance policies, if they are not already covered, as and when they get back to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15-lakh-people-covered-under-specialised-covid-19-policies-irdai-chief/story-4ardAwOY7ZS6K4I49PptyI.html
27-08-2020||India||Bombay High Court rejects PIL on PM CARES fund||The Bombay High Court on Thursday rejected the public interest litigation (PIL), demanding appointment of three trustees, including two from opposition parties as per the scheme, to manage Prime Minister’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund).The Nagpur bench of the High Court also turned down a request made by petitioner Arvind Waghmare to remove private auditing firm M/s SAARC Associates. Waghmare had also demanded a declaration of the utilisation of money deposited in the fund.A division bench of the high court, consisting Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor, pronounced its verdict on Thursday morning and dismissed the petition on all the three counts. The bench found no merit in any of the pleas made by Waghmare expressing reservation about the existing mechanism.The petitioner, Waghmare, has appeared in person and sought a proper audit of PM CARE’s fund, the appointment of three trustees as per the scheme of the fund. He also demanded the declaration of money collected so far and its utilization.The PM Cares Fund was formed on March 28 this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner lawyer also claimed to have contributed to it.Also read: Decision on reopening gyms, places of worship likely in September first week - Sanjay Raut“This is not a personal fund of any political party,” he claimed while seeking the appointment of leaders belonging to opposition parties to make the functioning of the fund more transparent and inclusive. Additional Solicitor General of India, Anil Singh had sought the dismissal of the PIL filed by Waghmare and stated that the Supreme Court had already rejected the petition last week with detailed reasons. Singh added that most of the issues agitated in this PIL have been covered by the apex court’s ruling.The Centre strongly opposed the petition and dubbed it as politically motivated while doubting the intentions of the petition. The prime minister is the ex-officio chairman of the trust formed to manage the funds and senior ministers are ex-officio members. About the remaining three trustees, the petitioner had sought the appointment of opposition leaders as trustees. The Centre had made it clear that the prime minister had the discretion to appoint any three eminent persons and such a prayer was not legally tenable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-rejects-pil-on-pm-cares-fund/story-LgulVX1u3hdlajjYahqcRM.html
27-08-2020||India||Call to protect Andaman tribes after 5 Great Andamanese turn Covid-19 positive||A London-based campaign group that helped expose ‘human safaris’ in the Andaman Islands in 2012, has on Thursday, called for urgent action following reports that at least five members of the Great Andamanese tribe have tested positive for Covid-19, besides others.Survival International said concern was growing for the safety of other tribes on the islands, including the Jarawa and the uncontacted Sentinelese. Earlier this month, it was reported that five welfare staff working with the Jarawa tribe had tested positive for Covid-19.The group added that poachers were allegedly continuing to enter the territory, risking bringing in the virus, while last week eight fishermen were reportedly arrested for illegally entering the Jarawa’s territory.Sophie Grig, senior researcher with the group, said: “It is extremely alarming that members of the Great Andamanese tribe tested positive for Covid-19. They will be all too aware of the devastating impact of epidemics that have decimated their people”.“The Andaman authorities must act urgently to prevent the virus from reaching more Great Andamanese and to prevent infection in the other tribes. The waters around North Sentinel must be properly policed and no outsiders should enter the territories of any of the Andaman tribes without their consent,” she added.The group said in a release that the Great Andamanese are a small group of just over 50 survivors, down from more than 5000 when the British colonised the islands in the 1850s. They suffer from the long term impacts of diseases introduced by the brutal occupation. Tuberculosis and alcoholism are widespread, making them particularly vulnerable to Covid-19, it added.Also Read: Volunteers given first shots of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine are stable, three more get doses “The Jarawa are a nomadic hunter-gatherer tribe, who have only had friendly contact with settlers neighbouring their territory since 1998. Due to their isolation, relatively recent contact and the impact of two measles epidemics, they are also likely to be especially at risk from the virus”, the group said.It further added that the uncontacted Sentinelese-- the most isolated tribe in the world-- are extremely vulnerable to diseases from outsiders and the risk of them contacting the devastating infection is even greater during the global pandemic.Also Read: Health Ministry advises Covid screening for all TB patients and vice versa“Without proper patrolling of the waters around their island, they are at risk of coming into contact with poachers illegally fishing and diving for lobster,” said the group expressing their apprehensions about possible career of the disease to the protected tribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-to-protect-andaman-tribes-after-5-great-andamanese-turn-covid-19-positive/story-Bj2TXLDVQoTuF3Qmh6gjpJ.html
27-08-2020||India||2 arrested for raising Azadi slogans during Muharram procession in Srinagar||Police in Srinagar have arrested two persons for allegedly raising Azadi slogans during a Muharram procession, officials said Thursday.They said that those who raised slogans of Azadi during the Muharram procession were booked under the sedition law. While two persons were arrested, the police are on the lookout for others. “Midnight raids (on Tuesday night) were conducted in which two persons have been arrested and further arrests are expected in the said case and the investigation is going on,” Srinagar police said in a statement.The action was taken after a video surfaced on social media. “The mourners were found chanting pro Azadi slogans in a Jaloos-e-Aza (Muharram Procession). PS Parimpora has taken cognizance,” it said.The police acted swiftly and identified the location which is situated at the end of Hokersar Nowpora Bund, on the outskirts of the city. Hokersar is a wetland some 10 km from the heart of Srinagar.“The area is isolated and there was no history of organising any such unlawful gathering before, neither was there input of any gathering or procession nor was there any police presence, as the area is far from main Imambara,” the police said.The statement said that some youth from the neighbouring area of Budgam led by Sajad Hussain Parray, Arif Ahmad Dar and Raja Mehboob, all residents of Gund Hassi Bhat, allegedly took advantage of the isolated area to assemble and raise pro-Azadi slogans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-for-azadi-slogans-during-muharram-procession-in-srinagar/story-cyE6LhBz1sHdFB1LpvXV9J.html
27-08-2020||India||Volunteers given first shots of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine are stable, three more get doses||The two volunteers who were administered the Oxford Covid -19 vaccine doses at a Pune-based hospital as part of the phase II clinical trial have reported to be stable a day on even as shots were given to three more candidates on Thursday. According to Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, the first two candidates, both men, aged 32 and 48, have not reported any complaints and all their vital parameters appeared to be normal even after 24 hours. Also read: Moderna vaccine likely to work well on adults, says study“I have not reported any fever and pain since Wednesday. I have also started my routine work,” said one of the candidates who comes from the health sector and was also a candidate for the swine flu vaccine. Two volunteers were given doses of the ‘Covishield’ vaccine, made by Oxford and being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), at Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital at its Katraj campus on Wednesday. A day later, three more volunteers, two females and a male, were given shots of the vaccine. All these candidates, according to Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, will once again be given another dose after a month. “We are in touch with the two candidates who were given vaccine doses. Neither of them has reported systemic illness or pain and fever in the 24 hours ending Thursday afternoon. We will continue to monitor all the candidates being given the shots,” said Dr Oswal. The hospital has deputed doctors to monitor health condition of each candidate on an hourly basis. All the five volunteers were allowed to go home within minutes of being administered the vaccine, said hospital’s medical director Dr Sanjay Lalwani. SII had asked the hospital to carry out clinical trials on over 300 candidates. “We are planning to inject vaccine doses in at least 25 candidates within a week,” said Lalwani. According to him, the eligibility criteria is that the person must be aged between 18-99 years without any co-morbidities. He or she has to be tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, and also for antibodies of the virus. So, the person must not be currently, or previously have been, infected by Covid. SII, the world’s largest vaccine-maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/volunteers-given-first-shots-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-are-stable-three-more-get-doses/story-VrtPZU5AQNbCaEUKjVGnMJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Carbon emissions for 2020 to come down by 8% due to lockdown: Environment ministry||Due to the Covid-19 lockdown across India this year’s carbon emissions are predicted to fall by around eight per cent, a senior official of the environment ministry has said.During a virtual session organized by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Wednesday on ‘Paradigm Shift in Business Sustainability – Strategies to Meet the Challenges in the Post Covid-19 scenario’, Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said the pandemic has given an opportunity to jump start economies.“The pandemic has given a lot of challenges but it has given the opportunity to jump start the economies, rebuild societies through recovery plans and focus on climate change and environment conservation,” he said.Talking about the importance of environment and conservation of natural resources, he also insisted on the importance of bio-diversity. “We need to realize that our life and livelihood revolves around nature and the environment,” he said.“Due to the Covid-19 lockdown across India, carbon emissions are predicted to fall by around eight per cent in 2020,” Bajpayee said.He pointed out that “nature” is an essential source of many medicines and industries like construction, agriculture, food and beverages are highly dependent on it.  “Such industries require direct extractions of resources from the forest or rely on ecosystem services such as healthy soil, clean water, and a stable climate. Due to many reasons we are losing species and many have gone extinct, that has disrupted the eco-system,” he said.Bajpayee further said the impact of this pandemic is “so complex” that it will continue to be analyzed for years to come. He added that climate change and the pandemic are related to anthropogenic activities.“Due to the pandemic, many businesses need to change their models of sustainability and understand that we all need to take ownership of the future,” he said.Speaking at the session, D K Aggarwal, President, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry deliberated upon the improvement in the quality of air and water which he described as the “silver lining of the pandemic”.  “We could see the goodness of nature due to the lockdown and, we can see that nature had taken its course of stabilizing the things,” he said.Talking about business sustainability, he said in today’s times it’s driven towards contribution to the environment and society.“The environment is pivotal, we owe our duty and responsibility towards it to ensure that we do not pollute or damage it. In these times, many companies are investing their fund in Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG) companies. We need to give back to the planet, people, and profit to sustain the environment,” he added.J P Gupta, Chairman, Environment Committee, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said environment is a key driving factor for running industries and there is a need to be considerate towards the environment for sustainability and growth. Under the Paris Agreement, India had pledged to reduce the emissions intensity of GDP by 30-35 per cent by 2030 and create an additional carbon sink of 2.5-3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent through additional forest cover by 2030.Last month Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar had said that India has achieved reduction of 21 per cent in emission intensity of its GDP between 2005 and 2014, thereby achieving its pre-2020 voluntary target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carbon-emissions-for-2020-to-come-down-by-8-due-to-lockdown-environment-ministry/story-hP6IQrYUevX6XwQL5t21jO.html
27-08-2020||India||SC dismisses PIL seeking permission for holding Muharram processions||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation seeking permission for taking out Muharram processions, saying a general direction for the entire country in this regard will lead to chaos.“It is not possible to give general directions for the entire country. It will create chaos. That particular community will be targeted for spreading Covid-19... we do not want that,” a three-judge bench headed by the chief justice of India SA Bobde said. The bench said such an order can put the entire community in difficulty and noted that states were also not made parties by the petitioner, Muslim cleric Kalbe Jawad.The petitioner cited the concessions given by the court this month to the Jain community to worship at three of their temples in Mumbai for the last two days of the Paryushan festival. He said a similar relief was also granted by the court for conducting the Rath Yatra in Puri.The bench said in the Jain and Puri cases, they could assess risk as they were happening at a particular place. “You are seeking directions for the entire country.” It added that if the request was made for one place, it could be considered.Jawad’s lawyer, Azim H Laskar, pointed out that a majority of Shia Muslims, who mainly take out Muharram processions to mourn the killing of the Prophet’s grandson Hussain and other members of his family in the battle of Karbala in the seventh century, are concentrated in Lucknow. He said the processions are to be held on Saturday.The bench allowed the petitioner to approach the Allahabad High Court. “We cannot know what are the conditions there [in Lucknow]. You approach the High Court, “ said the bench.Two petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court seeking permission for taking out Muharram processions. Two days ago, the Supreme Court heard a similar plea seeking permission for taking out Muharram processions.The bench, headed by CJI Bobde, directed the petitioner, one Sipte Mohammad from Uttar Pradesh , to include all states in his petition and posted the matter for a hearing after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-pil-seeking-permission-for-holding-muharram-procession/story-p9zemX7ivmSLtDhohXAuNO.html
27-08-2020||India||Allahabad HC grants protection from arrest to journalist Supriya Sharma||The Allahabad High Court had granted protection from arrest to Supriya Sharma, executive editor of a leading news website in connection to an FIR lodged against her on the complaint of a Varanasi resident who alleged misrepresentation of her statements.A division bench comprising justice Manoj Misra and Anil Kumar on Tuesday disposed of the petition filed by Supriya Sharma seeking quashing of the FIR registered against her.The FIR was lodged at the Ramnagar police station by one Mala Devi, a resident of Varanasi’s Domari village, who complained that Sharma misrepresented her statements and made false claims in her media report.The petitioner’s counsel’s plea was that Sharma was in possession of an audio recording of the interview, the contents of which were reflected in the publication. The publication was a true representation of what was stated in the interview and the publication was made in public interest to highlight the condition of certain persons during nationwide lockdown in March this year. The court after hearing parties concerned, disposed off the petition while observing, “considering the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in mind that the petitioners claim that they have audio recording of the interview, the contents of which were reflected in the publication, we deem it appropriate to dispose off this petition by providing that investigation of the case shall continue and brought to its logical conclusion but petitioners shall not be arrested in the above case till submission of police report.”On June 13, police registered an FIR on a complaint by Mala Devi that Sharma misrepresented her statements and made false claims in her report. In her report, Sharma had quoted Mala saying that she faced extreme hardship, including lack of food or rations during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-journalist-supriya-sharma/story-8GA7tT20AqEQK9e2XqdauN.html
27-08-2020||India||Covid-19 update: UP health department all set to conduct first sero survey||Uttar Pradesh’s health and family welfare department will conduct its first serological survey, also called sero survey, in the state to determine the prevalence of coronavirus infection among people. The survey will begin from Friday (August 28) across 12 districts of the state.The districts include Bareilly, Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra.Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state health department, in coordination with King George’s Medical University (KGMU), had decided to carry out the survey.Chief medical officers (CMOs) of these districts were directed to constitute teams to collect samples and send them to laboratories for test, Prasad said. The report of the survey is likely to be released in September, he added. The sero survey also involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to determine the presence of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 infection.Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson for KGMU, said, “Our lab is ready for the sero survey testing. As soon as we start getting the samples, we will start testing.”“KGMU in Lucknow has been chosen by the health department for conducting tests of the samples collected from different districts, including the state capital,” he said.“We have been testing samples for Covid-19 on RT-PCR machines and the lab has been functioning here in the microbiology department since March. The staff is trained and equipment are ready,” Dr Singh said.Also read: As Covid-19 cases cross 24 million globally, a look at 5 much-awaited vaccinesMeanwhile, a separate sero survey is being conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across seven east and west UP districts, including Balrampur, Gonda, Mau, Unnao, Auraiya, Saharanpur and Gautam Buddh Nagar.An ICMR officer said, “The sero survey by different teams of the premier institute in seven districts of UP is part of the nationwide surveillance. The collection of samples in these districts was completed on August 24 and the samples have been sent to laboratories for test. The data will be released by National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai in mid-September,” he said.Earlier in May, the ICMR had conducted the sero survey in nine district - Amroha, Saharanpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bareilly, Balrampur, Mau, Auriaya, Gonda and Unnao. Merely a percent of the population in the nine districts had the evidence of past exposure to Sars-CoV-2.Previously, a sero survey was conducted during the lockdown when strict containment measures were in place to check the spread of the coronavirus infection. The second survey was conducted during the Unlock-3 phase when the central, as well as the state government, relaxed several restrictions, an ICMR officer said.“Several activities have restarted. There is a large intra-state movement of people as well as across the state. The data of Covid-19 infection released by the state government clearly shows that there has been a spike in the infection in the urban hubs of Uttar Pradesh. The second sero survey conducted in Delhi found that 29.1 percent of the population has developed antibodies against Covid -19,” the officer added.Also read: Health Ministry advises Covid screening for all TB patients and vice versa“The second sero survey conducted by the ICMR in UP will give a clear picture of the spread of infection in UP,” the officer added.A state health department official said while the ICMR was conducting the survey in the districts with a large rural population, the state health department was carrying out the survey in urban hubs of UP where the maximum spread of the infection was being reported.“The sero surveys by the ICMR and the UP government will give an insight into the extent of Covid-19 infection. The state government can amend its containment plan accordingly,” he said.It will be the first serological survey in Prayagraj and Kaushmabi districts covering 45 locations each, including randomly selected villages and municipal corporation wards under various local bodies and development blocks in these two districts. The exercise is aimed at testing a random section of the population for antibodies against the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease.The officials plan to collect around 1,500 samples from each of the two districts during the survey. The 45 different villages/wards in Prayagraj have an overall population of around 24,986 persons, while those in Kaushambi have a population of around 16,076 as per the 2011 census.The health department is likely to launch a sero survey of 3,240 people in Meerut, Baghpat and Ghaziabad districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Friday, the officials said.Divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan explained the survey would help in knowing how many people had developed antibodies to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen. He said the authorities in Lucknow had sent a list of 45 areas in each district selected for the survey. These areas have been divided into four parts. The survey would focus on six houses (families) in each part. Samples of 24 people (ageing between 19 to 59 years) would be collected from each part. A total of 1,080 samples would be collected in each district and the total number of samples for the three districts would be 3,240 samples.In Meerut division, thirty-three teams of medical officers and other staff have been constituted for the survey in the three districts. Thirteen teams in Meerut and ten teams each in Bagpat and Ghaziabad have been constituted for the survey.Dr Taliyan said the number of teams was likely to go up in Ghaziabad because it was a bigger district. Each team will comprise a medical officer, a lab technician, a lab assistant, an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) and Asha worker (accredited social health activist) of the area.These three districts have so far reported 11,689 Covid-19 cases and 193 deaths. There are 1,888 active cases now. Baghpat has reported 828 Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths, Meerut has 3,464 cases and 110 deaths while Ghaziabad has reported 7,397 positive cases and 67 fatalities.In Agra, 40 members, including 10 doctors, are being selected for the survey. Ten teams having four members each will be assigned the task. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey said, each team will have a doctor, a lab technician, an Asha (accredited social health activist) worker and an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife).”“These 40 members would be trained by ICMR representatives after they reach Agra. The survey would be conducted as per the guidelines laid down by the ICMR,” Dr Pandey said. According to him, there are 45 locations which the team would visit for the survey in both rural and urban areas.Varanasi is also geared up for sero survey. Ten teams have been constituted for the survey here, chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said.The sero survey is part of a larger statewide exercise. It is expected to begin on August 28 to assess the extent of spread of the coronavirus infection among the population of the district. It will also gauge the percentage of the population that has developed antibodies against the disease.Blood samples of the people in the age bracket of 18 and 59 years will be taken from various localities that will be randomly selected by the health teams. These teams will collect 240 samples from 10 different areas of the district and send them to Lucknow for examination.Dr Singh said preparations for the survey had been completed. The travel history, occupation and age of people whose blood samples will be taken will also be recorded during the survey.The findings from the survey would help develop plans for prevention of Covid-19 and its spread across the state. Blood samples of 24 people from six houses — four persons each from a house — will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-up-health-department-all-set-to-conduct-first-sero-survey/story-L4AAHmhJpOeomVqRrSwrzH.html
27-08-2020||India||Health Ministry advises Covid screening for all TB patients and vice versa||Covid screening for all diagnosed Tuberculosis (TB) patients and TB screening for all Covid-19 positive patients should be conducted, said the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) issued a guidance note on bi-directional TB-Covid screening and screening of TB among influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) cases.Both TB and Covid-19 primarily attack the lungs, and the prevalence of TB among Covid-19 patients has been found to be 0.37 - 4.47 percent in different studies, the note read.It further added that there has been an overall decline in TB notification by 26 percent during January to June 2020 as compared to the previous year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Tuberculosis is associated with a 2.1-fold increased risk of severe Covid-19 disease. In addition, TB patients also tend to have co-morbid or living conditions (malnutrition, diabetes, smoking, HIV etc) that increase their vulnerability,” the note said.Therefore, the Ministry has advised for all newly diagnosed TB patients or those currently on treatment should be tested for Covid-19. Based on its result, further management should be undertaken as per the MoHFW guidelines and the treatment of TB should continue uninterrupted.Further, all Covid-19 cases should be screened for TB symptoms using the 4-symptom complex (Cough for over 2 weeks, persistent fever for over 2 weeks, significant weight loss, night sweats), history of contact with TB case, history of TB and those symptomatic should be offered chest X-ray and upfront Nuclear Acid Amplification Test (NAAT)- CBNAAT/TrueNat) for diagnosis of TB.It has also advised linkages of TB service facilities with Covid isolation facilities for intensive management of TB-Covid co-morbid patients.Further for ILI and SARI cases, testing for TB should be conducted, the Ministry advised.After 75,760 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, India’s coronavirus tally crossed the 33-lakh mark on Thursday, according to the MOHFW.With 1,023 new deaths, the cumulative toll has reached 60,472 deaths. The Covid-19 case tally in the country climbed to 33,10,235 including 7,25,991 active cases, and 25,23,772 cured/discharged/migrated.With 1,73,195 cases, Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases and 23,089 patients have succumbed to the disease in the state.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 9,24,998 samples were tested on Wednesday and over 3.85 crore samples have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-advises-covid-screening-for-all-tb-patients-and-vice-versa/story-JDE5yBaDcAB8vHna8x0X1I.html
27-08-2020||India||NEET, JEE debate intensifies: 10 latest developments||The political debate raging over the conduct of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) has intensified on Thursday with several experts and politicians, expressing contrasting opinions on the issue. While several voices in favour of holding the important examinations have emerged over the last 24 hours, those opposed to the tests citing the coronavirus disease are far from giving up. Here’s a list of 10 most important developments that have taken place in the last 24 hours. 1. After the Union education minister expressed his disappointment over opposition’s stand against the conduct of NEET on September 13 and JEE Main from September 1-6, citing future of lakhs of students appearing for the papers, the home minister of BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh government his urged the opposition to not make it an “issue”. Narottam Mishra said that the NEET and JEE examinations are not any other examination and the students passing these examinations contribute to nation-building therefore holding them was essential.2. Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have also thrown their weight behind holding the examination. They have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that delaying the medical and engineering entrance exams any further will mean compromising the future of students. They also alleged that some people are trying to play with the future of students by opposing the conduct of the examinations to propel their own political agenda. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, Lucknow University, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others.3. Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice-Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar has also advocated the conduct of the examination as per the schedule in September so that students don’t have to deal with a zero academic year in their careers. He said that the authorities should be trusted with enforcing necessary standard operating protocols to safeguard the students at the examination centres.4. Uttarakhand government officials have said that they will be following the Centre’s guidelines and conduct the examinations as per the schedule. They said the board examinations held in the state, figuring a greater number of students, gives them the required confidence to hold the twin tests successfully despite the concerns around the pandemic. 5. Members of Uttarakhand unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest on Wednesday demanding postponement of the entrance exams. The protesters burned an effigy of Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, the Union minister of education. They also alleged that apart from the threat presented by the coronavirus pandemic, the incessant rains and the resultant landslides in various parts of the hilly state was likely to inconvenience students in reaching examination centres. 6. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday spoke out against the plan to conduct JEE and (NEET in the middle of Covid-19 pandemic. Yadav said the exams will put the lives of lakhs of students at risk. “Exams for life. This will not work, this will not work,” he tweeted in Hindi.7. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday directed State advocate general Atul Nanda to coordinate with his counterparts in other Opposition ruled states for filing a collective review petition in the Supreme Court seeking deferment of NEET, JEE exams. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, in a meeting yesterday, had asked for governments in opposition-ruled states to jointly approach the Supreme Court seeking postponement of the two examinations. Captain Amarinder Singh had seconded her proposal in the meeting.8. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone and requested him to postpone NEET and JEE exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation in the state, news agency PTI reported. Patnaik had written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank with a similar request two days ago.9. The Congress on Wednesday announced that it will hold countrywide protests on August 28 to oppose the government’s decision to hold NEET, JEE exams during the pandemic. Senior party leader KC Venugopal said the move is in line with concerted opposition to this “dictatorial move” of the government. State units of the Congress will be holding protests on Friday at 11 am in front of central government offices at state and district headquarters.10. The national testing agency (NTA), which is conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on September 13 for admission to medical colleges, has increased the number of centres in Haryana from 30 to 40 this time. However, all the centres are located in the two cities of Gurugram and Faridabad-- among the worst affected by Covid in the state. As many as 16,298 candidates will appear for NEET this year in Haryana against last year’s 14, 686 aspirants. The number of centres in Haryana for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) stands at 16 this time as against the 15 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-jee-debate-intensifies-10-latest-developments/story-BxdXxli3lZlaO3NJh6nPuO.html
27-08-2020||India||Goa’s health services director tests positive for Covid; state’s tally over 15,000||An official from Goa’s health department on Thursday said the state’s health services director Dr Jose DSa tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease and has been admitted at a private hospital near the capital city of Panaji.The official said DSa was hospitalised on Wednesday after he complained of cough and fever and later tested positive for Covid-19 adding that his condition is stable.According to the union health ministry’s dashboard, Goa has registered over 15,000 Covid-19 cases till now. The total cases include 11,511 discharges, 165 deaths and 3,351 active cases. The state government has been under pressure from opposition parties over its handling of the Covid-19 situation. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat questioned the government’s readiness to tackle the crisis after DSa got admitted in a private hospital and not in a state-run facility.On the other hand, Goa’s health authorities have defended their approach of dealing with the pandemic by saying that the overall fatality rate is less than one per cent and majority of the patients who were at a critical stage have been cured. Meanwhile, India on Thursday logged its highest-ever spike of 75,760 new Covid-19 cases. The overall tally is now over 3.31 million and the death toll stands at 60,000 while the recovery rate is over 76 per cent. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-health-services-director-tests-positive-for-covid-state-s-tally-over-15-000/story-upnIHZgiXdFfm3fEM9zMhM.html
27-08-2020||India||Assam natural gas well continues to blaze, 3 months since blowout||It’s been three months since a natural gas well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) at Baghjan in Tinsukia district of Assam had a blowout and caught fire two weeks later. But efforts to douse the flame have failed till date. Also read: At Baghjan OIL blowout site, endangered species at risk, says reportOn August 17, foreign experts engaged by OIL were able to cap the well by placing a blow out preventer (BOP) stack over the well head. But the problem surfaced two days later when attempts were made to douse the fire by ‘killing the well’. To kill a well, a “kill fluid”, sludge-like specially prepared mud, is injected into the well slowly to push the gas from it back to the reservoir. The well at Baghjan is around 3.5 km deep and the operation to douse the fire was expected to be over within the next 36 hours. But the operation had to be suspended on August 19 following rupture of a casing valve. The setback has forced the experts to plug all technical glitches before making another attempt to douse the fire. “Work is underway at the well site and we are looking at another killing attempt in the next few days. Before that, the experts are doing some additional cementing work to strengthen the annulus (gaps between casing pipes),” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika on Thursday. “We have completed nearly 70% of that work. We should be able to make another attempt at killing the well in another 2-3 days. If things go as per plans, the entire operation could be over in one week,” he added. With the first attempt to douse the fire failing, Hazarika said that OIL is also looking at other more time consuming options like cutting the entire damaged portion of the casing pipes and replacing them with new ones or to dig up a relief well, which is used to intercept and kill a blowout well. “Since we have already placed the BOP, we are also considering producing gas from the well partially. If we are able to do that, then the killing operation will be slightly easier because the pressure of the gas will be reduced,” he said. The blowout _ uncontrolled release of gas or oil _ during an operation to locate a new gas reservoir happened on May 27. On June 9, the well caught fire, killing two firefighters, destroyed over a dozen nearby houses and displaced thousands of residents from nearby areas. Initially, OIL had said it would take a month to cap the well and douse the fire. Later, the deadline was extended to July 7. But floods and technical issues kept adding to the delay while thousands of residents continue to remain affected. At present, two relief camps are in operation where around 3,600 persons from areas close to the well are taking shelter. According to OIL, around 2,700 families have been surveyed till date for compensation. “The loud noise from the well, which started on May 27, still continues to affect residents. Mild vibrations are occurring once in a while. Till date, no one from OIL has approached us to take stock of damages suffered due to the blowout and fire,” said Hiren Senapoti, a resident of Natun Rongagora village. Since the Baghjan well is located close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, there were fears of environmental damage to the area. Studies by different agencies had been commissioned to measure extent of damage. In June, National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife and environment because of it. “Maguri Motapung Wetland is an important roosting site for many migratory birds. We were expecting the blowout to be capped and the fire doused within a month, but with the delay, it might affect their arrival,” said Deborshee Gogoi, assistant professor at Digboi College and wildlife cartoonist and bird enthusiast. “The migratory birds start arriving at Maguri Motapung from September. But this year, they might not come due to the noise from the blowout and also because of damage to the wetland as a result of oil condensate getting mixed with in the water bodies of the area,” he added. According to OIL estimates, around 1 lakh standard cubic meter (SCM) of gas has got released daily from the well __ that’s nearly 90 lakh SCM of gas since the blowout. The Baghjan incident has affected production in other nearby oil and gas wells leading to losses of around Rs 40 cr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-natural-gas-well-continues-to-blaze-3-months-since-blowout/story-TCFj0M9lwUsLRUCJxXGkAO.html
27-08-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik dials PM Modi to seek postponement of NEET, JEE exams||Two days after he wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal seeking postponement of National Eligibility cun Entrance Test and Joint Entrance Examination (Main), Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on phone on Thursday reiterating his demand for putting off the exams.In his conversation with Modi, Patnaik advocated the postponing the exams because of the alarming Covid -19 situation as well as floods in the state that has gripped many districts, according to an official statement.Patnaik said over 50,000 students of Odisha who are to appear in the tests this year may face difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods.On August 25, Patnaik in his letter to the Union education minister had suggested that if the exams are held at a later date then separate examination centres can be assigned to each district of Odisha instead of just seven currently allocated.On Wednesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had suggested that all opposition chief ministers should jointly approach the Supreme Court to seek postponement of JEE and NEET exams in view of Covid-19. Last week, the Supreme Court refused to entertain a plea seeking postponement of JEE and NEET, saying that life cannot be stopped and the career of students cannot be put in jeopardy.The National Testing Agency has scheduled to conduct the JEE (Main) exam for admission into technical courses from September 1 to 6 and NEET which is for medical courses, on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-dials-pm-modi-to-seek-postponement-of-neet-jee-exams/story-6vdZuDCTYRE0v4uNJC4VdO.html
27-08-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally crosses 90,000-mark; 3,384 new cases||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally on Thursday crossed the 90,000-mark with the highest single-day spike of 3,384 fresh cases, while the death toll rose to 448 as seven more patients succumbed to the disease, the state health department said.3,384 new Covid-19 positive cases, 3,343 recoveries and 7 deaths have been reported in Odisha on Thursday. The total number of cases now stands at 90,986 including 27,672 active cases, 62,813 recoveries and 448 deaths.“Regret to inform the demise of seven #COVID-19 positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said on Twitter.Ganjam accounted for 183 of the 448 Covid-19 deaths reported in Odisha so far, followed by 57 in Khurda district, an official of the state health department said.Of the fresh cases, 2,128 were detected in quarantine centres, while 1,256 people tested positive for the infection during contact tracing, the official said.The state had registered its previous highest-single day spike of 3,371 new cases on Wednesday.Odisha has so far tested 15,53,257 samples for Covid-19, including 68,090 on Wednesday, the official added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-90-000-mark-3-384-new-cases/story-xZ9bRdluanKV0tDybaAcoM.html
27-08-2020||India||‘Unfortunate’ that Jitin Prasada is being targeted in UP, tweets Kapil Sibal||Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among those who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul, on Thursday alleged that party leader Jitin Prasada is being targeted in Uttar Pradesh and termed it as “unfortunate”. Prasada, a former union minister, was among the signatories to the letter that sought an active and full-time party president. Prasad is also a special invitee to the CWC.“Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP.Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own,” Sibal said on Twitter. Reacting to it, another Congress leader, Manish Tewari who was also a signatory to the letter, posted a single word “Prescient” on Twitter.   The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress reportedly passed a resolution demanding action against Prasad, a leader from Uttar Pradesh, and has accused his family of being against the Gandhi family. Jitender Prasad, the father of Jitin Prasada, had also unsuccessfully contested for the post of Congress president against Sonia Gandhi in the past, the DCC reportedly said.The charge comes three days after the Congress Working Committee urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president and bring about organisational changes. The CWC was convened to discuss the leadership issue and the letter written by over 20 leaders on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-that-jitin-prasad-is-being-targeted-in-up-tweets-kapil-sibal/story-Tw5SkpaoTrhN1Bxb34UINO.html
27-08-2020||India||Inter-state bus service resumes in Chhattisgarh, guidelines issued||Chhattisgarh government resumed inter-state public transport, along with vehicles covered under All India Tourist permit, in the state from Thursday. The guidelines for the movement of buses have been issued by the Chhattisgarh transport department which states that buses will only stop at places which have been decided by the department.The order in this regard was released by the transport commissioner on Wednesday. The official said that bus operators have been instructed to keep a record of the route. No e-pass is required for the journey but the contact details of every passenger should be maintained so that it can be presented before the district administration for any contact tracing.During the entire duration of the journey, the passengers, bus staff and drivers will have to cover their faces. Other than that, while boarding or de-boarding the bus, physical and social distancing norms will need to be followed.Also read: India records highest-ever single-day spike of over 75,000 Covid-19 cases“Buses should be sanitized with sodium hypochlorite... During the travel, every norm mentioned by the government should be followed. Cigarette, paan, gutka, tobacco consumption is restricted in the driver’s cabin and if there is no driver cabin, then it will be created by plastic,” the state government said in the release.Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh reported 1,209 new coronavirus cases and eight fatalities on Wednesday taking the cumulative Covid-19 tally in the state to 24,386. Covid-19 death toll stands at 229 in the state. As many as 413 patients were discharged from hospitals following recovery from the viral infection. Raipur, the worst-hit district, reported 514 new patients, taking the case tally in the district to 8,632.The district has witnessed 121 deaths so far.Other districts where new patients were detected included Durg (112), Raigarh (70), Rajnandgaon (47), Mahasamund (36), Bijapur (28), Bilaspur (24), Bastar (23), Narayanpur (21), Bemetara (20), Surguja (20), Dhamtari (18), Kanker (14), Balod (13) and Balodabazar (13).Twelve cases each were reported from Janjgir-Champa and Mungeli districts, 11 from Surajpur, nine from Kabirdham, seven each from Kondgaon and Sukma districts, six from Dantewada, three from Balrampur while one case each came from Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi and Jashpur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inter-state-bus-service-resumes-in-chhattisgarh-guidelines-issued/story-t71mdlDCsFdNMsFjLivnGM.html
27-08-2020||India||Congress seniors demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than Modi-Shah, BJP: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena took on the 23 senior Congress leaders, who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi demanding a “full time and effective leadership” in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday. It questioned the leaders’ support over the past six years when Rahul Gandhi faced scathing attacks from the Bharatiya Janata Party, and said that they were more responsible for demoralising him than the BJP leaders.The editorial remarked that none of signatories of the letter were mass leaders, questioning their ability to become active leaders within their own party. The signatories of the said letter include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor, Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan, among others.Also Read: 7 hours of fireworks at CWC“Rahul Gandhi was active and he singlehandedly took on the Modi-Shah duo. He led a change in the country in the Assembly elections. Where were these active letter-writing champions when the BJP attacked him below the belt? The old Congress leaders have demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than the below-the-belt attacks of the BJP under Modi-Shah,” the editorial read. The Sena had earlier backed the leadership of Rahul Gandhi. Sena leader Sanjay Raut had said that the Gandhi family was the “Aadhaar card of the Congress” and the demand for a non-Gandhi to lead the party was inappropriate. Attacking the signatories of the letter, the Sena also said that none of them had the ability to stir a crisis within the party. “Those who have written the letter are reaching the age of 70. And none of them is a mass leader even at a district-level, let alone country- or state-level. Despie that, most of them have enjoyed chief ministirial posts, Union ministership, and several other important posts. P Chidambaram is a noted lawyer, when did he become a leader... What do we say about Prithviraj Chavan and Milind Deora? Prithviraj Chavan had to seek thehelp of Sharad Pawar to win an election in Satara. It is laughable that such people have sought active leadership in the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seniors-demoralised-rahul-gandhi-more-than-modi-shah-bjp-shiv-sena/story-tVGqE01U3D8DDIV96G3GJJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh launches mobile app for NCC training||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday launched a mobile training application (app) for the National Cadet Corps (NCC) to help conduct online training of cadets that have been disrupted by the unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Also read: DRDO lists 108 items to boost local industry“In view of the restrictions imposed by Covid-19, training of NCC cadets has been affected adversely as it is mostly contact-based. Since schools and colleges are not likely to open in the near future, a need was felt that training of NCC cadets should be imparted utilising the digital medium,” the defence ministry said in statement. Singh interacted with NCC cadets via a video-conference during the launch of the app. In his address to the cadets, the minister said the app would be useful for digital learning and help overcome the difficulties posed by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-launches-mobile-app-for-ncc-training/story-xTsId0UlHmMWQJ7BKRkeIN.html
27-08-2020||India||UP cops begin probe after Cong MLA’s grandmother accuses her of harassment||Uttar Pradesh police have started a probe after Congress lawmaker from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh’s grandmother Kamla Singh lodged a complaint accusing the MLA of harassing her over a property issue.Rae Bareli’s superintendent of police Swapnil Mamgain has tasked additional SP Nityanand Rai to probe the octogenarian’s charge against her granddaughter. “The complaint (against the MLA) was received by Rae Bareli city Kotwali police on August 10. It is over property dispute and harassment. An additional SP has been asked to probe the allegations. But so far neither the complainant nor any of her family or associates have turned up to record their statements,” Mamgain said on Thursday. No FIR has been registered in this regard so far, the police said. In her complaint to the police, 85-year-old Kamla Singh, who lives in Lalupur Chauhan village of Maharajganj, has accused Aditi and some other relatives of barging into her house on December 30, 2019 and threatening her with dire consequences if she did not transfer her property in their name.While the Congress MLA did not respond to calls, sources close to her said she did not want to speak as it was a family matter. All attempts to talk to the octogenarian have been unsuccessful so far, they said.“She would rather avoid talking about it in the media. It’s a family matter and she would rather prefer not to go public on this subject,” the source said.However, Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress, upset with Aditi Singh for ‘edging closer’ to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleged that Aditi was affected by ‘BJP culture’. “Now that Aditi Singh is in BJP, she would obviously show some signs of them. Respecting elders isn’t taught in the BJP,” the Congress tweeted. Hitting back, UP BJP secretary Chandramohan said, “It’s shameful and disgusting that the Congress is choosing to turn a family matter into a political one. Which party Aditi ji belongs to is immaterial. She is a woman and an MLA and the matter is personal. It seems the Congress has lost all morality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-begin-probe-after-cong-mla-s-grandmother-accuses-her-of-harassment/story-SFupvFH4HSM6aSwPA1JR0L.html
27-08-2020||India||Beheaded body of woman found in Jharkhand’s Ranchi, victim unidentified||A beheaded body of a woman in her mid-twenties was found in a forest area in Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi, police said on Thursday. The body and the head of the lady were found in two separate places at Sita-Nala forest area in Ranchi’s Sonahatu block. Though the police are yet to establish her identity, the woman appears to be married as she was found wearing a Mangalsutra.Police are suspecting either family dispute or rape to be a reason behind the murder.The body has been sent for post-mortem. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to reach any conclusion. Meanwhile, we are also ascertaining the identity of the lady. It is possible that she was killed somewhere else and her body was thrown here,” said officer in-charge of Sonahatu police station, Manohar Karmali.Also Read: Jharkhand caps fee for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals“The body of the lady was found on Wednesday. Since then, we are trying to ascertain her identity. We visited two to three villages asking people about her identity but nobody in two three villages recognized her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beheaded-body-of-woman-found-in-jharkhand-s-ranchi-victim-unidentified/story-HQnPChOPI6s5jBRKEwNMfM.html
27-08-2020||India||Rains continue for second day in J&K||Incessant rains lashed Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) for the second consecutive day on Thursday and brought down the day temperature of Srinagar by six degrees Celsius (C). The water bodies in the union territory (UT) have also swollen because of the seasonal monsoon rain. The meteorological department predicted that most parts of J&K would receive moderate to heavy rainfall over the next couple of days. In the past 24 hours, 123 millimetres (mm) of rainfall was recorded by Jammu’s Katra weather station . While Jammu’s Bantalab and Rajouri weather bureaus received 74 mm of rainfall each. In the Kashmir Valley, the ski resort of Gulmarg received the highest rainfall of 32.8 mm of rainfall, followed by Srinagar’s Shalimar station (32 mm).The maximum temperatures have come down across the UT. In Srinagar, the maximum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 22.6 degrees C, which is six degrees below normal. In Jammu, the mercury settled at 29.8 degrees C, which is around three degrees below normal. The minimum night temperature was 16.8 degrees C in Srinagar, while in Jammu it was 22.5 degrees C.Though the water level of the Jhelum river is rising at Ram Munshi Bagh and Asham, it is still flowing below the danger mark at key monitoring points in south, central and north Kashmir. The weather office has predicted that precipitation would lessen from Friday with scattered rainfall. There is a forecast for rainfall at isolated places on Saturday as well.“The rainfall is expected to continue on Thursday night and the weather may improve from Friday morning. There may be some scattered rainfall on Friday,” said meteorologist M Hussain Mir.The downpour had started in parts of J&K on Wednesday that caused several landslides on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway. Traffic has been suspended on the highway since Tuesday following a landslide. “A stretch of road caved in at Ramban on Tuesday. The highway is closed for the third consecutive day” said an official at the traffic control room in Srinagar.He said that the Mughal Road is open for trucks carrying fruits from the Kashmir Valley, and Srinagar-Leh highway is also operational.The rains have brought relief to farmers reeling under dry weather conditions for the past three months.So far, Kashmir received scanty rainfall this monsoon that caused a shortage of drinking water across the Valley and also affected the agricultural and horticultural yield. The temperatures have also hovered largely above normal.On August 17, Srinagar had recorded its highest temperature at 35.7 degrees C, which was six degrees above normal. It was a record in 39 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-continue-for-second-day-in-j-k/story-tZS3EupX3BNomVU1RzHfOK.html
27-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Naveen Patnaik speaks to PM Modi over phone, seeks postponement of NEET, JEE exams and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha CM dials PM Modi, requests postponement of NEET, JEE examsOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone and requested him to postpone NEET and JEE exams, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation in the state, the Chief Minister’s Office said. Read moreUttar Pradesh girl drugged, gang-raped, forced into prostitution in VaranasiA 15-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district was allegedly drugged and forced into flesh trade by a beauty parlour owner in Ramnagar area of Varanasi, police said, adding that the matter came to light on August 16 night when the girl managed to escape from the captivity and reached police outpost in Ramnagar and narrated her story. Read moreKadha recipe: Bhagyashree credits this ‘home remedy’by mother-in-law that works magic on cold, cough and feverThe coronavirus pandemic saw people retreating to ayurvedic herbs and medicines to amp up their immunity system and Bollywood actor Bhagyashree too couldn’t help but share her guaranteed cure for treating cold. Read moreMessidependencia: At Barca, Lionel is a habitIt is difficult to put into words the influence of Lionel Andres Messi at Barcelona. Over the last decade and a half, the two names have become one—Messi is Barcelona, Barcelona is Messi. In that time, the Catalans have become used to seeing arguably the world’s greatest ever footballer spur them to a glut of trophies year after year. Read moreWatch: Kamala Harris recalls ‘walks along the beach in India’ with grandfatherDemocratic Party Vice President nominee Kamala Harris posted videos on social media site Twitter recalling her times in India and the walks along the beach with her grandfather. She said that her grandfather would often discuss the importance of fighting for democracy and civil rights. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-naveen-patnaik-speaks-to-pm-modi-over-phone-seeks-postponement-of-neet-jee-exams-and-all-the-latest-news/story-joKWMoO10q5tqsHaPCZK5H.html
27-08-2020||India||Man strangled to death in UP’s Kaushambi, body left on fields||A 25-year-old man was strangulated by unidentified assailants in Chhabilha village in Kaushambi district of Uttar Pradesh late Wednesday night, police said.The body was found in the fields on Thursday morning.Senior police officials reached the spot and began investigations.According to reports, Iftekhar Ahmad’s son Abu Saima went to water his fields on Wednesday morning but did not return home. His family launched a search for him but to no avail. On Thursday morning, some villagers spotted a body lying in the fields outside the village and raised an alarm. The body was later identified as that of Abu Saima by his family members.Kaushambi ‘s superintendent of police Abhinandan also reached the spot and called the dog squad and a field unit for investigations. Circumstances suggest that Abu Saima was strangled. His mobile was found near his body.“The family and friends of the deceased are being questioned.The exact circumstances of his death can be ascertained only after receiving an autopsy report,” Abhinandan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-strangled-to-death-in-up-s-kaushambi-body-left-on-fields/story-om1tyxqJB1H8koYJNMFsHJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Amid pandemic, these youngsters win hearts with their acts of kindness||Kindness and compassion are virtues not just limited to adults. Kids and youngsters too are not far behind when it comes to helping those in need. When the Covid-19 lockdown hit the lives of thousands of migrants workers, some youngsters came forward in lending a helping hand to the migrants to tide over the crisis.From teaching kids of migrant workers to arranging jobs, these youngsters from different schools played a crucial role in easing out the woes of those in need.Abhigyan Prakash (19), a student of B com-LLB Hons at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU), roped in other like-minded students and took upon the responsibility of teaching children of migrant labourers. “During the first two months of the lockdown, we analysed the problems faced by children of migrant workers and felt they were missing out on their school education while private school kids were engaged in online classes. On May 28, we reached out to Kakori block pramukh, Ram Vilas Rawat, and discussed with him how to help them,” said Abhigyan.Pushpendra Rai, a class 12 pass out who is also a part of the team, said, “We identified four villages Tej Kishan Khera, Puraina, Hardoia and Choudhury Khera. There were 200 kids in each village and they were all between classes 1 and 8. It was not easy to convince them to attend classes. We decided to give them some incentives like biscuits, packaged water, stationery items, etc.” Also read: India records highest-ever single-day spike of over 75,000 Covid-19 casesThey pooled in money and also collected financial help from people to distribute masks, packaged water bottles, biscuits, chocolate, notebook, stationery items to nearly 1,000 students. It has been three months since these students are helping the children of migrant workers. They have taught kids about the importance of social distancing, hand sanitisation and wearing masks during the pandemic. Similarly, two brothers, Atharv Khubele (13) and Advik Khubele (8) felt the need of doing something for migrants who lost their jobs during the lockdown. The humanitarian crisis impacted the two siblings who came out with the idea of ‘punarsthapan’. Atharv, a student of Seth Anandram Jaipuria Lucknow, acted as a bridge between job seekers and providers. The duo convinced their father, Avichal Khubele, who is part of Indian Industries Association (IIA), to help them find jobs for migrants based on their skills. The family roped in a software expert who designed an interface that acted as a bridge between job providers (industry) and job seekers (labourers). Sriket Srivastava (18) was the head boy at St Anjani’s Public School, Rajajipuram, batch of 2020. He is a Maths genius and has won several accolades. During March and April, when his class 12 board exams got cancelled, he was flooded with requests by poor children, relatives and friends to help them with the subject that is dreaded by most.“Tired of telling everyone the same thing over and over again, I came up with the idea of creating a YouTube channel to create tutorials. It was high in demand and spread like wildfire,” he said.Saarth Shah, a student of class 12 at City Montessori School, Gomtinagar campus 1, was so moved by the plight of domestic helps and migrants who lost their jobs during the pandemic that he took it upon himself to ensure two square meals for them.He built a database of around 500 such workers who had lost their jobs and built a website. The website had the phone numbers of the needy. He advertised his website through his social media handles like Facebook and Whatsapp. Gradually, his efforts started bearing fruits when people started employing these workers. Son of a chartered accountant, Saarth said he does not expect anything for himself through this activity.“The greatest joy and reward comes to him when these workers thank him for helping them regain employment.”Principal of CMS Gomti Nagar Campus 1, Abha Anant, was overjoyed to learn about this philanthropic activity of her student and said Saarth was very insightful and hardworking who has imbibed the values of service to humanity from his school and his parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-these-youngsters-win-hearts-with-their-acts-of-kindness/story-l3ZEloiPhlX9XJuP2jiY5K.html
27-08-2020||India||Odisha CM dials PM Modi, requests postponement of NEET, JEE exams||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone and requested him to postpone NEET and JEE exams, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation in the state, the Chief Minister’s Office said.Two days ago, the chief minister had written a letter in this regard to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.Patnaik, during his conversation with the prime minister, explained that Odisha is in the grip of a pandemic as well as flood, and students might face difficulties in appearing for the examinations, an official at the chief minister’s office told reporters.Patnaik, in his letter to Nishank on Tuesday, had urged the Centre to take steps for postponing the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) as it “will be unsafe for students to physically appear for the exams amid the pandemic”.The National Testing Agency (NTA) has scheduled medical and engineering entrance exams -- NEET and JEE (Main) -- in September.Around 50,000 students in Odisha are set to appear for NEET, and over 40,000 for JEE (Main), officials said.Over the past week, heavy rain, triggered by back-to- back formation of low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal, battered the state, submerging low-lying areas, snapping road links and claiming at least two lives. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-dials-pm-modi-requests-postponement-of-neet-jee-exams/story-rqxqaRjIr0w64YrVfQKfpN.html
27-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput: ED summons Rhea Chakraborty’s father||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has once again summoned actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father, Indrajeet Chakraborty, to access his family’s bank lockers to probe possible money laundering in connection with Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on Thursday. Officials have summoned Indrajeet with the locker keys, said ED sources. The agency had, on July 31, registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in the case after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by KK Singh, the late actor’s father, against actor Rhea Chakraborty, in Bihar on July 28. Earlier on August 10, ED had questioned Chakraborty, her father and her brother Showik. Later, her manager Shruti Modi and Sushant Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani too were questioned. Investigators had extracted information into the formation of four companies by Rajput and Chakraborty, and her family. Two of these companies were registered while the other two were under the process of getting registered. Investigators wanted to understand the terms mentioned in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed during the formation of these companies to understand how the profit sharing was designed. ED sources said Rhea had responded to all the questions asked but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events. ED has also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Chakraborty’s chartered accountant Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s chartered accountant Sandeep Sridhar in the case. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-ed-summons-rhea-chakraborty-s-father/story-rCbdGkQKfAz8eJJHQV6hiI.html
27-08-2020||India||Pension a post-retirement entitlement to maintain dignity of the employee: Supreme Court||Pension is succour for post-retirement period and it is not a bounty payable at will, but a social welfare measure as a post-retirement entitlement to maintain the dignity of the employee, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said.The top court said that pension facilitates a retired Government employee to live with dignity in his winter of life and, thus, such benefit should not be unreasonably denied to an employee, more so on technicalities.Coming to the rescue of a man claiming his entitlement for the past 13-years despite having worked with government departments for 32 years, a bench headed by Justices S K Kaul ordered the Kerala government to include the period of service rendered by him as casual workers for determining his pensionary benefits. Also read: No extension to Chandigarh admn staffers after age of 58“Pension is succour for post-retirement period. It is not a bounty payable at will, but a social welfare measure as a post-retirement entitlement to maintain the dignity of the employee. The appellant has been claiming his entitlement for the last almost 13 years but unsuccessfully, despite having worked with Government departments in various capacities for about 32 years,” the bench said.It said “the benefit of the service rendered as a Casual Labour Roll (CLR) worker would, thus, be liable to be counted for determining the pensionary benefits of the appellant at par with other CLR workers and the pension be accordingly calculated”.The bench also comprising Justices Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose said that the arrears of pension be remitted to the appellant within a maximum period of eight weeks from today with admissible interest as applicable to outstanding pension amounts.The bench settled the dispute which remained pending in the top court for nearly a decade since 2010 while emphasising that the pensionary provisions must be given a liberal construction as a social welfare measure.Also read: More than 50% elderly face abuse, says survey“This does not imply that something can be given contrary to rules, but the very basis for grant of such pension must be kept in mind, i.e., to facilitate a retired Government employee to live with dignity in his winter of life and, thus, such benefit should not be unreasonably denied to an employee, more so on technicalities,” the bench said.The controversy arose as former Kerala government employee V Sukumaran, worked in two departments in different capacities after joining the service as a casual worker in 1976.Sukumaran worked for around seven years till 1983 as a casual worker in the fisheries department and later joined the revenue department as lower division clerk after participating in a direct recruitment process. After serving in the revenue department for a few years he sought an inter-departmental transfer back to the fisheries department and returned to Thiruvananthapuram and joined on September 18, 1987 on probation of two years with the service being subsequently regularised on September 18, 1989.He superannuated as Upper Division Clerk on attaining the age of superannuation on December 31, 2008 after serving the total service of about 25 years, excluding the initial service rendered as casual worker.In 2006, Sukumaran made a representation to the Assistant Director of the Fisheries Department for passing orders to treat his period of casual worker service of more than seven years as qualifying service for pension.However, the State Government did not accept the recommendation of the Fisheries Department and rejected the representation of Sukumaran in 2007 saying the benefit could not be extended to him as Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) in the revenue department. He approached the High Court in 2009, which rejected his petition on the ground that he was appointed by KPSC and his period as casual worker could not be counted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pension-a-post-retirement-entitlement-to-maintain-dignity-of-the-employee-supreme-court/story-9TE2J1knDZQFYVTOr9b7qO.html
27-08-2020||India||Launch criminal enquiry into BJP-Facebook nexus, says CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has joined four other opposition parties in Parliament in demanding an explanation from Facebook over reports of alleged bias while censoring hate speech by members of the ruling party. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury told Hindustan Times that the party will take up the issue in Parliament. The party also has one member in the Information Technology parliamentary panel, which has asked Facebook to offer an explanation on September 2. Hindustan Times, on August 22, had reported that members of the DMK, TRS, TMC and Congress wanted Facebook to explain the role of its India policy head Ankhi Das for alleged violations of the social media company’s hate speech policy. Also Read: Why Facebook is wrong, yet again |OpinionThe IT panel’s request for an explanation had drawn severe criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, with its MP Nishikant Dubey writing to the Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to seek the dismissal of panel chair Shashi Tharoor for ‘misusing his position’. On Wednesday, Dubey also asked the chair to cancel the meeting on the Jammu and Kashmir Internet shutdowns as it is in contravention with the Speaker’s advisory that says the panel cannot take up matters pending in front of courts. Also Read: Delhi assembly panel to probe Facebook ‘inaction’ on hate speech, bias chargesAccording to Yechury, the Facebook controversy has ‘far-reaching implications on the country’s right to unbiased information’. “How can a social media platform so blatantly violate the right of citizens to access information free from bias,” Yechury said. The party’s IT panel member may also write to the Speaker raising these issues. Yechury, however, declined to comment on that since the proceedings of the panel are confidential. But according to leaders in the CPI(M), the main issues that the party is slated to flag are the role of social media companies such as Facebook and WhatsApp in a democratic country, the selective takedown of content and the impact on the integrity of elections. “How can the business prospects of a company supersede democracy,” said Yechury. “The way Facebook has tried to influence voters in favour of the BJP is an interference in the Indian electoral process by a foreign corporate house.” “We need to launch a criminal investigation to establish the exact nature of the relationship between Facebook and the BJP. Until the inquiry is completed, the social media network should be banned from working in close cooperation with any of the government’s bodies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/launch-criminal-enquiry-into-bjp-facebook-nexus-says-cpi-m/story-N7pILpTsC8hixaVq5z5z2L.html
27-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma, remains haemodynamically stable, says hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be in deep coma and is haemodynamically stable, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said in a medical bulletin on Thursday.“Hon’ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support. He is being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction. He is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said.Doctors say a patient is haemodynamically stable when the blood circulation parameters - blood pressure, heart and pulse rate, are stable and normal.Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection and renal dysfunction.84-year-old Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pranab Mukherjee served as India’s 13th president from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-continues-to-be-in-deep-coma-remains-haemodynamically-stable-says-hospital/story-Tm7TfiVjtqG9rUhPAVM5RO.html
27-08-2020||India||NPP expels newly elected state president in Manipur||The National People’s Party (NPP) on Wednesday expelled Thangminlien Kipgen a day after he was re-elected as its Manipur unit president uncontested for a three-year term, saying the process of his election violated the party’s constitution.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma, who is the NPP’s national president, announced Kipgen’s expulsion in a video message. He added Kipgen was not re-elected as per the procedure laid down in the party’s constitution.“Former president of NPP Manipur state unit Thangminlien Kipgen acted against the constitution of the party by going ahead with the election and announcing the election,’’ he said. Sangma said this was done even as a show-cause notice was issued and Kipgen was told not to go ahead with the elections as it was not as per the party’s constitution. “Therefore, I, as a president of NPP, decided that they will be expelled from the party.”Sangma said Kipgen and NPP members, who worked to hold this election illegally, have been expelled from the NPP. “In order to ensure that the [party’s Manipur] office continues, we appointed N Kayisii, who is also the tribal affairs minister in the state of Manipur, as the interim president.”He said an election to choose the party’s office-bearers in Manipur will be held shortly in line with the procedure that its constitution lays down.Kipgen said there can be no interim NPP president as per the party’s constitution. He added an elected president cannot be removed by a mere letter as it is unconstitutional.Kipgen was felicitated at a function at the party in Imphal after his re-election.Ch Ajang Khongsai, the working president of the party’s state unit who was present during the felicitation function, said Sangma has been misled. He added Sangma seems to have no clue that Kipgen’s term was due to end on August 26 and not in April.NPP’s four legislators are ministers in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/npp-expels-newly-elected-state-president-in-manipur/story-T2Tf52FX5qHBv6Ow8APLPP.html
27-08-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session to see Congress oppose farm ordinances||The Congress, the principal Opposition party, is all set to oppose at least four ordinances, including three on farms, when the government tries to replace them in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament that starts from September 14.Also read: Sonia forms panel to prepare party agenda on government ordinancesThe Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020; and The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, will face a stiff opposition from the Congress in both Houses of Parliament. The party has also found faults with The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The amendments in the farm-related laws were rolled out through promulgation of ordinances in June to help farmers following the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. They were hailed as far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector, as the Centre changed the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act (ESA), 1955, and moved the other two ordinances to remove all restrictions on farm trade while guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers. But the Congress is unimpressed, especially because its governments in Punjab and Haryana have raised major objections to these changes. Congress leaders claimed that these states have started facing farmer protests against the new laws. On Wednesday late evening, the Congress announced a five-member panel to “discuss and formulate the party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the Central government”. Some party leaders maintain that the move would help corporate buyers of crops and erode the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP) and other measures to safeguard farmers’ interests. The experts had widely hailed the dilution of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMCC) Act, 2003, because of the more selling power to a farmer and empowering him to bypass the restrictions imposed by local mandis. But the Congress has armed itself with data to show that more than 50% of different kinds of farm produce such as wheat, paddy, maize, mustard, bajra, cotton, soybean, jowar, potato, sugarcane, groundnut and even coconut are sold to local private traders and not at designated mandis. Some Congress leaders also underlined the fact that traditional mandis would continue to charge fees, but trade zones specified under these ordinances would not levy any transaction fee, and as a result, would hurt farmers’ interests. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda had already written a newspaper article citing the glaring lapses in these ordinances. “We are also studying the Bihar experiment, when the APMCC Act, 2003, was removed in 2006. But the move did not benefit farmers, as they were forced to sell produce below MSP rates,” said a Congress leader. Another senior Congress leader said that amendments to The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, would encourage hoarding and consumers would be the worst affected..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-to-see-congress-oppose-farm-ordinances/story-jmpO0QJO5fCXQ53JIn7IbO.html
27-08-2020||India||Maharashtra not looking at resuming Metro or monorail service yet||Even as the Centre is likely to allow resumption of Metro services from September 1, as part of Unlock 4, the Maharashtra government is not in a hurry to do so yet. The state is, though, likely to remove restrictions on interstate travel, sources said.Also read: Opening schools during pandemic could worsen crisis, says CMThe government is not looking at resuming “as yet” the Metro and monorail services,which have been shut since March, said a state official.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday, “People might think that we are progressing slowly but there is no gain in hurrying up (when it comes to unlocking activities). We should ensure that we don’t have to revoke our steps once we have resumed activities.” However, shut Metro services mean huge losses. Sources from the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL), which runs the Mumbai Metro-1 corridor, said the company is facing losses to the tune of Rs 80 lakh to Rs 1 crore a day.Maharashtra is likely to issue a notification this week to remove some more restrictions as the extended lockdown period ends on August 31. It might also allow more workforce in offices but it is unlikely to take any decision regarding reopening of schools, cinema halls, restaurants and religious places.A traders’ body has also written to Thackeray to allow people working in kirana stores/medical shops/other essential services to travel by the suburban train. The suburban local is currently open for essential staff only and the administration is apprehensive of a spike in Covid-19 cases, if the service is opened for all.“With no locals, there are long queues at bus-stops and crowding in buses, where no social distancing is being maintained. People working in these stores must also be treated at par with the government and medical staff,” said Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association.On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day jump with 14,888 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the state to 718,711. The active cases in the state stood at 172,873.It also recorded 295 fatalities, taking the toll to 23,089 till date. Of the fatalities on Wednesday, 211 were from the previous 48 hours and 58 were from last week. The remaining 26 deaths were from the period before last week. Mumbai recorded 1,854 new cases and 28 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-not-to-resume-metro-or-monorail-service-yet/story-hDEqxrpraiFbii59U1FVdO.html
27-08-2020||India||Couple beaten, tonsured, garlanded with shoes and paraded in UP village||A widow and a physically challenged man living together in Kannauj came under a vicious attack on Wednesday from members of the woman’s family who were opposed to their relationship, the Uttar Pradesh police said. Members of the man’s family and other villagers are also alleged to have taken part in the assault.The attackers tonsured the two, blackened their faces and garlanded them with shoes before parading through the village in Gursahaigunj, about 100 km from Kanpur and beating them on the street, police saidCircle officer, City, Sheshmani Upadhyaya said the woman’s relatives were involved and two of them have been arrested and the rest were being identified through a video which was made by someone in the crowd. “They are undergoing treatment at the local government hospital. An FIR has also been lodged,” he said. The woman, aged 40 and the man were said to be in a relationship for the last three years since her husband passed away. The man was helping her raise her kids. But relatives of her husband were opposed to it. Early Wednesday morning when the woman was talking to the man near his house, a group of people showed up and beat them up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-beaten-tonsured-garlanded-with-shoes-and-paraded-in-up-village/story-ObEU6NtxMJLxjSIU92JNMM.html
27-08-2020||India||Jammu-Srinagar national highway remains closed for 3rd straight day, rains resume||The 270 km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the all weather surface link with Kashmir, remained snapped for the third straight day on Thursday as heavy rains lashed Ramban district triggering landslides in Panthial, Mompassi and Marog. After a brief lull late Wednesday, moderate to heavy rains lashed the Jammu region early on Thursday.Dalwas portion of the national highway, washed away by a mudslide, has also not been restored because of the incessant rains, said an official.The men and machines of the NHAI are on standby but heavy rains are hampering the restoration work, he added. “It is raining heavily in Ramban district making it very difficult for the NHAI to undertake restoration work,” informed a local from Batote.As a result, over 2000 vehicles remain stranded at various places at Qazigund, Chenani, Udhampur and Nagrota. Heavy rains also lashed twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal on Thursday morning. “After a brief lull, heavy downpour started in the two districts early Thursday. All the rivers and rivulets are in a spate. As of now, there are no reports of any untoward incident. People have been advised to stay away from water bodies in view of rains,” said Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral.Also Read: Rain brings relief to Jammu and Kashmir after months of dry weather Jammu-Poonch highway, however, remains through for traffic.Rajouri SSP Chandan Kohli said that police was also keeping a tab on the situation in Rajouri district.Mughal Road that connects Rajouri and Poonch with Shopian in South Kashmir has been affected by landslides at several places.Also Read: Control of Vaishno Devi Shrine: HC issues notice to J&K, shrine board over Hindu Baridars pleaSimilar reports of heavy to moderate rains also poured in from the Doda region comprising Kishtwar and Bhaderwah. IMD director Sonam Lotus said, “The present weather system is likely to continue for the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rain with isolated heavy rain is most likely at widespread places of J&K and light to moderate rain are most likely at scattered places of Ladakh region, especially in Zanskar, Drass, Minamarg -Zojila area. Significant improvement is expected from Friday’’. He said there was a possibility of flash floods and landslides in vulnerable areas and asked people to remain cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-remains-closed-for-3rd-straight-day-rains-resume/story-h3Keyq2Od2cbVmf8HnB2qM.html
27-08-2020||India||Union health minister to chair meeting on status of southwest monsoon over India||Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will chair a meeting to “understand the current status of southwest monsoon in the country”.“Today, I will chair a meeting at the Ministry of Earth Sciences to understand the current status of Southwest Monsoon over India. This year, the monsoon arrived well on time on June 1 and is expected to be normal during the season as predicted by @Indiametdept in April,” he tweeted.According to the India Meteorological Department’s long-range forecast for the rainfall during the second half (August - September) of the 2020 southwest monsoon, the rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half of the season is likely to be 104 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of plus 8 per cent. “The season (June to September) rainfall over the country as a whole is likely to be normal (96 per cent -104 per cent of LPA),” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-to-chair-meeting-on-status-of-southwest-monsoon-over-india/story-5VdLkVeZeMZM8gfzMEr7nO.html
27-08-2020||India||By December, 45 airports to use global navigation satellite system for safe landing in poor visibility||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to equip 24 more airports by the end of this year with the global navigation satellite system (GNSS), whose approach procedures enable flights to land at airports despite poor visibility due to heavy rain or fog. As many as 45 Indian airports will now have approach procedures that use the global navigation satellite system (GNSS) which enable flights to land at airports despite poor visibility.Over the last eight months, 21 Indian airports have been equipped with GNSS, aviation officials said.Installing GNSS is part of a global plan by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) to make landings more efficient during adverse weather. India started implementing the plan two years ago, aviation officials said.The approach procedure, known as Required Navigation Performance (RNP), will help Indian airports without an Instrument Landing System (ILS, a system that allows pilots to land at an airport when there is low visibility) and those where ILS is dysfunctional because of weather conditions like floods. In Maharashtra, Mumbai, Shirdi, Aurangabad and Kolhapur airports are equipped with this technology. Other Indian airports include Kozhikode, Jabalpur, Indore, Begumpet (Hyderabad), Kolkata, Hubli, Jaipur, Khajuraho, Kannur, Belgaum and Varanasi.A former Directorate General of Civil Aviation official said, “It is good to see India taking steps to harness GNSS technology for designing these RNP approaches that make runways accessible in a safe and efficient manner. This is the future of aviation, as most of the expensive ground-based technology will be replaced by cost-effective space-based technology.”RNP procedures are expected to not only reduce delay in arrivals due to poor weather conditions but also increase the accessibility of airports as fewer flights are expected to be diverted. For instance, when Mumbai came to a standstill during the floods in July 2005, no ground-based navigation equipment was available for operations, due to which pilots had to land aircraft using a visual approach at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). A senior AAI official said, “For safe landings, aircraft traditionally use ground-based technology like ILS or other navigational aids like VOR (Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range). However, to install and maintain such equipment at every airport is a costly affair and may not be feasible.”A Delhi-based AAI official said, “With the recent advancement in technology like aircraft electronics systems (avionics) as well as GNSS, aircraft can navigate using satellites. It is now possible to design an aircraft approach (towards landing) procedure based on this GNSS, which allows the aircraft to operate even in moderately low visibility conditions (as low as 1,500-2,000m) which is not possible with both VOR and during visible approach.” AAI officials said that this harnessing of technology is most useful for airports that do not have ILS. Now when ILS is not available, the runway can be accessed in low visibility conditions using the GNSS. A Mumbai airport official said, “During the traditional approach (landing) of an aircraft, the minimum visibility required is as high as around 2,400m. Currently, the technology has been made available for Runway 9. It will be made available for Runway 14 on September 10 and for the primary Runway 27, it will be made available in October this year wherein flights will be able to land in visibility as low as 1,500m.”A Shirdi Airport official said that Shirdi Airport is one of the best examples of being benefited with this system. “Flights from Shirdi airport frequently used to get diverted during poor weather, as the minimum visibility required for an aircraft to land was 5km. However, with implementing this technology, the airport will see lesser flight diversions leading to doubling accessibility of the airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/by-december-45-airports-to-have-global-navigation-satellite-system-for-safe-landing-in-poor-visibility/story-DsKlGsUpK7Hti3dRKvQckM.html
27-08-2020||India||India records highest-ever single-day spike of over 75,000 Covid-19 cases, tally above 3.3 million||India on Thursday registered its highest-ever spike of the coronavirus disease cases. According to Union health ministry update, the country recorded 75,760 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed the nationwide tally to over 3.31 million.The number of active cases in the country are 7,25,991, while 25,23,771 patients have been discharged. The country also recorded 1,023 fatalities in the last 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 60,472, according to health ministry data.The health ministry had said on Wednesday that the total number of Covid-19 recoveries in India exceeds the active cases of the infection by 3.5 times and the recovery rate is over 76 per cent.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe record high recoveries have ensured that the number of active cases of Covid-19, which is the “actual caseload” of the country, comprises only 21.87 per cent of the total cases, it highlighted.The ministry recommended that all newly-diagnosed tuberculosis patients or those currently on treatment should be tested for Covid-19 and vice versa. It said that tuberculosis is associated with a 2.1-fold increased risk of a severe Covid-19 disease.The prevalence of tuberculosis among Covid-19 patients has been found to be 0.37 to 4.47 per cent in different studies, the ministry said and highlighted that there has been an overall decline in tuberculosis notification by 26 per cent during January to June, as compared to the previous year, due to the coronavirus pandemic.Also read| ‘No signs of it’: Rahul Gandhi targets govt over Covid-19 vaccineRajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, had said on Wednesday that the testing for the disease has been increased from 363 tests per million per day on August 1 to more than 600 tests per million per day at present, with India having tested nearly 3.7 crore cumulative Covid-19 samples so far.On Wednesday, 67,151 people had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-over-75-000-covid-19-cases-tally-above-3-3-million/story-Qi5X9QSIYpipVVQ6iwBy4J.html
27-08-2020||India||Smartphones worth around Rs 2 crore looted from a vehicle in Andhra’s Chittoor||Smartphones worth around Rs 2 crore looted from a vehicle which was carrying the consignment to Mumbai, by miscreants in Chittoor near Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu border, police said on Wednesday.Nagari urban Police official said that driver of the vehicle was thrashed, tied up and thrown out of the vehicle.“One Irfan, driver of a container lorry came to Nagari urban police station on Wednesday morning at around 8.30 AM. He said that he was coming from Sriperambudur of Tamil Nadu and was on way to Mumbai. He was taking the lorry from Xiaomi mobile manufacturing unit at Sriperumbudur. He said that the vehicle was at Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh borders at midnight on Tuesday when another lorry intercepted him,” the official said.“Irfan said that the persons from another lorry thrashed him, tied him and took his lorry to a secluded place. They left him, looted the property in the container and ran away, leaving Irfan alone. He further said that somehow he walked to Nagari town, and local people directed him to Nagari Urban Police Station,” the official added.Nagari urban police took Irfan and started searching for the container lorry. They could trace out the lorry at around 11 AM at an area between Narayanavanam and Puttur.“The police contacted Sriperambudur unit of the mobile manufacturing company and gave information to them over the phone. The representatives of the company rushed to Nagari by around 3.30 PM today. Then the police took them to the container for checking the property. Company representatives checked the container and informed that 8 bundles out of a total of 16 bundles of mobile phones are stolen from the container. The worth of the stolen property is approximately Rs 2 crores,” the official said.Based on the complaint made by the company representative, police have registered FIR under Section 395 of IPC.“Driver Irfan is taken into custody. An investigation into the case is launched. Special teams are formed to catch the culprits,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smartphones-worth-around-rs-2-crore-looted-from-a-vehicle-in-andhra-s-chittoor/story-Rz61wfFkVDyyTAAHooaHhP.html
27-08-2020||India||Will UP face complete Covid-19 lockdown again? Here’s what state govt said||The Uttar Pradesh government has rubbished reports of further lockdown for a fortnight due to recent spike in Covid-19 cases across the state.“The news doing rounds on social media about a possible lockdown is untrue,” Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a statement on Wednesday.The government clarification came after an Allahabad High Court remark asking why it could not go for a fortnight-long lockdown in view of the increase in the number of coronavirus positive cases. Taking a serious note of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the court observed that the measures being taken to curb the spread are not sufficient.On Tuesday, a division bench of the high court, comprising Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar, had asked the state government whether it was ready for a fortnight-long lockdown in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases.“We do not doubt government’s will but we are equally conscious that measures being taken are not enough and needed to be made more severe and stringent but of course, workable too at the same time,” the bench observed.While issuing various directions to the state government, the bench, in one of its observations, also said, “When we have to balance between bread and butter and life, the latter has to prevail.”“Food is for life to survive and not vice-versa. We do not think that a lockdown for a fortnight would bring the economy of the state to such a halt that people would die of hunger,” the bench observed, apparently suggesting the government to impose another lockdown for a fortnight.The bench directed Uttar Pradesh chief secretary to tell it if there was any plan of action to contain the infection when the economy was reopened after the nationwide lockdown and if it was ever implemented.The court also asked the chief secretary if any action had been taken against district authorities who had not followed the plans, if there was any.The bench was hearing a public interest lawsuit seeking better facilities at quarantine centres.It also asked the chief secretary to come up with a road map to tackle the spread of infection from now onwards by the next date of hearing.After giving its directions to the government, the bench slated the matter for next hearing on August 28.The court on several occasions during the hearing of the matter in past too had issued various directions to the government to check the spread of coronavirus in the state. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-up-face-complete-covid-19-lockdown-again-here-s-what-state-govt-said/story-LujkB12Tj51IqFdGGTDmlM.html
27-08-2020||India||Must fight collectively to protect federal structure: Chhattisgarh CM||At the virtual meeting of opposition chief ministers convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel said that everyone will have to fight collectively to protect the federal structure of the country.“We have to fight a collective fight to maintain the federal structure of the country,” he said as he lashed out at the Centre “for diverting attention from economic issues.”Baghel also protested against the sale of public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the country by the Centre. “We must come forward to fight against the privatization. The Centre has been selling PSUs one by one right from Kerala to Jammu and Kashmir.”“During former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government at the Centre, state-run Balco in Korba district was sold. A steel plant (of NMDC) is under construction at Nagarnar in Bastar district. While the plant is yet to be ready for commissioning, it has been put on the privatization list,” the CM said.Talking about the new education policy of the central government, Baghel said it is harmful for the states and also expressed his disagreement on the new environmental law for the establishment of industries.Baghel also criticised the Centre for not paying Chhattisgargh its share of GST.“There was talk of giving GST compensation to the productive states by 2022. For the last four months, no state has been given a single paisa of compensation, while depending on the need, GST compensation should be given till 2027. Chhattisgarh should have got Rs 2,828 crore under GST compensation, which has not been received.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-fight-collectively-to-protect-federal-structure-chhattisgarh-cm/story-xXb9kfYeunfjlZ8P9upnjK.html
27-08-2020||India||Ram Madhav’s Kashmir visit amid killing of BJP leaders and a political churn||BJP general secretary Ram Madhav will be in Kashmir on Thursday to meet party leaders and workers at a time when several BJP leaders in Jammu and Kashmir have been targeted by terrorists and a political churning is taking place with prominent parties in the valley jointly pressing for restoration of Article 370 and statehood.National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, Peoples Conference, ANC and the CPI (M) have announced a joint political battle for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A; the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and its statehood. The leaders of these mainstream political parties had signed the Gupkar declaration last year on August 4, a day before Article 370 was revoked by the parliament and the erstwhile state was divided into two UT’s.On the other hand, an important two-day meeting of Altaf Bukhari’s newly launched Apni Party is also underway and is expected to take a stand on the Gupkar declaration. The meeting started on Wednesday afternoon.Also Read: Kashmir leaders resolve to fight for restoration of Article 370 and J-K statehoodSources in the know of the agenda of Ram Madhav’s visit said that BJP general secretary will arrive in Srinagar in the afternoon and chair a meeting of party leaders to discuss current political situation and issues regarding Jammu and Kashmir.The issue of security of BJP leaders is also likely to come up in the meeting with Madhav. In the last two months, five prominent BJP leaders were killed by militants in different parts of Kashmir.“Our leaders are on target of the militants, so the issue related to the security of BJP leaders and panchayat members will be taken up with BJP general secretary,” said BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur. He added that it was an important visit and many issues will be discussed with the party general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-madhav-s-kashmir-visit-amid-killing-of-bjp-leaders-and-a-political-churn/story-lb7y8qmC4NJW44XSDBOa4I.html
27-08-2020||India||Indian-origin girl invents cap to ensure social distancing during Covid-19; wins rave reviews||As the coronavirus pandemic raged across the globe, most of the children and their parents came to terms with the difficult life that has now become the “new normal”.But a 15-year-old decided to do something to bring about a positive social change during the pandemic. Neha Shukla applied to the ‘Girls With Impact’ programme in the United States that teaches entrepreneurial skills to young girls.The push for Shukla was the rapid spread of the disease and that fact that people could lose their lives because of a careless mistake, of not social distancing correctly.Watch: Indian-origin girl’s ‘SixFeetApart’ alarm wows US in Covid times “I wanted to do something about it and I set out to create a social distancing device that utilises ultrasonic sensors and microprocessors to detect when a person crosses that six-feet detection range and alert the user through vibrating and beeping,” she told Hindustan Times.With her interest in engineering and technology, Shukla began working on the device that would keep people six feet apart. And to make it useful, the 15-year-old chose a cap.The cap beeps and vibrates when someone breaches the six-feet perimetre.“It’s a microprocessor based device that’s embedded in a hat. Whenever somebody crosses that six feet range, the programme and the microprocessor are alerted,” explains Shukla while describing her device.She adds, “On the inside, there’s an ultrasonic sensor, a microprocessor, a buzzer and a nine-volt battery. I coded a programme that causes these ultrasonic sensors to send out these pulses (ultrasonic waves). Now, when these waves collide with a person within that six-feet detection range, this raw data calculation is converted to a system that it would understand and hence alert the user.”Shukla was born and brought up in the United States. She started working on the project in April and a prototype was ready in June. Shukla is now working on improving the design of the device further to make it easier to wear. “I am also working on developing a Bluetooth app that will send the same notification to your phone as well and you can keep a track of that history,” she says.She has been featured in the New York Times and on the Nasdaq screen last month. Shukla’s LinkedIn profile described her as a student, innovator, researcher and writer.Shukla said that she would love to come to India as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-girl-neha-shukla-invents-social-distancing-alarm-wins-rave-reviews/story-kii4uMxW7dTpBcIZf4qcnK.html
27-08-2020||India||Draft data safety policy of India’s digital health mission out for public comments||The draft for Health Data Management Policy of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), which aims to look at data safety measures as part of India’s attempt to digitise its healthcare system, has been put in the public domain for feedback.The National Health Authority (NHA) that is the implementing authority of the country’s flagship public health insurance scheme --- Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna --- has released the draft policy for public comments and feedback until September 3.The draft policy has been released on the official website of NDHM (https://ndhm.gov.in/stakeholder_consultations/ndhm_policies), and will be finalised after receiving public feedback.“The Draft Health Data Management Policy is the maiden step in realising NDHM’s guiding principle of “Security and Privacy by Design” for the protection of individual’s data privacy. It encompasses various aspects pertaining to healthcare data such as data privacy, consent management, data sharing and protection etc.,” said Dr Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer (CEO), NHA.The objective of this draft policy is to provide adequate guidance and to set out a framework for the secure processing of personal and sensitive data of individuals, who are a part of the national digital health ecosystem in compliance with all applicable laws and international standards.“The government is working to ensure strong privacy of healthcare data. We are circulating the policy draft to create more awareness about the importance of data privacy and instil a privacy-orientated mindset among all stakeholders and participants. I look forward to feedback, suggestions, and inputs from experts and the public to help us finalise the policy,” Bhushan added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced during the 74th Independence Day speech this year that the vision of NDHM was to create a national digital health ecosystem that would enable timely and efficient access to inclusive, affordable, and safe healthcare to all citizens.The policy is expected to significantly improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of healthcare services in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-data-safety-policy-of-india-s-digital-health-mission-out-for-public-comments/story-trRQjUiHcatmYY7rZ3pVGK.html
27-08-2020||India||‘No signs of it’: Rahul Gandhi targets govt over Covid-19 vaccine||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has once again lashed out at the central government for not having a vaccine to fight the coronavirus disease which has affected over three million people in India.“A fair and inclusive Covid vaccine access strategy should have been in place by now. But there are still no signs of it. GOI’s unpreparedness is alarming,” Gandhi tweeted. A fair and inclusive Covid vaccine access strategy should have been in place by now.But there are still no signs of it.GOI’s unpreparedness is alarming. https://t.co/AUjumgGjGCHe also attached his previous tweet on the topic.This comes a day after he hit out at the Centre over the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) latest warning on economic contraction amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Gandhi had said on Twitter that “distractions through media will not help the poor”.“RBI has now confirmed what I have been warning for months,” the Wayanad MP tweeted on Wednesday morning along with a news report.The Congress leader also provided few suggestions to the government which includes “Government needs to: Spend more, not lend more. Give money to the poor, not tax cuts to industrialists. Restart economy by consumption.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had said on Tuesday that three vaccine candidates are the frontrunners in the country.“Three Covid-19 vaccines are ahead in the race in India. Serum Institute’s vaccine is in phase 2(B) & phase 3 trials and Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila’s vaccines have completed phase 1 trial,” Professor (Dr) Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR had said.The second phase trial of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University, which would be manufactured by Serum Institute of India, began in Pune on Wednesday with the vaccine candidate administered to two volunteers at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College.Dr Sanjay Lalwani, Medical Director of Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical Hospital and Research Centre, said that five volunteers were tested for RT-PCR and antibodies and reports of three showed they have anti-bodies and vaccine was administered to two volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-signs-of-it-rahul-gandhi-targets-govt-over-covid-19-vaccine/story-urE4sTSYNBQRP9EL30IOcP.html
27-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pakistan rejects charge sheet filed in Pulwama attack probe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak rejects Pulwama attack probe charge sheet, calls it an attempt to serve domestic interestPakistan has rejected the charge sheet filed in the Pulwama attack probe, claiming it to be a ‘mischievous attempt’ to implicate Islamabad for the attack. It said that India has failed to provide credible evidence to support its claim and that it is meant to serve ‘narrow and domestic political interests.’ Read moreKerala secretariat fire: State govt constitutes panel to probe incidentThe Kerala government on Wednesday constituted a multi-departmental panel that will investigate the technical issues that caused fire at the state’s secretariat on Tuesday. The fire which gutted crucial files and furniture at the Kerala secretariat was doused within 40 minutes. Read moreFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to chair 41st GST Council meeting at 11amFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will chair the 41st GST Council meeting at 11am today via video conferencing. Thursday’s meeting will consider a proposal to borrow money from the market to compensate states for their revenue shortfalls. Read moreCovid cases in Brazil rise by 47,161 in last 24 hrs; tally over 3.7 millionThe number of Covid-19 cases in Brazil rose to 3,717,156 with 47,161 cases reported in the past 24 hours, Sputnik reported citing the national Ministry of Health.The nationwide death toll has risen by 1,085 to 117,665 people in the same period.Read moreWill he? Won’t he? Eight Lionel Messi questions every Barcelona fans wants to knowMessi’s team is likely to contend that given the unusual circumstances of the season, the cut-off date shouldn’t apply. After all, it wasn’t till August 14 that Barcelona’s season ended with the 2-8 defeat to Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarter-final. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta demands Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest, slams her for ‘giving interviews and doing publicity stunts’Shweta Singh Kirti, the sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has demanded the arrest of Rhea Chakraborty ‘and gang’ in connection with his death on June 14. Citing recent media reports and sting operations, Shweta accused Rhea and others of drugging and sedating Sushant to ‘take control’ of him, siphoning off his funds and cutting him off from his family. Read moreRedmi 9 to launch in India today, all you need to knowXiaomi will launch a new Redmi smartphone later today in India. The company has already revealed that it will be the Redmi 9. The new Redmi smartphone has also been listed on Amazon India ahead of the launch. The launch event for Redmi 9 will be a virtual one and it is scheduled to start at 12 PM today. Read more62-year-old triumphs on birthday with 62.4 km run, inspires netizens. WatchMany of us need a considerable amount of motivation to pull out that yoga mat in the morning or hit the treadmill for even a few minutes. However, here’s someone who is setting some amazing fitness goals. Read moreYami Gautam is giving us all major fitness goals through yogaThe regular practice of yoga can ensure good holistic health in terms of a healthy body and mind. When the mind is at peace, it also helps to maintain top-notch emotional health. It also helps promote weight loss even though it’s a misunderstanding that the passive nature of yoga asanas may not reflect on the inches and weight. Read moreWatch: Indian-origin girl’s ‘SixFeetApart’ alarm wows US in Covid times||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistan-rejects-charge-sheet-filed-in-pulwama-attack-probe-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mJpegCU6YWNuXZXnoeYD2K.html
27-08-2020||India||Bengal extends biweekly Covid-lockdown till September 20: All you need to know||In the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the West Bengal government has extended the ongoing curbs in the state to September 20, with ‘hard lockdowns’ scheduled for September 7, 11 and 12.The Mamata Banerjee government has also partially eased its July 6 ban on flights to Kolkata from six metros, including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. In view of the spike in coronavirus cases in the country, the state government had imposed a total ban till August 31 on passenger flights to Kolkata from six worst-hit states - Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad.In a letter to Union Ministry of Civil Aviation, the West Bengal government has asked it to ensure that no flight is coming or going out of any airport of the state on September 7, 11 and 12 as it will observe complete lockdown on those days.“Also, restriction on flights coming in from six cities, viz. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad, is being partially lifted from 1st September onwards. Flights from these cities can come to the state thrice a week,” the letter stated. Ensure that there is no flight coming to or going out of any airport of West Bengal on 7th, 11th & 12th September as the state will observe complete lockdown on these three days: West Bengal Government in a letter to Union Ministry of Civil Aviation pic.twitter.com/a2mlH6zTLGBengal has reported over 1.44 lakh Covid-19 cases so far, of which more than 2,900 are deaths linked to the coronavirus and around 27,000 are active cases. On Tuesday the state reported 2,964 new cases in the preceding 24 hours.Here’s what you need to know if you are planning to travel to West Bengal:•Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Nagpur, Chennai and Pune can land in Kolkata for three days a week from September 1. However, no flights will be operational to and from Kolkata on September 7, 11, and 12 when the state will observe a total lockdown.•Metro services can resume by observing social distancing and other precautionary norms from September.•Schools and colleges in the state would remain closed till September 20.•Railways can run local trains in the state - one fourth at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-extends-biweekly-covid-lockdown-till-september-20-all-you-need-to-know/story-RhhFK8C8unQmKSZ4go4bXM.html
27-08-2020||India||UP conditionally relaxes quarantine norms for international travellers||The Uttar Pradesh government has done away with the seven days’ mandatory institutional quarantine for international travellers arriving in the state provided they fulfil certain conditions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the new guidelines, they will have to remain in 14 days’ compulsory home quarantine now, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said Wednesday. According to the new guidelines, the exemption from institutional quarantine will be granted to pregnant women coming by international flights, those visiting the state from abroad due to a death in the family, those suffering from a terminal illness, and parents of children below 10 years of age. Foreign travellers who get RT-PCR tests of their samples done 96 hours before boarding a flight and test negative will be exempted from the seven days’ institutional quarantine, he said. The central government amended the quarantine guidelines for domestic as well as the international travellers and the state government made changes accordingly. According to the earlier guidelines, international travellers had to go for seven days’ institutional quarantine followed by seven days’ home quarantine, he said. Earlier, domestic travellers coming to UP by train or the flight had to remain in 14 days’ compulsory home quarantine if they were not leaving the state within seven days. The state government has now amended the order for residents of the state going to another state for official or private work and then returning to UP. Residents of UP returning to the state within five days will not be quarantined if they have no symptoms of Covid-19. But if they have coronavirus infection symptoms, they will have to go for 14 days’ home isolation during which their sample will be tested. If the report is positive, the person will be admitted in hospital, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-conditionally-relaxes-quarantine-norms-for-international-travellers/story-ldd1VnjRTbIIzxB8F0emsK.html
27-08-2020||India||India’s Covid death toll crosses 60k||India reported at least 1,000 fresh deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the second consecutive day on Wednesday, as the cumulative toll breached the 60,000 mark. On Wednesday, 1,012 new deaths were reported from across the country and the overall fatalities from the viral outbreak rose to 60,610 to date. The country had reported its first Covid-19 death on March 12. On Tuesday, 1,066 Covid-19-related new deaths were reported. A state-wise toll break-up showed Maharashtra reported 295 Covid-19-related fresh deaths on Wednesday, followed by Karnataka (133) and Tamil Nadu (118). However, the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) reiterated that the country’s Covid-19 management is under control, as the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.84%. India’s CFR, which is the percentage of deaths out of the total number of positive cases, is still among the lowest in the world, as compared to the global average of 3.5%.“Our target is to bring down the CFR to 1% or below,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, MoH&FW.At least 10 states have CFR below, or closer to the 1% target. Assam, Kerala and Bihar’s CFR has dropped to 0.27%, 0.39% and 0.42%, respectively.Around 87% of Covid-19-related deaths have been reported from patients, who were 45 years old and above, the ministry’s data showed. The findings are in line with what scientists have observed about the global trends of the viral disease: it severely affects those who are older. The data also showed that more than half (51%) of the Covid-19 patients who succumbed to the viral infection were 60 years and above and a major chunk of the fatalities (36%) belonged to the age group between 45 and 60 years. While 2% of Covid-19-related deaths were found to be aged up to 25 years.More men (69%) have died of Covid-19 than women (31%), the data further showed. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-death-toll-crosses-60k/story-ne44sS0CN7KT4mrqQvDhHL.html
27-08-2020||India||GST compensation may jump 89% in FY-21 at Rs 3.12 lakh crore||States and union territories (UTs) may require a whopping Rs 3.12 lakh crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation in the current financial year, an 89% jump over 2019-20 because of a sharp fall in the tax revenue, as the economy has been severely hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the resultant 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions, two people aware of the matter said ahead of crucial GST Council’s meeting that will dwell on this key issue on Thursday. The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1 and also guarantee them that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liqour, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products. According to an estimate, GST compensation cess requirement for the financial year 2020-21 is pegged around Rs. 26,000 crore per month because of the unprecedented Covid-19 situation. An average monthly compensation cess of about Rs 13,775 crore was paid to states and UTs in 2019-20, even though the average monthly collection was only Rs 7,953.6 crore a month, they said requesting anonymity. Though the impact of nationwide lockdown restrictions on business activities was confined to a few days of the previous financial year that ended on March 31, the compensation cess collection was substantially lower than the actual payout. Nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of the contagion. According to an official statement released on July 27, the total amount of compensation paid to states and UTs in 2019-20 was Rs 1,65,302 crore, while the total amount of cess collected in that year was Rs 95,444 crore. The lower revenue collection was primarily due to subdued economic growth. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) had slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, which is the lowest in 11 years. States and UTs were fully compensated in 2019-20, as there was some surplus in the compensation fund from previous years. Besides, some cess collected in the current financial year was also used, the persons mentioned above said. The last tranche of compensation worth Rs 13,806 crore for the previous financial year was paid in the third week of July, according to the July 27 statement. A note circulated in the 40th GST Council meeting, held on June 12, said the compensation cess collected in 2017-18 was Rs 62,612 crore that rose to Rs 95,081 crore in 2018-19 and increased to Rs 95,444 crore in 2019-20. However, the compensation paid in 2017-18 was less than the total collection at Rs 41,146 crore, and Rs 69,275 crore (2018-19). So far, the government has paid compensation cess for three fiscal years since the roll-out of the GST regime in July 2017, but this year the gap between cess collection and compensation requirement has widened and needs to be resolved by the GST Council, one person said. “The loss of revenue is for both the Centre and states. In that context, the critical situation should not be viewed as only the problem of the states. The Centre is also equally facing an extraordinary fiscal crisis. This is not only because of a massive dip in GST collection but also of income tax, customs, excise, etc. It’s a collective problem and must not be viewed as the Centre vs. states problem,” the person said. The Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant slowdown impact causing loss of revenue is not arising on account of implementation of GST, the second person said. “It’s a force majeure situation and the Centre and states have to collectively resolve it, according to the true spirit of the GST Act under the federal framework. It is not the Centre’s responsibility alone. The GST Council will have to put its collective decision-making mechanism at work to resolve this critical issue,” the person added. The person cited the Attorney-General (A-G) of India KK Venugopal’s opinion that there was no obligation on the Centre under the GST laws to compensate for the loss of revenue on account of natural disaster, Covid-19, or economic slowdown, as they are not related to the implementation of GST. “The GST council has to decide how to meet the shortfall in such circumstances and not the Central government,” the person said. “Even the then Union Finance Minister [Arun Jaitley] categorically stated that compensation to the states due to shortfall of GST implementation cannot be paid from the Consolidated Fund of India. However, if required, market borrowing could be an option to compensate and later the same can be repaid through the future collection of cess,” the person said. However, some states say that as per the letter and spirit of the GST regime the Centre is committed to pay the compensation. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said, “It is surprising that that the constitutional guarantee given to the states is being interpreted in a manner that the Centre is not responsible to compensate the states and it is the states (in the GST Council), which will have to find means to compensate themselves! “Nothing can be more damaging, unfair and unjust than this. Those who are forwarding such views are either not aware of the spirit and intent of the Constitutional Amendment, or are consciously turning a blind eye to renege the sovereign promise to the states,” he said in the letter reviewed by HT. Mitra said there can be no going back on the fact that compensation has to be paid. The rate of 14% is sacrosanct, as it was unanimously decided by the GST Council. “Under no circumstance, states should be asked to borrow from the market, as it will increase their debt servicing liability. It may also lead to cut state expenditure which is not desirable at this juncture, when the economy is witnessing severe recessionary trend,” he said. Reminding her promise to pay compensation to states at the 39th meeting of the GST Council, Mitra said the tax regime is hailed world over as an example of cooperative federalism, which is based on mutual trust. “Some dent in this trust has already occurred due to delayed payment of GST compensation. Let us not do anything that will give a death blow to this unique collective effort,” the letter further stated. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-compensation-may-jump-89-in-fy-21-at-rs-3-12-lakh-crore/story-91IRmyThoDs0QAJ31XdqkO.html
27-08-2020||India||Opposition should have common minimum programme: Janata Parliament||A week long Janata Parliament concluded on Wednesday, in which 250 people from different civil society organisations participated, and asked the government to hold a longer session of Parliament so that important people-centric issues can be discussed in detail.Several opposition party leaders, who participated in the concluding session, said there was a need for a common minimum programme to challenge the Central government on different issues and alleged that the present government has undermined the Parliament by not calling a session since March 22, when the nation-wide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “A common minimum programme should be prepared for the unity of opposition on different issues and bring on board civil society groups,” said Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary.He said pillars of Indian democracy and the Republic are under attack and people’s right to information and food are almost defunct. “This battle against the government cannot be fought by one party or one movement,” he said, adding that CPI(M) will cooperate with all political parties on framing a common agenda.K. Raju, who represented the Congress, was in agreement with Yechury’s suggestion on a common minimum programme and recalled that the first Janata Parliament was addressed by Congress President Sonia Gandhi in 2019. He also said that the Congress would be working in future for a basic income by transferring money directly into bank accounts of poor people and for a universal public distribution system (PDS) without Aadhaar linkage. Also Read: Opposition gets battle-ready for Parliament, five key issues to watch out forCongress chief whip in Lok Sabha, Kodikunnil Suresh, said he was concerned about the number of ordinances promulgated by the Central government in the past five months; some of them having vital policy implications for Indian agriculture and the economy. He referred to three farm sector related ordinances, against which farmers are protesting in several parts of India including Punjab and Maharashtra. Aam Aadmi Party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh said the Central government was looking to convert the on-going pandemic into an opportunity to disinvest in various national assets such as Steel Authority of India (SAIL), Coal India and the Indian Railways. “The Centre is looking to escape questioning and is therefore not convening the Parliament,” he said and added that the NDA has not given adequate relief to people during such extraordinary times.Also Read: Parliamentary committee business not to be leaked: Venkaiah Naidu to MPsRJD spokesperson Manoj Jha said that there would be limited time available for the members to raise important issues as one house will run only for four hours every day and there would be a lot of government business to take care of as well in the limited time. Jha said he was apprehensive that Parliamentary forum would not be available to MPs to bring issues to the attention of the public. He said a common agenda of opposition parties would also be useful for his party in the upcoming elections in Bihar.Aruna Roy, former member of National Advisory Council, said Janata Parliament which started on August 21 had passed crucial resolutions on issues of national importance including expanding MGNREGA, universalisation of PDS and right to free health and education. She also urged the political parties to raise people centric issues in the Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-should-have-common-minimum-programme-janata-parliament/story-fUpO4D9Hhocy0JHTtIViuN.html
27-08-2020||India||NITI Aayog releases report on Export Preparedness Index; Gujarat tops list||Gujarat has topped the Niti Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index 2020 followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in the second and third place respectively, according to the government think tank’s report.According to the report released on Wednesday, six coastal states -- Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Karnataka and Kerala -- feature in the top ten rankings, indicating the presence of strong enabling and facilitating factors to promote exports.Among the landlocked states, Rajasthan has performed the best, followed by Telangana and Haryana.Among the Himalayan states, Uttarakhand topped the chart, followed by Tripura and Himachal Pradesh. Across Union Territories, Delhi has performed the best, followed by Goa and Chandigarh. The report stated that Chattisgarh and Jharkhand are two landlocked states that had initiated several measures to promote exports.The report noted that other states facing similar socio-economic challenges can look at the measures taken by Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and try to implement them to grow their exportsSpeaking at the launch of the report, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said exports are an integral part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and the country will have to keep striving to increase the share of exports in GDP and world trade.Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said rapid growth of exports is a crucial component for long-term economic growth, adding that a favourable ecosystem enables a country to contribute significantly to global value chains and reap the benefits of integrated production networks, globally. Niti Aayog in partnership with the Institute of Competitiveness released the first Export Preparedness Index (EPI) 2020. The EPI intends to identify challenges and opportunities and encourage a facilitative regulatory framework.The index ranked states on four key parameters – policy; business ecosystem; export ecosystem; export performance.The index also took into consideration 11 sub-pillars -- export promotion policy; institutional framework; business environment; infrastructure; transport connectivity; access to finance; export infrastructure; trade support; R&D infrastructure; export diversification; and growth orientation.On policy parameters, Maharashtra topped the index followed by Gujarat and Jharkhand, while on business ecosystem parameter, Gujarat was ranked number one followed by Delhi and Tamil Nadu.In the export ecosystem parameter, Maharashtra topped the Index followed by Odisha and Rajasthan and on the export performance parameter, Mizoram led the index, followed by Gujarat and Maharashtra.The report pointed out that at present, 70 per cent of India’s export has been dominated by five states – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-releases-report-on-export-preparedness-index-gujarat-tops-list/story-tN2WnvKNUpT7Nr99lQ7uaO.html
27-08-2020||India||Heavy rain warning for NW and central India: IMD||New Delhi: Widespread and heavy rain is likely over northwest India till August 29, according to India Meteorological Department.IMD’s Impact based severe weather warning bulletin issued on Wednesday also warned that there is likely to be heavy rain over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, parts of Bihar and Sub Himalayan West Bengal on August 27 and 28.Heavy to very heavy rain is also likely over several parts of central India like Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha till August 30.IMD had forecast moderate to heavy rain in Delhi on Thursday but that was delayed scientists said as the moisture was concentrated around east UP. IMD had to withdraw the heavy rain warning for Delhi on Wednesday. “A lot of rain is being recorded in east UP. The southwesterly winds are moving towards east UP but our models are showing that Delhi, Punjab and Haryana will also record moderate to heavy rain on August 27 (Thursday). The low pressure area over Bay of Bengal has moved inland to Gangetic West Bengal bringing widespread rains to Bengal and Odisha,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.According to a Regional Meteorological Centre alert Thursday morning, the Capital is likely to see only light rain during the day.Many parts Odisha have recorded extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) since Tuesday including : Kendrapara and Sundergarh-23 cm each; Boudhgarh and Mayurbhanj-21 cm each; Keongjhargarh, Sonepur and Jagatsinghpur- 20 cm each; Balrampur-19 cm and Paradip-18 cm.A well-marked low pressure area is lying over coastal areas of Gangetic West Bengal and north Odisha. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards across interior parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, north Chhattisgarh, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during next 4-5 days.The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is active and is very likely to remain active during next 2 days. In addition, the convergence of strong lower level southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea likely to continue over northwest India during next 2 days.Also Read: Amid heavy rains in Odisha, water level of Baitarani River likely to cross danger mark: ReportDue to these favourable conditions, widespread with very heavy rain is very likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand on August 26; over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, East Madhya Pradesh during August 26 to 28; over West Madhya Pradesh on August 28 and 29 and over east Rajasthan on August 29 and 30.Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Odisha on August 26; over Chhattisgarh on August 26 and 27; over Vidarbha on August 27 and over east Madhya Pradesh on August 27 and 28.Also Read: Declining rain in 100 years pushing Uttarakhand’s treeline higher in the HimalayasModerate thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, East Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Bihar and Jharkhand during next 24 hours till Thursday.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 8% excess with 4% excess over east and northeast India; 13% deficiency over northwest India; 15% excess over central India; and 23% excess over south peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-nw-central-india-rain-over-delhi-delayed-but-likely-today-says-imd/story-xnYlNFECuqpdSw3wdmO1CO.html
27-08-2020||India||Congress sets up 5-member panel to formulate stand on govt’s key ordinances||The Congress on Wednesday formed a five-member committee to discuss and formulate the party’s stand on key ordinances promulgated by the government.The committee has former finance minister P Chidambaram, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh and Jairam Ramesh, besides Amar Singh and Gaurav Gogoi as its members.Ramesh will be the convenor.“Congress president has constitute a five-member committee to discuss and formulate Congress party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the central government,” a statement by AICC general secretary KC Venugopal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sets-up-5-member-panel-to-formulate-stand-on-govt-s-key-ordinances/story-PkqjlC5QGkMnd56T7yAuON.html
27-08-2020||India||Covid-19 can affect almost all organs, say experts at AIIMS||Not just the lungs, Covid-19 can affect almost all organs and the initial symptoms may be totally unrelated to chest complaints, experts at AIIMS here said on Wednesday. They stressed that classification of cases into mild, moderate and severe categories based just on respiratory symptoms should be relooked to include other organ involvement. Experts from the institute, including its director Dr Randeep Guleria, Dr MV Padma Srivastava, head of department of Neurology, Dr Ambuj Roy, Professor of Cardiology and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor in the department of Medicine during their weekly ‘National Clinical Grand Rounds’ organised in collaboration with NITI Aayog discussed various possible extra-pulmonary complications of Covid-19.  Dr Guleria said eight months into Covid-19, a lot has been learnt and accordingly strategies are being changed from time to time.  From what we thought of as a viral pneumonia has a lot of other manifestations which are beyond the lungs, he said.“As we have known more and more about Covid-19, we have realised it causes many extra pulmonary manifestations. This is basically of the fact that this virus enters into cell through ACE2 receptors which although are present abundantly in upper airways and lungs, they are also present in many organs and thus other organs are also affected.“We have seen many patients who presented with features which are not been predominantly pulmonary but extra pulmonary manifestations,” Dr Guleria said.He said though pulmonary manifestations continue to dominate as far as majority of Covid-19 cases are concerned, there is a significant number of patients who would present with manifestations which may be along with pulmonary manifestations or may be without pulmonary manifestations.  “We as clinicians need to have a high index of suspicion during this pandemic -- when to suspect, treat and isolate these patients so that we can provide them good quality care,” he stressed.The experts in the programme presented a number of cases in which the patients were labelled as asymptomatic or mild Covid but had serious life-threatening extra-pulmonary manifestations like stroke and heart blocks.   “What started off as a viral pneumonia is now a multi-systemic disease. However, the jury is out whether SARS-COV2 is the culprit in these extra pulmonary manifestations or just an innocent bystander which happens to be at the wrong place at a wrong time,”  Dr Nischal said.“So the classification of Covid-19 into mild, moderate and severe cases based only on respiratory symptoms should be relooked into to incorporate other organ involvement,” he said.Dr Nischal further underlined that management of such patients with other organ involvement should be as per existing guidelines of that particular complication.The doctor from the Medicine Department also highlighted the case of a 35-year old man who had headache and was vomiting but was found to have life threatening cortical vein thrombosis.  When tested, he was found positive for Covid-19. He was asymptomatic for Covid-19 as per existing severity guidelines, Dr Nischal said.“There is a big spectrum of neurological manifestations which have been linked to Covid-19. In some patients, brain is involved and it may lead to clotting, resulting in stroke or can cause infection and lead to encephalitis or other complications which have nothing to do with lungs,” Dr Padma said.Dr Ambuj’s team presented the case of a patient who came with a very low pulse rate, detected Covid-19 positive and required initial support with some medicines to improve heart rate.  “Normally pacemaker is put in such patients to improve their heart rate but based on experiences documented in literature, we realised some of these could be due to Covid-19,  so a pacemaker was not put and her heart rate gradually improved with supportive treatment.“Sometimes, the electrical pulse system of the heart which gives rise to heart beat can be affected in Covid-19 and it is self-limiting and improves with time. “So these patients who would otherwise normally require pacemaker may not evern need it. “However, more evidence is needed to be definitive about this as it is a new disease and limited information and experience regarding it is available as of now,” Dr Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-can-affect-almost-all-organs-say-experts-at-aiims/story-nARswEgFgM4GtwoIm7YMVO.html
27-08-2020||India||Robot Zafira to scan people for masks, dispense sanitiser at Tamil Nadu stores||A robot named ‘Zafira’ is being used at all textile stores of a company in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli to ensure that Covid-19 safety guidelines are being adhered to.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe saree-clad robot is scanning everyone entering the store for masks, checking their temperature and dispensing sanitiser. She is also keeping track on the number of people entering the store to avoid overcrowding. “We’ve developed robots ever since Covid-19 broke out and lockdown was imposed, to help frontline workers. The robot has a complete intelligence system. It can also track number of people entering store at a time and send details to owners via email, daily,” said Aashik Rahman, CEO, Zafi Robots.Coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu have reached close to the 40,0000-mark with 5,958 new cases, 5,606 recoveries and 118 deaths being reported in the state on Wednesday. Meanwhile, in India over 3.23 million people have been infected with the disease and close to 60,000 have died.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robot-zafira-to-check-people-s-masks-dispense-sanitiser-at-tamil-nadu-stores/story-TUB1WsCa35ICnEKOZopx3H.html
27-08-2020||India||Odisha CM approves package of Rs 200 crore for poor affected due to Covid||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday approved a special assistance package of Rs 200 crore for the poor and extremely poor families in the State affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. Patnaik approved the package while reviewing the Covid-19 situation and its management in the state with senior government officials and Collectors through Video Conferencing.“Chief minister Patnaik emphasizing upon the revival of the rural economy, approved a special assistance package of Rs 200 crore for the poor and extremely poor families in the State affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. The special package will help the development of livelihood activities of rural poor, very poor and the migrants,” said an official release.“Members of the Women Self Help Groups can revive their family enterprises through this package. It will also benefit rural, nano and micro-enterprises; skilled and semi-skilled migrant returnees and producer and enterpriser groups engaged in the agricultural and non-agricultural sector,” it added.Emphasizing upon reviving the rural economy, chief minister directed to provide more credit facilities in MSME, agriculture, fisheries and animal resources. He also directed to provide subsidised loans for small business activities to be undertaken by Women Self Help Groups.He further expressed satisfaction over ramping up of testing and decline of Covid-19 positive cases as well as fatality rate. He also directed District Covid Observers to strictly adhere to rules and area-specific strategies in Hotspot districts to fight the pandemic.Chief minister directed for the closure of educational institutions till Durga Puja vacation keeping in view the concern of students and guardians during the pandemic situation. According to Odisha health department, there are 87,602 Covid-19 cases in the state including 24,295 active cases, 62,813 recovered/discharged and 441 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-approves-package-of-rs-200-crore-for-poor-affected-due-to-covid/story-goeql0oQMXcPdXgQoyPLWI.html
27-08-2020||India||‘N-95 masks most effective at curbing Covid-19 spread’||N-95 masks may be the most effective at reducing the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to a study by researchers, including those from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which suggests that any mask is better than no mask at preventing Covid-19.The researchers noted that airborne transmission by respiratory aerosol droplets produced during coughing and sneezing is the dominant mode of spreading for infectious diseases such as Covid-19. Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, from ISRO, and Prasanna Simha Mohan Rao, from the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Karnataka, experimentally visualised the flow fields of coughs under various common mouth covering scenarios.The, study published in the journal Physics of Fluids, found N95 masks to be the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of a cough.The N95 masks reduced a cough’s initial velocity by up to a factor of 10, and limit its spread to between 0.1 and 0.25 meters, the researchers said.An uncovered cough, in contrast, can travel up to three metres, but even a simple disposable mask can bring this all the way down to 0.5 metres, they said.Simha and Rao hope their findings will put to rest the argument that regular cloth masks are ineffective, but they emphasise that masks must continue to be used in addition to social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/n-95-masks-most-effective-at-curbing-covid-19-spread/story-OB7Uv6MV19pIbg9kvJqQ2L.html
27-08-2020||India||Reconsider 50 per cent cap on quotas, Supreme Court bench told||The 50% threshold on reservation for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Other Backward castes (OBCs) in public service and educational institutions mandated by a 1992 judgment of the Supreme Court should be re-examined, a slew of senior counsel urged the top court on Wednesday.Lawyers including Mukul Rohatgi and Kapil Sibal submitted before a 3-judge bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao that a Constitution bench should be constituted to examine the 50% cap laid down by the 1992 judgment in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, delivered by a bench of nine judges. “The matter has to go before a 11-judge bench. 50 percent criterion was evolved through judicial decision making. 85%(people) in Maharashtra belong to backward classes,” Sibal told the bench which also consisted of justices Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. The court was hearing a plea challenging a 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation benefits to Maratha community in educational institutions and government jobs. Sibal, who was appearing for one of the applicants Rajendra Datey Patil, also submitted that reservation in 28 states exceed the 50% threshold after the central government enabled grant of 10 percent reservation to Economically Weaker sections (EWS). He said any judgment of the Supreme Court in this regard will affect those states. “So notice should be issued to all states and they should be heard,” he said. The law under challenge, the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act (Maharashtra SEBC Act) originally provided 16% reservation to Maratha community in educational institutions and government jobs. This law was challenged before the Bombay High Court which, in June 2019, upheld the validity of the law but reduced the quota to 12 per cent in admissions to educational institutions and 13 per cent in jobs. The petitions have challenged the law on the ground that it breaches the 50% threshold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-50-per-cent-cap-on-quotas-supreme-court-bench-told/story-qP1xneoC0uH57GEuvrBImN.html
27-08-2020||India||Delhiwale: Because rajma chawal must go on||Impatient, hungry customers. Some wanting kadhi. Others going for rajma, or chhole, or both. One person demanding more achaar. Another one needing extra raita please. Now one more man blocks the counter, asking for a takeaway.Amid all this humdrum, Neeraj’s hands are a constant blur, as he serves his rajma/kadhi/chhole, standing behind the counter, here at Raju Palwalwale—a small but well-known roadside landmark in Gurugram’s atmospheric Sadar Bazaar. This is the way things were (obviously).And now, how desperately Neeraj yearns to get back to this same madness, “when it was impossible to take a break for even a second.” At 40, he is feeling nostalgic for a life that existed until March, before the coronavirus pandemic upset the chaotic harmony of his modestly-staged establishment. “It is no longer as it used to be,” says the masked Neeraj, talking on WhatsApp video. “Many of the people who used to come regularly for lunch have stopped showing up... perhaps they are scared of eating out.”Raju Palwalwale is a thriving legacy that Neeraj nurtures with care, and whose earnings, he hopes, will help him offer his young daughter a bright future. He inherited it from his late father, Raju, a Palwal native, who founded the eatery a decade ago after settling down in the Millennium City.The lunch stall stayed closed during the lockdown, and finally opened a few weeks back.It was a great relief for Neeraj and his family, he says, to reclaim the patterns of the pre-corona life even as the virus continues to affect their daily living. His mother, Pushpa Rani, gets up early in the morning at 4.30am in their Devilal Colony house and quickly cuts and chops the ingredients for the three dishes, with the help of his wife, Priya. But it’s Neeraj who actually cooks the gravies—he points this out as a significant detail.He leaves for the shop at about half past 10. “My days are no longer as hectic.... the peak lunch time is no longer a peak.” Here, Neeraj emphasises that “yes, things are bad in the business, but not so bad that we cannot live comfortably.” He isn’t sure if he can say the same thing about the young man who used to assist him in the shop. “Deva went back to his village in Bihar during the lockdown, and I don’t think he is coming back.”Which means that Neeraj is obliged to run the shop alone these days. “I cannot hire a new boy right now.... not as long as the business is as it is.”Recalling the pre-pandemic time, he expresses optimism. “Those days will be back again, if not this year, then next year.... I have full faith in God and in the blessings of my father.” Neeraj must now put down the phone. He opened the shop some minutes ago and just decked up the counter with pots, pans and plates. It’s a new, slow-moving normal but he is getting busy, to some extent. “And look,” exclaims Neeraj turning the phone screen to show the scene outside the counter—a customer is already digging into a plate full of rajma chawal. The eatery serves daily from 11am to 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-because-rajma-chawal-must-go-on/story-4mp5WfWJkqUqyOkym2PXqJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Just when it looked like Delhi would slip into complacency in its fight against the coronavirus disease, the state government has stepped up its game — or at the least, announced its intent to (see page 1). For at least a week now, HT has been pointing to the number of daily cases and the positivity rate inching up — not alarmingly, but definitely worryingly.According to the HT database, the seven-day average of daily cases in the Capital peaked at 3,446 on June 26, before falling to below 1,000 in late July, and then again in early August (although this can, in part, be attributed to the weekend and public-holiday factor, where testing, and consequently the number of cases recorded, drop off). It has since climbed, and was at 1,333 on August 25.It isn’t just cases, the positivity rate has also increased. The seven-day average positivity rate, which saw its peak of 31.4% on June 14 and 15 fell to 5.7% in late July, stayed at that level for some time, but has since climbed back. It was at 7.5% on August 25. In isolation, that is an impressive number for a state that is testing adequately, but relatively, it still marks an increase.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.2 million, recovery rate rises to 76.29%Delhi is also definitely doing fewer tests than it used to: the seven-day average of tests peaked at 21,660 on July 9 but has since fallen. It was 17,924 on August 25. The Capital is not utilising the entire capacity of RT-PCR tests available, relying instead on antigen tests. Sure, the latter helped it scale up testing in late June when cases were peaking, some containment zones were rife with cases, and hospitals were running short of beds. But even after that crisis passed, Delhi continued to depend overwhelmingly on antigen tests. In the week ended August 25, for instance, only 31% of the tests conducted were RT-PCR ones.The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test is a molecular test that is globally recognised as the best diagnostic for Covid-19. The only problem with it is the time involved — which, including logistical delays and those caused by backlogs, is around three to four days (although is possible to provide results in 24 hours). Antigen tests, in contrast, provide results within the hour — this means a person can walk into a testing centre, be tested, and wait for the result — but are not very reliable. They throw up a high proportion of false negatives, identifying infected people as uninfected. As this column has explained ad nauseam, it makes sense to use them when time is a constraint. And by mid-July, that certainly wasn’t the case in Delhi.Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has now promised to double testing — which is good — although it isn’t immediately clear whether the government will at least use up the entire capacity of RT-PCR tests available to it. The government has also said it will strictly enforce rules on the wearing of masks in public places — adherence is lax in markets and parks — and social distancing.Also read | Covid-19: Tracing India’s journey to two million casesThe trajectory of coronavirus disease in cities, provinces, and countries around the world suggests that most regions see a long plateau once cases have fallen to a retain level. The trajectory of the disease in Delhi shows a narrow peak (itself a rarity), and it is evident that the Capital is now seeing the plateau. The challenge before the administration is to keep the plateau at a manageable level in terms of number of cases — there is no shortage of hospital beds (in fact, there is a surplus capacity), and the government must ensure it stays that way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-rHjiVnuaWzTqEFBRlnusqO.html
27-08-2020||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa pitches for Japanese investment||Showcasing Karnataka as the most investor friendly destination for Japanese industry, chief minister BS Yediyurappa requested them to step up their investments in the state and promised all required assistance.“We have shared values as we both have belief in democracy, individual freedom and the rule of law. India-Japan Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement is a comprehensive deal covering both trades in goods and services,” said the CM speaking at a virtual conference organised by the ‘Indo-Japan Business Forum.The Karnataka CM said that FDI from Japan to India increased from USD 1.6 billion in 2017-18 to USD 3.2 billion in 2019-20. Asserting that for Karnataka Japan is an important partner, Yediyurappa said that Karnataka has significant potential in the field of Electronic Manufacturing Sector and offers many incentives for investors, including 25 % capital investment subsidy on land, to boost investments in the sector.Pointing out that the recent NITI Aayog 2019 Innovation Index has placed Karnataka at the top, the CM said Karnataka offered quality human resources, has reputed higher educational institutions, and a big thrust on research and development. Yediyurappa said that the state has simplified its labour laws, set up a single window for investors and engaged in regular discussion with the industry to create a stable, policy-driven environment.Government officials also said that Karnataka has already set up a Japanese Industrial Township at Vasanthanarasapura near Tumkuru town, 519 acres of land has been developed and made ready with infrastructure facilities such as roads, power, and water supply.They also highlighted how the state was already working with JETRO (Japan External Trade Organisation) for identifying and promoting start-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-pitches-for-japanese-investment/story-fmR1syTpE5SJMT1efZ2E1K.html
27-08-2020||India||Congress’ Lakhimpur Kheri unit seeks action against Jitin Prasada for writing to Sonia Gandhi||The Congress unit in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday passed a resolution, criticising senior party leader Jitin Prasada and demanding action against him for being one of the 20-odd signatories to the letter that a group of senior party leaders had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.The Congress Working Committee (CWC) had discussed the letter on Monday and its after-effects are still being felt in the politics of Uttar Pradesh.“The District Congress Committee (DCC) demands that disciplinary action should be taken against all those who signed the letter and they should be expelled from the party,” said the resolution passed by Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress committee on Wednesday.“All over UP there is only one leader, former minister Jitin Prasada, who has signed the letter. His family has been against the Gandhi family. His father the late Jitendra Prasad had contested the election against Sonia Gandhi. Despite this, Sonia Gandhi gave him a Lok Sabha ticket and he was made a minister. His act is gross indiscipline and action should be taken against him,” said the resolution. A group of Congress workers also raised slogans against Prasada, who said the issue had been discussed before the Congress president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-lakhimpur-kheri-unit-seeks-action-against-jitin-prasada-for-writing-to-sonia-gandhi/story-jO6AmdicDXKhAwex8j4wcP.html
27-08-2020||India||Opposition CMs join hands against holding NEET, JEE||Chief ministers of several Opposition-ruled states on Wednesday decided to challenge the Centre over concerns of their rights being undermined, even as demands surfaced at a virtual meet that they collectively move the Supreme Court against the Union government’s plan to hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical colleges and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering colleges in September.At the virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the issues of NEET and JEE, and Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation in the midst of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, chief ministers of West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), Jharkhand (Hemant Soren), Punjab (Captain Amarinder Singh), Rajasthan (Ashok Gehlot), Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and Puducherry (V Narayanasamy) stressed the need to protect federalism, saying that all powers were now concentrated in just one place.“Problems of students and examinations are being dealt with very uncaringly,” the Congress chief said at the meeting. The West Bengal chief minister urged all CMs to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE as she said students were not prepared to take the tests.Separately, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia reiterated his demand that the exams be postponed and the central government work on alternative methods for selecting students. “They (Centre) are saying protocols will be followed. Following the same protocols that the Centre wants 28 lakh students to follow, lakhs of Indians have tested positive,” he said.The Congress did not invite the chief ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal), Andhra Pradesh (YS Jaganmohan Reddy) and Telangana (K Chandrashekhar Rao). Amid a growing chorus for postponing the JEE and NEET in view of the pandemic, the Centre has maintained that the tests will be conducted in September as scheduled. While JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6, NEET is planned on September 13. The Supreme Court last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”.There have been demands by students and parents’ bodies to postpone the entrance exams in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said NEET and JEE aspirants were worried about their health and future.Even as pressure piled on the Centre over the plan to go ahead with the exams, the Union education ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) continued working towards what would be the biggest entrance tests to be conducted during the pandemic, which has infected 3,305,177 people across India.More than 400,000 students downloaded the admit cards for the NEET exam from the NTA portal within three hours after the agency began to issue them on Wednesday. The figure rose to 515,000 in four hours. At least 950,000 students are expected to take the JEE (Main) at 660 centres from September 1 to 6, while nearly 1.6 million NEET candidates are likely to appear for the test at 3,842 centres on September 13.“I have always reiterated that safety first and then exams. But conducting these exams any time later might lead to a situation where the entire year could be lost, therefore conducting these exams in now with due precautions is a middle path,” education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told HT in an interview.The minister said that there was a “silent majority” of students and parents who wanted the exams to be held as scheduled. “The parents and students say that they are under stress and preparing for exams for the last two to three years and that they don’t want a zero academic year.”According to a government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the education ministry is keen that the exams are held because it will help keep the academic year on track and not keep students in “perpetual uncertainty”. The official said there was no alternative to these exams. NTA has emphasised that it will hold the exams safely and a detailed protocol has been put in place to ensure the safety of students. Experts say NTA needs support from states to conduct the exams successfully in terms of logistics. During Wednesday’s meeting, Thackeray said the Opposition-ruled states have to first decide whether they want to “fight or fear” the Narendra Modi-led government. “Opposition-ruled states should speak louder as the Centre is trying to suppress our voices. But we are together, we will be together and we will fight together,” he said.Thackeray received support from Banerjee, who said the situation was “very serious” and the Opposition-ruled states should launch a united fight against the Centre.Gandhi ageed with Thackeray and Banerjee. “We have to work together and fight together,” she said. Soren alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was using law enforcement agencies against the Opposition and undermining the federal structure. Earlier, in her introductory remarks, Gandhi said the Centre’s refusal to pay GST compensation to states is “nothing short of betrayal”. “GST compensation being paid to states on time, according to the laws passed by Parliament, is crucial and I know this is not happening. Dues have accumulated. The finances of all states have been affected badly,” she added. Banerjee alleged that states were being “bulldozed” by the Centre, which was not giving money to them. “The situation today is dangerous. We cannot speak freely. From Facebook to everywhere, there is fake and distorted news to destroy the Opposition,” she said. Banerjee said she had raised her concerns about the NEET and JEE exams with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The exams are in September. Why should the lives of students be put at risk? We have written to the Prime Minister, but there has been no response. If the Prime Minister does not listen to us, then we all collectively should approach the Supreme Court,” she said. Thackeray said the time had come to revisit the GST model and see if it was helping or not. “The old tax collection model was good? If there are lacunas in the GST, those need to be addressed so that states don’t suffer,” he said. The Punjab chief minister said the Covid-19 situation was getting worse and his state could face a deficit of ~25,000 crore this year due to the pandemic. “I agree with Mamata ji that we should collectively meet the Prime Minister and apprise him of the revenue situation. And all of us should go to the Supreme Court on the issue of NEET and JEE exams,” he added. IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said in a social media post that he was in favour of conducting the examinations by taking all precautions and following social distancing norms. “Lockdown is not a solution to COVID. Lockdown was needed to prepare ourselves better. We cannot be perpetually in lockdown mode. COVID is not going to go away for another 6 months to one year. We all need to get used to this new normal. The earlier we realize that, the better it is for all of us. The last postponement of exams definitely helped us prepare well now,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-cms-join-hands-against-holding-neet/story-1KQFxM6huY4fWam8M0GeiM.html
27-08-2020||India||Delhi to double tests as Covid spike continues||Covid-19 cases in Delhi are increasing, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal acknowledged on Wednesday as the government took note of persistently rising numbers at an emergency meeting, where it decided to double the number of daily tests from current levels to around 40,000 per day in an effort to catch and isolate more infections.With 1,693 new cases reported on Wednesday, the last seven days have seen an average of 1,375 cases every day. This is the highest since the seven-day period ending in July 15, when the Capital recorded 1,732 cases on an average – and a trend that HT highlighted in news reports on August 23, 25 and 26. The increase has been preceded by a drop in testing and an increased focus on the relatively less reliable rapid test – also an issue that this paper highlighted in a news reports on August 15 and August 16.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today“For nearly one and a half months now, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control. But, since August 17, cases have been increasing again. In today’s health bulletin, which will be released in the evening, Delhi recorded 1,693 cases. Yesterday, 1,544 cases were recorded,” said the chief minister in a press briefing over video in the afternoon.Experts warned that the Capital, which was the first Covid-19 hot spot to get some measure of control over the disease, stands at a critical juncture in the fight against the highly contagious virus.“Delhi is at the crux where the rise in the number of cases can be controlled, if it is not controlled now, we can enter a second wave in a few months. People are fed up and have become casual about using masks and maintaining social distancing, and we have to factor this in when planning a response to prevent resurgence,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi. In light of these trends, the rate of testing will be doubled over the next week, Kejriwal added, while assuring that the situation was still under control. “Other parameters are in good shape. For instance, the death rate is low. For August, it is 1.4%, which is the best in the country. We have adequate hospital beds too. There are 14,130 total beds now, of which 10,448 beds are vacant. The recovery rate is good. And, the home isolation model has worked well. Since July 15, there has been no death in home isolation,” he said. Home isolation has been one of the centrepieces of Delhi’s Covid-19 mitigation strategy, as has been the testing programme that has covered the highest number of people in per capita terms among major states. But, as reported on August 25, a slackening of testing coincided with a rise in positive rate – the proportion of samples confirming an infection – suggesting the city may have begun missing new infections.WATCH | Covid update: Delhi 90% recovery rate; govt exams delayed in MaharashtraIn the 7-day period ending on Wednesday, the average positive rate for daily tests was 7.8%. The last time this number was this high was in the week ending July 18. Test positive rate can rise if there are fewer tests, but also if the outbreak is growing. This is among five factors that data and circumstantial indicators suggest may be powering a spurt in cases in Delhi. The others are behavioural fatigue that could be reducing mask discipline, the reopening of the city that is leading to more crowding, a lag in reporting that could be leading to a statistical build-up, and the possibility that the rise may be part of a cyclical wave trajectory that epidemic disease outbreaks follow.In statements offered separately, the chief minister’s office said the increase in cases was a “momentary situation” that does not, at the moment, require putting curbs on the economic activities that have been allowed, and the government still believes the Delhi Metro must be restarted.“Our stand on the Delhi Metro remains the same. Such decisions, including opening of other economic activities, were taken keeping in mind all possible parameters. The prognosis of the current Covid-19 situation doesn’t call for any drastic or knee jerk decision. Going by the current infection rate, Delhi government is very well equipped to manage the case load and treat patients. We are certain that the situation will be brought further under control soon with the latest announcement of doubling tests and ensuring stricter enforcement of wearing masks and social distancing,” the chief minister’s office said. According to the Kejriwal, tests will now be increased from “around 20,000 tests per day being conducted currently to 40,000 tests per day”. “Our strategy would remain the same – test and isolation,” he added, urging people to get themselves tested on feeling the slightest of influenza-like symptoms.According to a government official, the announcement on testing reflects a reorientation in the chief minister’s approach to the outbreak. “During the past few weeks when the cases were on a decline, the chief minister had shifted his entire focus on reducing the number of Covid deaths in the city. The emphasis was on serious patients. Now, with Delhi recording more than 1,400 cases in a row, the CM has once again started reviewing the steps taken to control the infection rate in his daily meetings,” the official said, asking not to be named.A second senior government who asked not to be named, said the increase in testing will be proportional for the two modes -- through nucleic acid lab tests, known as RT-PCR tests, as well as the rapid antigen test kits, which offer quick results but run a higher risk of throwing up false negatives. A way to ensure this is being worked on, this person added. The first official cited above said the government will prod labs to increase RT-PCR tests, which are at present the most reliable. “Directions will soon be issued to all hospitals and private testing labs to conduct RT-PCR to their full capacity. The health department has also been asked to explore if capacity for RT-PCR tests can be increased beyond the current level of 11,000,” this person said, while adding: “But, rapid antigen tests will continue to be more in numbers compared to RT-PCR as is the current format.”Experts welcomed the planned steps. “Cases are going up. At this stage, the government must go for aggressive testing, isolate positive cases and strengthen surveillance. People should always wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and follow respiratory etiquettes. There is no room for complacency,” said Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Wednesday’s meeting was attended by health minister Satyendar Jain, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and top officials of the health department. Kejriwal said the administration has also taken note of people struggling with residual symptoms after recovering from the disease and the government will now provide them pulse oximeters (which measure oxygen concentration in blood and can identify severe breathing issues) and oxygen concentrators free of charge if required.The chief minister said he has also directed authorities to strengthen enforcement of rules. “People should wear masks and maintain social distancing. Confidence is good but it should not lead to complacency at any cost. We hope nobody is penalised. In case one gets fined, one must understand that it is for a greater good,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-double-tests-as-covid-spike-continues/story-P9ntuxopzEmF2nxwjoQouO.html
27-08-2020||India||Panel seeks 100% FDI in tobacco production||A multi-party committee of Indian Parliament has asked the Narendra Modi government to impose 1% tax on cigarettes help tobacco farmers and allow 100% FDI in tobacco production and cigarette manufacturing, to boost one of India’s major cash crops. The parliamentary committee on commerce, however, also listed conditions for such FDI in a submitted to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday. “The tobacco produced by FDI would be marketed through auction platforms. Also, FDI may be permitted in cigarette manufacturing wherein the value addition of such products is done only in SEZs for export purpose with no domestic sale,” it said. India occupies third position globally in terms of production of tobacco and in exports, after Brazil and China. In the last financial year, tobacco and tobacco products contributed about Rs.22,737crore in excise revenue to the union exchequer. They also earned around Rs.5870 crore through foreign exchange. The panel, headed by V Vijayasai Reddy, argued that as per the 2017 FDI policy, 100% FDI is allowed in tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom plantation and cultivations under automatic entry route. “The Committee is of the opinion that the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in tobacco sector albeit in a regulated manner would stimulate the production and processing of Indian tobacco thereby boosting its export,” the report added. The panel has asked the commerce ministry to “undertake a study to analyse the prospects of opening FDI investments in the tobacco sector at the earliest”. The commerce committee of Parliament maintained that “tobacco farmers, at times, are forced to sell their tobacco at prices less than their cost of cultivation.” “Therefore, 1% of tax on the sale of cigarettes may be imposed and the amount thus accumulated should be utilized as ‘Market Stabilization Fund’ for tobacco. The additional special levies on sale of cigarettes may be expended on starting market intervention in the interest of the welfare of tobacco growers,” it recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-seeks-100-fdi-in-tobacco-production/story-XdT6fmUrCkIts1ISXboWII.html
27-08-2020||India||On strategic security, Prez Rajapaksa has India-first approach: Lankan foreign secy||President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has made it clear that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though Colombo remains open to dealing with other major countries for economic development, the country’s new foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage has said. Colombage, a retired admiral who commanded Sri Lanka’s navy during 2012-14 and is perceived as close to Rajapaksa, made the remarks in two recent interviews. He also said Rajapaksa’s administration has adopted a posture of neutrality in its dealings with key powers at the regional and global level as Sri Lanka cannot become a “staging area” for any country to do “anything against another country – especially...India”. “Very categorically, the president has stated that we have a strategic security-wise ‘India first’ policy because we cannot be, we should not be, we can’t afford to be a strategic security threat for India, period,” Colombage said in an interview to Derana 24 news channel that aired on August 20. “We can’t be and we don’t have to be [a security threat to India]. They are a very big power, [the] fastest developing major economy in 2018, 1.34 billion people, a 7,500-km coastline, it’s a huge country. We need to benefit from India,” he added. Colombage made similar remarks in an interview with the Daily Mirror newspaper, pointing out that Sri Lanka is “between two economic giants” ,a reference to China. He added: “That is why the president mentioned that as far as strategic security is concerned, Sri Lanka will always have an India-first approach. That means Sri Lanka will not do anything harmful to India’s strategic security interests.” However, he said Rajapaksa had made it clear to India’s leadership that Sri Lanka cannot depend on any one country for economic development. “We are open to anyone. We know China is one country willing to invest and develop (sri Lanka). They have the capacity to do it. We have to benefit from it. We have to balance,” he told the Daily Mirror. Colombage also told the news channel: “Even to India...very firmly, the president has said, you are my first priority insofar as security is concerned but I have to deal with other players for my economic prosperity.” Colombage, who was appointed foreign secretary on August 14 and previously served as additional secretary to the president for foreign relations, also said the Sri Lankan government will not hand over total control of strategic national assets to a foreign power following the experience with Hambantota port, which was given to China Merchant Port Holding for 99 years. “Now in that deal, roughly...about 85% of that project’s stakes are for China Merchant Port Holding and only 15% for Sri Lanka. We will do everything so that no one can use our country against another country but then giving total control for a long period, of majority 85% is a very high stake,” he told the news channel. In future ventures, Sri Lanka will retain a 51% stake in any project with foreign investment, he said. Colombage told the Daily Mirror that China understands Sri Lanka’s position and “is pushing for commercial things”. He added, “China also understands it isn’t ethical to push Sri Lanka beyond a certain point that is worrisome to India.” He also told the daily that in 2015, India feared “we had moved towards China too much”, and that India, Japan and the US considered it was wrong for Sri Lanka to give Hambantota port on lease to a Chinese firm. “We actually made India jittery during the period between 2015 and 2019. But India is comfortable with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.” The Modi government has focused on improving ties with Rajapaksa’s administration. Modi was the first world leader to congratulate Rajapaksa even before the final results of Sri Lanka’s parliamentary elections were declared earlier this month, after his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party took an unassailable lead. Last month, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and officials said Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion was also being considered. When Rajapaksa visited India last November, just 10 days after becoming president, New Delhi announced a $400-million line of credit to boost infrastructure and development, and offered another $50 million to fight terrorism and enhance intelligence gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-strategic-security-prez-rajapaksa-has-india-first-approach-lankan-foreign-secy/story-XtddEW352JyVetiR4ySDNM.html
27-08-2020||India||Sonia forms panel to prepare party agenda on govt ordinances||New Delhi Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday constituted a five-member committee to formulate the party’s stance on key ordinances promulgated by the central government. A press release by party general secretary in charge of organisation KC Venugopal said Rajya Sabha members and former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh, Lok Sabha members Amar Singh and Gaurav Gogoi will be the five members of the panel. Ramesh will be the convener of the committee, the release said. The government is planning to bring in 11 ordinances in the 18-day monsoon session of Parliament beginning September 14. If any ordinance lapses, the government can re-promulgate it. In another decision, Sonia Gandhi named former general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande as chairman of the party’s screening committee for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. Pande’s removal from Rajasthan was a key demand of party rebel legislators led by former state deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Pande will be assisted in shortlisting party candidates for the Bihar polls by two young leaders, Devender Yadav and Qazi Nizamuddin. The decisions came two days after a stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that asked Sonia Gandhi to stay on as party chief until a new president is elected. The CWC members also came down heavily on 23 dissenters who in a letter written to Gandhi had, among other things, sought a complete overhaul of the organisation, a full-time and active president, and a parliamentary board. Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi spoke to some of the dissenters after the CWC meet in a bid to bring about peace. On Wednesday, Sonia Gandhi chaired a meeting of opposition chief ministers, including Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), on the issues of goods and services tax compensation, and the NEET and JEE exams. At the meeting, Thackeray congratulated Sonia Gandhi for once again assuming the reins of the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-forms-panel-to-prepare-party-agenda-on-govt-ordinances/story-3JP5nq1WLmpq0D3LbwrIoM.html
27-08-2020||India||Govt to push for market borrowing at GST meet||Thursday’s scheduled meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is expected to be stormy , with the Centre likely to push for a market borrowing mechanism that will leverage states’ recently enhanced borrowing limits to temporarily plug the hole in their finances caused by a shortfall in revenue and the Centre’s inability to compensate them -- and states ruled by non-National Democratic Alliance parties likely to, in turn, push for the compensation itself. According to two government officials familiar with the matter, debt raised from market borrowings will be repaid from the compensation cess fund.Other options, such as levying cess on more items, increasing cess rates on existing products or raising overall GST rates to raise revenue appear difficult at a time when demand is already subdued and the economy is badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, the officials added, asking not to be named.Also read | Net tax liability to be considered for interest on late GST payments from Sept 1States aren’t likely to accept this without argument. In a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said, “It is surprising that that the constitutional guarantee given to the States is being interpreted in a manner that the Centre is not responsible to compensate the States and it is the States (in the GST Council) which will have to find means to compensate themselves!”The Union finance minister chairs the council, which includes state finance ministers. The special meeting of the council has been convened to discuss how to compensate states for their revenue shortfall at a time when the economy is facing headwinds and the compensation cess kitty for 2020-21 is almost empty, the officials said. The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017, and also guarantees them that their revenue shortfall, if any, will be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.As cess collection fell sharply due to subdued business activities, states could not be paid compensation on time. According to official data, the last tranche of the GST compensation worth Rs 13,806 crore for 2019-20 was paid towards end of July. So far, states have been paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation for 2019-20 against total 95,444 crore cess collection for the fiscal year.Also read | ‘Neither luxury nor sin good’: GST tax rate on 2-wheelers may witness a cut“With promised 14% year-on-year revenue growth, the gap is expected to be unmanageable this financial year without borrowing from the market,” one of the officials said. The compensation requirement for 2020-21 is expected to exceed Rs 1.88 lakh crore even if the GST collection in 2020-21 remains at the same level as last fiscal year, he added. Some states have misconception that it is the commitment of the Union government to compensate states, therefore, the central government should borrow the money to pay compensation to states and union territories, the officials mentioned above added. In fact, paying compensation is the collective commitment of both Union and state government, and the GST Council is the apex body that will take a decision on this matter, they said.“The GST law is clear that states will be compensated for their revenue shortfall only from the compensation cess fund. There is no legal provision that the compensation money will come either from the Consolidated Fund of India or the Union government will borrow from the market. Therefore, this matter will be resolved at the GST Council on the principle of collective responsibility. Ideally, states should leverage their enhanced borrowing limits,” the second official said.Mitra’s letter suggests otherwise. “Nothing can be more damaging, unfair and unjust than this. Those who are forwarding such views (on market borrowings) are either not aware of the spirit and intent of the Constitutional Amendment or are consciously turning a blind eye to renege the sovereign promise to the Sates,” he said in the letter reviewed by HT.Mitra said there can be no going back on the fact that compensation has to be paid. The rate of 14% is also sacrosanct as it was unanimously decided by the GST Council, he added.“Under no circumstances States should be asked to borrow from the market as it will increase their debt servicing liability. Further, it may lead to cut State expenditure which is not desirable at this juncture when the economy is witnessing severe recessionary trend,” he said.In order to give fiscal space to states in this time of crisis, the Union government recently raised their borrowing limits. Announcing the last tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Initiative) on May 17, finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre had also accepted the demand of states to raise their borrowing limit from 3% of their respective gross state domestic product (GSDP) to 5% that would give them additional resources of Rs 4.28 lakh crore during the Covid-19 crisis.Experts say the shortfall in compensation cess collection is mainly because of unforeseen circumstances as the architects of the GST regime could not foresee a pandemic-like Covid-19 that would batter the economy. India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year (2020-21). Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of the financial technology platform ClearTax said, “Increasing state borrowing seems to be an option to fund the revenue shortfall for states. The other option suggested was to allow the GST Council to borrow, and repay from cess collection in future years.”He, however, said that these measures were short term. “It is imperative that states need to become more fiscally responsible -- reduce their own debt and make attempts to become fiscally self-reliant to a large extent,” he added. Pratik Jain, partner and leader of the indirect tax practice at PwC India said, “It is evident that cess collected is not enough to compensate the States, particularly in current economic slowdown due to the pandemic. However, at this point, neither increasing the rate of cess nor the ambit look like feasible options.”He said, “Centre will need to negotiate the quantum of compensation, possibly by reducing the 14% annual increment and increasing the period of compensation beyond five years as initially envisaged. In the long term, we will have to find ways for the states to be more economically independent and enhance the tax base.”In his letter, Mitra reminded the finance minister of her promise to pay compensation to states at the 39th meeting of the GST Council. He said the tax regime is hailed world over as an example of cooperative federalism, which is based on mutual trust. “Some dent in this trust has already been made due to delayed payment of GST Compensation. Let us not do anything that will give a death blow to this unique collective effort.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-push-for-market-borrowing-at-gst-meet/story-RDTV6JJJs0KeXYqVMUaRTN.html
27-08-2020||India||Jharkhand caps fee for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday fixed the maximum rates that private hospitals and nursing homes can charge symptomatic as well as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients across the state.“We have been receiving information about private hospitals charging exorbitant rates from the patients on the pretext of Covid-19 treatment. Considering this, the state government has fixed different rates for treatment facilities and services that private hospitals can charge Covid-19 patients henceforth in all the 24 districts of the state. If any such hospitals are found violating the detailed rate-chart, legal actions will be taken against them,” Banna Gupta, who himself is undergoing Covid-19 treatment in RIMS-Ranchi, said on Wednesday.The rates were fixed after studying the rates implemented in Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala and Maharashtra. The move came in the wake of rampant allegations of some private hospitals charging Covid-19 patients over Rs 50, 000 per day.The health minister also released a district-wise detailed rate chart under which the districts have been divided into three categories of A, B and C and hospitals into two categories of National Accreditation Board for Hospital and Health Care (NABH) listed and non-NABH private hospitals.Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum), Ranchi, Dhanbad and Boakro have been put in A category districts while Hazaribag, Ramgarh, Giridih, Palamu, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Deogarh in B category districts and Chatra, Dumka, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Latehar, Lohardaga, Pakur, Sahebgunj, Simdega and West Singhbhum in C category districts.The maximum charge for intensive care unit (ICU) with ventilators (invasive and non-invasive) for very critical Covid-19 patients has been fixed at Rs 18, 000 per day at NABH listed hospitals and Rs 15, 000 at non-NABH hospitals in category A districts. This will be Rs 14, 400 and Rs 12, 000 per day in category B and Rs 10, 800 and Rs 9000 in category C districts.ICU without ventilators in NABH private hospital will now cost severely sick patient Rs 15, 000 in NABH and Rs 13, 000 in non-NABH hospitals in category A districts, Rs 12, 000 and Rs 10, 400 in category B districts and Rs 9000 and Rs 7800 respectively in category C districts. All the rates are inclusive of the cost of PPE kits.Moderately ill patients will have to pay Rs 10, 000 for isolation beds with supportive care and oxygen supply in NABH hospitals and Rs 8000 in non-NABH hospitals in category A districts, Rs 8000 and Rs 6400 in category B, Rs 6000 and Rs 4800 respectively in category C districts.Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 positive patients will have to pay Rs 6000 in NABH hospitals and Rs 5500 in non-NABH hospitals in category A districts as bed charge in normal wards. This will be Rs 5500 and Rs 5000 in category B and Rs 5000 and Rs 4000 in category C districts.The state health department has also fixed Rs 400 for ABG test, Rs 100 for blood sugar level test, Rs 800 for D-Dimer test, Rs 150 for haemoglobin level, Rs 3500 for CT scan chest, Rs 500 for chest X-Ray and Rs 300 for ECG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-caps-fee-for-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-HqNH29RDCXd4bBt3rI3dsK.html
27-08-2020||India||Hospital: Ex-Prez Pranab Mukherjee’s renal parameters ‘slightly damaged’||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and his renal parameters are “slightly deranged”, said the health bulletin issued by the Army Research and Referral Hospital on Wednesday. “Hon’ble Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters are slightly deranged since yesterday. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support,” the bulletin said. The 84-year-old former President underwent a critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg residence on August 10. He was also tested positive for coronavirus at the time of his admission to the hospital. He later developed a respiratory infection. The bulletin also didn’t specify whether Mukherjee’s vital and clinical parameters are stable or not, a departure from the past bulletins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospital-pranab-s-renal-parameters-slightly-damaged/story-pznIREXNJZcWgDQpdY3lkO.html
27-08-2020||India||Armed Forces Tribunal starts virtual hearings||NEW DELHI: The Delhi-based principal bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal on Wednesday initiated hearing of matters pertaining to regional benches through video conferencing, said a defence ministry spokesperson. AFT chairperson Justice Rajendra Menon inaugurated hearings by video conferencing for all 10 regional benches of the tribunal. “With this provision of hearing by video conferencing, an immense relief has been brought to the armed forces personnel, whose applications are awaiting justice at various Regional Benches,” the defence ministry said in a statement. AFT’s principal bench is the only court that has been conducting physical hearings since June 8, 2020, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Physical hearings are being conducted at the Principal Bench taking into account hardships and limitations faced by armed forces personnel, retired as well as serving, primarily due to their far-flung locations and various security related issues,” the statement said. All precautions are being taken during the physical hearings at the principal bench. These include high hygiene standards, the court premises being sanitised twice daily, entry to the court being restricted to a bare minimum and social distancing norms being followed. The advocates appearing in the AFT are separated by a transparent sheet, from the judges and proper social distancing is maintained between court staff and judges, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-tribunal-starts-virtual-hearings/story-tsLFzieOLLh3Tckc4AEVgO.html
27-08-2020||India||DRDO expert panel to review charter of labs to cut overlap||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has set up an expert panel to review the charter of its laboratories and minimise the overlap of technologies they are working on at a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy has constituted the five-member committee under the chairmanship of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi director V Ramagopal Rao and asked the panel to submit its report within 45 days, according to a government letter dated August 24 reviewed by Hindustan Times.The mandate given to the expert panel includes suggesting measures to provide a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India Movement) and cut dependence on imported weapons and systems, the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. According to the letter, the terms of reference of the committee are to study and review the charter of duties of all DRDO labs, to redefine the charter of duties on the basis of current and futuristic defence and battlefield needs and to minimise the overlap of technologies between the labs. The other members of the committee are Indian Air Force deputy chief Air Marshal Sandeep Singh, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre director S Somanath, Instruments Research & Development Establishment (a Dehradun-based DRDO lab) director Benjamin Lionel and Director General-Naval Systems and Materials, Samir V Kamath. The chairman of the committee may co-opt subject specialists as invitees to specific meetings, the letter said. This is a long overdue review and the committee needs to critically, and clinically, analyse the work of the 57 DRDO labs since their inception vis-a-vis their outputs that have seen deployment with the armed forces, and not just their theoretical claims, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “Money for R&D is scarce and must be used judiciously if the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan is to move forward,” Bahadur said. The August 24 letter came on a day the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the extension of DRDO chief Reddy’s term by two years with effect from August 26. He was appointed to the post two years ago. Before that, Reddy was the scientific adviser to the defence minister, a charge he was given in June 2015. From mini unmanned aerial vehicles to fire detection systems and bullet proof vehicles to tank transporters, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has come out with a list of 108 systems and sub-systems that it will help the Indian industry design and develop to strengthen the local defence ecosystem. A DRDO delegation met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday and briefed him on the 108 defence items identified for local production by the industry to achieve self-reliance in the defence sector. It will also allow the DRDO to sharpen its focus on advanced technologies, the defence ministry said. Several steps have been taken in the past to make DRDO more competitive and accountable. These include decentralising its management by merging its labs to form seven clusters based on technology domains such as missiles, electronic warfare, radars, aerial vehicles and underwater weapons. The recommendations made by the P Rama Rao Committee in February 2008 — DRDO’s first external review — formed the bedrock of the roadmap for restructuring the R&D body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-expert-panel-to-review-charter-of-labs-to-cut-overlap/story-DrxVuZGtmPgI7zegRbKiUJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Protests in Kerala as Opposition steps up pressure over secretariat fire||Even as opposition parties continue to allege the fire that gutted ‘important files’ and furniture at the Kerala secretariat on Tuesday was deliberate, the state witnessed a series of protests on Wednesday over the incident as protestors clashed with police injuring many. While the opposition parties allege fire was deliberate attempt to destroy key evidences in the sensational gold smuggling case, the ruling party claim it was a mere accident.Even though the first information report (FIR) says many files were destroyed, but government and senior officers maintain that none of the important files were lost and the incident had nothing to do with the smuggling case. The general administration department (GAD), where the protocol office falls, said gutted files were related to government guest house bookings and ministers swearing-in details. However, nobody is willing to believe GAD secretary P Hani’s claims. A section of the employees however allege that it was a well planned and executed fire and important files dealing with the exemption certificates in UAE consular office, tour itinerary and travel history of some controversial bureaucrats and ministers were destroyed. They say the room in which the fire originated was closed for last two days after one of the employees tested Covid-19 positive. They also allege that the secretariat has a small fire unit but it was not put into action, instead officials waited for reinforcement to arrive from outside. They also question suspicious movement of some government trade union leaders on the premises. According to the FIR, the fire started from a fan after overheating and its remains fell on curtains and later spread to an ‘almirah’ where files were kept. The opposition also said that Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta’s role in the incident was ‘mysterious’ as he was in a hurry to drive out the media and politicians from the scene. When asked about the incident, Mehta refused to comment saying investigation was on. The government also plans to book BJP state president K Surendran, who was among the first to reach the spot, for breach of security. Two inquires are going on separately, one led by police and other by the disaster management secretary. “Many IAS officers’ names also cropped up during the investigation. You don’t need an in-depth inquiry to find out it was an orchestrated one. There are chances for more such manmade fires. We want the NIA to take custody of remaining important files,” said N K Premachandran, RSP MP from Kollam. After meeting Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Tuesday UDF leaders sent another written submission seeking his intervention on Wednesday. Some officials say video clippings of smuggling accused Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair with some officials of the GAD department were doing rounds in social media for last few days. There are reports that Suresh was a frequent visitor to the GAD department and she religiously invited officials for important functions at the consulate and after every foreign trip she allegedly gifted them with latest mobile phones and other gadgets. “When CCTV visuals were sought the government said they were destroyed in lightening. Later it said some of them can be retrieved. CM’s office knew everything about Swapna and Co. Now they are desperately destroying evidences. We hope NIA will question them soon,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said both Congress and BJP have aligned to derail a democratically-elected government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-in-kerala-as-oppn-steps-up-pressure-over-secretariat-fire/story-LZmXhaGqJLF1RJgFZLfZ4H.html
27-08-2020||India||Railways cites delays by states, contractors on dedicated freight corridors||Following concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of dedicated freight corridors (DFCs), one of the largest rail infrastructure projects, the Indian Railways has cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order and delays in construction by some states, according to people aware of the developments.An official said the railways has identified delays in both the eastern and western dedicated freight corridors and revised the deadline for completing them to 2022 from 2021.The railways’ project implementing arm, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), in an internal report reviewed by HT, has cited slow progress of road over bridge (ROB) approaches. It has also pointed towards law and order issues in some districts as an area of concern for the delay in the eastern corridor.In the western corridor, DFCCIL also mentioned slow progress citing “slow acquisition of land for approaches.”DFCCIL, in its observation, identified delays by the following contractors: GMR group, Alstom, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, Tata projects, Hitachi and Texmaco rail & engineering limited. The railways citied “inadequate mobilization” as of the reasons for delays, followed by “slow pace of work” by the contractors and cash flow issues.“The project is monitored on a weekly basis now. Another meeting is scheduled to be chaired by MR Next Monday with all stakeholders. Railways would listen to all. If contractors are unhappy, we can’t be happy; idea is to take all with you. However, the railways will not tolerate any slippages in timelines of the contracted works. Action would be taken against any entity causing delay in the project of such importance. This strict monitoring is for all the working parties involved including entities in railways. Rules of monitoring is applicable for all,” a spokesperson for the railway ministry said.A spokesperson for the GMR Group said: “Despite the adverse effect of Covid, which has impacted availability of manpower, raw material and other resources, due to support from government agencies, we have overcome it to large extent over the last few month.”A spokesperson for Alstom said the company has completed 90% of the work awarded to it.HT’s requests for comments from other firms mentioned above remained unanswered as of press time.On June 18, HT reported that DFCCIL decided to terminate its contract with the Chinese firm Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays.A review of the DFC is scheduled to be held on August 31 with the contractors. The railways will also hold a review with state government officials of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra on September 1.“A review meeting was held on the DFFCIL and Shri (Piyush) Goyal directed the DFFCIL management team to take necessary steps to speed up the project to compensate the loss of time due to lockdown during Covid-19,” DFCCIL said.Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner, said: “There are also issues around land acquisition and encroachments which are adversely impacting progress in certain stretches.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-push-dedicated-freight-corridors-deadline-back-by-1-yr/story-fp7Y3dX1f7CUDQem0nF26K.html
27-08-2020||India||Karnataka plans to reopen colleges from October||Karnataka’s deputy chief minister and higher education minister CN Ashwathnarayan announced that in-person classes for degree colleges in the state would resume from October, until which online classes would be held from September 1, when the academic session commences.In a series of tweets, the minister, who also holds the IT & BT, and skill development portfolios, said, “We have decided to use the online medium to get the ball rolling on all academic activities from next month as we will need to conduct a few degree exams in September.” Even as he gave a timeline for resumption of classes, Ashwathnarayan, however, cautioned that the state is awaiting detailed guidelines from the Centre regarding the resumption of offline classes and said the state would follow any additional directions that may be issued in this regard.Asserting that the state government was working with the sole intent of ensuring students’ interests are served, Ashwathnarayan said, “Once the academic year begins, final year exams will be scheduled for all undergraduate, diploma and engineering students. Backlog exams will also be conducted accordingly.”If the government goes ahead with the plan, the state is likely to be the first in the country to reopen in-person classes and academic coaching. Usually, the academic year for colleges in the state starts in June, which has been delayed this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-plans-to-reopen-colleges-from-october/story-rNMjwTf3JTf5MzdQ60RNoK.html
27-08-2020||India||BJP’s Dubey asks Tharoor to cancel I-T panel meeting||Bharatiya Janata Party MP and member of the parliamentary panel on Information Technology, Nishikant Dubey has written to the chairman of the committee, Shashi Tharoor, seeking cancellation of the panel’s upcoming meeting claiming that its agenda is in contravention of the rules of the House. Dubey’s letter to the Congress MP comes a day after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla wrote to the heads of all panels asking them to select subjects based on rules and keeping in mind the convention that the House does not discuss issues that are “pending in the courts”. “In this connection, I may like to bring to your kind notice that recently, your good self has convened yet another sitting of the Committee on 1 September 2020 to discuss the issue of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir,” Dubey wrote in his letter on Wednesday. “Since this issue is presently pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court… any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant rules/directions, as well as the recently issued advisory of the Hon’ble speaker.” Dubey and Tharoor have already sparred over l’affaire Facebook, where the social media company’s top lobbyist in India advised that the company not act against a BJP lawmaker whose posts violated the company’s standards on hate speech on the grounds that it wouldn’t go down well with the ruling dispensation., according to an investigative report in The Wall Street Journal. “The Committees should give due consideration to rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination,” Birla said in a letter, which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times. “In addition, I would like to point out that as per convention, the Committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the Courts.”According to rule 270, “a Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, provided any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final”.Moreover, the rule adds that the Government may decline to produce a document on the ground that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state.The Speaker’s letter came a week before the Information and Technology Panel is slated to discuss two contentious topics, the issue of Internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir on September 1 and Facebook’s testimony over alleged bias towards the ruling party on September 2. The Supreme Court is still considering the matter of Internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir. While the date of the next hearing has not been notified, on August 11, the Centre told the SC that 4G telecom services (including mobile internet) would be restored in the newly formed Union territory in a staggered manner after August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-dubey-asks-tharoor-to-cancel-i-t-panel-meeting/story-1YB2bgxgIcGWgQGqHNL8DJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Pak rejects Pulwama attack probe charge sheet, calls it an attempt to serve domestic interest||Pakistan has rejected the charge sheet filed in the Pulwama attack probe, claiming it to be a ‘mischievous attempt’ to implicate Islamabad for the attack. It said that India has failed to provide credible evidence to support its claim and that it is meant to serve ‘narrow and domestic political interests.’A statement issued on Wednesday by the Pakistan Foreign Office says that it “categorically rejects the so-called ‘charge sheet’ by India’s National Investigation Agency (NIA), which mischievously attempts to implicate Pakistan in the Pulwama attack in the Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu & Kashmir (IIOJK) last year. The fabrications in the reported ‘charge sheet’ are patently designed to further the BJP’s anti-Pakistan rhetoric and its narrow domestic political interests.”“At the outset, Pakistan had rejected India’s baseless allegations and expressed readiness to extend cooperation on the basis of any actionable information. India failed to provide any credible evidence for its invective and has instead been using the attack for its malicious propaganda campaign against Pakistan,” read the statement.The statement added, “It would be recalled that Indian military aircraft engaged in belligerent action against Pakistan on 26 February, 2019. The Indian misadventure was effectively countered by the Pakistan Air Force, which resulted in the downing of two Indian warplanes and capture of an Indian pilot. Despite India’s provocations, the Indian pilot was released by Pakistan as a peace gesture.”It concludes by saying that Pakistan has been forewarning the international community about India’s use of “false flag” operation and possible ill-conceived misadventure.GVL Narasimha Rao, spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party, said, “Pakistan has been a habitual liar and denied its culpability in all such terror crimes despite clinching evidence. In Pulwama, NIA has presented clinching forensically matched evidence to nail the role of Jaish-e-Mohammad and Pakistan. There will be no takers for Pak’s lies either in India or internationally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheet-an-attempt-to-serve-domestic-interest-claims-pakistan/story-K1sxXNHwKg8n7H1lCmMdSP.html
27-08-2020||India||Pulwama bombers had international media in sight: NIA||Jaish-e-Mohammad Chief Masood Azhar’s nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, who executed the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack, wanted to target a team of journalists working for BBC who had gone to the residence of suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar to interview his father Ghulam Hassan Dar, according to the chargesheet filed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday. The federal investigation agency has referred to a February 21, 2019 conversation between Umar Farooq and his Pakistan based uncle Ammar Alvi, in which he sought permission to target the BBC journalists who were in the valley. He believed that the attack would give JeM more international exposure. Also read: Pak rejects Pulwama attack probe charge sheet, calls it an attempt to serve domestic interestTo be sure, the NIA has gone by the conversation of the terrorists. It is unclear whether foreign journalists were present at the valley at that time.Alvi, however, denied the permission to attack the journalists asking Farooq to “cherish the success of Pulwama attack for now”, according to charge sheet, which has been reviewed by HT. The charge sheet doesn’t mention the names of the BBC journalists. Alvi (46) has been named as a key handler of the Pulwama attack in the charge sheet, along with Farooq, Azhar, Abdul Rouf Asghar, and 15 others. NIA has found pictures of Alvi dating back to 2016 , where he is seen with Farooq at a training camp in Sangin, Helmand province of Afghanistan. The charge sheet adds that Umar Farooq, who was still holed up in Kashmir after the Pulwama attack, was “worried” when Azhar, and Abdul Rouf Asghar, were among 44 terror suspects taken into custody by Pakistan under international pressure soon after the suicide bombing. Also read: Photos, chats and a phone: How NIA cracked the Pulwama case“A handler at one of the launch pads of JeM, with whom Farooq was in regular touch with, informed him that ISI (Pakistan’s spy agency Inter Services Intelligence) told them that the arrest was just an eyewash and their leaders would be released soon”, said an officer investigating the case quoting details of the charge sheet. The NIA has attached a transcript of this conversation in the chargesheet. In another conversation with the Pakistan based JeM leadership, Farooq (killed in encounter with security forces on March 29, 2019) praises the role played by Shakir Bashir Magray, a Kashmiri collaborator. Farooq, according to details accessed by HT, informed the JeM leadership that Magray did what Afzal Guru did for the group in the Parliament attack in 2001. Magray (24), a resident of Kakapora in the valley, was the first person to be arrested by NIA in the case on February 28 this year. The 200 kg IED used in the Pulwama attack was assembled in his house and he also conducted reconnaissance of CRPF convoys, arranged explosives, helped fit the bomb in the car and drove the suicide bomber to the attack site. The agency has found hundreds of video clips, voice notes and WhatsApp messages from Farooq’s phone in which JeM terrorists are seen celebrating, training and practising before they are sent into India. Some videos also show them discussing plans, and transfer of funds. According to the NIA chargesheet, Farooq spent a total of Rs 5.7 lakh Pakistani rupees (roughly Rs 2.51 lakh at today’s exchange rate) in arranging explosives and other items for the Pulwama attack out of a total of 10 lakh Pakistani rupee transferred into his two bank accounts in Pakistan’s Allied Bank Ltd and Meezan Bank, located across the border. It is not clear how he withdrew the money.  The central agency, referring to a United Nations’ report dated May 2020, said that JeM has close ties with Taliban and Al-Qaeda. It adds that JeM and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) facilitate the trafficking of terrorist fighters into Afghanistan, who act as advisers, trainers and specialists in improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Farooq was also trained in Afghanistan in 2016-17. It added that LeT and JeM were stated to have approximately 800 and 200 armed fighters respectively, co-located with Taliban forces in Mohmand Darah, Dur Baba and Sherzad districts of Nangarhar province. They operate under the umbrella of Afghan Taliban. NIA Director General Y C Modi said: “Our charge sheet is based on fool-proof digital, forensic, documentary and oral evidence collected against the accused in this dastardly and barbaric attack. The charge-sheet has brought on record the all-out involvement of Pakistan-based entities to carry out terrorist strikes in India and to incite and provoke Kashmiri youth”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-bombers-had-int-l-media-in-sight-nia/story-vviIjA1O9yFAjUJaxSKXRP.html
27-08-2020||India||Opposition battle-ready to take on BJP over key issues in House||From the slowdown in the economy and job losses, to the alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, the Opposition is getting battle-ready to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the monsoon session of the Parliament, according to multiple members familiar with the matter. HT reported on Wednesday that a truncated session is set to run from September 14 to October 1, as per recommendations made by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has called a meeting on Thursday to finalise arrangements to conduct the session during the pandemic.This may include the use of at least 10 display screens for live proceedings, placards to indicate names of parties, and ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in the air conditioning system. While the BJP has prepared its own game plan to counter the Opposition offensive, the Congress and the Trinamool Congress will soon hold Parliamentary Party meetings to deliberate and strategise on how best to take on the ruling party. The Union government is looking to clear 11 ordinances, HT reported on Wednesday, that expire after six months if not replaced by Bills, which need to be passed in six weeks. “Before Parliament begins, the Congress Parliamentary Party will meet and have a threadbare discussion about the best strategy to counter the BJP,” said Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Trinamool Congress MP and spokesperson, Derek O’Brien, too said that the party will deliberate and decide what subjects to take up. “The main assertion is that the Parliament belongs to the Opposition and an appropriate amount of time should be given so that all issues can be addressed,” O’Brien said. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP Sumathy Thamizhachi Thangapandian and Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha, too, said that an adequate amount of time should be made available for discussion on the floor of the House. According to Chowdhury, the claims that China has occupied Indian territory in Ladakh will be a central issue in the proceedings of the House. The Congress has been attacking the BJP for being in “denial” about the incursion. DMK MP Sumathy also said that the government will have to answer for the “loss of the life of 20 Indian soldiers” in the bloody face-off with China’s PLA, which also lost an unspecified number of soldiers.“The Chinese statement clearly shows that there has been an incursion,” said Jha. “Then why is the government in denial, why are they fixated on a trial balloon diplomacy.” The parties also contended that the government has failed to adequately address the Covid crisis, leading to job losses across the spectrum, and especially for migrant workers. “Unemployment is at an all time high,” said Chowdhary. “The government will have to explain why the youth do not have jobs anymore.” The leaders argued that the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis has had a cascading effect on the economy and the country, and called for a road map to fix the economy, something it has failed to do till now. Two other issues set to come up are passing of executive orders to clear the National Education Policy (NEP), the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), and setting up the PM-Cares fund, though the Supreme Court last week ruled that money from the fund does not need to be transferred to the National Disaster Response Fund.“Why are there 11 ordinances? Has India become an Ordinance Raj,” said a TMC MP who asked not to be named.The leaders said that the turning of Jammu & Kashmir into a “virtual prison” will also be taken up, along with the issue that several states are not getting Goods and Services Tax dues on time.The RJD’s Jha said that the truncated session may limit the Opposition’s ability to question the multiple executive decisions taken by the government, while Chowdhury said that the House must not be “disempowered”, pointing to the plan to do away with Question Hour, which he said was “integral to the functioning of the House”.BJP MP Rakesh Sinha said that in recent years obstructionism and cynicism acquired centrality of opposition ‘ politics. Narendra Modi’s popularity graph went up not only in India but also in international arena due to his role to manage crisis emanated from Covid 19. He succeeded in isolating China in international fora by aggressively questions its policy of Expansionism.Director CSDS Sanjay Kumar said that the time will be utilised by the government to try and push their legislations through, but there is host of issues that the opposition can pick up. “The issues are related,” said Kumar. “A discussion on the failure of the government to handle the Covid crisis can easily lead to a conversation about the economic slowdown and the plight of migrants. The opposition will try and corner the government over it but whether they will be successful or not, we will have to wait and see.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-battle-ready-to-take-on-bjp-over-key-issues-in-house/story-d81KCcUjbSYoqieJ8Z2U5J.html
27-08-2020||India||Kerala CM Vijayan gives Sonia-convened meeting of Opposition CMs a miss||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday gave the meeting of Opposition CMs convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi a miss as both Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Kerala Congress leaders were against his participation, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. According to two top-ranking leaders of the Congress and the CPI(M), an aide of Gandhi called upon CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury seeking Vijayan’s participation in the meeting. Yechury wanted that the meeting be headed by a chief minister instead of the Congress president to avoid political overtones. However, “ the Congress wanted to utilise the meeting to project and further consolidate Gandhi’s pivotal position in the Opposition space after that intense internal tussle inside the Congress,” said a senior leader alluding to the recent Congress Working Committee meeting that was held against the backdrop of 23 Congress leaders writing to Gandhi seeking organisational changes. The CPI(M) general secretary also told Gandhi’s aide to check with leaders of Congress’s Kerala unit if they were ready to accept the participation of Vijayan, who is heading the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the southern state, in the meeting, the leader quoted earlier said. After a few minutes, the Congress emissary called back Yechury to inform that Kerala Congress leaders were opposed to Vijayan’s participation, the leader said. Another leader pointed out that the Kerala is going to poll next year and state Congress leaders don’t want the party to provide any coveted platform to Vijayan. Both sides, however, maintained that both the Left and Congress would be part of Opposition’s plans to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre in the upcoming monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-gives-sonia-convened-meeting-of-oppn-cms-a-miss/story-F0dxiVtOS2AmPoke3vU8yJ.html
27-08-2020||India||Silent majority of students want exams held: Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” spoke to Amandeep Shukla about the government’s decision to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) next month, the view by students and parents concerned about the pandemic that these exams be postponed, why the government is not considered alternative methods, and the assertion by Opposition parties that they will move the Supreme Court to have the exams delayed or deferred. Edited Excerpts:There was major meeting of opposition chief ministers and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. The decision to hold the NEET and JEE exams has clearly become a major political issue.It pains to see that education is becoming politicised. I request my colleagues across the political spectrum to abide by the orders of the honourable Supreme Court. Leaving the politics aside, I would like to share that, a total of 7.41 lakh candidates out of 8.58 lakh appearing for JEE have downloaded admit cards. Only 332 candidates have requested for change of their centre cities, which are being considered positively. In reference to NEET, a total of 6.84 lakh candidates (out of a total of 15.97 lakh) have downloaded the admit cards in the first five hours. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has said that if you don’t understand students’ problems, and that they will approach the Supreme Court.The Supreme Court, while dismissing the writ petition regarding the postponement of these examinations, also observed, inter alia, the following: “Ultimately life has to go on, and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and a full academic year cannot be wasted”. I would like to state that Parliament will start functioning, offices are functioning. In my opinion we have to ensure that there is no zero academic year in the lives of students. Some students say that the government isn’t being considerate, and it isn’t responding to an unprecedented situation and the plight of students.I feel that this government is very empathetic and considerate to the cause of the students. Academic career is very important, and a zero academic year will cause tremendous loss to the students.Every day, I get innumerable mails from the silent majority . The parents and students say that they are under stress and preparing for exams for the last two to three years and that they don’t want a zero academic year. They have been seriously preparing for the exams since January and the past two years. My request to all parents and students is to have faith in us about the safety of the examination centres. Is it not possible to move the exams ahead by another 30 or 60 days? Are you considering any such move?There is no certainty about when the pandemic will. The solution therefore is to move on with precautions. Why is there no other alternative being considered -- online entrance examinations, or normalising of marks from different board exams to facilitate direct selection?We need to have a transparent system of selection of students into the higher education system. The most transparent system is an objective test, and this has evolved over the years. If we tinker with the system and selection process, it is going to cause irreparable damage to the careers of the students. I have always reiterated that safety first and then exams. But conducting these exams any time later might lead to a situation where the entire year could be lost, therefore conducting these exams in now with due precautions is a middle path. What about students who don’t get centres of their choice -- how will they travel to the exam centre with transport and travel restrictions in various places?In the best interest of students, NTA has ensured that more than 99% candidates get their first choice of centre and cities in of these examinations. The number of centres have been increased from 570 to 660 (in case of JEE Main) and 2,546 to 3,843 (in case of NEET). In case of JEE Main, the number of shifts has been increased from the earlier 8 to 12, and the number of candidates per shift has been reduced from earlier 1.32 lakh to 85,000.Can you give details of how these safety measures were arrived at?NTA has defined a SOP based on recommendations of a high-level committee of medical experts, along with in adherence to various Government directives and Guidelines issues from time to time by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silent-majority-of-students-want-exams-held-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank/story-rlyODHwJVjPFpbGCm1P5NL.html
27-08-2020||India||Govt gears up to conduct exams despite chorus against schedule||Even as a chorus grew from the Opposition against the Centre’s schedule to hold the NEET and JEE entrance exams in September, the Union education ministry and the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Wednesday continued to work towards what would be the biggest entrance test to be conducted during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.According to another government official, who asked not to be named, the education ministry is keen that the exams are held because it will help keep the academic year on track and not keep the students in “perpetual uncertainty”. The official said there was no alternative to these exams, especially because colleges such as IITs and AIIMS were highly coveted.For JEE (Main), a total of 741,000 candidates out of 858,000 have so far downloaded their admit cards. Only 332 candidates requested for a change of their centre cities, which was being considered, a government official said on condition of anonymity. For NEET, 684,000 candidates (out of a total of 1.59 million) downloaded the admit cards in first five hours, since start of the process at 11.55am, the official added.The JEE (Main) exam will be held at 660 centres across India from September 1 to 6, while NEET candidates will take the exam at 3,842 test centres on September 13.The National Testing Agency (NTA) has emphasised that it will hold the exams safely and a detailed protocol has been put in place. Among the states which have questioned the move to hold the NEET and JEE exams are West Bengal, Delhi, Odisha and Tamil Nadu. These are states from which a large number of candidates are going to appear for the two exams.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said in a social media post that he was in favour of conducting the examinations by taking all precautions and following social distancing norms. “Lockdown is not a solution to COVID. Lockdown was needed to prepare ourselves better. We cannot be perpetually in lockdown mode. COVID is not going to go away for another 6 months to one year. We all need to get used to this new normal. The earlier we realize that, the better it is for all of us. The last postponement of exams definitely helped us prepare well now,” Rao said.Professor Ajit K Chaturvedi, director, IIT Roorkee, said: “The JEE exams should be held as per their schedule in September 2020. A large number of students and their parents want the exams to be conducted and looking forward to the wait to end now. The pandemic has already disrupted the academic plans of many students and institutions and we don’t see the pandemic going away anytime soon. We should not let this be a zero academic year as it might have consequences on the bright future of several students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gears-up-to-conduct-exams-despite-chorus-against-schedule/story-mbmsRJnYx2cVUXZfaKnq4M.html
27-08-2020||India||5 reasons why Delhi’s Covid-19 cases spiked||From the mental fatigue of wearing masks, to opening of markets, and the threat of a second wave, several factors can be behind the resurgence of cases that Delhi has seen in the past few weeks. A look five key reasons that can be behind the spurt.1. POOR MASK DISCIPLINEExperts have repeatedly pointed out the laxity across the city when it comes to people wearing masks. While the police have started enforcement of masks inside cars, mask discipline and enforcement remains an area where the Capital leaves a lot of room for improvement. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageData accessed by HT shows that nearly 175,000 people have been fined by Delhi Police for not wearing masks till August 23. “It is good that the people of Delhi have become confident, but it shouldn’t lead to complacency. People should always wear masks,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday.During the Union health ministry briefing on Tuesday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava had blamed people who do not wear masks for driving the pandemic in India. “I would say irresponsible, less cautious people who are not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance are driving the pandemic in India,” he had said. What can be done: Enforcement of mask regulations, including proper use with both the nose and mouth covered,must further strengthened. More awareness campaigns needed to emphasise on the importance of wearing masks2. REOPENING OF THE CITYOn top of the list of guidelines by World Health Organization for control of Covid-19, is the request to people against going to crowded places. “Where people come together in crowds, you are more likely to come into close contact with someone that has Covid-19 and it is more difficult to maintain physical distance of 1 metre,” the advisory states. This formed the backbone of argument in favour of hundreds of lockdown enacted across the world.The rise in cases in Delhi has coincided with the gradual reopening of city -- workplaces, markets, malls, restaurants, hotels and weekly markets. The last two have been opened just last week. There are also talks underway to open the Delhi Metro, which carries around 2.5 million people every day.“As per the second sero survey report, nearly two-thirds of the city’s population is still unexposed (thus susceptible to Covid-19)... And if you create opportunities for people to mingle, then it will increase the chances of transmission of the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR told HT.What we can do: The government needs to ensure that the city opens carefully, and that social distance is maintained in shops, markets and public transport, be it buses or Metro3. PLATEAU IN TESTINGThe rise in cases has corresponded with the number of daily tests being on a near-steady drop from peak levels. The seven-day average for tests stands at 17,924 — significantly off the peak of 21,660, which was for the week ending July 9. HT first reported this plateau in a report on August 15 when experts raised questions about whether the Capital is getting complacent in its testing strategy.This drop in testing was acknowledged during Wednesday’s press briefing by Kejriwal, who said there are plans to double the numbers in a week – from roughly 20,000 tests to 40,000 per day.Another issue with Delhi’s testing has been the heavy reliance on antigen, or rapid tests, which are not as reliable as the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. While ICMR says that at an average, around 30-40% of tests across India are antigen tests, which give out a higher number of false positives. In Delhi, this number has averaged around 70%.What can be done: The government must maintain a very steady rate of high testing for a prolonged period of time and ensure that the number RT-PCR tests are increased, and that they are used at full capacity.4. STATISTICAL VARIATIONA common occurrence among all Covid-19 statistical analysis across the world has been that infections can rise and drop in spurts. Several factors such as incubation period, delay/lag in test results, and age of infected patients can push heavily influence the daily (and by extension, weekly) numbers emerging out of any area. For instance, the incubation period for Covid-19 can vary between one to 12 days, so the same people who got infected on a day can test positive as much as 11 days apart. Such variations in case rates have been visible throughout the world with cases rising and dropping in cycles. Countries such as Brazil and the United States generally see massive variation in daily data. Delhi had been one of those regions that had not seen major variation in daily cases. Therefore Delhi’s recent spurt in cases may also be connected to recent statistical spurt which may have been influenced by multiple factors.What can be done: Statistical variation can be countered by closely monitoring any change in datasets from the city such as daily positivity rate, reproduction factor, and doubling rate 5. SECOND WAVE COMING?Although the government and experts still say there is no second wave Covid-19 in Delhi, the chances of that happening in the not-too-distant future remains high. Several countries, including those that have been lauded by global health experts for their handling of the disease, have seen a resurgence of cases after bringing the first wave under control. A large majority of countries in Europe such as Italy, Spain and Germany have all seen second waves. The positive news, though, is that the second wave has been milder than the first in terms of total cases and has generally caused far fewer fatalities. Experts have warned that the recent spike in cases may be the start of Delhi’s second wave of infections.What can be done: If data in Delhi points to a second wave, then the government should not hesitate in shutting down parts of the city a second time to contain cases again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-reasons-why-delhi-s-covid-19-cases-spiked/story-uvqYQX8q1KzgvKQGdqLQjO.html
27-08-2020||India||Delhi at an inflection point in Covid battle||The Capital is at a crucial stage where it needs to act swiftly before the growing number of Covid-19 cases builds into a second wave, top health experts in the country believe, identifying the period from now till the festive season in October as a crucial window for infection control measures. There were 1,693 new cases reported on Wednesday, taking the average number of new cases over the last seven days to 1,375 -- the highest since the seven-day period ending in July 15. The proportion of samples turning positive has also been the highest it has been since then.“Delhi is at the crux where the rise in the number of cases can be controlled, if it is not controlled now, we can enter a second wave in a few months. People are fed up, and have become casual about using masks and maintaining social distancing, and we have to factor this in when planning a response to prevent resurgence,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.“I would say 3,000 cases daily will indicate resurgence, we have to keep the number of daily cases between 1,000 and 1,500. Delhi’s R-naught (R0) has gone up, which suggests the disease is spreading. R0 has increased to over 1 from a low of 0.71 on July 27, Delhi should focus on keeping the R0 below 1, anything approaching 2 is a huge concern,” he said.R0 is the reproduction number that indicates the number of people infected by a single person. If the number is above 1, it implies the outbreak is growing. Once it breaches 2, the growth can become exponential. “With opening up, cases will rise, this is the only way as life has to go on. Around 30% people have antibodies, which means 70% are still vulnerable, and the only protection is wearing a mask. There are no short cuts as we don’t know how protective these antibodies are as these are not neutralising, which offer longer protection,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi. “There is bound to be some daily fluctuation … but the positivity rate is also rising, which is a cause for concern,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. REOPEN SLOWLYThe experts said that encouraging discipline during the festive season – a period when people socialise and shop – will be crucial. “We should bring the R0 down to 1 to have stable numbers. Delhi has certainly done well, but opening public transport will pose a huge challenge. We all have to assume that everyone is infected and can transmit to us, and we can transmit to others. Keeping that in mind, we must use universal precautions,” he added. The strategy must focus on addressing economic considerations as well. “We need to have a relook at the strategy keeping in mind human behaviour, economic activity, and newer interventions, including partial lockdown being implemented in many states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and West Bengal,” said Dr Guleria. He added that now is not the time to reopen schools and more public transport. “Opening public transport further is not a good idea as the festive season is about to begin, where people begin meeting family, friends and markets and public places; it is human nature. Much like Ganapati celebrations in Mumbai, public celebrations must be low key with restrictions on gatherings, crowding in marketplaces etc,” he said. Data from across the world suggests cases have spiked wherever schools have opened. “Children and young children can’t follow social-distancing norms, India doesn’t have the capacity to control large classrooms,” Dr Guleria added. Crowding must be stopped till there are clear reductions in daily cases, the experts said. “The government must forbid crowding, including in the festive season, till we see the last of the virus. In Europe, the virus appears to have got milder, with cases rising in the second wave but deaths not increasing correspondingly. Its evolutionary biology, but it takes several months. We have to slow infection by changing behaviour by avoiding crowds so we nudge the virus to a milder form, eve as more people recover from infection,” said Dr Reddy. IMPROVE TESTINGThe turnaround time of test results must be reduced to 24 hours or less as the utility of testing lies in results being quick, particularly for RT-PCR tests. “Delhi needs to do more RT-PCR (reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction) tests, which currently accounts for around 30 of the total tests, ratio of RT-PCR ad antigen testing should be reversed,” said Dr Guleria, adding: “antigen tests have higher positivity in symptomatic cases and does not pick up infection in close contacts, asymptomatic and mild cases. It’s useful for point-of-care testing and containment zones to quickly quarantine and isolate patients, but doing it on a large scale has limitations”.FIGHT FATIGUEExperts said the government response needs to focus on leading indicators, like identifying outbreaks early, than lagging indicators like death, which occurs after the epidemic has taken seed. Even the number of known cases is slightly lagging because people develop symptoms, get tested, and have the test reported to government, by when it is likely been a few days. “The leading indicator is symptoms. The minute you find lots of people reporting symptoms, such as loss of smell, in any part of Delhi even before the tests come positive, you know that something is happening in this area, all the people in that area can be warned,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (Council of Scientific and Industrial ResearchHe agreed that public fatigue was a worrying factor, and that officials should consider a “smart, guided precautions communicated via a tool people trust”. “The closest thing we have to that is Aarogya Setu. But it must be made stronger so it adds value to people’s lives. Simply telling people to wear a mask is weak messaging, you have to value add so people get into the habit of checking their Aarogya Setu every time they step out to identify safe areas and avoid unsafe ones to help maximise mobility and minimizing risk,” said Agrawal. FOCUS ON RESOURCESClinical preparedness must continue to manage cases and save lives, said ILBS’s Dr Sarin. “Our job is to ensure people know they have to go to the hospital first, where they must get treated. We have plasma bank facility and if applied early in first72 hours, then definitely it gives benefits. I have always said that we have another year before we will settle down,” he said. On a hopeful note, Dr Reddy added behaviour change may not be as tough as it appears. “We have been trained to work from home, now we must learn to socialise and pray from home,” Dr Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-at-an-inflection-point-in-covid-battle/story-FUdPLimhBOidYoFkJR7lJL.html
27-08-2020||India||Opposition gets battle-ready for Parliament, five key issues to watch out for||From the collapse of the economy and staggering job losses, to the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and alleged Chinese incursion into Indian Territory, the opposition is getting battle-ready to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the monsoon session of Parliament. Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday that the Parliament session is slated to start from September 14 and will go on till October 1, as per recommendations made by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has called a meeting on Thursday to finalise arrangements to conduct the session during the pandemic. This may include the use of 10 display screens for live proceedings, placards to indicate names of parties and ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air conditioning system. While the BJP has prepared its own game plan to counter the opposition offensive, the Congress and the Trinamool Congress will soon hold Parliamentary Party meetings to deliberate and strategise on how best to take on the ruling party. The Central government is looking to clear 11 ordinances, HT reported on Wednesday, as they expire after six months if not replaced by a Bill, which has to be passed in six weeks, is not passed. “Before Parliament begins, the Congress Parliamentary Party will meet and have a threadbare discussion about the best strategy to counter the BJP,” said Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Derek O’Brien, Trinamool’s leader in Rajya Sabha, said that the party would deliberate and decide what subjects to take up. “The main assertion is that the Parliament belongs to the Opposition and an appropriate amount of time ( about two of the four hours daily) should be factored in so that all issues can be addressed. Zero Hour and Question Hour must happen “ O’Brien said.DMK MP Sumathy Thamizhachi Thangapandian and RJD MP Manoj Jha too concurred that an adequate amount of time should be made available for discussion on the floor of the house. The broad issues the opposition flagged are as follows Alleged Chinese incursion According to Chowdhury, the claims that China had occupied Indian Territory in Ladakh will be central in the proceedings of the House. The Congress has been attacking the BJP for being in ‘denial’ about the incursions. DMK MP Sumathy too said that the government will have to answer for the ‘loss of the life of 20 Indian soldiers’. “The Chinese statement clearly shows that there has been an incursion,” said Jha. “Then why is the government in denial, why are they fixated on trial balloon diplomacy.” CPI(M)’s Sitaram Yechury asserted that India’s relationship with all its neighbours was in a state of decline. “Look at Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and even Bangladesh, there has been a collapse in the relations with all the neighbours.” He added that the CPI(M) supports the government when it comes to China but the party would like to know if there was no incursion, how were 20 soldiers killed. Covid-19 crisis mismanagement Three of the parties believe that the government has failed to adequately address the global pandemic, leading to job losses across the spectrum, and especially for migrant workers. “Unemployment is at an all time high,” said Chowdhary. “The government will have to explain why the youth do not have jobs anymore.” Jha added that mismanagement of the crisis is clear from the fact that a lockdown was imposed when there were only 100 cases a day, but now that there over 60,000 cases per day, the government was not even addressing the issue. “This shows the government is not serious about the crisis,” Jha said. According to Sumathy, the government had failed to provide help to the states even when they had repeatedly asked for it. “What have the Prime Minister and his cabinet done to resolve the crisis, it is a failure on part of both the state and the Central government” she said. “The issue of migrant labourers is also an important one that demands accountability.” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic will be taken up by the party. “The Central government not only failed to provide the wherewithal to contain the pandemic, but also failed to bolster health infrastructure,” Yechury said. Economic downturn According to all four opposition parties mentioned above, the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis has had a cascading effect on the economy and the country. “Our economy is in shambles,” said Chowdhury. “The government has done nothing to provide stimulus for it.” Sumathy concurred with Chowdhury. Jha, meanwhile, added that it was not even a ‘bleeding economy anymore, but a dead one’. “The level of unemployment is unprecedented,” said Jha. A TMC MP who did wish to be named said that government will have to offer a roadmap to fix the economy, something it has failed to do till now. Yechury said that it was already in crisis before the pandemic hit. “The Modi government’s policies have destroyed the economy. There is a lack of demand and until that is addressed, no amount of loans can fix the economy,” he said. Passing of executive orders The National Education Policy, the Environmental Impact Assessment and setting up of the PM-Cares fund, among others are likely to be questioned by the opposition. “What are these 11 ordiances, has India become an ordiance raj,” said the TMC MP. Sumathy added that the DMK had opposed the NEP and EIA from their draft stages itself. “Imposition of Hindi is another issue we would like to take up,” she said. According to Jha, the truncated houses will limit the opposition’s ability to question the multiple executive decisions taken by the government. “So many executive decisions have already been taken, they must be subjected to legislative scrutiny,” said Jha. Chowdhury mirrored Jha’s concerns and said that the House must not be ‘disempowered’. “Question hour is integral to the functioning of the house, any proposal to strike it down should not be considered,” said Chowdhury. He added that the turning of Jammu and Kashmir into a ‘virtual prison’ would also be taken up. The issue became contentious on Tuesday after Speaker Om Birla wrote a letter to all panel chairs that subjects that are sub judice should not be taken up by panels for discussion. “It is an individual member’s right to express themselves,” said Chowdhury. “2G was being heard by the Supreme Court, but the issue was raised in Parliament. While there may not be scope for discussion, but everything can’t be restricted in such a manner. We will certainly raise the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.” Failure of cooperative federalism In terms of compensating GST dues and lending a helping hand to the states to tackle the pandemic, the opposition parties feel that the government has disappointed the states. “In Bihar, BJP leader Sushil Modi is also saying that the government needs to pay the states their dues,” said Jha. The TMC MP added that cooperative federalism, and it’s ‘murder’ by the Central government, is also being taken up a meeting of the party on Wednesday and will certainly be on the party’s agenda. Sumathy too said that states had not received enough support from the government in terms of Covid-19 supplies or payment of GST dues. “Opposition is victim of half glass empty syndrome”: BJP MPBJP leader and MP Rakesh Sinha, however, dismissed the issues raised by the opposition as an example of political ‘cynicism’.“In recent years obstructionism and cynicism have acquired centrality in the opposition‘s politics. Narendra Modi’s popularity graph went up not only in India, but also in the international arena due to his role in managing the crisis that has emanated from Covid 19 pandemic. He succeeded in isolating China in the international fora by aggressively questioning its policy of expansionism,” said Sinha. He also added that the Opposition in India has never been so marginalised, not only numerically but also morally. “It has been backing the forces which intend to create civil anarchy. People abhor such politics whether inside or outside the parliament,” Sinha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-gets-battle-ready-for-parliament-five-key-issues-to-watch-out-for/story-1nu0HgiGkkQEb6DGqJ9DzI.html
27-08-2020||India||Transit permit now no longer mandatory to enter Goa||The Goa government has withdrawn the need for transit permits for people to visit the state but the requirement for having been tested for Covid-19 either prior to departure, upon arrival and home quarantine will continue for the visitors, officials said.Also read: Goa Congress welcomes CWC decision of Sonia Gandhi as interim party chiefThe decision was taken at a meeting of the state executive committee on Tuesday. No travel permit is now required to enter Goa, officials said.A modified health protocol now requires travellers to carry a negative test report secured 48-hours prior to entering the state and to either opt for Covid-19 testing at the cost of Rs 2,000 or for home quarantine.The new instructions follow orders from the Union home ministry which said there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods and that no separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement. Goa earlier made it mandatory for people wishing to visit the state to register and apply for permits, which were then verified upon arrival.Officials said despite the easing of travel, screening protocols will continue to remain in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transit-permit-now-no-longer-mandatory-to-enter-goa/story-TmABRTZLBa6FU2bxqnPKDI.html
