28-08-2020||India||Sonia urges Centre to listen to students, party holds protests||New Delhi: The Congress on Friday held nationwide protests over the Centre’s decision to hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September, with party chief Sonia Gandhi urging the government to listen to the voices of students and act according to their wishes. Opposition parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha have demanded that the NEET and JEE exams be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country. However, the central government has repeatedly made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions. Separately, six ministers of opposition-ruled states – West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry – moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a review of its order allowing the Centre to hold the NEET and JEE exams. The Congress also held an online campaign -- “Speak Up For Student Safety” – with the party’s leaders and workers extending support to students on social media. “I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up, is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family,” Sonia Gandhi said in her video message to the students. “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students’ future, it is important that it is taken with your concurrence,” she added. “I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government,” Sonia Gandhi said in the nearly minute-long video posted on the party’s Twitter handle. The NEET is slated to be held on September 13, while engineering entrance exam JEE-Main is scheduled between September 1 and 6. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also urged the government to hold a conversation with students and take a decision after arriving at a consensus. “NEET-JEE aspirants’ safety should not be compromised due to the failures of the government. Government must listen to all stakeholders and arrive at a consensus,” he tweeted. Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video of him urging the government to listen to students.“You are the students and you are going to take this country to new heights. Everybody understands what has happened over the last three or four months,” he said. “Everybody understands the mishandling of Covid-19, the devastation that has been caused, the economic destruction, the pain that this country has had to bear. Now what I don’t understand is why you should be held responsible and why further pain should be imposed on you,” Rahul Gandhi told the students. He said the government has been incompetent, and asked why the Centre should force anything on students. “It is important that the government listens to the students, they are wise, they have the interest of this country at heart and any decision that is made with regard to these exams is made after a conversation and after a consensus has been developed and this is my message to the government,” he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government cannot ignore the voices of students and those of their parents. “They are the future of our country. With the rising scale of the pandemic, is it fair to expose them to infection in this manner? Are they not our children, too?” she asked. Among the Congress leaders who joined the party’s online campaign by posting their messages and videos on social media were Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Jitin Prasada and Raj Babbar.Later, addressing a joint virtual press conference with Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said that the Centre had claimed that thousands of students have downloaded their admit cards. “I don’t understand what kind of argument is this. If that is the case, then if someone has the life insurance, does it mean that he will die soon?” he asked. Singhvi said that the students were under tremendous pressure. “The mental status of our students is probably more important than physical constraints. They are under pressure, they are under pain, they are under fear, with 6 months of Covid and they are suddenly forced because you threw yourself into a corner…without thinking of alternatives for 3-4 months, into a sudden press button….start giving exams from September 1,” he said. O’ Brien said the petitioners do not want the students to lose the academic year and the petition aims to ensure better safety and security measures for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-urges-centre-to-listen-to-students-party-holds-protests/story-3shbMacWG0wR5qP7CSyPFI.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh gets additional 1.50 crore man-days under MNREGA||Union rural development ministry has agreed to increase man-days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGA) for Chhattisgarh, officials said on Friday.As per a press note issued by the Chhattisgarh government, the Central government gave the approval for these man-days on Friday. The Chhattisgarh government had earlier written to the Centre and demanded additional man-days.“Now the total target for financial year 2020-21 will be 15 crore man-days which was earlier 13.50 crore. This decision was taken during a meeting of the state panchayat department and Union panchayat officials via video conferencing,” said the state government.Officials further informed that so far 9.46 crore man-days have been used and more than 48.70 lakh people in over 26 lakh families have been employed in Chhattisgarh. “About 79,000 families have received over 100 day employment,” the statement claimed. Chhattisgarh Panchayat minister TS Singh Deo had written a letter to the Central government for the increase in man-days in May.The state minister had said that a minimum of 200 days should be mandated with prompt payment. In normal times, Chhattisgarh has an average of 32 to 36 workdays per card which has a limit of 100 days. About 3% job card holders do 100 days. Hence for the really needy and marginalised, it is a just requirement to be provided 200 days’ option, the minister stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-gets-additional-1-50-crore-man-days-under-mnrega/story-lfCzJw2hvrG3V3N7rlxPrI.html
28-08-2020||India||7 injured in acid attack over dairy dispute in Madhya Pradesh||As many as seven persons sustained injuries when attacked by two brothers with acid at a village in Sehore district, the neighbouring district of Bhopal, on Thursday night, said police on Friday. The injured include Pradeep Bairagi, Babloo, Gurucharan, Deependra Kuldeep, Bindu Dangi and Rameshwar Mongia, all residents of Khaikheda village under Amhadpur police station. They were referred to a Bhopal hospital after their initial treatment in Sehore. Their condition is said to be out of danger, said police. Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore, said, “The attack was allegedly made by Deepak Thakur and his brother Rahul Thakur who are residents of the same village and run a dairy at the village when the two groups had an altercation over some petty issue at the dairy. The victims sustained injuries on their faces.” The police officer said, “An FIR has been lodged against the accused and one of them has been arrested. A manhunt has been lodged to arrest the other. We are trying to gather information as to from where the accused got the acid and for what purpose. The investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-injured-in-acid-attack-over-dairy-dispute-in-madhya-pradesh/story-jGGPrqyn1hrfwR98LmsKfP.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate college building of agricultural university in Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the college and administration buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University through video conferencing on Saturday. The university is located in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district.“At 12:30 PM tomorrow, the College and Administration Buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi would be inaugurated. This would improve the education infrastructure & contribute to cutting edge research in agriculture as well as further farmer welfare,” PM Modi said in a tweet. At 12:30 PM tomorrow, the College and Administration Buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi would be inaugurated. This would improve the education infrastructure & contribute to cutting edge research in agriculture as well as further farmer welfare.During the inauguration event, PM Modi will also interact with students of the university.The university started its first academic session in 2014-15 but was functioning from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute as the current buildings were under construction.It offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-college-building-of-agricultural-university-in-jhansi/story-VzDGACShrgQiYuIxMkkIQM.html
28-08-2020||India||Odisha faces flood-like situation, NDRF and Rapid Action Force on standby||With water level continuing to rise in major rivers of the state, including Mahanadi, Brahmani and Subarnarekha, a medium to large scale flood is expected in coastal Odisha even as floodwaters wreaked havoc in Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore districts, officials said on Friday.Jyotirmaya Rath, engineer-in-chief, water resources department, said around 200 mm average rainfall was recorded in the upper catchment areas of Mahanadi in Chhattisgarh in the last 24 hours, 40 sluice gates from the Hirakud reservoir in Sambalpur district have been opened. Around 10.5 lakh cusec floodwater released from Hirakud Dam to the river will reach Mundali barrage in the next 36 hours and cause the flood in Cuttack, Khordha, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Nayagarh districts.“Due to heavy rainfall in the upstream catchment of Hirakud dam and heavy inflow into the reservoir, release of water from the dam through the spillway will exceed 11 lakh cusec by midday of August 29,” cautioned Rath.Odisha special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said 39 units of National Disaster Response Force, Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and Fire Services have been stationed in 11 districts. Five more teams of the NDRF would be deployed by Saturday morning.As many as 1,276 villages of 54 blocks in 10 districts - Angul, Bolangir, Balasore, Boudh, Cuttack, Jajpur, Dhenkanal, Nuapada, Deogarh and Sonepur - have been affected by the floods. Nearly, 3, 83,046 people in 552 villages are now marooned and 2,757 houses have been damaged, as per the preliminary assessment by officials.Meanwhile floodwaters continued to wreak havoc in Jajpur district where a swollen Brahmani river entered villages of Bari and Rasulpur block. In Bari block, firemen rescued two families including a two-month-old baby from their houses submerged under floodwater in Bari block. Around 10 Test Relief Embankments in Bari and one in Duttapur in Jajpur district have breached leading to submergence of villages. In Bhadrak district, the situation was grim in seven blocks of the district, including Bhandaripokhari and Dhamnagar. A team of the NDRF in Bhandaripokhari block of Bhadrak rescued a 28-year-old pregnant woman from her home.In Balasore district, a swollen Subarnarekha river submerged 10 Gram Panchayats under Baliapal block and five GPs under Bhograi block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-faces-flood-like-situation-ndrf-and-rapid-action-force-on-standby/story-lfWBHsXIkqlBrTYuKxkxKJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Man hit by car, dragged on bonnet in Delhi||A motorcyclist was injured after being hit by a car and dragged on its bonnet in Delhi’s Vikaspuri area, police said on Friday.The victim Chetan, a resident of Pankha Road, Uttam Nagar, was riding his motorcycle on Thursday night when he was hit by the car on Najafgarh Road, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said.He along with the pillion rider confronted the car driver and the passenger identified as Durgesh Tiwari (31) and Karan Sethi (44), however, they refused to step out. Chetan then stood in front of the car in a bid to block its way and force the driver to come out, Purohit said.However, the driver pressed the accelerator and hit Chetan who fell on the bonnet and grabbed the wipers while the vehicle started moving towards Janakpuri.Few minutes later, he lost grip, fell down and got stuck under the car but the driver refused to stop the vehicle and dragged him for around 150 metres even as Chetan cried for help. The car was forced to stop by some people but the driver and the passenger managed to flee only to be caught by police later.Chetan, who has a shop in Uttam Nagar, was taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital from where he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital, they said.A case under sections 279 (Rash driving) and 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on the statement of Chetan and both the have been arrested in connection with the incident, the DCP said. The officer said both the accused are car dealers and stay in Uttam Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-hit-by-car-dragged-on-bonnet-in-delhi/story-geDfXNSEmqdg1eSwCcmXQN.html
28-08-2020||India||Parents, Lucknow made me what I’m today, says Pushpendra||Popular adage, ‘you can’t take Lucknow out of a Lucknowite,’ stands true with writer-director Pushpendra Nath Misra. The maker of the feature film ‘Ghoomketu’ and web series ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ credits his upbringing for his success which reflects in his work as well. Praising his hometown the filmmaker said, “Besides, parents, the city of Lucknow too has been like a guardian to us! It’s a city of subtle and fine people. ‘Hum log bahut bareekiyon wale log hain’ (We take care of very finer nuances). A city of quality and taste. And, that’s why once a Lucknowite always a Lucknowite.” He remembers Bashir Badr’s couplet which he feels is apt for the city: ‘Koi Haat Bhi Na Milayega Jo Gale Milogo Tapak Se Miloge, Yeh Naye Mijaz Ka Sheher Hai Jara Fasle Se Mila Karo.’ “That’s what you inherit when you grow up in the city of nawabs,” he said. Alumni of Mahanagar Boys Inter College, Pushpendra joined National School of Design, Mumbai in 1992. “We were six siblings. My father RN Misra was a government advocate where as my mother Manorama Misra Shastri was a homemaker with Prabhakar and DLit degrees in Sanskrit. So, I had Hindi in my blood. The understanding of writing came from her, the craft of speaking and dialogue writing came from my father. And, humour came from the city of Lucknow,” he shared. He recalls an incident from school days, “My family has been very progressive. My elder brother Amrendra Nath Misra got me ticket of Mira Nair’s film ‘Salam Bombay’ when I was in class eighth. This film opened my mind and inspired me towards filmmaking.” After NID he worked with film maker/designer Muzaffar Ali while he was making ‘Daman’. Telling us more about his early days, he said, “During NID I also wrote and directed some plays where I got to discover myself in this field. Then I joined an ad agency and after few years I launched my ad company Flying Saucer and we made over 400 commercials in 16 years.” Later, Pushpendra decided to try hand in long format projects, “I wrote ‘Ghoomketu’ and directed it. Since, it got stuck so I wrote ‘Taj Mahal’ which we shot last year in Lucknow. Today we have a writer’s room where we are developing new plots for web series as well as feature films. Next in pipeline is a web series in 2020.” His first film released four years after it was made. “Sometimes, commercial aspect of the release does not work in favour of the content. For all kinds of films theatre was not being conducive but OTT has given the range and variety. This enabled interesting ideas to come to the fore which were earlier blocked somewhere. ‘Taj Mahal 1989’ released in February but I’m still getting positive messages from across the world,” Pushpendra said. On a concluding note, Pushpendra remembers few lines from the poem he wrote in school, “Woh unchee minaare, woh bhari bazaarein, woh Chowk ki galiyan, woh gulab ki kaliyan, woh Raja ki thandai, woh khoye ki mithai, woh mandir ka bhikari, woh ikkey ki sawari, woh hawaon main khushboo, woh Salma ke abbu, ba adab yeh zabaan, Masjid ki wah azaan, ba husne yeh bahaar, yeh logon main pyaar…Meri muchoon ka tav hai yeh sheher Lucknow!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/parents-lucknow-made-me-what-i-m-today-says-pushpendra/story-Cl67Ee7tPFjxC4tRJOJvdM.html
28-08-2020||India||Jharkhand allows intra-state bus services, cites upcoming exams||With two major entrance exams lined up next month, the Jharkhand government has allowed opening of the hospitality services and intra-state bus transport in the state even as it extended the lockdown related restrictions, under which several economic activities would continue to remain on the banned list, till September 30. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday issued fresh directions for implementations of the guidelines during the unlock period as the number of Covid-19 cases continue to witness steep hike in the state. Several activities such as large gatherings for social, political and religious functions, schools, colleges and educational institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasium, parks, theatre, auditoriums and assembly halls would continue to remain shut. Inter-state bus transport and religious centres, barring those allowed by the Supreme Court, would also remain shut.“A number of national competitive examinations are scheduled in September which necessitates the resumption of public bus transport and also the opening of hospitality units in view of the large number of examinees and their guardians,” said the state government in a statement. The notification underlined that all standard operating procedures (SOP) fixed by the union home ministry for public transport and hospitality units would have to be followed. Sharing a copy of the notification on social media, chief minister Hemant Soren appealed to people to practise social distancing and take preventive measures such as usage of face masks besides abiding by the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-allows-intra-state-bus-services-cites-upcoming-exams/story-FhBIkzS9pepvBHCpi7uohN.html
28-08-2020||India||Minister invites suggestions for ‘people-centric’ science and tech policy||To ensure a wide-ranging consultation process for the country’s fifth science, technology and innovation policy (STIP 2020), the union science minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday inaugurated an interactive session with thought leaders and a web portal seeking inputs from people. The minister urged the stakeholders and the people of the country as well as those living abroad to participate in the process of developing the bottom-up policy to support the rapidly changing science, technology and innovation ecosystem. “The entire science, technology and innovation ecosystem has undergone rapid transformation in terms of relevance, scope, and scale in the recent years. These must be captured into a policy to develop a long development trajectory and vision for the country. Moreover, Covid-19 has introduced some new learning and added dimensions to the STI system,” he said. With the Prime Minister calling for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the minister said that there was a greater need to focus on the development of indigenous technologies and encourage grassroots level innovation. “For the last six years, the departments of sciences have been working on enhancing the quality and relevance of science and technology, translating the science to innovation that will reach the society, connecting the whole ecosystem – academia, industry, start-ups, and aligning science to national priorities. Currently, Covid-19 and other areas such as water, energy, waste processing are challenges of the future. STIP 2020 will be an overarching policy to guide this,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology in the first ‘in conversation with’ series. The STIP 2020 will follow the core principles of being decentralised, evidence-informed, bottom-up, experts-driven, and inclusive. “India’s first science policy came in 1958 that focussed on promoting a scientific temperament in the country, the second one in 1983 came when India was denied technologies after Pokhran and aimed at making the country technologically self-reliant, the third came in 2003 and for the first time focussed on connecting science and technology to the society. The fourth policy came in 2013 during the international decade of innovation,” said Dr Akhilesh Gupta, head of the STIP secretariat. “Although the last two had some bottoms up approach and wider consultations, the 2020 policy will be completely decentralised and focus on the five core principles or the pillars,” he said. The STIP 2020 formulation policy has been divided into four interlinked tracks. Track-I involves extended public and expert consultation and creates a repository of voices; Track-II will focus on experts-driven thematic group consultations for evidence-informed recommendations. For this, 21 thematic groups with over 150 experts have already been constituted. Track-III connects ministries, departments, and States/UTs to create regional ecosystems and action plans. Track-IV will integrate inputs from all the tracks and engage stakeholders at national and global levels. “In the new policy, people will need to contribute. It has to be people centric – look around us and discuss with people how to best use science and tech to find solutions to their problems. Even a layman can sometimes give the best of solutions. The policy will help us in blending research and development with indigenous thinking. There are already so many things delivered within labs but in the journey from labs to industry and to the people at affordable prices there are bottlenecks,” said Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-invites-suggestions-for-people-centric-science-and-tech-policy/story-r4t7j5sc9Ul9HiQouWaIDI.html
28-08-2020||India||Row over Sudarshan TV programme reaches court; SC and high court give different orders||A private television channel’s controversial programme which claimed a ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’ Friday came under judicial scrutiny before the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court.The apex court refused to restrain pre-broadcast ban on Sudarshan TV from telecasting ‘Bindas Bol’ programme but the High Court in an interim order stayed the telecast of the show which was scheduled for today itself at 8PM.The news on the issue came from the high court where a bench of Justice Navin Chawla restrained the Sudarshan TV from telecasting its programme on the petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University.It also emerged that the matter was also dealt by an apex court bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph which said it has to first circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views.A lawyer said going by the judicial discipline and precedence, the apex court order would prevail on the Delhi high court’s order and in all likelihood the matter can be transferred to the apex court on upcoming dates of hearing.The apex court bench said “At this stage, we have desisted from imposing a pre-broadcast interlocutory injunction on the basis of an unverified transcript of a forty nine second clip. The Court has to be circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views.“We note that under statutory provisions, competent authorities are vested with powers to ensure compliance with law, including provisions of the criminal law intended to ensure social harmony and the peaceful coexistence of all communities,” the bench said while hearing the petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan.However, before the high court advocate Shadan Shadan Farasat, appearing for petitioners, showed a video clip of the trailer that has been released by the TV channel for the programme and said the trailer itself shows that the programme could be in complete violation of the Programme Code and succeeded in getting a stay order on the airing of the programme.In the apex court, notice was issued to the Centre, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association and Sudarshan News.In the viral clip, channel’s Editor-in-Chief Suresh Chavhanke had alleged a conspiracy in the “overwhelming” number of Muslim students clearing the Union Public Service Commission exams and was scheduled to broadcast big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’. While the apex court has fixed next date of hearing on September 15, the high court will hear the matter on September 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-tv-controversial-programme-reaches-sc-delhi-hc/story-W5zPzZu4NIRgZHD2X0i3fI.html
28-08-2020||India||Amarinder Singh goes into quarantine after meeting 2 Covid +ve MLAs||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday went into a seven -day quarantine after he met two Congress MLAs who tested positive for coronavirus. He met the MLAs at the one-day session of the state assembly. Chief minister’s media advisor Raveen Thukral tweeted the development. The two Congress MLAs were Kulbir Singh Zira and Nirmal Singh Chuttrana. Vidhan Sabha secretariat had made it mandatory for MLAs to bring their Covid-19 negative report to enter the assembly premises and, as per a senior government functionary, both the MLAs showed their Rapid Antigen Test report for the entry. However, as they were also sampled for the RT-PCR test, they tested positive. In a picture that went viral, Zira is seen touching the feet of the chief minister during the proceedings with Amarinder patting his back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-goes-into-quarantine-after-meeting-2-covid-ve-mlas/story-VjOu7bY2XsnVK85mqUGJHN.html
28-08-2020||India||Ministry of Home Affairs gave nod to double Covid-19 testing in Delhi: Satyendra Jain||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had given instructions to double the Covid-19 testing but due to the pressure from the Home Ministry, officials were not doing so, said Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, adding that now the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given a nod to double testing in the national capital. “Delhi Chief Minister gave instructions to double the Covid-19 testing but due to pressure from the Home Ministry, officials were not doing so. I am happy that after my letter, MHA has clarified and cleared it and I am hopeful that testing will be doubled soon,” said Jain. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Home Ministry should first see Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and rest of India, then talk about managing Delhi. This is unfortunate that despite Delhi CM’s approval for doubling the testing, the order had to be cleared by MHA also,” he added. However, MHA on Thursday strongly refuted allegations levelled by the Delhi government who had claimed that the Union Home Ministry is not allowing them to increase per day Covid-19 testing limit.The Health Minister informed that so far 167,604 people have been infected, out of which 150,027 have recovered. Almost 90 per cent of the people have been recovered across the national capital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-home-affairs-gave-nod-to-double-covid-19-testing-in-delhi-satyendra-jain/story-X4TDJFXhrPkCWjYFBfRfgI.html
28-08-2020||India||JEE-NEET row: ‘Listen to students’ voices,’ Sonia urges Centre as Cong holds nationwide protests||The Congress on Friday held nationwide protests over Centre’s decision to hold the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September. Party chief Sonia Gandhi urged the government to listen to the voices of students and act according to their wishes.Opposition parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) have demanded that NEET and JEE exams be deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country.However, the central government has repeatedly made it clear that the exams will be held as per schedule with due precautions.Six ministers of opposition-ruled states – West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand - on Friday also moved the Supreme Court seeking review of its order allowing the Centre to hold NEET and JEE exams.The Congress also held an online campaign - ‘Speak Up For Student Safety’ – with its leaders and workers extending support to the students on the social media. Also read: JEE-NEET row - Mamata challenges PM Modi to take impromptu opinion of students on ‘Mann ki Baat’“I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up is the most important issue, not only for you but for your family,” Sonia Gandhi said in her video message to the students. “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding students’ future, it is important that it is being taken with your concurrence,” she added.“I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government,” Sonia Gandhi said in the nearly a minute-long video posted on the party’s Twitter handle.The NEET is slated to be held on September 13, while engineering entrance exam JEE-main is scheduled between September 1 and 6. The Supreme Court had last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams, saying, a “precious academic year of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on”. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also urged the government to hold a conversation with students and take a decision after arriving at a consensus.“NEET-JEE aspirants’ safety should not be compromised due to the failures of the government. Government must listen to all stakeholders and arrive at a consensus,” he tweeted.Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video of him urging the government to listen to students and take a decision only after reaching a consensus. “You are the students and you are going to take this country to new heights. Everybody understands what has happened over the last three or four months,” he said.“Everybody understands the mishandling of Covid-19, the devastation that has been caused, the economic destruction, the pain that this country has had to bear. Now what I don’t understand is why you should be held responsible and why further pain should be imposed on you,” Rahul Gandhi told the students.He alleged that the government has been incompetent, and asked why should the Centre force anything on students.“It is important that the government listens to the students, they are wise, they have the interest of this country at heart and any decision that is made with regard to these exams is made after a conversation and after a consensus has been developed and this is my message to the government,” he said.Rahul Gandhi urged the government to have a conversation with students and resolve this issue peacefully.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government cannot ignore the voices of students and those of their concerned parents. “They are the future of our country. With the rising scale of the pandemic, is it fair to expose them to infection in this manner? Are they not our children too?” she asked.Among those who joined the party’s online campaign by posting their messages and videos on the social media were senior party leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Jitin Prasada and Raj Babbar.Later addressing a joint virtual press conference with Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the Centre claims that thousands of students have downloaded their admit cards. “I don’t understand what kind of argument is this. If that is the case, then if someone has the life insurance, does it mean that he will die soon?” he asked.Singhvi said these six states represent not only 30 percent of India’s population, but also represent 30 percent of India’s geographical area.“The mental status of our students, mental situation, mental illness and mental situation is probably more important than physical constraints. They are under pressure, they are under pain, they are under fear, with 6 months of Covid and they are suddenly forced because you threw yourself into a corner, without thinking of alternative for 3-4 months, into a sudden press button, magic button kind of thinking - start giving exams from September 1,” he said. O’ Brien said the petitioners do not want the students to lose the academic year and the petition aims to ensure better safety and security measures for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-row-listen-to-students-voices-sonia-urges-centre-as-cong-holds-nationwide-protests/story-Dc9tXbhIHmvzVnP8dyhRSK.html
28-08-2020||India||Kerala Congress chief steps in after party leader attacks Shashi Tharoor||Shashi Tharoor, one of the 23 dissenters who wrote to Sonia Gandhi for changes in the party, has been labelled a “guest artist and immature politician” by a senior leader of the Kerala Congress. Kodikunnil Suresh’s comments angered many young leaders who rallied behind Tharoor and took to social media in a big way to vent their anger. Later, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Mullappally Ramachandran, who was first to attack Tharoor, requested all leaders to treat the issue as closed and not to air opinions freely.“Tharoor’s contributions are immense and he is an inspiration for youngsters. No doubt, he is a global citizen. His contacts really helped the state during the trying time of the pandemic. He might have different opinions on issues like airport privatisation but these things will have to be sorted out through discussion,” young legislator KS Sabarinathan wrote on Facebook supporting him. “It is not good to single out and attack a person like Tharoor. Need of the hour is unity. The Kerala unit always stood with the position taken by senior leader AK Antony. But it is not fair to attack Tharoor like this,” said another legislator PT Thomas.What really angered some of these leaders is blunt criticism of Kodikunnil Suresh. “Tharoor is not a politician. For the party, he’s only a guest artist. He is immature and yet to learn to work well within the party framework. It is not right for him to take different positions thinking that he is a global citizen,” said Suresh, criticising his fellow MP from the state.Earlier, the PCC chief and senior leader K Muralidharan had also slammed Tharoor.The party has 15 MPs from the state, including Rahul Gandhi - who is representing Wayanad in Lok Sabha.“I am not a global citizen. But the so-called letter at this juncture created a lot of confusion and it gave a good stick to our opponents. It should have been avoided,” said Muralidharan, son of party legend late K Karunakaran, adding Sonia Gandhi led the party effectively in trying times and the party’s future was secure in her hands. Before the letter controversy, many senior leaders were upset with Tharoor for his “daring apolitical positions”.Last week, when the Centre decided to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport to a private firm Congress leaders opposed the move along with the ruling front. However, Tharoor supported it, saying it was much-needed for the development of his constituency. He enjoys good support especially among youngsters due to his proactive position on development and other issues. When the airport issue fuelled much anger, he reminded party leaders that he was consistent with his position from day one and he can’t change his opinions to suit occasions.The party was also upset when he congratulated state health minister KK Shailaja when she was lauded by some international publications for her spirited fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-chief-steps-in-after-party-leader-attacks-shashi-tharoor/story-a9EdUEWjreC9FoWUvQyrSM.html
28-08-2020||India||Sero survey suggests 7.75% people in Indore have Covid-19 antibodies||A sero survey report on Madhya Pradesh’s Indore made public on Friday suggested that as many as 7.75 percent people of the city have developed antibodies against Covid-19. This brought a sense of relief in the administration and the government that there was no community spread of the disease, but at the same time raised concern too that a huge population in the city is still vulnerable to the disease.As per 2011 census, Indore’s population was 1.94 million. However, the present population in the city is supposed to be 2.6 million which suggests 203,160 people in the city have developed antibodies, officials said. Commissioner of Indore division Pawan Sharma shared the sero survey report with the public during a programme on Friday and said, “The survey was conducted in the city from August 11 to 23 during which samples of 7,103 persons were collected. About 95 percent people cooperated with the survey for which 85 teams were engaged.”The ward-wise breakup of the results showed that there are at least five wards which were worst affected by Covid-19 where more than 20 percent of people were found to have developed antibodies.Also read: With Covid-19 cases nearing 1 lakh, Assam mulls another lockdownSpeaking on the occasion, deputy director of National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, Dr Meera Dhuria said, “After the report, citizens of Indore should not think that they have developed herd immunity and that there would be no cases of infection. The report suggests the government and the administration took effective measures to control the spread of the virus but people are required to continue to follow non-pharmaceutical safety measures like sanitisation, mask, social distancing etc. Studies suggested that the virus spread was much more in crowded places in the cities as in slum areas of Mumbai.” State additional chief secretary, health, Mohd Suleman said, “The report suggests that our containment strategy worked well in the city and it corroborates our claim that there was no community spread of the disease. Certain localities which we had identified earlier had a prevalence of the disease on a higher side but with an effective strategy, the spread of the virus was controlled from spreading to other localities.” However, he added, “the report also suggests that there are more than 92 percent of people who are still susceptible to the disease and we have to be prepared to deal with the situation accordingly. The battle is going to be a long one and we have to continue to implement our strategy as effectively as we have done it till now.”Dean of MGM Medical College, Indore, Dr Jyoti Bindal and head of the respiratory department of Shri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), Indore, Dr Ravi Doshi expressed similar concerns. A pulmonologist who didn’t want to be named said, “The survey results should be analysed comprehensively to arrive at a conclusion. A low percentage of 7.75 percent doesn’t mean that the virus spread was not much prevalent in the city. It may vary from locality to locality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-suggests-7-75-people-in-indore-have-covid-19-antibodies/story-H2D04J5v4opxI9U6L3oedL.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemicA three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of Assembly elections due in October this year. Read more‘Paints itself as victim, shelters terrorists’: Jaishankar pans PakistanExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday criticised Pakistan for portraying itself as a victim of terror while grudgingly acknowledging the presence of wanted terrorists and crime leaders on its territory due to sustained international pressure. Read more‘He doesn’t understand presidency’: Biden, Harris hit back at Donald TrumpJoe Biden, the Democratic nominee for US president, countered President Donald Trump’s attacks on him from the convention with a string of tweets, pointing out the mushrooming Covid-19 cases and infections across the country. Biden held President Trump responsible for the protests that he sought to portray as lawlessness. Read moreIPL 2020: India cricketer among several CSK members to test positive for Covid-19At least 10 members of the MS Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings contingent which is currently stationed in Dubai have tested positive for Covid-19, making it the first such case among the eight teams which are in UAE for the 2020 Indian Premier League. Read moreKaranvir Bohra, Teejay announce pregnancy: ‘We are beyond grateful that He has chosen us to become parents again’TV actors Teejay Sidhu and husband Karanvir Bohra are all set to welcome their third child and shared the news on Instagram. The couple already have four-year-old twin daughters Vienna and Raya Bella. Read moreOvernight oats: Benefits for health, weight loss, and recipesEven if you are new to the whole fitness scene, chances are one of the first things you hear about are the benefits of eating oats, not just for its health benefits but also how it aids in weight loss. Read moreDell XPS 13 (2020) review: No space for nonsenseThe new laptop joins Dell’s efforts over the years to deliver a highly optimised laptop without demanding more real estate or cutting corners of any sort. We reviewed it. Read moreWatch | ‘Majority students want NEET & JEE as per schedule’: IIT director on protestsA massive row has started over conducting the JEE & NEET exams amid the Covid pandemic. The opposition parties are holding protests to corner the Modi government over the issue. Six non-BJP ruled states have also approached the top court seeking a delay in the examinations. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-junks-demand-to-stay-bihar-elections-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8wZ9DuQGdIfzd64reuS9NO.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress MP H Vasanthakumar dies of Covid-19 at Chennai hospital||Congress MP from Tamil Nadu’s Kanyakumari, H Vasanthakumar succumbed to Covid-19 disease on Friday . The first time MP from Tamil Nadu, Vasanthakumar was being treated at the Greams Road facility of the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was in critical condition after contracting severe Covid-19 pneumonia. Mourning the 70-year-old leader’s demise, Prime Minister Modi tweeted, “During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu’s progress. Condolences to his family and supporters.” Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu’s progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/SmuAK8ufAx“Sad to know the passing of Shri H. Vasanthakumar, MP from Kanyakumari. An entrepreneur and social activist, he earned his name in the world of politics and business. His devotion to people’s cause in Tamil Nadu was inspiring. Condolences to his family, friends and followers, ” said President Ram Nath Kovind on Twitter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also expressed his condolences.The news of Kanyakumari MP, Shri H Vasanthakumar’s untimely demise due to Covid-19 has come as a shock. His commitment to the congress ideology of serving the people will remain in our hearts forever. Heartfelt condolences to his friends and family members. pic.twitter.com/oqhrfQXEUDRecalling his close association with the leader, state chief minister V Narayanasamy said, “the TNCC (Tamil Nadu Congress Committee) has lost a great and dedicated leader.”Vasanthakumar was a hard working entrepreneur who contributed a lot to the Congress, the chief minister also said.Vasanthakumar was a two-time MLA and elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-h-vasanthakumar-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-NjlOGGDGrEfyZO7RtMW4YO.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Paints itself as victim, shelters terrorists’: Jaishankar pans Pakistan||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday criticised Pakistan for portraying itself as a victim of terror while grudgingly acknowledging the presence of wanted terrorists and crime leaders on its territory due to sustained international pressure.Jaishankar didn’t directly name Pakistan in his remarks while presiding over the Darbari Seth memorial lecture. He described the 9/11 terror attacks in the US and the Covid-19 pandemic as “stand-out moments that disrupted the trajectory of human society”.Nineteen years after the 9/11 attacks and 12 years since the 2008 Mumbai attacks, the world has a range of mechanisms to counter terrorism, including the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), several UN sanctions committees and the Counter Terrorism Executive Directorate, he said. However, it lacks a comprehensive convention on international terrorism as members of the UN are still “wrestling with certain foundational principles”, he added. “All the while, states that have turned the production of terrorists into a primary export have attempted, by dint of bland denials, to paint themselves also as victims of terror,” Jaishankar said, a clear reference to Pakistan’s use of terrorism as an instrument of state policy.“But as we have seen last week, sustained pressure through international mechanisms to prevent the movement of funds for terror groups and their front agencies can work. It has eventually compelled a state complicit in aiding, abetting, training and directing terror groups and associated criminal syndicates to grudgingly acknowledge the presence of wanted terrorists and organised crime leaders on its territory,” he said. Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of Pakistan’s counter-terror financing regime, Islamabad issued two notifications on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions on hundreds of terrorist individuals and entities, including Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim. One of the documents listed three addresses in Karachi for Ibrahim, wanted by India for his role in the 1993 Mumbai bombings.After the issue was widely reported in the Indian media, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement the notifications didn’t amount to “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory”.Jaishankar acknowledged the “struggle against terror and those who aid and abet it is a work in progress”. He said, “It remains for the international system to create the necessary mechanisms to shut down the structures that support and enable terrorism, whether in South Asia or across the globe.”The world, he said, also faces a structural challenge in improving the global architecture used to fight pandemics. In similar crises over the past century, the outbreaks occurred in remote sites or the monitoring systems managed to head off a crisis. “This time, however, the international warning systems, reporting protocols and response mechanisms were unable to prevent the spread beyond ground zero,” he said.This has highlighted the need for a more enlightened and responsive multilateral system, and a “new, inclusive and non-transactional approach to multilateralism”, he said. “The reform of international organisations is not merely desirable but imperative. We need to modernise the international system, step by step, to make it fit for purpose, beginning by making each entity relevant to the age in which we live, not when it was created,” he added. This will require revisiting membership and structures of control, reorienting operational principles and rules, and rebuilding resourcing channels of key pillars of multilateralism, Jaishankar said.Strengthening skill sets and creating a better enabling environment are the goals of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign since India can make a difference at the global level only by scaling up its capacities, he said.The spirit of local action for global outcomes is reflected in India’s work with France to create the International Solar Alliance, whose framework agreement has so far been ratified by 67 countries, and the launch of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Jaishankar said. The memorial lecture was delivered by UN Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres, who said India has all the ingredients for exerting leadership at home and abroad. He added the drivers are poverty alleviation and universal energy access – two of India’s top priorities.“Scaling up clean energy, particularly solar, is the recipe for solving both. Investments in renewable energy, clean transport and energy efficiency during the recovery from the pandemic could extend electricity access to 270 million people worldwide – fully a third of people that currently lack it,” he said. He added, “These same investments could help create nine million jobs annually over the next three years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paints-itself-as-victim-shelters-terrorists-jaishankar-pans-pakistan/story-W7UzvUDhwNbjTe7IvMA2xK.html
28-08-2020||India||With Covid-19 cases nearing 1 lakh, Assam mulls another lockdown||With around 2,000 new cases getting reported daily from across the state and Covid-19 tally nearing 1 lakh cases, Assam is now mulling another lockdown to control the spread of the infection. State chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna indicated on Friday that if the current trend doesn’t subside and people continue to flout social distancing and safety norms, another lockdown could be imposed in the state. “At present, Assam is going through a phase of unlock which will end on August 31. We are mulling over what to do after that. We have been noticing that most people don’t wear masks in public,” he told journalists in Guwahati. “I fail to understand why they have such a carefree attitude. Noticeably, we are also witnessing around 7-8 deaths daily across all age groups. If people don’t wear masks and the Covid-19 figures keep rising, we might be forced to enforce another lockdown,” Krishna added. Also read: ‘No room’ - Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packedAssam has recorded 98,807 Covid-19 positive cases till date with 79,307 recoveries and 278 fatalities. Over 25,000 of these cases have been reported from Kamrup Metropolitan district which includes the state’s biggest city Guwahati. Due to the sharp rise in cases, the state government had imposed a complete lockdown in Kamrup Metropolitan district from June 28 to July 19, but that didn’t result in any noticeable decrease in Covid-19 numbers. At present, three districts in Barak Valley - Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi - are under total lockdown for ten days from August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-cases-nearing-1-lakh-assam-mulls-another-lockdown/story-RpMpQCIigqCkgm7EBkgwHP.html
28-08-2020||India||TDP leaders under house arrest for protest against alleged Dalit atrocities||Scores of Telugu Desam Party leaders, including former minister Amarnath Reddy, were kept under house arrest and several others were taken into preventive custody, while they were on their way to the house of a Dalit youth who died a few days ago in Chittoor district.Om Pratap, a Dalit auto rickshaw driver, died by suicide at his home in Kanduru Bandakadapalli SC colony of Somala block in Chittoor district on August 24, a day after his selfie video strongly criticising the liquor policy of the Jagan government went viral on social media.For the last three days, Chandrababu Naidu and his party leaders have been using the youth’s death as a rallying point to protest against the alleged atrocities against Dalits in the state.Even as the Chittoor police conducted a re-post mortem of Pratap’s body in the afternoon, the TDP leaders alleged that the Dalit youth had resorted to extreme step following threats from YSRCP leaders. “In a way, it is a murder by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government,” senior TDP politburo member and MLC Varla Ramaiah alleged.On Thursday, Ramaiah lodged a complaint with the National SC Commission that the ruling YSRCP leaders’ vindictive action was responsible for the untimely death of Om Pratap. He requested that the commission order an inquiry and take immediate action against the ruling party leaders to prevent them from continuing their spate of atrocities against the weaker sections.The TDP on Thursday also brought out a 27-page booklet titled “Dalitulapai Damanakanda-Dalita Drohi Jagan” (Atrocities on Dalits – Jagan, a betrayer of Dalits), listing out a series of atrocities allegedly being perpetrated on Dalits during the last 15 months of the YSRCP rule in the state.Some of the alleged atrocities on Dalits mentioned in the booklet are: suspension and torturing of an anaesthetist Dr Sudhakar in Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam, tonsuring and beating of a youth Varaprasad for allegedly questioning the sand mafia in East Godavari district, beating to death of another youth Kiran Kumar from Chirala in Prakasam for not wearing a face mask and killing of a TDP worker by YSRCP leaders in Gurajala in Guntur district etc.“Over 100 such incidents of atrocities on Dalits took place during the YSRCP government rule over the last 15 months. Unfortunately, the police had been silent and not taken any action on the perpetrators of atrocities,” Naidu said.However, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy underscored that there was no question of sparing anybody, irrespective of their stature, if there were allegations against them of indulging in atrocities against Dalits.At a review meeting held a couple of days ago, Jagan said his government was not sparing even senior police officials and booked them under SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act. “There were four or five such instances of atrocities against Dalits and immediate action was initiated against the accused,” he said.The chief minister said all the policemen down from constables should be given orientation classes and sensitised to face the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-leaders-under-house-arrest-for-protest-against-alleged-dalit-atrocities/story-iHrdbKbcUfMRQHo6kcKCPK.html
28-08-2020||India||HC adjourns hearing on Lalu Yadav’s bail plea for September 11||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday adjourned hearing on bail plea moved by RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav in connection with a fodder scam case in which the Bihar politician was convicted on corruption charges and sentenced to five years of imprisonment in January 2018.The bench comprising justice Aparesh Kumar Singh adjourned the hearing and fixed next date on September 11 after the CBI informed that its counsel assistant solicitor general Rajiv Sinha was unwell.Prasad, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, moved the bail application on the ground that he had already completed half of the sentence in the aforesaid case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury over fictitious spends on fodder and other expenses for cattle.Prasad had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from the Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.Also read: Hotel owner, manager booked for allegedly offering room to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son Tej PratapThe former Bihar chief minister’s trouble renewed again after December 23, 2017, when he was convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick successions. Since then, he has been in jail.Of these three cases, he had secured bail in one of them last year on the ground that he had served half of the imprisonment awarded to him.“In the second case, Prasad had completed half of the 5-year sentence in June this year. We, therefore, applied for aforesaid bail in July but it was heard for the first time on Friday,” said Prasad’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar.He added that another bail application in the third case would likely be filed in November this year.After spending the initial two months - from December 2017 to February 2018 - in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Prasad had developed health complications in March 2018 and was moved to a hospital. Since then, he never returned to jail.After a steep surge in Covid-19 cases in August, Prasad was moved from RIMS paying ward to the hospital’s director’s bungalow early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-lalu-yadav-s-bail-plea-for-september-11/story-nmZdVmZEqEVlOifzjF3sEO.html
28-08-2020||India||JEE-NEET row: Mamata challenges PM Modi to take impromptu opinion of students on ‘Mann ki Baat’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring students on his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ and ask them impromptu questions about their opinion on holding JEE-NEET amid Covid-19 pandemic. She also announced that final year examinations in state-run colleges and universities will not be held in September because of the pandemic. The chief minister asked the state education minister to announce the dates by next week. “Bring in students at Mann ki Baat. Don’t stage it. Ask them impromptu questions and not rehearsed questions to find out what they think about holding JEE-NEET during the pandemic. We will accept what they say,” Banerjee said on Friday. Also read: Uttar Pradesh backs Centre’s decision to hold NEET, JEE’ - CM Yogi AdityanathSix opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, on Friday, filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order allowing the central government to hold the NEET and JEE in September. Mamata Banerjee and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi had jointly convened a meeting of chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party ruled states on Wednesday to demand the postponement of the JEE-NEET examinations. On Friday, the apex court upheld a July 6 directive of the University Grants Commission (UG) to hold terminal semester exams in universities and colleges by September 30 but gave states the liberty to defer such exams beyond the September 30 deadline. “We will not hold the final exams in our colleges and universities in September for sure. The state education minister will discuss the matter and see whether the exams could be held before the Pujas (scheduled in October-end). The dates would be announced by next week,” said Banerjee. The Trinamool Congress supremo expressed questioned how will the students reach the examination centres for the JEE-NEET exams. She also made it clear that her salvo was not targeted against the Supreme Court and that it was against the centre and the UGC. The chief minister’ nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who heads the party’s youth wing, also lashed out at the centre over the JEE-NEET issue. “Before conducting the exams, the centre should give an undertaking that swab tests would be conducted for 30 lakh students appearing for the exam, provide them with insurance cover and that the government will take full responsibility if any student gets infected or if anything happens to them. What happened to digital India? If the USA can hold online exams, why can’t we?” Abhishek Banerjee questioned. The chief minister led a scathing attack against the BJP on multiple fronts including NRC and CAA. “The NRC and CAA have been suppressed due to the pandemic. But they (BJP-ruled government) will start it all over again once the pandemic is over. She also announced that her government would celebrate Students’ Day on August 9 every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-row-mamata-challenges-pm-modi-to-take-impromptu-opinion-of-students-on-mann-ki-baat/story-JZ4YtDyvskmhiLjYxNJxIN.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Pained’: PM Modi tweets to ‘dear friend’ Shinzo Abe, praises his leadership||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who shares personal chemistry with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said he was “pained” to hear about the outgoing Japan prime minister’s ill health and credited him for cementing relations between the two countries.PM Modi tweeted to PM Abe hours after the Japanese prime minister announced his decision to resign from the top post due to his health condition. “Pained to hear about your ill health, my dear friend @AbeShinzo,” PM Modi said in a tweet. Pained to hear about your ill health, my dear friend @AbeShinzo. In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery. pic.twitter.com/JjziLay2gDPM Modi also tweeted a 2018 photograph of the two leaders at an informal meeting during the 13th India-Japan Summit that took place at a resort near Mount Fuji in Japan in October 2018.The next summit level meeting was scheduled to be held in December in Assam’s Guwahati but was deferred due to the protests against the anti-citizenship law. PM Abe and PM Modi were expected to hold the 14th India-Japan Summit via video conference on 10 September. But there is no clarity if the two countries, who were expected to seal a crucial military logistics pact, would be able to stick to this schedule in view of PM Abe’s health condition.PM Modi credited PM Abe with playing a lead role in strengthening relations between the two countries. “In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery,” PM Modi said.PM Modi is known to have been an admirer of the Japanese prime minister long before he moved from Gujarat to New Delhi in 2014. By all accounts, it was mutual. PM Abe was one of the first global leaders to congratulate Narendra Modi for his gigantic victory in 2014 well before all the votes were counted. Modi was also only one of the three people that PM Abe followed on Twitter back then. That number has still gone up to 18. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has been the other addition from India since then. As prime minister, Modi had made Japan his first port of call outside south Asia in September 2014 once he assumed charge in New Delhi.PM Abe’s announcement to step down comes just days after he surpassed a record for longest consecutive tenure as premier set by his great-uncle Eisaku Sato half a century ago. He had then stressed that what was important was what a leader did in the top post, not the duration.As PM Abe announced his decision to exit the government at a news conference on Thursday, he underlined that he could not be the prime minister if he could not make the best decisions for the people.“I cannot be prime minister if I cannot make the best decisions for the people. I have decided to step down from my post,” Abe, 65, told a news conference.Abe has battled the disease ulcerative colitis for years and two recent hospital visits within a week had fanned questions on whether he could stay in the job until the end of his term as ruling party leader, and hence, premier, in September 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pained-to-hear-about-your-ill-health-pm-modi-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-shinzo-abe/story-pv0AL4qnZul6L7S0CdnZFP.html
28-08-2020||India||In poll-bound Bihar, Rahul Gandhi to address virtual rally; 100 online events planned||In a bid to revive the electoral fortunes of Congress party in Bihar, former party chief Rahul Gandhi will address a virtual rally to address to the party cadres and people in Bihar.Apprising the media of the party’s preparedness for the upcoming Bihar assembly election, election in-charge and national secretary Ajay Kapoor said that from September 1 to 21, Congress will conduct 100 virtual rallies throughout the state.“Each rally will be addressed by two national leaders, five state leaders and 10 district-level leaders who will talk about people’s cause and how the Congress would provide redressal of public issues. To mobilise the masses for this program, a missed call campaign will also be launched,” he added.On campaign strategy, he said that the party has also planned a virtual rally of Rahul Gandhi, which will reach more than 5 lakh people.Taking a jibe at the current NDA government in the state, Kapoor alleged that the government had failed on every front whether it is Covid-19 or recent floods.Kapoor said that the people of Bihar wanted change and were looking towards Congress for a viable and trusted alternative.“Party workers and leaders will fight for the people with full strength to recreate the old aura of the party in the state,” he added.On the question of seat distribution in the grand alliance, he said that it was up to the high command to decide on such matters. “It will be amicably done in the atmosphere of mutual respect,” he added.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) campaign committee chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh also said that an intensive campaign would be launched across the state to bolster the party’s electoral prospects for the next assembly elections.With the announcement of the election likely in early September, the seat-sharing talks in the grand alliance will be crucial due to several constituents, including the likely induction of the Left parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-bihar-rahul-gandhi-to-address-virtual-rally-100-online-events-planned/story-D8JT5gOj0FxCIlIDDVm5ZI.html
28-08-2020||India||As water levels rise in lakes, BMC says ‘no water cut in Mumbai from Saturday’||There will be no water cut in Mumbai from Saturday as the water levels in the 7 lakes that supply water to Mumbai have reached 95.19 percent. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced the withdrawal of the water cut on Friday afternoon.On August 5, the BMC had imposed a 20 percent water cut in Mumbai, the seven lakes had 37.36 percent useful water content as opposed to the same time in 2019 when the lakes had 89.96 percent useful water content. This was reduced to a 10 percent water cut on August 21, after the water levels in the seven lakes crossed the 85 percent mark. The seven lakes are Tansa, Bhatsa, Middle Vaitarna, Upper Vaitarna, Tulsi, Vehar and Modak Sagar.On Friday, the BMC announced, “Due to heavy rains in the last few days, water storage has increased in the catchment area of 7 lakes which supply water to the BMC area. As of 6 am today (Friday), the total water storage in all the seven lakes has reached 95.19 percent. Taking this into consideration, the BMC administration has decided to withdraw the water cut which was implemented from 5th August 2020. Accordingly, regular water supply will be provided to BMC area from 29th August 2020.”Also read: 346 policemen in Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 in last 24 hoursThe BMC also decided to regularize the water supply to villages and areas in Thane and Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation that receive their water supply from the Mumbai civic body’s lakes.As of Friday morning, there was 13,77,690 million litres of water in the seven lakes, amounting to 95.19 percent of useful water content. This is as opposed to the 13,95,663 ML water or 96.43 percent available the same time last year.The BMC supplies 3,850 million litres per day (MLD), against a demand of 4,200 MLD. After the 20 percent water cut, the BMC supplied 3,080 MLD of water to Mumbai, according to information from the BMC.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems: the Vaitarna system, which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies water to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-water-levels-rise-in-lakes-bmc-says-no-water-cut-in-mumbai-from-saturday/story-7yuflcd3m11rwSfrg2omgN.html
28-08-2020||India||All Lok Sabha MPs will be requested to undergo Covid tests, says Speaker||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has requested all MPs willing to participate in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament to undergo RT-PCR test. Massive changes and logistics overhaul in Parliament have been planned to tackle any possible spread of Covid pandemic. At a preparatory meeting, chaired by Birla on Friday, it was decided that the RT-PCR test that usually takes 24-48 hours to come up with the results will be conducted.Officers attending the session and journalists who are covering the session will also undergo Covid tests, it was decided at the meeting attended by union health ministry, officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation, AIIMS and the Delhi government.The session will start on September 14 and run till October 1. The two Houses - Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha - will operate in shifts with the Lower House starting at 9 am and the other at 3 pm. A senior official added that the proceedings may even spill over to weekends if the agenda requires extra time. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh assembly had asked all its MLAs to undergo Covid test when it met recently amid the pandemic but Chhattisgarh assembly withdrew its circular asking for a similar test for all its lawmakers. It was also decided to set up a Covid test facility in Parliament itself where the MPs and others can come and get tested, said a senior official. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, recommended that the session should last from September 14 to October 1, according to people familiar with the matter. The dates will now have to be approved by the cabinet, which will then forward them to the President. It has also suggested 18 sittings as the government has a total of 11 ordinances to clear, the people cited in the first instance added on condition of anonymity. The government is also bracing for a demand from Opposition parties to debate the India-China border conflict, the Covid situation, the state of the economy, problems of migrant workers and the recent allegations against social media giant Facebook. The Houses are being prepared for the session with measures such as ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceeding, placards to indicate names of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking the two Houses. While ministers, former PMs and floor leaders will get preference in the main chamber, many party MPs — even from the ruling party — will be accommodated in the galleries. The government will aim to replace 11 ordinances during the session. This includes a cluster of agriculture-related ordinances promulgated during the Covid pandemic to help Indian farmers such as the Farmers Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) and the Farmers (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance And Farm Services Ordinance and essential commodities amendment ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-for-all-mps-participating-in-monsoon-session-says-speaker-om-birla/story-Fbt7mao3xjyQvb6QHVyXVP.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Uttar Pradesh backs Centre’s decision to hold NEET, JEE’: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the state government supports Centre’s decision to conduct National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE).The chief minister also said all activities should be carried out while following the Covid-19 protocol, adding that the B.Ed (Bachelor of Education) entrance examination was conducted for five lakh candidates in the state on August 9 and there were no complaints about the Covid-19 infection during that exam.The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) should also conduct its examinations in a similar manner, he said. Adityanath was reviewing the Unlock-3 situation at a high-level meeting at his official residence in Lucknow on Friday.Also read: 6 non-BJP states file review petition in SC for NEET, JEE postponementThe National Testing Authority (NTA), the nodal body to conduct examinations, and the central government plan to hold JEE-Main between September 1 and 6 and NEET on September 13. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.A review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of the Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold NEET and JEE in September despite the prevailing Covid-19 situation.These six states are West Bengal, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Maharashtra.Yogi Adityanath reiterated his directive for 1.50 lakh Covid-19 tests per day in the state.All efforts should continue to break the chain of Covid-19, he said, adding that there should be an increase in medical testing with a special increase in the number of rapid antigen tests per day. The number of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests per day should also go up and there should be an increase in the required manpower for the purpose, the chief minister directed officials.He also said district magistrates should focus on pandemic work between 9 am to 10 am, inspect offices between 10 am and 11 am and redress grievances of people in their offices between 11 am and 1 pm.The chief minister also asked additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries to carry out inspection of offices functioning under them. He said barring the employees on leave or those who were sick, 50 percent of attendance should be ensured in all the offices and action should be taken against those found absent at 9.30 am. Adityanath also said an inspection system should be implemented at the tehsil and development block levels. The same system should be followed by the police officers as well, he added.“In the absence of district magistrates and subdivisional magistrates, any other responsible officer should follow the schedule at various levels,” he said.Besides improving surveillance, the arrangements at the integrated command and control centres should be increased. People should be made aware of Covid-19 in such a manner that they did not feel afraid to come forward for treatment, he said.Work on the paediatric institute coming up in Gorakhpur should be completed in time, he said. The chief minister noted that cases of malaria had been reported from some districts. He said special medical teams should be sent and necessary arrangements for medical treatment should be made available there.Arrangements for the distribution of fertilisers should be smooth and monitored regularly, he said. He also directed officials to take action against sugar mills owners who are not clearing the dues of cane growers.The distribution of relief and compensation to people in the flood-affected areas should be timely ensured, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-backs-centre-s-decision-to-hold-neet-jee-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-9b0aQtItaOvwLf5hPK8dLN.html
28-08-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian encounter, 1 surrenders||Four terrorists were killed in an encounter that took place in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday, while another surrendered. Security forces launched a joint search operation in Kilora area in south Kashmir after receiving information about suspected presence of terrorists in an orchard.A gunfight broke out between the terrorists and the forces during which four terrorists were killed while one surrendered, the official said.“One terrorist (has) surrendered. Two AKs and three pistols (were) recovered (from the encounter site),” Srinagar-based Defence Spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia told PTI.Meanwhile, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said one of the killed militants was Shakoor Parray, the district commander of Al-Badr outfit.“Terrorist Shakoor Parray and another terrorist Suhail Bhat who abducted and killed Khanmoh’s Panch were neutralised in Friday’s encounter,” the IGP told PTI.A body believed to be that of a Panchayat member, who went missing on August 19, was recovered from an orchard in Jammu & Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday.The body was recovered from Dangam and seems to be of that Nisar Ahmed Bhat, who went missing after he was last seen on a motorcycle, a police officer aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-shopian-encounter-after-forces-launch-joint-operation/story-Z9WCAmpEJdXWgjePyjtBLP.html
28-08-2020||India||Kerala finance firm goes bust, 2 directors detained while fleeing country||A well-known finance firm in central Kerala, Popular Finance, which has 247 branches across the state, has closed its operations and moved an application to declare it bankrupt while its two directors fleeing the country were detained by the Delhi police on Friday. Based on preliminary investigation findings, Pathanamthitta police superintendent KG Simon said that proprietors might have swindled around Rs 2,000 crore. Rinu Mariyam Thomas and Ann Mariyam Thomas, daughters of Managing director Thomas Daniel, were detained at the Delhi international airport while trying to flee to Australia. The Kerala police had issued a look-out notice against family members on Thursday. A Kerala police team are on their way to Delhi to take their custody.Police said they received more than 100 complaints and their numbers will grow substantially as most of the investors are NRIs. They said investors had started noticing major changes in the past one week and later some of the officials have left fearing backlash. “We have sealed all offices and frozen bank accounts of family members. We are getting enough complaints from abroad also,” said the SP. The firms had more than 1,500 employees.Some of the customers said the firm failed to pay interest from April onwards and when they enquired they were told it will be paid after Covid-19 situation normalised. The firm was into gold loan, chitty fund and vehicle financing. There are around 2,000 investors in the firm besides many small-time regular account holders. “I have deposited my retirement benefit of Rs 30 lakh and I was getting 12% interest all these years without any fail. But since April, employees have started behaving indifferently and some of them left without any notice. I don’t have any other means to live,” said one of the investors. Konni MLA Janeesh Kumar said it was a credible finance firm with more than 50 years of experience and nobody has any idea how it collapsed. A Thrissur-based firm, Goodwin Jewellers and Financiers, had gone bust in similar fashion in Maharashtra a couple of months back, and later the Mumbai police had arrested two of its directors. Most such firms do attract gullible investors with attractive packages and high-interest rates and later collapse when their money rolling chain breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-finance-firm-goes-bust-2-directors-detained-while-fleeing-country/story-eJvwwIVKQiJ29yxhRphSBL.html
28-08-2020||India||CBI books ex-NIA officer for illegally procuring call detail records to help IRS officer, wife||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Jalaj Srivastava, a former Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), for fraudulently obtaining call detail records (CDRs) to help a tainted Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Sansar Chand and his wife Avinash Kaur, who were arrested by the probe agency in February 2018. At present, Srivastava is back with his parent cadre, Border Security Force (BSF) and is posted in Imphal, Manipur. Srivastava had allegedly obtained two CDRs in 2017 and 2018 on the request of Kaur by accessing the email of his senior in the NIA, AD Negi, an Indian Police Service (IPS) official without the latter’s permission. Later, he had allegedly shared the CDRs with Kaur. The director-general (D-G), NIA, referred the matter for investigation to CBI following which the agency has booked Srivastava for criminal misconduct and under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. Officials familiar with the development said Srivastava, who is posted with the 182nd battalion of BSF, knew Chand and Kaur because they used to live in the same housing society and, as a result, decided to help them in the CBI case. Kaur had asked for the CDRs of one Sudesh Saini that Srivastava had obtained illegally for her. The first information report (FIR) against Srivastava stated though he had obtained two CDRs, there was also a failed bid. Chand, a 1986-batch (IRS) officer, who was posted as a Goods and Services Tax (GST) official in Kanpur, was arrested in February 2018 for allegedly taking bribes from businessmen by threatening to take action against them. CBI officials said they have taken necessary sanction from BSF before filing a corruption case against Srivastava, who would be interrogated soon. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-ex-nia-office-for-illegally-procuring-call-detail-records-to-help-irs-officer-wife/story-feW0h5IKoLo8pYr3XUqzfN.html
28-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi reaches out to students over NEET, JEE; offers advice to Centre||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked the Centre to listen to students and act upon their wishes over holding the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) next month amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Congress and other opposition parties have raised their voices against the entrance exams, held for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and medical colleges across the country, in September. Ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states have filed a review petition before the Supreme Court challenging its August 17 order which had allowed the central government to hold NEET and JEE in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation.“My dear students, I feel for you because you are now facing a very difficult situation. The issue of your exams, of when they should be taken up and where, is the most important issue not only for you but your family too,” Gandhi said in a video message.ALSO WATCH | Rahul Gandhi slams govt on NEET & JEE; 6 opposition ruled states move SC “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding your future, it is important that it is being taken with your concurrence. I hope the government listens to you, listens to your voices and act upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government. Thank you. Jai Hind,” Gandhi said in the message tweeted by her party.She had held a meeting with the chief ministers of seven states earlier this week over the issue during which West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh called for moving the Supreme Court.The ministry of education has said JEE Main and NEET-UG will be conducted in September as scheduled amid a growing chorus for postponing the crucial tests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. JEE Main is scheduled from September 1-6 and NEET is planned on September 13. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Main and 15.97 lakh have registered for NEET.Before Sonia Gandhi’s message, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged people to raise their voice against the Centre’s decision to hold the exams next month.“Unite your voice with lakhs of suffering students. #SpeakUpForStudentSafety from 10am onwards. Let’s make the Govt listen to the students,” Gandhi tweeted in the morning.The government, on its part, has said that more than 1.7 million candidates have already downloaded their admit cards for JEE and NEET, which shows students want the exams to be conducted.“National Testing Agency (NTA) officials told me that over seven lakh candidates have downloaded the JEE-Main admit cards while over 10 lakh aspirants have downloaded the NEET admit cards. This shows that the students want the exams to be held at any cost,” Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” said on Thursday.“We have received mails from students and parents who are in favour of holding the exams, as they have been preparing for the exams for at least two to three years. The Supreme Court too opined that a full academic year cannot be wasted. After two deferments, the exam dates have been finalised,” he added.The Supreme Court last week dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the two exams amid a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, saying a “precious” academic year of students “cannot be wasted” and that life has to go on.NTA has said it will increase the number of examination centres, put in an alternative seating plan with fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit for safely conducting NEET and JEE in September.The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The JEE-Mains was originally scheduled to be held from April 7 to April 11 but was postponed to July 18-23. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3 but was pushed to July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-reaches-out-to-students-over-neet-jee-offers-advice-to-centre/story-EOuHIREVJM6vtPq9On2iiK.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 400 million poor now have access to banks, says finance ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 400 million poor now have access to banks due to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: Finance ministryThe Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the country’s financial inclusion initiative that was launched six years ago, has more than 403.5 million accounts with total deposits in excess of Rs 1.30 lakh crore, the Union finance ministry said. Read more6 non-BJP states file review petition in Supreme Court for NEET, JEE postponementA review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation. Read moreCustoms grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling caseKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former IT fellow, Arun Balachandran, appeared before the customs on Friday afternoon in Kochi for questioning in the sensational gold smuggling case following reports that he had played an important role in arranging for a flat right outside state secretariat for one of the main accused Swapna Suresh. Read moreNational Sports Awards: Rohit, Ishant to miss ceremony; three awardees test positiveKhel Ratna Rohit Sharma and Arjuna Award winner Ishant Sharma, who are both in the United Arab Emirates for the Indian Premier League, will miss the National Sports Awards ceremony on August 29. Read moreSanjay Dutt wishes sister Priya Dutt on her birthday: ‘Thank you for always being a constant in my life’Sanjay Dutt has shared a sweet birthday wish for his sister Priya Dutt on her birthday. The actor shared a lovely picture of them together on Twitter to wish her on the occasion. Read moreRhea Chakraborty speaksI assume that at least some of you watched the interviews Rhea Chakraborty gave to various TV channels on Thursday. I watched Sonia Singh’s excellent interview with Rhea on NDTV first and then Rajdeep Sardesai’s extensive and detailed Hindi-English interview on India Today. Read moreKia Sonet fuel economy revealed ahead of launchKia Motors globally revealed the upcoming Sonet compact SUV earlier this month. Its bookings have already commenced in the Indian market and Kia has announced that Sonet is off to a flying start with over 6,500 units booked on the opening day. Read more‘What do you desire?’ asks Lucifer in this Instagram post by Netflix India. The answers are beyond hilariousNow and again, Netflix India uses its social media presence to make netizens chuckle with some clever memes and witty pop culture references. Their recent Lucifer post is no different and is making many Instagram users giggle, expectedly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-400-million-poor-now-have-access-to-banks-says-finance-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hLeJpe3LZ9jUNJQJ4x4yHO.html
28-08-2020||India||346 policemen in Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 in last 24 hours||Three more policemen died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Maharashtra, with the latest being a 45-year-old police constable attached with Charkop police station in Mumbai. Also, 346 fresh cases of the policemen contracting the virus was reported in Maharashtra police force in the last 24 hours.According to the state police department in Maharashtra police, so far 14,614 policemen have contracted the virus. Of this, 11,752 policemen have recovered and 2,741 are undergoing treatment at various Covid Care Centres (CCC). Till date, 148 policemen have lost their lives to coronavirus in Maharashtra police force. So far, over 4,700 police personnel in Mumbai have got infected by the contagious disease. Of this, around 4,000 have recovered. According to Mumbai Police, 45-year-old constable Samir Harishchandra Pawar, who was attached with the Charkop police station, died from the infection. According to the police, Pawar was staying with his wife and a son at Gorai, Borivali (west).Also read: ‘No room’ - Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packedAn officer from Charkop police station said, “On August 6, he was not able to breathe properly hence he was admitted to Oscar hospital, Kandivali. As his health condition started worsening, he was moved to Seven Hills hospital, Andheri (east).”However, his condition did not improve and he succumbed to death at around 9:30 pm. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration) said, “there are 69 policemen from Mumbai police who have lost their lives to Covid-19.”Most of the deceased policemen aged between 45-58 years and also suffered from other comorbidities such as hyperglycemia, hypertension, etc., the police said. The state government is giving Rs 50 lakh as compensation and a government job to one member of the families of those policemen who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/346-policemen-in-maharashtra-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-last-24-hours/story-Bz3YVha5R4zlLZ3D0jI8bL.html
28-08-2020||India||ED summons Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Mumbai/Panaji: Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have issued a summons to a Goa-based hotelier, Gaurav Arya, and have called him to Mumbai for questioning on Monday in an alleged money laundering case against the associates of the late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The ED officials visited Hotel Tamarind at Anjuna, a coastal village in Goa, but found the property to be shut.Hotel Tamarind has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March-end to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The officials have stuck the notice on the door of the closed hotel.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty quizzed by CBI for first timeThe notice stated that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11 am in Mumbai on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.Arya runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa that are both shut because of the pandemic.He has been summoned by ED after his name had cropped up in a WhatsApp chat with Rhea Chakraborty, who is at the centre of the Rajput death probe. The purported WhatsApp chat was regarding drugs.ED officials refused to comment if there was any financial transaction between Arya and Rajput, or if the Goa-based hotelier had any financial transaction with Rhea or others that the agency had filed in its Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) on July 31.Earlier on Thursday, ED had questioned Rhea’s talent manager Jaya Saha and later on the same day her father Indrajeet Chakraborty was also summoned in a bid to access the family’s bank accounts to probe a possible money laundering angle in connection with the Rajput death case.Indrajeet was taken to the Vakola branch of the Axis Bank on Thursday around 2:30 pm, where ED officials were also present. He returned home at around 9:30 pm.On August 10, ED had questioned Rhea, Indrajeet and her brother Showik Chakraborty.Later, Rhea’s manager Shruti Modi, and Rajput’s friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani were also quizzed by the agency. Rajput’s father KK Singh had filed a first information report against Rhea in Bihar on July 28 following which ED had registered the ECIR three days later. Investigators had gathered information about the formation of four companies by Rajput and Rhea, and Showik. Two of these companies were registered, while the other two were in the process of getting registered.ED wanted to go through the Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed during the formation of these firms to ascertain their profit-sharing agreement. ED officials familiar with the development said that Rhea had responded to all the questions, but could not divulge details of the exact sequence of events leading to Rajput’s death.ED had also questioned Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, Rhea’s chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah, and Rajput’s CA Sandeep Sridhar in the case. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which also has registered an FIR following a Supreme Court (SC) last week, has started questioning Rhea, Showik, Pithani, Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Keshav Bachner in Santacruz (East) since Friday morning.Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what Mumbai Police had said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week lull, a political controversy erupted over Rajout’s death. A Bihar Police team was constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family.Bihar Police alleged that it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena, as the SC was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Rhea’s families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry in Mumbai split vertically.The case opened up a raging debate about the industry, degenerating into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers).Rhea and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections that are slated to be held on schedule in October-November, despite the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-goa-hotelier-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-HYrlzYQlbuyNvQibijjF9L.html
28-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty speaks: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and India’s obsession with the SSR case||I assume that at least some of you watched the interviews Rhea Chakraborty gave to various TV channels on Thursday. I watched Sonia Singh’s excellent interview with Rhea on NDTV first and then Rajdeep Sardesai’s extensive and detailed Hindi-English interview on India Today.Bear in mind that I watched these interviews from a position of ignorance. I haven’t followed the allegations and accusations hurled by Sushant Singh Rajput’s family against Rhea. Nor have I kept up with the investigations conducted by the sleuths from our TV channels.So, I have no way of knowing how convincing Rhea’s responses were on the substantive issues or whether what she said was at variance with the facts. But she struck me ---- as I imagine she struck most open-minded people --- as being genuinely shocked at the suggestion that she may have had anything to do with Sushant’s death and shattered by the campaign that has been run against her on both social and mainstream media.But even as I watched Sonia Singh‘s interview with Rhea, I tried to work out why the case has obsessed so many Indians. So great is the interest that news TV viewership has soared and every channel is trying to find its own ‘exclusive’ or special angle to attract more viewers.Here are some tentative theories about why India is so fascinated by the case.Anything to do with Bollywood fascinates people. For most Indians, the only sources of entertainment are Bollywood and “news” channels. Put them together and you have an irresistible mix. All of us are fed up of the lockdown. The isolation has got to us and though we may be unwilling to say so openly, there are high levels of uncertainty and insecurity about the future. We welcome any distractions and some of us need something to obsess about so that we don’t focus on our own grim reality. Put sudden death and Bollywood together and you always have the makings of a great TV story.When the actress Sridevi died in Dubai a few years ago, the country was saddened. But it was also intrigued by the circumstances of her sudden and unexpected death. Then too, the channels suggested that her death had not been an accident and that perhaps there had been foul play.Bollywood itself has become increasingly isolated from its audience. There was a time when people could identify with the stars and relate to their stories. But these days, too many Bollywood figures are children of the industry. There is nothing for ordinary viewers to identify with.ALSO READ: The Rise And Fall Of Amar SinghThere are two other factors, both of which are controversial. In the heyday of Bollywood, even the top stars seemed rooted in the Hindi/Punjabi heartland. Amitabh Bachchan is an extremely sophisticated man who speaks excellent English but he is also proud of his roots as the son of one of India’s greatest Hindi poets. His whole image and the way he is perceived has changed after KBC, where he interacts happily with people from modest backgrounds and small towns. These days, much of India’s first generation middle class, brought up in non-English-speaking households, sees shows like Koffee with Karan and wonders what it has in common with the sophisticated, English-speaking stars with their designer clothes and in-jokes. The distance between Bollywood and its audience has never been greater.Those who indicate that they are different and not part of the cool gang, such as Kangana Ranaut, become heroines in the heartland. And those like Amitabh, who have forged a new connect, remain relatable within the heartland.The second factor is more controversial but, I think, as true. To many bigots (and their number is growing) Bollywood is run by too many Muslims and gay people, Look at the targets of social media campaigns over the last few years and you will see how this element of the anti-Bollywood feeling surfaces again and again in every controversy.In this environment, Sushant Singh Rajput is seen as a representative of un-cool India, a boy from the heartland who was victimized by the in-club of homosexuals and dynasts who, some believe, run much of Bollywood.In all the trending narratives about his death, his career is made out to be in much worse shape than it really was. That he earned crores per movie, travelled first class or by private plane etc. is rarely emphasized.The Sushant who is at the centre of the current narrative was a poor boy from Bihar who was crushed by the Bollywood Mafia.ALSO READ: The sovereign state of FacebookThe heartland vs. elitist Bollywood storyline suits politicians. There is an election coming up in Bihar. What could be better for the incumbent government than the tale of a bright young Bihari boy who was finished off by the Mumbai mafia? The state government tried to avenge Sushant by sending Bihar’s policemen. And when that did not work, they took the case out of the hands of the Mumbai police and got it transferred to the CBI.A second motive lies within Maharashtra politics where the BJP and its former ally the Shiv Sena are at war. It suits the BJP to suggest that the Thackerays are in bed with Bollywood and that, even if they were not involved in Sushant’s death, are covering up the truth.And then, there is Rhea herself. Every successful scandal needs a femme fatale. As most people knew nothing about her till she began giving interviews, Sushant’s family and the media were able to portray her as a scarlet woman who took their son away from them, dominated his life and stole all his money.If what she says in the interviews is true then it should be quite easy to establish that these charges are not accurate. But till that happens, social media will portray her as a good time girl of doubtful virtue and will look for photos of her in bikinis and other revealing clothes.The misogyny in all this is self-evident. And yet it surprises me how many women are willing to say the worst possible things about Rhea without any evidence at all.That, in fact, is the defining characteristic of mob hysteria. People who do not know the individuals involved and have only a rudimentary grasp of the facts, jump to conclusions with a terrifying ferocity and demand ‘revenge’.They project their own fears, hopes, prejudices and aspirations on to a situation and then work on the basis of that alternate reality.I have no idea what the truth of this case is. Perhaps Sushant did commit suicide. Perhaps he was murdered. Perhaps powerful people were out to get him.These are matters that professionals should investigate on the basis of evidence and now that so many agencies are involved I hope we will get to the bottom of this case.But in times of hysteria, hatred and innuendo on social media, we have already reached rock-bottom for our society.To read more on The Taste With Vir, click hereFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-speaks-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-and-india-s-obsession-with-the-ssr-case/story-RLdnXMvqXNCpurneQsC0fM.html
28-08-2020||India||Two men allegedly shot dead by bike-borne assailants in Varanasi||Two men were allegedly shot dead by two bike-borne unidentified miscreants in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi. Another person was injured near a water tank under Jaitpura police station area in Varanasi on Friday, the police said. Additional director-general of police (zone) Braj Bhushan, who inspected the site of the crime, said prima facie the incident appeared to be a fallout of a rivalry. He said instructions had been issued to the police officers to ensure the arrest of the assailants as soon as possible. Bhushan further said that strict action would be taken against the assailants.A police officer said one Abhishek Singh aka Prince, 36, a resident of Shivpur and his friend Deepak Kumar, 25, were on their way to Chauka ghat on a bike on Friday.As per locals, two-bike borne assailants came from behind and hit Singh’s bike. As Singh and his friend fell off the bike, one of the assailants opened fire at the duo.Also read: Mehul Choksi’s plea seeking pre-screening of Netflix series dismissedA bullet also hit a passer-by named Balmiki. The assailants fled the scene after committing the crime. All three were rushed to government divisional hospital where Abhishek and Balmiki were declared dead. Deepak was under treatment in a critical condition.On receiving information, Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak and Superintendent of Police (city) Vikash Chandra Tripathi, along with a police force, also reached the spot. Meanwhile, a probe was underway to establish the motive for the crime.Student murdered in GhazipurIn another incident, Surendra Singh Yadav (19), an undergraduate student, was allegedly stabbed to death by unidentified assailants outside his native Bharawalia village in Dildar Nagar area of Ghazipur district on Thursday evening, police said.Dildar Nagar police station in-charge Dharmendra Pandey reached the spot along with a police force and took the body into possession. Later, the body was sent for a post mortem examination.A case is being registered in this connection following a complaint lodged by the kin of the student who said the youth did not have any enmity with anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-allegedly-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants-in-varanasi/story-hzzWNIzLN52vKBfxNWWckI.html
28-08-2020||India||Bombay HC disposes of Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde’s petition for Covid-19 test||A division bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday disposed of the petitions filed by Vernon Gonsalves and Dr Anand Teltumbde, both accused in the Elgar Parishad case, seeking direction for them to be tested for Covid-19. Their petitions were disposed of by justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht after the state submitted their reports where they had tested negative for the virus. The report was also handed to their families as well. Gonsalves and Teltumbde are currently lodged in Taloja jail. The state in an earlier hearing had submitted the Covid-19 negative reports, however as there was a discrepancy in the report of Dr Teltumbde, the bench had asked the state to submit a correct report to the court and to the family. The bench while hearing the petitions was informed by advocate Devyani Kulkarni that though the court had directed the state to hand over the Covid-19 test reports to the families, it had not done so. She even submitted that it seemed that the correct report of Dr Teltumbde was also not prepared and hence the state should be directed to comply as soon as possible. She further submitted that the state had only handed over a cover letter to the lawyers which stated that the Covid-19 tests were conducted and the reports were negative. She said that the detailed report was not received. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for the state sought time and submitted that the Covid-19 report of Gonsalves and the corrected report of Dr Teltumbde would be handed over to the families and hence the matter be placed for hearing after the lunch hour, which the court agreed. After lunch when the petition came up for hearing, Kulkarni informed the bench that they had received medical reports of both Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde, and were satisfied and hence the petitions could be disposed of. After hearing the submissions the court disposed of the petitions. Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had moved the petition for getting themselves tested for Covid-19 as they had been in close contact with Telugu poet P Vara Vara Rao who is a co-accused in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case while he was being treated in the Taloja jail hospital.After Rao tested positive for Covid-19, both Gonsalves and Dr Teltumbde had sought to be tested due to their advanced age and comorbidities and for the safety of other inmates of the jail. Both had been shifted to an isolation unit after they were tested and until the reports came.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-disposes-of-vernon-gonsalves-anand-teltumbde-s-petition-for-covid-19-test/story-RPW0gn4TIoJslOLdj9hkkI.html
28-08-2020||India||SC asks Centre to respond on PIL for statewise identification of minorities||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice seeking the Centre’s response to a public interest litigation (PIL) demanding the classification of religious minorities based on their population in each state. The PIL seeks guidelines to enable minorities establish and run institutions under the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (NCMEI) Act. A three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued a notice to three Central government ministries—Home, Law & Justice, Minority Affairs—based on the PIL filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The matter will be heard after six weeks. The PIL specifically challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the NCMEI Act 2004, which, the petition stated, gives unbridled powers to the Centre to restrict minority benefits to five religious communities—Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees. In addition, the PIL demanded the Centre lay down guidelines for the identification of minority communities at the state-level “to ensure that only those religious and linguistic groups which are socially, economically, politically non-dominant and numerically inferior, can establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.” In December 2019, Upadhyay had approached the top court with a similar request wherein he challenged the classification of five religious communities as minorities under Section 2(c) of the National Commission of Minorities (NCM) Act 1992. This was based on a government notification of October 23, 1992 classifying Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees as minority groups based on their national population. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had then dismissed the petition, observing, “States were formed on linguistic basis but religion has to be pan-India.” The present petition has revived the same issue but via a different route. Instead of challenging the NCM Act, the petitioner has challenged the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act. Upadhyay has cited a 2002 ruling of the top court in the TMA Pai cas, which states that for indentifying linguistic minorities, a state must be treated as the basic unit. According to the petition, the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act violates this judgment given by an 11-judge bench. Speaking to HT, Upadhyay said, “My fresh petition is different from the earlier petition. In this petition I have challenged the classification of minorities under the NCMEI Act.” On February 20, Upadhyay had approached the apex court yet again with a request to declare Hindus as a minority in eight states/union territories where their population is less. A bench headed by justice RF Nariman allowed Upadhyay to withdraw his petition and approach the individual high courts. Based on this order, Upadhyay approached the Delhi High Court with the same prayer. On February 28, the HC issued a notice to the Centre, seeking its response. The PIL is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-pil-for-statewise-identification-of-minorities/story-DaOGD3QYcZPYhOLxCVWRoI.html
28-08-2020||India||Main accused in Ballia scribe’s murder arrested||Heera Singh, the main accused in the murder of journalist Ratan Singh was arrested in Ballia on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh police said.Six others were arrested earlier in connection with the crime.Deputy inspector general of police, Azamgarh range, Subhash Chandra Dubey said action would be taken against all the accused under national security act (NSA) and their properties will be attached under Section 14 (1) of the Gangster Act.Journalist Ratan Singh (45), who worked with a Hindi news channel, was allegedly shot dead in Phephna area of Ballia on August 24. Chief minister Adityanath had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the family of the slain journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-accused-in-ballia-scribe-s-murder-arrested/story-15wNhhzuJkxDF7OOTNxVNP.html
28-08-2020||India||‘No room’: Trains bound for Mumbai, Delhi are running jam-packed||At a time when the fear of Covid-19 is still forcing people to stay back home, the majority of trains heading towards metro cities like Delhi and Mumbai, besides cities in Gujarat, are running packed. Railway officials call it a possible reverse migration that has left the majority of Mumbai and Delhi bound trains with ‘no room’.The rush is so much that northeastern railways (NER), Lucknow division, which is currently plying six pairs of trains, including two pairs for Delhi and four for Mumbai, has urged the Railway Board to increase the number of trains on these routes.“In the present ‘Unlock’ phase, six pairs of special trains are operating from our division. Of them, two pairs are Delhi bound and four pairs, including the prestigious Pushpak, are Mumbai bound,” said Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow division, NER.As per some senior officials of the NER, around 18,750 passengers board these trains daily from Lucknow and other cities of the division on an average.Also read: 6 non-BJP states file review petition in Supreme Court for NEET, JEE postponementAs per the current scenario, all four Mumbai-bound trains, including 02541 Gorakhpur-Mumbai LTT, Pushpak Express, Gorakhpur Bandra Terminus Avadh Covid-19 Special and Kushi Nagar Express, have long waiting list. Similarly, two Delhi-bound trains of NER’s Lucknow division too have a long waiting list.Both Delhi and Mumbai bound trains of the NER, Lucknow division, have witnessed a formidable rise in the occupancy rate in the last three months.“In June, the passenger occupancy rate in all six trains, including Pushpak, originating from Lucknow was 89 percent. However, in July and August, the occupancy rate in all the trains touched the 100-percent mark,” a senior official said.“Following the high occupancy rate in the trains going towards Mumbai, the division has moved a proposal to the Railway Board, seeking more trains on the particular route in order to cater to the rise in the number of passengers,” said DRM, Lucknow division. “At the same time, we are strictly ensuring that the Covid-19 protocol is followed and social distancing is maintained,” she added.Other than the NER, a similar trend is observed in the 5 pairs of trains being operated by the Northern Railway from its Lucknow division. Of them, two each are bound for Delhi and Mumbai while one is for Gujarat. These include Delhi-bound Gomti express special, Ahemdabad-bound Sabarmati special, Mumbai-bound Kamayani express special, Mumbai-bound Mahanagri special train and Delhi-bound Mahanama express.The officials, however, said barring June, when the passenger occupancy rate was low, the occupancy rate in trains was 100 percent in July and August. Moreover, some railway officials call it a reverse migration of labourers and workers that is leaving no room in trains.“It was expected. The migrants who returned during lockdown are now going back to their workplaces which is causing rush in trains,” a railway official said. One Irshad Alam of Siddharthnagar, on his way to Surat in Gujarat by Muzaffarpur Bandra terminus Avadh Covid-19 special train, said, “Nothing like spending time with family and working in our own hometown. But due to fewer job opportunities here, we are forced to migrate for work. I think I may end up getting jobless if I don’t go back.” Besides him, there were several other migrants who claimed they were moving back to their workplace. “I returned from Shramik special train on May 19. Since then, I was sitting idle. Hence I decided to head back to work. In Gujarat, the working conditions are good and so is the remuneration—Rs 400 per day along with accommodation,” said another worker Raghuraj Singh from Devari village in Kasganj district. He said he worked at a brick kiln in Gujarat.On being asked what wage was offered to a worker at his native place, he said it was quite low without further elaborating.During a massive drive launched during the lockdown, the UP government had brought back over 20 lakh migrants from across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-room-trains-bound-for-mumbai-delhi-see-jam-packed-rush/story-rEjjJAyKRjBM8gSQ9tAm3O.html
28-08-2020||India||Guhar, an app that helps Bastar residents file complaints in Halbi and Gondi||Bridging the language divide, an engineering student of Bastar in Chhattisgarh has developed a language translator mobile application called “Guhar” or prayer, through which the locals can lodge their complaints in their local dialects-- Halbi and Gondi—while the government departments receive them in Hindi.The app also helps local tribes in lodging complaints through a text or voice message in their own languages, which gets translated into an official language before reaching the inbox of a government official in the Bastar region.“The problem was getting the codes for the local dialects,” said Ankur Sinha, student of a local engineering college, who developed the application. “Last year, I along with my team met the district administration offering a grievance-reporting application and then we developed ‘Guhar’. The idea is to redress the problem of those who are unable to reach government offices,” Sinha said and added that Guhaar was being offered in multiple languages. He says the application is a block-chain based portal in which all the complaints are traceable and can be lodged from smart phones and feature phones. Guhaar also has a voice addition feature for recording the complaint with photos.“Soon a WhatsApp feature is being introduced to file complaints.” Sinha said. Till now, more than 500 complaints filed through the app have been resolved by the district administration of Bastar including directions to include certain families in the public distribution system and issuance of caste certificates, apart from addressing social issues like ill-treatment of senior citizens.Bastar administration believes that the application has a strong grievance redress mechanism.“Through this application, we are trying to bridge the gap between the common citizen and the administration. In the coming time, we will put all complaints which come to us through various portals or departments under one umbrella,” said collector Bastar, Rajat Bansal.Also Read: Chhattisgarh records 1,108 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deathsProbationary IAS officer posted in the district, Abinash Misra, the brain behind the application, said the idea is to reduce unnecessary rush of people every day at various government offices. As people travel long distances, they lose their wages also. Through Guhaar, people can file their complaints easily,” he said.Misra said, through this app, senior officers can also fix responsibility of the personnel, who do not act on the complaint in a time bound manner. Earlier, complaints used to remain in files for years.Also Read: Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel asks Modi not to privatise Nagarnar steel plant Shubhrashu Chaudhary, an activist and a writer, who is also working with this project by providing transcripts of local dialects, says ‘Guhar’ in its current form helps only the privileged few. “The application can have a good reach if we provide Bluetooth, locally called Bultoo, linkage to help people to send messages where internet connection is poor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guhar-an-app-that-helps-bastar-residents-file-complaints-in-halbi-and-gondi/story-bCNsSQimFTuyAlfeLbnfAM.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh student develops app for tribals to register grievances with administration||Ankur Sinha, an engineering student of a government engineering college in the Communist Party of India (CPI-) (Maoist)-hit Bastar district in Chhattisgarh, has developed a mobile application “Guhaar” for the local administration through which the tribals will be able to directly lodge their complaints or get any help in their dialects such as Halbi and Gondi. Also read: Cyber police stations to be set up in each range headquarters of ChhattisgarhThe complaints can be lodged via a short message service (SMS) or a voice message in their own dialects that will be registered with the district authorities following a translation.Over 500 complaints, primarily in Hindi, have been filed and resolved by the Bastar district administration to date. Commonplace problems include an apathetic public distribution system (PDS), water woes, errors in caste and birth certificates. Social issues like ill-treatment of ageing parents also find a mention among the complaints with the district authorities.The app allows a complainant to update the complaint and the person can also give ratings whether h/she is satisfied with the grievance redressal mechanism.“Last year, my team members and I had met the district administration. We had held talks on Guhaar that seeks to redress complaints. The basic concept is to redress the issues that might have escaped the state government’s attention or have been unattended for long,” said Sinha. Sinha said that Guhaar would be offered in multiple languages and dialects soon. “At present, the app provides support in Hindi and English. But come September, it will be offered in Gondi and Halbi dialects for which we taken help from the experts,” he added.“Guhaar is a blockchain-based app, where all the complaints are immutable and traceable. Every complaint carries a fingerprint. Complaints can be lodged via a smartphone and a feature phone. Soon, a WhatsApp feature will be introduced. Guhaar also has an additional feature of recording a voice message along with the complainant’s photograph in a bid to put a face to a name,” Sinha said. The district administration is all praise for the app.“We are trying to bridge the communication gap between the local tribals and the district administration, thanks to this app. We plan to aggregate all complaints in one place shortly,” said Rajat Bansal, district collector (DC), Bastar.“Guhaar is a strong public grievance redressal system launched by the district administration. It empowers local tribals to file a complaint, which is now at their fingertip,” said Abinash Misra , a probationary Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted in Bastar district. Misra waxed eloquent about Guhaar’s ability to fix accountability on state government officials. “Guhaar takes a dispassionate view as far as accountability is concerned. Each complaint will be forwarded to the respective state government department, where officials need to resolve it in a timely manner. The district collector will monitor the grievances on a weekly basis. Pendency will attract a penalty and its modalities are in the works,” said Misra. Shubhrashu Chaudhary, an activist and writer, who is also working on this project by providing transcripts of local dialects, said Guhaar in its current avatar helps only the privileged few. “We are trying to make it more inclusive. Work is in progress for a two-way linkage with the Bultoo app, where people living on the wrong side of the digital divide can also participate. We want to ensure that they can report the complaints in their own dialects such as Gondi and Halbi. We are also using songs in local dialects in a bid to break the vicious cycle of hopelessness, the main ingredient of violence and violent ideology in the region,” said Chaudhary, who has developed the Bultoo app that is inspired by bluetooth, a wireless technology. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-student-develops-app-for-tribals-to-register-grievances-with-administration/story-1JkX73KbzpusGrSotK6sFL.html
28-08-2020||India||Bombay HC says hospitals can’t be closed down without due process of law||Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, a hospital cannot be shut down without following due process of law, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court said on Thursday while striking down an order passed by local authorities, shutting down a hospital at Jalna abruptly.“If a particular procedure is prescribed for initiating appropriate steps with regard to complaints against a hospital, such procedure has to be necessarily followed and a drastic order of closure of the hospital cannot be passed under the pretext of Covid-19 Pandemic,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Shrikant Kulkarni.The bench struck down an order issued by the district administration on August 21, 2020 cancelling registration of Arogyam Hospital, run by Dr. Ritesh Agrawal, after finding out that no notice was issued to the doctor before issuing the shutdown order. The bench rejected submissions advanced by government pleader DR Kale that a large number of complaints were received about malpractices in the hospital while Covid-19 pandemic was spreading its tentacles and there was a public uproar over the alleged mismanagement at the petitioner’s hospital.“It was in these peculiar circumstances that a show-cause notice of hearing before the issuing of the order of closure could not be given,” Kale had said.Also Read: Bombay HC dismisses PIL questioning operation of PM Cares FundThe bench, however, refused to accept the explanation in view of an order pronounced by the HC in December 2018, holding that under provisions of the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949, a notice is required to be issued before cancelling registration of a hospital, and registration cancelled without giving hearing to the concerned is not legally sustainable.Also Read: ‘10 in every 100 Covid patients above 50 years in Mumbai succumbed’HC has now directed that the order dated August 21 be treated as a show cause notice to the hospital administration and the competent authority under the Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949, shall pass a fresh order on complaints received against Arogyam Hospital by September 19, after granting the hospital an opportunity to file a reply to the notice and the hearing.On the request of the government pleader, the bench has restrained the hospital, where nine patients are admitted for treatment, from admitting any other patient till a fresh order is passed by the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-says-hospitals-can-t-be-closed-down-without-due-process-of-law/story-Z1R5iosPAy4ehsnFdbUcmL.html
28-08-2020||India||Hotel owner, manager booked for allegedly offering room to Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son Tej Pratap||The owner and the manager of hotel Capitol Residency at Ranchi’s station road were booked for allegedly offering room to Tej Pratap, former Bihar health minister and son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, on Thursday evening, police said.The FIR was lodged against them at Ranchi’s Chutia police station on a written complaint of circle officer (CO), Ranchi, Prakash Kumar. In his complaint, Kumar said that when he visited room no-507 of the hotel around 9 pm on Thursday, Tej Pratap was found staying there, which was a violation of the government order during the Covid-19 pandemic.Officer-in-charge of Chutia police station Ravi Thakur said, “Hotel manager Dushyant Kumar and the owner have been booked under sections 188 and 34 of Indian Penal code (IPC).”He said hotels have not been permitted to operate in Jharkhand yet amid the pandemic. “In such a case, they cannot offer rooms to anyone. It is a violation of lockdown rules,” he said.Pratap was in Ranchi on Thursday and met former Bihar chief minister and his father Lalu Prasad Yadav at Kelly’s bungalow located in the premises of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Yadav is undergoing medical treatment there. An accused in the fodder scam, the RJD president was serving jail terms and has been admitted to RIMS since December 2018 for the treatment of is critical illness.Pratap told media persons that he met his father to enquire about his health and discussed political issues as well. Before meeting Lalu, Pratap underwent rapid antigen test and was allowed to meet his father after testing negative for SARS-Cov-2.When Jharkhand RJD president Abhay Singh was contacted for his comment over FIR, he said, “I have no official information of any such development. As far as I know, Tej Pratap had left the city on Thursday night.”State BJP spokesperson, Pratul Shahdeo, however, alleged that the hotel owner was made a scapegoat, as the government did not dare to take any action against Tej Pratap who openly flouted the lockdown norms.“Over 60 vehicles entered the city with the RJD leader. A large contingent of party workers from Bihar and Jharkhand accompanied the leader in an open violation of social distancing and other Covid-19 norms in the hospital and around the city, but the administration took no action. To save its skin, the police filed FIR against the hotel owner. It should be probed under whose pressure did the hotel owner give a room to Tej Pratap,” Shahdeo said.Reacting to the development, the federation of Jharkhand chamber of commerce and industries (FJCCI) office-bearers said the FIR was uncalled for. “Hotel owners know that offering rooms to anyone during lockdown is a violation of Covid-19 protocol. But, the situation for them turns tough when leaders like Tej Pratap seek room. The administration should take care when any such leaders come to Ranchi,” said Dheeraj Taneja, FJCCI general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotel-owner-manager-booked-for-allegedly-offering-room-to-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-son-tej-pratap/story-bySTo0Fnz5Sonsc8rPfVvM.html
28-08-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews prep for Aero India-2021 amid Covid-19||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday reviewed the preparations for Asia’s largest air show, Aero India, to be staged at the Yelahanka air base outside Bengaluru next year in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with development said on Friday. Also read: IAF to formally induct Rafale jets on September 10The biennial air show will be staged from February 3 to 7 with all the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the disease, the officials said. Singh is monitoring all developments related to the international aerospace and defence exhibition. The defence ministry’s spokesperson on Friday tweeted that the air show is taking wings and the minister reviewed the roadmap for Aero India-2021. “All precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 will be followed. It’s a prestigious event and will be held as planned. Top defence firms have shown interest in taking part in the show,” the officials said.The air show is a significant event in the defence ministry’s calendar, given that self-reliance in the sector is a top priority for the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India had the potential to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly foreign countries and strengthen its strategic partnerships as it takes strides towards self-reliance in the defence sector. India has taken several key steps to boost self-reliance in the defence sector such as creating a separate budget for the purchase of locally-produced military hardware, notifying a negative import list and raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit. Earlier this month, the government announced a separate budgetary outlay of Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement and came out with a negative import list. Indian announced on August 9 that it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years --- from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles. The PM said more defence items would be progressively added to the negative import list to encourage the domestic industry that can look forward to more orders in the coming times as a result of initiatives taken to boost self-reliance. The government is likely to notify a second negative import list early next year. Ahead of Aero India-2021, the defence ministry is likely to issue a request for proposal for building next-generation submarines in the country, one of the costliest Make in India programmes in the military sector. Six advanced submarines will be built under Rs 50,000-crore project P-75I to scale up the navy’s undersea warfare capabilities and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The project will be pursued under the government’s ‘strategic partnership’ (SP) model, which seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with foreign vendors are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-prep-for-aero-india-2021-amid-covid-19/story-TufH9GeSvCHjoSw8G4umEO.html
28-08-2020||India||Customs grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling case||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former IT fellow, Arun Balachandran, appeared before the customs on Friday afternoon in Kochi for questioning in the sensational gold smuggling case following reports that he had played an important role in arranging for a flat right outside state secretariat for one of the main accused Swapna Suresh.It is suspected that the location of the flat was aimed at facilitating smooth smuggling operations by creating a perception of proximity to power.Balachandran, who is believed to be close to the former private secretary of the CM, told officials that he was asked to arrange a flat for Swapan Suresh by the former secretary, M Shivashankar, who is under the scanner in the case.20 persons have been arrested so far and 5 are absconding or are to be extradited in the gold smuggling case, which is being probed by several agencies including the National Investigative Agency (NIA).NIA has claimed that the smuggling network was linked to anti-national activities and possibly terror-funding. The smuggling case has cast a shadow on the left front government in Kerala. The case surfaced on July 5 after 30 KG gold was seized from baggage that arrived from UAE in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Also Read: Kerala secretariat fire: State govt constitutes panel to probe incidentRecently, Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel’s name, too, got dragged into the matter upon revelation that another consignment to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in March weighing more than 4,000 kg had been received by him. Jaleel’s name also figured prominently in the call list of Swapna Suresh. However, the minister has denied any wrongdoing and said the consignment contained the holy book of Quran which was distributed among people in his constituency.Also Read: Opposition steps up pressure on Pinarayi Vijayan-led govtWith the state assembly elections just eight months away, the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have announced a series of protests seeking the resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is on the back foot due to the gold smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-grilling-kerala-cm-s-former-it-fellow-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-joCGyOiD8cLtrdvVVT52LL.html
28-08-2020||India||Delhi High Court dismisses Mehul Choksi’s plea to pre-screen Netflix series||The Delhi high court (HC) on Friday dismissed a plea by Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, seeking a pre-release screening of a docu-series “Bad Boy Billionaires” to be aired on Netflix, an over the top (OTT) platform, on September 2. Justice Navin Chawla said that Choksi, through his counsel, advocate Vijay Aggarwal, is allowed to file a civil suit as what is being alleged as infringement by him is a private right and cannot be granted by the court. Referring to an earlier order, passed by a division bench of the Delhi HC in another matter, the court refused to grant him a pre-release viewing while reiterating that there are no regulations to control the content on OTT media services. Choksi had moved the Delhi HC against a docu-series to be aired by Netflix. “Bad Boy Billionaires” focuses on the alleged fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster, released by Netflix, shows Choksi’s nephew Modi, among other businessmen, who have been arrested by investigating agencies, according to advocate Aggarwal. On Friday, Aggarwal, appearing for Choksi, said that he may be given a pre-release screening to see if the docu-series contains any material that might malign his client. However, countering his submissions, senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for Netflix, said that there is no regulation in India to control OTT content. He said that only two minutes have been dedicated to Choksi in the episode on Modi in the docu-series. He submitted that in the two minutes on Choksi, several interviews that he had given to news channels and media outlets have been showcased and all of them are in public domain. He also contended that there is no relevance to Choksi’s court cases in the docu-series.Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, the counsel for the filmmakers, said that Choksi is a fugitive and has taken the citizenship of another country. He said Choksi must be barred from seeking legal relief in India because he took the citizenship of another country.Krishnan also submitted that though Choksi knew about the docu-series since 2018, he chose not to move court and avail relief for the past two years.The court dismissed the plea and asked Choksi to approach the appropriate forum.Choksi, in his petition, had stated that he got to know of the docu-series’ release on August 24, when he saw the trailer following which he was flooded with phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-dismisses-mehul-choksi-s-plea-to-pre-screen-netflix-series/story-fYrITIwPonGeTJ024jwVkK.html
28-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries near 26 lakhs, active cases at 22%||After 60,177 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 recoveries are nearing 26 lakh and there are only 22 per cent active cases in the country, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) informed on Friday. “With more patients recovering and being discharged from home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases) and hospitals (severe and critical cases), India’s Covid-19 recoveries are nearing 26 lakh. 60,177 have recovered in the last 24 hours. With these national figures, the Recovery Rate amongst the Covid-19 has touched 76.28 per cent,” read a release by the Ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases, which comprise 21.90 per cent of the total cases,” it said. The gap between recoveries and active cases now increased to 18,41,925.The Union Health Ministry said that the early focus on surveillance and contact tracing through house-to-house survey was continuously strengthened with an increase in testing for ensuring early identification of positive cases.“This has ensured prompt isolation of the confirmed positive cases either in supervised home care for the mild and moderate cases, and hospitalisation in case of those who are exhibiting critical symptoms,” it said.The Centre has led the country-wide response and management with steady ramping up of the hospital infrastructure through the three-tiered Dedicated Covid facilities- Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) with ICU bed, ventilators etc., for critical care management;Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) with oxygen beds and doctor on call facility; and Covid Care Centres (CCCs) with isolation beds.As on date, the country has 1723 Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs), 3883 Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) and 11,689 Covid Care Centres (CCCs) with a total of 15,89,105 isolation beds, 2,17,128 oxygen supported beds and 57,380 ICU beds, as per the ministry’s data. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has dropped at 1.82 per cent.India witnessed a record single-day spike of 77,266 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours.With 1,057 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 61,529.The country’s coronavirus count stands at 33,87,501 including 7,42,023 active cases, 25,83,948 cured/discharged/migrated.9,01,338 samples were tested on August 27 while overall over 3.94 crore samples have been tested so far, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-near-26-lakhs-active-cases-at-22/story-fMLnn7YCWUpGzuKDaKOi5N.html
28-08-2020||India||6 non-BJP states file review petition in SC for NEET, JEE postponement||A review petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday by ministers from six non-BJP-ruled states challenging an August 17 order of Supreme Court which had allowed the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) in September despite the prevailing Covid -19 situation.The review petitioners stated that the Supreme Court, in its August 17 order, failed to consider the safety and security of students who are slated to appear for NEET and JEE and also failed to take into account the logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country and not only will health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET/ JEE stand imperilled but also the public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid -19 pandemic times,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes said. The six ministers who have filed the petition are Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Dr. Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Dr. Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra).NEET for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses is scheduled to be held on September 13 and the JEE for those aspiring to join top engineering schools is scheduled to be conducted from September 1 to 6.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra had, on August 17, rejected a plea filed in August by 11 NEET/ JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until after the Covid-19 crisis has passed.Justice Mishra, while hearing that case on August 17, had said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with the decision of the National Testing Agency (NTA) to hold the examinations in September.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year,” justice Mishra had said.On July 3, the NTA, the central government body tasked with conducting JEE and NEET, came out with public notices to hold the exams in September.“The career of students cannot be put in peril. We find no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, had ordered on August 17.The review petition filed on Friday stated that the Supreme Court’s order of August 17 failed to consider that the decision to conduct examinations amid the ongoing pandemic increases the vulnerability of the students and their families to the risk of infection.It was further submitted that the Centre had adequate time to make preparations for safe and successful conduct of the examinations but the intervening months from April to September were characterized by inaction and lethargy.“Now the Union government has suddenly woken up to realise that their inertia is going to cost lakhs of students their academic year and therefore as a knee jerk reaction, the Union government has haphazardly and hurriedly fixed the dates of examinations,” the petition said. Further, the petition also said that students from rural areas and semi-urban areas might be forced to use unsafe modes of transportation to reach examination centres and would thereby expose themselves and everyone else to Covid -19.Besides, students residing in distant placed will find it it difficult to reach examination centres due to limited availability of transportation services during Covid -19.“Students in tribal pockets and remote areas will face an unfair hurdle to reach and stay at the examination centres compared to those already residing in urban areas or in the vicinity of exam centres,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-ministers-from-non-bjp-states-file-review-petition-in-supreme-court-for-postponement-of-neet-jee/story-9zNsgnsf3SQ5cVRAV6USOJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Over 400 million poor now have access to banks due to Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: Finance ministry||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the country’s financial inclusion initiative that was launched six years ago, has more than 403.5 million accounts with total deposits in excess of Rs 1.30 lakh crore, the Union finance ministry said.The scheme, which has become the basis of direct transfer of cash subsidy to the poor, was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech on August 15, 2014, and was launched on August 28 that year.“Today, six years ago, the PMJDY was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked. This initiative has been a game-changer, serving as the foundation for several poverty alleviation initiatives, benefitting crores of people,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday.The government is planning to expand the scheme to provide insurance coverage to PMJDY account holders. “Eligible PMJDY account holders will be sought to be covered under PMJJBY [Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana] and PMSBY [Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana]. Banks have already been communicated about the same,” it said in a statement.The government is also planning to promote digital payments, including RuPay debit card usage, among PMJDY account holders through creation of acceptance infrastructure across the country and provide access of the account holders to micro-credit and micro investment facilities, it added. According to the statement, as on August 19, out of the total PMJDY account holders, 63.6% were in rural areas and 55.2% accounts belonged to women. “Thanks to the PMJDY, the future of several families has become secure. A high proportion of beneficiaries are from rural areas and are women,” the PM said in another tweet.Financial inclusion is a national priority of the government, as it is an enabler for inclusive growth, the finance ministry said. “It is important as it provides an avenue to the poor for bringing their savings into the formal financial system, an avenue to remit money to their families in villages besides taking them out of the clutches of the usurious money lenders,” it added.“The PMJDY has been the foundation stone for the Modi government’s people-centric economic initiatives. Whether it is direct benefit transfers (DBTs), coronavirus disease (Covid-19) financial assistance, PM-KISAN, increased wages under the MGNREGA [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005], life and health insurance cover, the first step was to provide every adult with a bank account, which PMJDY has nearly completed,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.The PMJDY became an important instrument to expeditiously provide relief to the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package that was announced on March 26. The package provided an amount of Rs 500 per month for three months to women PMJDY account holders. “A total of Rs 30,705 crore have been credited in accounts of women PMJDY account holders during April-June,” the statement said. Besides, about 80 million PMJDY account holders receive DBT from the government under various schemes.The scheme involves opening of basic savings bank deposit accounts with minimal paperwork. The process of account opening is simple with relaxed know-your-customer (KYC) norms. These accounts are zero balance and zero charge accounts. Account holders are issued indigenous debit cards with free accident insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh.In August, about 86.3% (348.1 million) accounts were operative, the statement said. As per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), a PMJDY account is treated as inoperative, if there are no customer induced transactions in the account for over a period of two years. At present, these accounts have a deposit balance of Rs 1.31 lakh crore, with an average deposit of Rs 3,239 per account. The average deposit per account has increased 2.5 times, which indicates increased usage of accounts and inculcation of saving habit among the account holders, it said.The PMJDY account holders can also take help of ‘Jan Dhan Darshak App’, a mobile application, for locating banking touchpoints such as bank branches, automated teller machines (ATMs), Bank Mitras and post offices, it said.There are over eight lakh banking touchpoints, it added.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said by opening nearly 17 crore bank accounts in the very first year under PMJDY, the government had demonstrated its resolve, but it has to be taken forward. “However, the job is only half done... Other schemes such as Bharatnet [rural broadband network] have to be parallely and vigorously implemented to achieve the optimum benefit. Increasing digital literacy, rural banking facilities and internet connectivity would be crucial in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-400-million-poor-now-have-access-to-banks-due-to-pradhan-mantri-jan-dhan-yojana-finance-ministry/story-V7ZTGA4VES6PqUIbG8kAOJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Lalu Yadav’s bail plea adjourned; Jharkhand high court to hear it on Sept 11||The Jharkhand high court (HC) on Friday adjourned the hearing of a bail plea moved by Lalu Prasad Yadav, the chief of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), in connection with a case related to the Rs 950-crore fodder scam. Also read: BJP alleges Lalu has set up ‘darbar’ in hospital, violates jail manualPrasad was convicted on corruption charges in the fodder scam and sentenced to five years of imprisonment in January, 2018. The HC bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh adjourned the hearing and fixed the next date for hearing on September 11 after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed that its counsel, assistant solicitor-general (ASG) Rajiv Sinha, was absent since he was unwell.Prasad, who has been undergoing treatment in custody at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, moved the bail application on the ground that he had completed half of the five-year jail term in the case. He was found guilty of fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore from Chaibasa treasury by furnishing fictitious expenditure for cattle, such as fodder, medicines and miscellaneous items. Earlier, the former Bihar CM had suffered a jolt in the case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi had held him guilty in the first of the six cases against him. He was convicted for five years, was disqualified from Parliament and also banned from contesting elections in the future. Later in December 2013, he had obtained a bail from the Supreme Court.He has been in jail since December 23, 2017, after he was convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession. He had obtained bail in one of the cases last year on the ground that he had served half of the 3.5 years jail term awarded to him.“Since Prasad had completed half of the five-year imprisonment in June, we had filed a bail application in July. However, his bail plea came up for hearing for the first time on Friday,” said Prabhat Kumar, Prasad’s lawyer.“The bail application in the third case is likely to be filed in November,” Kumar added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-yadav-s-bail-plea-adjourned-jharkhand-high-court-to-hear-it-on-sept-11/story-DYCwldQ2YKWi1DcwQOetLP.html
28-08-2020||India||Months after oath-taking ceremony, Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar share dais in Pune||After the hurried, early morning oath-taking ceremony of BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis as Maharashtra chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar as his deputy last year in November, the two leaders shared the stage again - this time for the inauguration of a Covid-19 hospital in Pune.Pune Municipal Corporation’s multi-storey Covid-19 hospital was inaugurated by the leaders. Bhartiya Janta Party’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil was also present along with Fadnavis and Pawar.As Pawar and Fadnavis attended the hospital event, eyebrows were raised among the political circle. Interestingly, Fadnavis appreciated the work carried out by Pawar in Pune district but was quick to criticise the state government and Shiv Sena on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai.Also read: Mumbai civic body asks private hospitals to refer critical patients to its Covid facilitiesRecently Ajit Pawar’s son Parth Pawar, who was defeated from Maval Lok Sabha constituency, supported the BJP’s stand to conduct a CBI inquiry into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Pawar got upset with Parth’s stand and publicly called his son as immature.Even after the CBI inquiry was initiated in the case, Parth tweeted, “Satya Mev Jayate.”Despite the president’s rule in force, Ajit Pawar had rebelled from the NCP and joined hands with the BJP last year. Maharashtra governor conducted his oath-taking ceremony during the wee hours on the morning of November 23, 2019. But the alliance could not prove the majority. Both Fadnavis and Pawar had to serve their resignations. Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress joined hands to form the Maha Vikas Agadhi government in the state with Uddhav Thackeray as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/months-after-last-year-s-oath-taking-ceremony-devendra-fadnavis-and-ajit-pawar-share-dias-in-pune/story-dFGOTtKIVXY2dzUF4GalnL.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid 19: Home quarantine allowed in Jammu after top hospital starts bursting at seams||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday quashed an earlier order, considered discriminatory, and allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic Covid 19 cases in Jammu province like it is being done in the Kashmir Valley. “Govt’s major decision--All asymptomatic Covid positive cases in Jammu province to be in home isolation with conditions as in Kashmir--free oximeter, compulsory, Arogya Setu & proper isolation space with a poster outside the house. Those presently in hospital to wait till they test negative”, the department of information and public information posted a tweet on Friday. However, in a striking contrast to government’s claims of augmenting health infrastructure to effectively tackle Covid 19 pandemic in Jammu and Kashmir, the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in Jammu is bursting at the seams during these testing times. GMCH Jammu is a major referral hospital where patients from all the 10 districts of the region are referred and treated.“Government medical colleges and hospitals in nine other districts of Jammu province are referring even asymptomatic Covid cases to us. At least such cases can be retained and treated in their respective district hospitals”, said a senior doctor of the GMCH Jammu explaining the reason behind overcrowding at the hospital.Citing the pressure on GMCH, senior doctors have been questioning the logic for the two yardsticks for asymptomatic cases in Kashmir and Jammu regions.Also Read: ‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’: Govt “In Kashmir, the administration is allowing home quarantine of asymptomatic cases contrary to the situation in the Jammu region. As a result there’s 100 percent bed occupancy in GMCH Jammu,” he said.From 28 Covid cases on March 28, the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has now gone up to 35,135, out of which 26,721 have been cured while 671 have died. Also Read: Over 77,000 Covid-19 cases recorded for the first time, tally goes up to 3.38 millionAnother doctor said that nearly six months on since the first Covid 19 case was detected in Jammu on March 8, the GMCH Jammu was bursting at the seams. He also questioned the logic of hospitalizing asymptomatic health staff, who could have looked after themselves and saved some hospital beds.“Since the anomaly has been removed by the government allowing home quarantine in Jammu province, things will improve for us and people as well,” he noted in relief after the administration allowed home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-home-quarantine-allowed-in-jammu-after-top-hospital-starts-bursting-at-seams/story-LwgkAGVFTl8JxmQyzqAaCP.html
28-08-2020||India||Ex-soldier fires in air to scare away Ganesh puja revelers in Hyderabad||The Cyberabad police in Hyderabad took a retired soldier into custody for opening fire twice in the air after an altercation with a group of youth who were partying in his apartment block ahead of Ganesh immersion ceremony late Thursday night. Police said the incident happened at a residential apartment Hyder Shah Kote area under Narsingi police station in the city’s outskirts. The accused was identified as Naga Malleshwar Rao (50). Narsingi police inspector Gangadhar told reporters that a group of around 40 youth associated with a broadband service company, whose office was in the same apartment block had installed a Lord Ganesh idol in the premises. They were planning to immerse the Ganesh idol on Thursday night. Before that, they organised a party in the premises. They were reportedly drinking alcohol and dancing to loud music. Though some residents in the housing society objected to it, the youth told them that they would disperse soon. But when the party continued with loud music till late in the night, Malleshwara Rao rushed to them and shouted at them for disturbing everybody. This led to an argument between him and the youth. “After some time, some of the youth went to Rao’s flat and entered into an altercation. The furious retired jawan pulled out his weapon and fired two rounds in the air. One of the bullets reportedly went past the ear of one of the youth. All the employees of the company fled the spot,” the police said. On receiving a complaint from the apartment residents, a police patrol rushed to the spot, detained Rao and seized his weapon. The police also cordoned off the area where the firing took place and searched for clues. “We have registered a case under Arms Act. We have also booked a case against the youth for violating Covid-19 norms. Further investigation is on,” the police inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-soldier-fires-in-air-to-scare-away-ganesh-puja-revelers-in-hyderabad/story-hDgCKzmI74Jw59uH57JqnN.html
28-08-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally rises to 94,668; death toll mounts to 456||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally on Friday rose to 94,668 with the highest single-day spike of 3,682 fresh cases.The death toll mounted to 456 as eight more patients succumbed to the disease, a health department official said.“Regret to inform the demise of eight #COVID-19 positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said on Twitter.Ganjam accounted for 185 of the 456 Covid-19 deaths reported in Odisha so far, followed by 59 in Khurda district, Of the fresh cases, 2,241 were detected in quarantine centres, while 1,441 people tested positive for the infection during contact tracing, an official said, according to PTI.The state had registered its previous highest-single day spike of 3,384 new cases on Thursday.Odisha has 28,836 active cases at present, while 65,323 patients have recovered from the disease so far.The state has so far tested 16,12,097 samples for Covid-19, including 58,840 on Thursday, the official added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-94-668-death-toll-mounts-to-456/story-vYHKoeaKtOZTrPYk41FUQI.html
28-08-2020||India||Crisis within Manipur unit of National People’s Party continues||A day after National People’s Party’s (NPP) national president and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma expelled the party’s Manipur unit president for allegedly acting against the constitution of the party, expelled state unit chief Thangminlien Kipgen said that he never acted in the said manner and will never go against the constitution of the NPP.In a statement and a video released on Thursday, Kipgen said, “I have never acted against the constitution of the party as alleged by the national president as I have already stated earlier, the national president was misled by some individual for their personal gain. The recent constitution of the state election authority was also done in accordance with the party’s constitution since the present tenure of my presidentship is about to expire on 26 August 2020.”On Wednesday, Sangma had announced the expulsion of NPP Manipur unit president Thangminlien Kipgen from the party after he was re-elected uncontested for a three-year term, saying the process of his election violated the party’s constitution.Also read: NPP expels newly elected state president in ManipurHe said, “In order to ensure that the (party’s Manipur) office continues, we appointed N Kayisii who is also the tribal affairs minister in the state of Manipur as the interim president.” The election to the state unit of Manipur will take place very shortly following all the procedures of the constitution of the NPP, he added.Reacting to Sangma’s statement, Kipgen alleged that the appointment of the interim president is not line with the party’s constitution as he, N Kayisii, has failed to renew his party membership. “Thus, he is no longer a member of the NPP Manipur,” he said. “Therefore, on the recommendation of the disciplinary committee under Article 19 of the party’s constitution, I expel him (Kayisii) from the party for 6 years,” he added.He also claimed that the constitution of the NPP referred by the national president is neither found in the ECI website as well as in the NPP office in Manipur. Despite the show-cause notice issued by the NPP national secretary on August 20, asking him to respond within 15 days from the date of issue of the notification, he was expelled on August 24 which is unconstitutional, unbecoming and uncalled for, he claimed.It may be noted that 4 legislators of NPP, which became a national party in June last year, are ministers in the BJP-led government in Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crisis-within-manipur-unit-of-national-people-s-party-continues/story-Xcfq6nZQUMGggN0sEVG6kO.html
28-08-2020||India||Postpone NEET, JEE: Congress pickets outside education ministry||Over 50 Congress supporters and party members on Friday camped outside Shastri Bhawan, the office of the Union ministry of education, demanding that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE)-Main be postponed because of the nationwide raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The National Testing Authority (NTA), the nodal body to conduct examinations, and the central government are adamant to hold JEE-Main and NEET between September 1 and 6 and on September 13, respectively. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary, who led the demonstration, said that the party was in solidarity with millions of students, who would have to risk their safety and future to appear for these competitive examinations.Also Read: JEE and NEET: 5 things you need to know todayProtesters held placards that read, “Modi sarkar hosh mein aao (wake up Modi government)” and “students’ safety, our priority”. Some also carried bundles of books over their heads as a mark of protest. The protests were held in the national capital following a call by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, urging the students to unite and demand that NEET and JEE examinations be postponed owing to the pandemic. Gandhi had tweeted that the country must unite and support the students in their cause. “Let’s make the government listen to the students,” he had tweeted.The Congress has organised nationwide protests on Friday against the centre’s decision to hold these examinations amid the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpone-neet-jee-congress-pickets-outside-education-ministry/story-3QTF31YMpUuogR1614gG9J.html
28-08-2020||India||Ceasefire violations in J&K rose by 60 times since 2010: Home ministry in response to RTI query||Pakistani troops have resorted to at least nine ceasefire violations daily over the last three years and left 119 people, including 63 civilians, dead along the 198-km long International border and 744-km de facto frontier, or the Line of Control (LoC), with Pakistan in Jammu & Kashmir, according to information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.As many as 8,571 ceasefire violations have been reported between January 1, 2018, to July this year, the Union home ministry said in response to information activist Raman Sharma sought under the RTI Act.The ministry said 308 civilians and 300 security force personnel have also been injured in firing and shelling from across the border during this time. It added compared to 2010, the ceasefire violations in 2019 increased by around 50 times and till July by 60 times. In 2010, 70 such incidents were reported. They went up to 3,479 in 2019. Until July this year, 2,952 ceasefire violations have been reported.The ministry said since 2010, 11,572 ceasefire violations have been reported that have left 122 civilians and 118 security force personnel dead. It added 673 civilians and 594 security force personnel were also wounded in firing and shelling from across the border during this period.In 2010, two civilians and five security force personnel were killed in 70 such incidents. The number ceasefire violations increased by around 50 times (3,479) in 2019 and left 18 civilians and 19 security personnel dead.This year till July, 2,952 ceasefire violations have claimed lives of 15 civilians and eight security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ceasefire-violations-in-j-k-rose-by-60-times-since-2010-home-ministry-in-response-to-rti-query/story-nKgrZekhHxzvmaVKUvDOgP.html
28-08-2020||India||Tripura woman whose newborn died after swab collection files complaint||Almost two weeks following the death of a three-day old baby who died shortly after his swab samples were taken for Covid-19 test, the baby’s mother filed a complaint with the police against doctors at the hospital and accused them of negligence.According to the complainant, the baby was healthy till the collection of his swab samples after which he started bleeding from the nose. Although the doctors assured the family that he would be alright, the baby died after sometime.Police said that the woman lodged the complaint on Thursday from the baby’s mother and they have already started an investigation.“The incident happened earlier this month. We have started investigation under Section 157 CrPc,” said Subimal Barman, officer in-charge of New Capital Complex police station.He added that the woman had been admitted to the hospital as she had tested positive for Covid-19 positive. She lodged the complaint after she was released from the hospital recently.The baby was born at the state-run Govind Ballabh Panth (GBP) hospital on August 10 and he died on August 12. Samples of the baby were taken as his mother was then Covid-19 positive. The woman was recently released from the hospital after she was tested negative. A day after the baby’s death, the state government constituted a three-member team for a departmental inquiry into death of the baby.“The committee submitted its report based on its inquiry to the state government recently. The report is with the government,” said director of Directorate of Health Services Dr. Subhasish Debbarma. Earlier on August 02, a two-day old baby girl, the youngest Covid-19 patient, died. Tripura’s Covid-19 tally stands at 9,927 out of which 6,839 have recovered. The death toll in the pandemic is 89 while two others died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-woman-whose-newborn-died-after-swab-collection-files-complaint/story-nK8lbSZ4FXhv7tMQytepZK.html
28-08-2020||India||Delhi high court dismisses Mehul Choksi’s plea seeking pre-screening of Netflix series||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Mehul Choksi, the uncle of diamantaire Nirav Modi, seeking a preview of a series to be aired by video streaming platform Netflix next month.The series, ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’, focusses on the fraud committed by many high-profile business tycoons in India. The poster released by Netflix shows Choksi’s nephew Nirav Modi, Subrata Roy of the Sahara Group, chairperson of the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines , Vijay Mallya, and Ramalinga Raju, the former chairperson and CEO of Satyam Computer Services.The high court said Choksi can file a civil suit as what is being alleged as an infringement by him is a private right and can be exercised in a civil suit. It also refused to grant him a preview stating that there are no regulations to control the content being streamed on OTT platforms, citing a similar order passed by the division bench of the high court in a different matter.ALSO WATCH | BJP’S ‘take tuition’ jibe at Rahul Gandhi; Congress says fugitives protected Choksi had sought the postponement of the series, which is slated to be released on September 2. The petition, filed by lawyer Vijay Aggarwal, said that Choksi got to know of the documentary’s release on August 24 when he saw the trailer. He started receiving phone calls from across the world, including from Delhi, asking him whether he was part of the documentary and to solicit his comments.Choksi further discovered, says the petition, that one of the persons seen speaking in the trailer was the writer of the book titled “Flawed: The Rise and Fall of India’s Diamond Mogul Nirav Modi” where his name had been co-mingled with Nirav Modi.The petition said that Choksi fears his name may have been used in connection with Nirav Modi in the series even though his relation to the fugitive diamantaire is only that of an uncle and nephew. It also said that the series might have an episode on Choksi which has the potential of leading to a media trial. It said Choksi has the right to an innocent and free and fair trial and such a documentary would cause serious prejudice to his case.The petition claimed that Choksi has been falsely accused of various crimes in India.Lawyer Vijay Aggarwal had on Wednesday demanded a pre-screening for the petitioner and if his apprehension regarding his image getting tarnished is settled, then a chance may be given to him for agitating.Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who appeared for Netflix, said the series has a two-minute piece on Nirav Modi where mentions of Choksi has been made. He also said that that there is no regulation of content on the OTT platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-dismisses-mehul-choksi-s-plea-seeking-pre-screening-of-netflix-series/story-xratxj1rDfdrVTxQ5rBQ1J.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt permits meals on flights; airlines can put flyers on no-fly list for refusing to wear mask||The government has permitted the airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights, according to an official order. Moreover, any passenger who refuses to wear a face mask in a flight can be put on the no-fly list by the airline, said a senior official of the aviation regulator DGCA. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, in-flight meal service was not permitted on domestic flights since their resumption on May 25. On international flights, only pre-packed cold meals and snacks were being served depending on the flight duration since May this year. In an order issued on Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, “Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight.” Airlines and charter flight operators can “serve hot meals and limited beverages” on international flights “as per the standard practices”, it added. The ministry said only single-use disposable trays, plates and cutlery should be used while serving food or beverages in domestic and international flights. “Crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service,” it noted. The ministry also permitted the aircraft operators to let passengers use the in-flight entertainment system on international as well as domestic flights wherever available. “Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers at the start of the journey,” it noted. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “A passenger who refuses to wear a face mask can be put on no-fly list by the airline.” The official said no new order has been passed in this regard as the airline and its cabin crew are sufficiently empowered under the existing DGCA rules to take action. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can choose to put an unruly passenger on its no-fly list after internal deliberations. Subsequently, other airlines may follow suit in putting that passenger on their no-fly lists. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with various countries. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months in view of the pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-permits-meals-on-flights-airlines-can-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list-for-refusing-to-wear-mask/story-NZCPERZCa2v0RTuUfsh9OO.html
28-08-2020||India||Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bhardwaj’s bail application rejected||The Bombay High Court on Friday rejected the interim bail application of Elgar Parishad case accused Prof Sudha Bharadwaj, who is lodged in Byculla Women’s jail after taking note of assurances from the state that Bharadwaj’s health was being monitoried continuously and she was being provided adequate medical attention.The court perused the affidavit filed by the state which included the latest medical report of August 21, wherein Bharadwaj’s vital parameters are shown to be normal. The court also noted the undertaking by the state that if the need arose, Bharadwaj would be shifted to a super speciality hospital like was done in the case of another accused P Vara Vara Rao. The division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice V G Bisht, while hearing the bail application of Bharadwaj, was informed by advocate Ragini Ahuja that there was a contradiction in the July 21 and August 21 medical reports of Bharadwaj.Ahuja pointed out that while the July report said that her vital parameters were on the higher side and she had heart ischemia, the August report stated that her vital parameters were normal and the aspect of heart ischemia was left out. Ahuja questioned the omission claiming the condition of heart ischemia could not be remedied without proper treatment. The state, however, stated that Bharadwaj’s health was being monitored round the clock and she was being provided proper medication for her co-morbidities. The affidavit further said that the administration was bound to provide all the necessary medical facilities to Bharadwaj and if the need arose, she would be shifted to Sir J J hospital or even a super speciality hospital in the same way as was done in the case of another Elgar Parishad accused, P Vara Vara Rao, who is lodged in Taloja jail. Also Read: Varavara Rao discharged from Nanavati Hospital, returns to Taloja jailAfter perusing the August 21 report and comparing it with the July 21 report, the bench observed that there was no contradiction in the two reports and stated that since Bharadwaj was being provided round-the-clock monitoring and the necessary medication for her co-morbidities, it was not inclined to grant her bail and hence rejected it. Bharadwaj had approached the HC on June 11 after a special NIA court had rejected her interim bail application on the grounds of health. Bharadwaj had submitted that she suffered from various co-morbidities and due to overcrowding in the Byculla Women’s prison, she was susceptible to contracting the Covid infection, hence she should be granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-accused-sudha-bhardwaj-s-bail-application-rejected/story-TYmO8ykFCRvcjcL3nuJXVO.html
28-08-2020||India||World Bank pauses Ease of Doing Business rankings||The World Bank has “paused” the publication of Doing Business Report, which carries the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) Rankings. The effective suspension of the publication of the rankings has been announced in the wake of a number of reported irregularities regarding changes to data in the 2018 and 2020 reports published in October 2017 and October 2019. In a statement on Thursday, the Bank said it was conducting a “systematic review and assessment of data changes that occurred subsequent to the institutional data review process for the last five Doing Business reports”. “We have asked the World Bank Group’s independent Internal Audit function to perform an audit of the processes for data collection and review for Doing Business and the controls to safeguard data integrity.”The culmination of this process will be followed by a retrospective correction in the rankings, the statement said. “The Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank has been briefed on the situation as have the authorities of the countries that were most affected by the data irregularities.”The Union ministries of finance and commerce did not respond to email queries on the effective suspension of the rankings.But officials from the two ministries, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Bank may have briefly paused the publication but not ended it, and a review would make it more robust and credible. They added this would neither halt nor deter India’s commitment towards Ease of Doing Business. In fact, India has gone a step further in striving to achieve Ease of Living, the officials said.“For example, just see reforms in tax administration. The Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] recently unveiled faceless assessment system in the income-tax matters to curb corruption and released, for the first time, a taxpayers’ charter. Next month, faceless appeal system will be introduced. All these are part of ongoing reform aimed at Ease of Living for the common man, which will also benefit businesses,” said one of the officials on condition of anonymity.A second official said wide-ranging reforms have been introduced for the Ease of Business keeping both agriculture and industry in mind. “Farmers have been unshackled now so that they can sell their produce to lucrative markets. The commerce and industry ministry is considering introducing a technology-based single-window system soon that would ensure expeditious multiple regulatory approvals at both the Central and state levels from one point. Reforms are ongoing and not dependent on the ranking of the Ease of Doing Business.”The policy regime in India places a lot of importance on the rankings. After assuming power in 2014, the Narendra Modi government set a target for India to be among top 50 countries in the rankings. In 2014, India was ranked 142nd. It jumped to the 63rd position among 190 countries in May 2019.The rankings are based on a country’s performance on 10 indicators: starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency.To be sure, this is not the first time the rankings are courting controversy. In 2018, Paul Romer, the then chief economist of the World Bank, quit after criticising the rankings in an interview with the Wall Street Journal for having “conveyed the wrong information” about the business environment in Chile. According to a Reuters story, Romer told the newspaper the decline resulted from methodological changes, rather than a deterioration of Chile’s business environment, and may have been the result of the World Bank staff’s political motivations.In his book, The Rise and Fall of Nations: The Rules of Change in Post-Crisis World, Ruchir Sharma, the Chief Global Strategist and head of Emerging Markets Equity Team at Morgan Stanley, criticises these rankings on various counts. “The World Bank... puts out rankings of countries for everything from quality of roads to how many days it takes to open a business, and these rankings have become very popular,” writes Sharma. “That creates a problem, as more than a few countries have started hiring consultants to help them raise their rankings (another example of Goodhart’s law in action). In 2012 President Vladimir Putin set a goal of raising Russia’s rank for ‘ease of doing business’ from 120 to top 20 within six years, and he soon saw results. By 2015, Russia was ranked at 51, more than thirty places ahead of China, and sixty places ahead of Brazil and India. That raised a question: If it was so easy to do business in Russia, why wasn’t anyone doing business there? Moscow in 2015 is increasingly hostile to and isolated from international business, far more so than China or Brazil or India. To the extent possible, I try to avoid relying on numbers that are vulnerable to political manipulation and marketing.”Other scholars have also criticised these rankings. A 2016 Indian Institute of Management Bangalore working paper by Vivek Moorthy and A Arul Jason argued the rankings cannot capture the true cost of doing business in countries with a large unorganised sector. Another 2019 paper by Sabyasachi Kar and others argued the fundamental premise of the rankings, that rules are the be all and end all of Ease of Doing Business in a country, might not be true. What matters for doing business, the paper argues, is not rules but deals struck between firms and the political or bureaucratic arms of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-pauses-ease-of-doing-business-rankings/story-3UTSKZX4tBhIhgUnLCvPoO.html
28-08-2020||India||These 9 states and UT account for 89% of India’s Covid-19 deaths||Nine states and one Union territory have reported 89% of the country’s deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last two weeks, the Centre has said.Rajiv Gauba, Union cabinet secretary and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a video-conference with the chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the situation in these regions.The Centre has asked them to ramp up testing and tracing to tackle the coronavirus pandemic amid concerns about increasing Covid-19 deaths.They were also advised to ensure that at least in 80% of the fresh Covid-19 cases, all close contacts must be traced and tested with 72 hours and a minimum of 140 tests per million per day conducted in all districts while targeting a positivity/confirmation rate of less than 5%, a health ministry statement said.Here’s how they have contributed to 89% of Covid-19 deaths in the past two weeks:• Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths in the country. With 295 deaths on Friday, the total number of fatalities in the state stands at 23,089. With 173,195 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally stands at 7,18,711, according to the state’s health department.• Andhra Pradesh has recorded 92 deaths on xxxday, taking the toll in the southern state to 3,633. With 94,209 active cases, the infection tally now stands at 393,090 in the state.• Karnataka reported 133 deaths on xxxday, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 5,091. With 83,627 active cases, the total tally now stands at 300,406 in the state.• Another extremely affected state in terms of the death toll is Tamil Nadu, with 6,839 cumulative deaths reported so far. With 52,362 Covid-19 cases, the tally stands at 3,97,261 in the state.• Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 68 Covid-19-related fatalities, taking the death toll due to the disease to 3,217, while 52,309 cases pushed its infection tally to 208,419.• The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal jumped to 2,964 on Friday after 55 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to Union health ministry’s dashboard. With 2,69,54 coronavirus disease cases, the state’s tally now stands at 147,775.• Punjab reported 37 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the death toll in the state to 1,256. With 15,608 Covid-19 active cases, the state’s total infection tally now stands at 47,836.• Gujarat recorded 17 deaths on Friday, thus taking the total number of deaths in the state to 2,945. With 14,767 Covid-19 cases, Gujarat’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 89,994.• Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 7,743 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 35,135, while 14 more fatalities pushed the Union territory’s toll to 671.• Telangana recorded eight more deaths on Friday, taking the number of deaths in the state to 788. With 1,915 Covid-19 cases on Friday, the total number of those infected in the state stands at 114,483.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-9-states-and-ut-account-for-89-of-india-s-covid-19-deaths/story-DM6v5ZX9DH7PAHUyWVvOWO.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 PM: SC rejects plea seeking postponement of Bihar assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking postponement of Bihar assembly pollsThe Supreme Court has dismissed a public interest litigation seeking postponement of Bihar Assembly Elections to be held in October-November citing the coronavirus crisis. The court expressed confidence that the election commission must be considering all aspects before taking the decision to hold polls. Read moreCured patients testing positive for Covid-19 again due to ‘harmless residual virus’“Residual virus” which can do no harm is responsible for at least at least 10 cases of patients testing positive for Covid-19 after being treated and cured in different hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, say experts. Read morePranab Mukherjee under intensive care, continues to be in deep coma: HospitalFormer president Pranab Mukherjee is “under intensive care and is being treated for a lung infection and renal dysfunction”, the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi said in a medical bulletin on Friday. Read moreEsha Deol’s reply on Abhay Deol’s ‘caption this’ post is absolutely hilariousIf you ever came across ‘caption this’ posts on social media, then you may know that they often prompt people to share replies which are absolutely hilarious. Case in point, actor Esha Deol’s reply on her cousin, actor Abhay Deol’s Instagram post. There is a chance that her reply will make you laugh out loud and also prompt you to nod in agreement. Read moreAashram review: Bobby Deol’s show has a bark that’s worse than its biteAashram, on MX Player, is as inconsistent as Bobby Deol’s accent. While the actor struggles to shrug off his urbane aura, the series — about one of those dhongi babas that you read about in the news — never fully lives up to the potential of its premise. It isn’t as lurid as it should have been, but that doesn’t stop it from being absolutely ludicrous. Read moreCovid-19: Andaman tribe infection updates; rich nations bag biggest vaccine dealsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, recovery rate, Andaman tribe test positive, rise of cases in Delhi for 11 days in a row, ICMR starts second all-India Sero Survey, rich nations bag biggest vaccine deals. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-sc-rejects-plea-seeking-postponement-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-POo3FnfdYHkwEvXMiAr6eM.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Situation in Ladakh as severe as it was during India-China war in 1962’: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday said that the situation in Ladakh is as severe as it was in 1962, referring to the Indo-China war which took place in that year. In an editorial in mouthpiece Saamana, the party said that a “feel-good atmosphere” was created in the country saying that Chinese troops have retreated in the Galwan valley but the guns are still pointed at each other. It added that the Chinese actions or intentions have not changed. The editorial cited External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s recent interview to a news portal stating that the situation on the border is “surely the most serious situation after 1962”. The editorial said that the army is stationed from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the China border. “The army is fully prepared. The Army chief visited all the border areas. The Prime Minister too visited Ladakh and boosted the morale of the jawans.”Also read: Donald Trump says India 2nd largest country to conduct Covid-19 tests after USIn an editorial titled, ‘The reality of Ladakh”, it said, “the Chinese dragon’s actions there have not stopped, nor have their intentions changed. The Chinese and Indian Army may be holding discussions, but the guns of the two countries are stacked on each other along the Ladakh border. India is saying that China withdrew from Ladakh, while China is saying that India too should move from ‘finger four’ to its border first, which is naturally unacceptable to India.” the editorial added.ALSO WATCH | Chinese ambassador on Galwan clash, border tension & India-China ties The editorial asserted that the Indian Army will not allow a repeat of was happened in 1962. “Today’s India is not that of 1962. It is much more powerful than that. Despite acknowledging this, Chinese infiltration and land-grabbing activities have not reduced. Indian Army will not allow the repeat of the history of 1962. The situation in Ladakh currently is as severe as that of 1962. We cannot deny that,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-in-ladakh-as-severe-as-it-was-during-india-china-war-in-1962-shiv-sena/story-LE05aDHa1O6F5nbCnl4YiL.html
28-08-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking postponement of Bihar assembly polls||The Supreme Court has dismissed a public interest litigation seeking postponement of Bihar Assembly Elections to be held in October-November citing the coronavirus crisis. The court expressed confidence that the election commission must be considering all aspects before taking the decision to hold polls.The PIL was filed by one Avinash Thakur who urged the top court to call for a report from the EC on the prevailing conditions in the state and whether it was feasible to hold elections there.A 3-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “The EC will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything. This kind of petition we cannot entertain under Article 32.”The petitioner represented by lawyer Neeraj Shekhar then sought permission from the court to move representation to the EC. The Court said that this right is always available to the petitioner but refused to pass any order to the effect. Finally, the petitioner withdrew the PIL.Several political parties in Bihar, mostly from the opposition, have sought deferment of the polls citing the pandemic and expressed fears that holding polls at this stage might pose a grave health risk to the population.Also Read: SC asks Bihar governor to take a call on B.Ed entrance test within 5 daysHowever, the election commission recently released a set of instructions restricting mass mobilization in election campaigning and other protocols for campaigning keeping the need for social distancing in mind.The number of polling booths has also been increased to 1.06 lakh, with creation of additional 33,797 auxiliary booths, apart from the existing 72727 booths in the state with an eye on avoiding crowding on the election day.Also Read: Manjhi meets Nitish, says nothing ‘political’ 6.58 lakh polling personnel have been enlisted for poll duty. The process for assigning poll related works to the polling personnel will start once the election schedule is announced, possibly by mid-September .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-pil-seeking-postponement-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-FVGZERC4MB4FZqvg7rGEtI.html
28-08-2020||India||6 oppn-ruled states file review petition in SC against order to hold NEET, JEE exams||Six opposition-ruled states have filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order allowing the central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September.West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan have approached the top court against the August 17 order.Also read| Postpone or find an alternative way to conduct JEE, NEET exams: Manish SisodiaThe top court had dismissed another petition to postpone these entrance exams to engineering and medical colleges on August 17. A crucial year of students “cannot be wasted” and “life has to go on”, Supreme Court had said in the order.ALSO WATCH | JEE, NEET 2020: Should exams be postponed? Education minister answers National Testing Agency (NTA) has given a directive to conduct JEE from September 1 to 6, and NEET on September 13.In an organised show of protest against holding these exams amid Covid-19 outbreak, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had called for a meeting of opposition-ruled states leaders on August 26.During the  meeting, CM Mamata Banerjee had suggested approaching the Supreme Court again for postponing the exams owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “This will be my request to all the state governments, let us do it together, let us go to the Supreme Court and postpone the exam for the time being until and unless the situation allows students to appear for the exams,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-jee-review-petition-filed-in-supreme-court-against-august-17-judgement-of-holding-exams/story-13mDuKMU4RxbK5ZKswKpbK.html
28-08-2020||India||Cured patients testing positive for Covid-19 again due to ‘harmless residual virus’||“Residual virus” which can do no harm is responsible for at least at least 10 cases of patients testing positive for Covid-19 after being treated and cured in different hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, say experts.Such patients had gone for a test after completing treatment to check the virus load in their bodies.Sample this. A King George’s Medical University (KGMU) staffer, who completed treatment for Covid-19 got his test done again and the report was positive. His antibody test was also positive. A positive antibody report is confirmation that a person was infected in the past and has recovered from Covid-19.“Initially, in his case, we got alarmed but when his Covid-19 test was done (yet again), it was negative,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU.She said at least 10 such cases came to light till now and there could be many more getting tested in private labs.She explained, “After treatment, the RNA (ribonucleic acid) molecule remains in the body for some time, say another two weeks, and gradually goes out. If someone goes for a second test immediately after completing treatment, the test report will be positive but it is harmless for the person.”That was what happened in the case of the KGMU staffer and in many other cases where patients were going for a test immediately after discharge from hospitals. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued guidelines that there is no need for a Covid-19 retest at least for the next three months (for recovered patients), said Prof Chandra.“The guidelines from ICMR say once a person tests positive and is then treated for the infection, (the patient) should not get tested again before three months,” she said.Asked how such patients got themselves tested again despite the guidelines, Prof Chandra replied, “Often patients do not say they have been tested and treated earlier. If they reveal their (previous) test, the medical staff will adhere to the guidelines, but if the patient does not say, the staff won’t know.”Prof Chandra said people should themselves adhere to the guidelines, so that unnecessary testing load can be avoided.“One can always consult a doctor if one feels there are symptoms even after treatment,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital in Lucknow.Meanwhile, the KGMU plasma bank has issued an email address plasmabankkgmu@gmail.com for those willing to donate plasma. Such people can contact the office directly or send an email, after which the medical staff will contact them and fix an appointment/visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cured-patients-testing-positive-for-covid-19-again-due-to-harmless-residual-virus/story-plHS43bwBN5FiQZ4HoPuiK.html
28-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee under intensive care, continues to be in deep coma: Hospital||Former president Pranab Mukherjee is “under intensive care and is being treated for a lung infection and renal dysfunction”, the Indian Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi said in a medical bulletin on Friday.“He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support. He is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said.A patient is haemodynamically stable when the blood circulation parameters such as blood pressure, heart and pulse rate are stable and normal.The 84-year-old leader was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and underwent critical brain surgery to remove a clot after he suffered a fall at his home a day before. He has also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Mukherjee’s daughter and son - Congress leaders Sharmistha Mukherjee and Abhijit Mukherjee - regularly tweet updates on their father’s health. They have also rubbished speculation and fake news about his health.Abhijit Mukherjee had earlier said his father was showing “positive signs of improvement”. However, on August 19, his condition declined as he developed a lung infection. On August 20, his respiratory parameters had shown a slight improvement but he continued to remain on ventilator support.Soon after the news of his hospitalisation, wishes poured in from various quarters for his early recovery and a number of leaders sent their wishes on Twitter. While President Ram Nath Kovind spoke with Sharmistha Mukherjee and enquired about his health, defence minister Rajnath Singh had visited the hospital.Special prayers were organised in Mukherjee’s ancestral village in West Bengal’s Birbhum district after he was hospitalised.Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna - India’s highest civilian award - last August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-under-intensive-care-continues-to-be-in-deep-coma-hospital/story-px9GmNagBGWzST3RGZv4xN.html
28-08-2020||India||Security tightened in Srinagar to stop Muharram procession amid Covid-19||Authorities in Srinagar have tightened security in some parts of the city especially around business nerve centre Lal Chowk to ensure that Muharram processions are not taken out on Saturday.The processions have been banned because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Late Thursday night, police started closing roads towards the city centre Lal Chowk by placing barbed wire and barricades. Similar steps were also taken in other parts of the city like Batamaloo, Karan Nagar, Dalgate and Rainawari areas. But shops and business establishments in other parts of the city are functioning as usual.Earlier on Thursday, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole had ruled out any chance of allowing Muharram processions.“Restrictions will continue on all religious processions and gatherings in all districts,” Pole said during a meeting with Shia groups.Traditionally, a procession used to be taken out from Guru Bazar to Dalgate area of the city on the eighth day of Muharram before militancy erupted in the Valley.Authorities have not allowed a procession on this route for almost 30 years now.On several occasions in the past, security forces scuttled Muharram processions in Batmaloo, Jahangir Chowk, Abi Guzar and Dalgate by using tear gas shells.On Tuesday night, police arrested two persons in Srinagar for allegedly raising Azadi slogans during a Muharram procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightened-in-srinagar-to-stop-muharram-procession-amid-covid-pandemic/story-JhNOqNPzSaIWBvFBwxaOAP.html
28-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel asks Modi not to privatise Nagarnar steel plant||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the decision to privatise the Nagarnar Steel Plant in Bastar. He called the move unfortunate and said it will deeply hurt the expectations of the region’s tribal population when the state government has been successful in curbing Maoist activities there. Baghel said the possibility of Maoists taking undue advantage of tribal discontent due to the privatisation cannot be ruled out. In the letter to Modi on Wednesday, Baghel said the news of the privatisation has agitated the tribal community and there is a feeling of dissatisfaction against the administration among them.Baghel added the state’s people were very enthusiastic about the opening of the under-construction plant in the mineral rich Bastar and thought it will also provide the state an opportunity to contribute to the nation building. “I have read in some media reports that the government is preparing to sell the Nagarnar Steel Plant in Bastar...”Baghel said about 610 hectares of private land has been acquired for the plant. He added only 27 hectares has been given conditionally to National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) for 30 years. Baghel said the rest of the land belongs to the Chhattisgarh government. He added the land was transferred on the condition that NMDC will use it only for setting up a steel plant.Baghel said that the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, has been in force since 1996 to protect the interests of tribals and their rights in Chhattisgarh. The state government is always committed to protecting the interests of the tribals. He cited the importance Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru gave to Public Sector Undertakings and said the state government will always support them.Baghel said they have extended leases of four iron ore mines at Bailadila for 20 years to ensure new employment opportunities in the Bastar region. He added all-round development of the region should be encouraged to ensure the region’s people can connect with the mainstream of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-chief-minister-baghel-asks-modi-not-to-privatise-nagarnar-steel-plant/story-nqYbtTFpeGr0TxHEqM0jsL.html
28-08-2020||India||IIT Kharagpur develops micro-needle, thinner than a human hair to deliver drug painlessly||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology at Kharagpur have developed a micro-needle, which is thinner than a human hair, and a micro-pump for injecting drugs to patients in a painless way. The researchers from electronics and electrical communication engineering have developed the micro-pump and the micro-needle to feed into the transdermal drug delivery systems. Transdermal drug delivery systems are designed to deliver biologically active agents through the skin, principally by diffusion in a painless process and have been in use for decades in the USA and several other countries. The micro-needles operate by means of a pressurized and controlled micro-pump delivering the drug through the skin. The micro-pump pushes out the drug in the reservoir through the micro-needle array. The micro-needles are painless as they are too small to touch the nerves in the skin and induce painful reactions. “We have fabricated high-strength glassy carbon micro-needles which can withstand the skin resistive forces. The micro-pump helps to increase the flow rate of the drug molecules in a controlled and precise manner. We have further integrated this micro-needle and micro-pump to achieve controlled drug delivery,” said Tarun Kanti Bhattacharyya, a professor with the electronics and electrical communication engineering department which developed the needle and the pump. Also Read: No need for alarm on Covid-19 reinfection, need more data for reliable inference: ScientistsWhile a human hair is around 50 – 70 micrometre thick, the micro-needle is 55 micrometre thick. The project was funded by the union ministry of electronics and information technology and department of science and technology. “The drug delivery device has been successfully tested with animals as per medical protocol. The researchers have also filed for a patent in India. The findings have been published in IEEE and Nature journals,” said a statement issued by IIT Kharagpur on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kharagpur-develops-micro-needle-thinner-than-a-human-hair-to-deliver-drug-painlessly/story-7QVxgmk1FctyrveMzVnjcP.html
28-08-2020||India||Rivers in Udhampur district of J-K overflowing due to heavy downpour||Rivers in the Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir are overflowing amid torrential rainfall in the union territory for the fourth consecutive day. Heavy downpour has caused devastation in several panchayats and blocks of Udhampur such as Ghordi block and Ritti panchayat. Sarpanch of the Ritti panchayat requested people to stay indoors and not venture out near river areas. Officials on Thursday said the water level in major rivers and streams in the Jammu region is rising but there is no immediate threat of floods.They added that several hilly areas in different parts of Jammu were closed due to landslides triggered by overnight rains. As per reports, five people, including a couple and number of cattle died in separate incidents of landslides and house collapse in different parts of the region. Also read: Kashmir highway remains closed for 4th day, multiple landslides in Ramban districtResidents in several areas reported incidents of water from overflowing streams entering their residences and pedestrians struggled to walk through water logged roads in order to reach their destination. Officials too pointed out that a number of roads in several localities were damaged adding that a clear picture about the extent of damage would emerge after a detailed assessment is carried out.Meanwhile, The 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar highway, the only road that links J-K with the rest of India continued to remain closed due to which thousands of vehicles, mostly trucks remained totally stranded. A traffic department official said restoration work is going on to ensure early reopening of the road despite the bad weather conditions. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rivers-in-udhampur-district-of-j-k-overflowing-due-to-heavy-downpour/story-LMH9AIGYWH2CcmN8mfuJmJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Not wearing a mask can put flyers on no-fly list, says DGCA||Refusal to wear a face mask on board a flight could put a passenger on the no-fly list, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has announced.“Flyers, who refuse to wear face masks during a flight can be put on the no-fly list,” said Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA.However, Kumar said the period for which a flyer would be barred from flying would depend on the assessment as reported by the cabin crew.So far, no such case has been reported, he added.Another DGCA official, who wished not to be named, said the cabin crew on board a flight would take the call to put a passenger on the no-fly list. “There will be exceptions such as if a passenger takes off the mask to eat or drink or due to any other issue. Passengers, who refuse to wear masks willingly, putting others in danger, will invite strict actions like being put on the no-fly list,” the official said.Wearing a mask is one of the precautionary measures advised by the medical experts and the Central government in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. India had resumed its domestic flight operations on May 25 after a two-month ban, as part of nationwide lockdown restrictions to prevent the spread of the contagion.At present, international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad. The government has also set up several air bubble arrangements with select countries to provide regulated, safe and restricted international travel.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday tweeted, “Vande Bharat Mission. A mission of hope, help and happiness. More than 13.5 lakh people repatriated and flown out. Adding more flights & destinations. Several bubble arrangements in place. Others being negotiated. 4,110 people travelled back today (Thursday). The mission continues...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-a-mask-can-put-flyers-on-no-fly-list/story-RtzfkC1mBiZ75oXGLyFYCP.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi hails achievements of ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana’ as it completes 6 years||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana that was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked completed six years on Friday, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Modi wrote, “Today, six years ago, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana was launched with an ambitious aim of banking the unbanked. This initiative has been a game-changer, serving as the foundation for many poverty alleviation initiatives, benefitting crores of people. #6YearsOfJanDhanYojana.”The Prime Minister added that the high number of beneficiaries of this scheme are from rural areas and are women. “Thanks to the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the future of several families has become secure. A high proportion of beneficiaries are from rural areas and are women. I also applaud all those who have worked tirelessly to make PM-JDY a success,” he wrote in another tweet. The Prime Minister also shared some infographics which stated that till August 2015, 17.90 crore PM-JDY bank accounts were opened whereas till August 2020, as many as 40.35 crore bank accounts have been opened.The key features of this scheme are--Opening of basic saving bank deposit account with relaxed KYC, zero balance, and zero charges.Another being, the issuance of debit cards, with free accident insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh and micro-insurance, overdraft for consumption, micro-pension, and micro-credit facilities.Another infographic stated that over 63.6 per cent of the PM-JDY account holders are from rural areas while 36.4 per cent are from urban areas. Over 55 per cent PM-JDY account holders are women.Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, a government scheme that aims to expand and make affordable access to financial services such as bank accounts, remittances, credit, insurance and pensions, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-achievements-of-pradhan-mantri-jan-dhan-yojana-as-it-completes-6-years/story-BjydF7t9djrLcHF2ZVho4I.html
28-08-2020||India||IAF to formally induct Rafale jets on September 10||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will formally induct Rafale fighters at the Ambala air base on September 10 in presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. India has also invited Singh’s French counterpart, Florence Parly, to attend the ceremony, they added.Five Rafale fighters of the 36 ordered arrived at the airbase on July 29, ending IAF’s wait for new fighter jets to sharpen its combat potential. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and other senior air force officers were present when the jets arrived, but a formal induction ceremony was reserved for another day.The arrival of the jets coincided with the ongoing India-China border tensions in Ladakh.Also Read: Guarding over skies night and day, hail or shineShortly after they landed last month, the defence minister said the fighters would enhance the IAF’s capabilities and deter any threat to the country. He said those who want to threaten India’s territorial integrity should be worried about the new capability.The Rafale fighters will significantly enhance IAF’s offensive capabilities and be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts say.They are part of the IAF’s 17 Squadron also known as the Golden Arrows. The aircrew that brought them to India was headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the squadron.The aircraft covered a distance of nearly 8,500 km from France to India. The first stage of the flight covered a distance of 5,800 km from Merignac to Al Dhafra (UAE). The second covered over 2,700 km from Al Dhafra to Ambala.The new fighters are the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997.The IAF ordered 36 Rafale jets from France as part of a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. They have been specially tailored for IAF.The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles. The weapons allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-formally-induct-rafale-jets-on-september-10/story-zWvbeSQKoER0WF9GfBrRiJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty questioned by CBI for the first time||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was on Friday questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the first time since it took over the probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.Chakraborty was summoned by the central agency to appear before its probe team on Friday around 10.30am. Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend, left her residence around 10am to reach the DRDO guest house in suburban Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, news agency PTI reported.Chakraborty reached the DRDO guesthouse in Mumbai’s Santacruz East area along with her brother Shovik where she will be questioned by the central agency. Also Watch | Rhea Chakraborty shares a video of her father, requests police protectionBefore Chakraborty’s arrival, Rajput’s friend and flatmate Siddharth Pithani and manager Samual Miranda had reached the DRDO guest house to join the investigation.The CBI team, which is in the city since the last eight days to investigate the case, on Thursday recorded Shovik’s statement for more than eight hours. Chakraborty’s father has also been questioned by several investigators.The CBI has so far questioned the late actor’s flatmate Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Deepesh Sawant, among others, as part of its probe in the high-profile case.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the first information report (FIR), lodged by Rajput’s father in Bihar’s Patna against Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money, to the central agency.Rajput was found dead at his Bandra home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-to-be-questioned-by-cbi-in-mumbai/story-SJs7305t2URQhvS1mJFTuI.html
28-08-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan orders special focus on 10 districts with high Covid numbers||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the health department and other authorities to pay special attention to 10 districts in the state to control Covid-19 pandemic, according to an official communiqué. The instructions were issued during a meeting on Thursday evening to review the Covid -19 situation in the state.According to the communiqué, it was found during the district wise review of the 52 districts in the state that these 10 districts had reported most of the Covid-19 cases on Thursday. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan issued instructions (to authorities) to pay special attention to all these 10 districts”, said the communiqué. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The districts include Indore, Gwalior, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Jhabua, Shivpuri, Dhar, Khargone, Ujjain and Sagar. Health department authorities were asked in the meeting to issue a “home isolation guideline” in view of asymptomatic Covid patients being home quarantined instead of being hospitalised. This is to ensure a better treatment of such patients at home. At present there are 2,109 patients in home isolation. The meeting also discussed the arrangements that have been done in government hospitals in the districts for treatment of Covid patients. Chouhan was also informed that some private hospitals have also been engaged for free treatment of Covid patients.Officials told the CM that the recovery rate in the state has reached 76.4% while the death rate was 2.24% on Thursday. The rate of testing in the state was 15,467 tests per million. More than 23,000 tests are being conducted every day in the state now. The state has conducted 12,71,846 tests so far.Madhya Pradesh is at the 16th position in the country as far as the number of active cases is concerned. On Thursday, the number of active cases stood at 12,422.According to the state health department’s bulletin on Thursday evening, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state rose to 58,181 with 1,317 new patients, The death toll stands at 1,306 while 44,453 people have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-orders-special-focus-on-10-districts-with-high-covid-numbers/story-HQh4IPbycOoURGIdiKPRzJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Power supply to MP energy minister’s brother’s plant cut due to unpaid dues||In demonstration of tough action against the defaulters of power bills, Madhya Pradesh Central Zone Power Distribution Company on Thursday, disconnected power supply to five stone-crushing plants in Gwalior, including a plant owned by a brother of State’s energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar due to the non-payment of huge power bills. “The high- tension connections to the following stone crushing plants at Billowa in Dabra circle (Gwalior) have been disconnected due to non-payment of outstanding bills despite issuance of notices and persuasion to them,” said an official statement from the company listing the defaulters.According to an officer, Rituraj stone crusher company in the Billowa area is registered in the name of Devendra Singh Tomar, the elder brother of energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar. The firm was given the power connection in the year 2014. The company had not been paying the bills for the past one year amounting to Rs 95.92 lakhs in the month of August. Also Read: Gadkari inaugurates 26 road projects and lays foundation of 19 others in Madhya PradeshThe power distribution company’s general manager (O&M), Sunil Khare said, “I don’t know who is operating the crushing machines but we have snapped the power supplies of five defaulters including Rituraj stone crushing company. The action is part of our drive to recover the outstanding bills of about Rs 400 crore in the Gwalior region.” Despite efforts, Devendra Singh Tomar couldn’t be reached for his comments. He didn’t respond to phone calls and a text message. Also Read: Had turned down MP Dy CM’s post offered by Congress, says ScindiaHowever, his brother and MP’s energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar said, “It’s true that Rituraj stone crusher belongs to my brother, but I don’t know that my brother’s company has not paid electricity bills. I came to know about it just on Thursday and I have asked the management of the power distribution company to take action according to the rules, which are the same for everybody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-supply-to-mp-energy-minister-s-brother-s-plant-cut-due-to-unpaid-dues/story-932OlHzHREZ9pPd8qGeNGP.html
28-08-2020||India||Police in Indore lodge FIR after man allegedly morphs of PM’s photo||Police in Indore lodged an FIR on Wednesday night against a man who allegedly morphed a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and posted it on social media with an objectionable comment, police said. The FIR was registered at the Heeranagar police station against one Milind Ingle, a resident of Indore’s Lav Kush Awas Vihar locality on a a complaint in the morning by BJP (legal cell) office-bearer in Indore Bhupendra Singh Kushwaha, police said. Heeranagar police station in charge Rajeev Bhadauria said, “As per the complaint the Prime Minister’s photo was morphed and then it was posted on social media with an objectionable comment. Prima facie the act of the accused was found to be a violation of section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused has not been arrested as yet. An investigation is still going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-in-indore-lodge-fir-after-man-allegedly-morphs-of-pm-s-photo/story-7m1PybQJ1E4rxp17FjpbWP.html
28-08-2020||India||7 dead, 2 missing due to flood triggered by persistent rainfall in Odisha||Seven people died and two were reported missing in the last three days due to flood that was triggered after continuous rainfall in Odisha, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena told news agency ANI.People have been evacuated from low lying areas and are being provided with food. #WATCH Odisha: Several areas in Bhadrak district face flooding, as the water-level of Baitarani river rises due to heavy rainfall. (27.08.2020) pic.twitter.com/q4HCOnPlDs“Around 7,000 people were evacuated from low lying and vulnerable areas and shifted to safe places. Dry fruits and cooked food are being provided to them,” Jena added. Meanwhile, due to consistent rise in water level and steady downpour, vast patches of agricultural land was submerged, Bhadrak DM Gyana Das said. “Officials are assessing submerged crop area. NDRF, ODRF, fire services deployed. Senior officers deployed to supervise evacuation,” Das added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-dead-2-missing-due-to-flood-triggered-by-persistent-rainfall-in-odisha/story-NHgnoZHPG4jAaDW7X1jisM.html
28-08-2020||India||Over 77,000 Covid-19 recorded cases for the first time, tally goes up to 3.38 million||India reported 77,266 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest-single-day rise, and 1,057 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry, which has taken the country’s tally past 3.38 million.This is the second day in a row that India has recorded more than 70,000 Covid-19 cases and over 1,000 fatalities for the third consecutive day, taking the number of patients who have succumbed to Covid-19 to 61,529 till date. The first death was reported on March 12 in India.According to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, there are 742,023 active cases. With 60,177 people discharged between Thursday and Friday morning, the number of recovered patients have surged to 2,583,948 and the recovery rate to 76.27%.“In the past 5 months, more than 3/4 of cases have recovered and less than 1/4 are active now. Effective implementation of the Centre’s strategic and graded TEST-TRACK-TREAT approach has led to higher recoveries and lower fatality,” the health ministry said on Friday.Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, with 718,711 infections, including 173,195 active cases and 23,089 deaths. Tamil Nadu is another worst-affected state and has reported 52,362 cases of the coronavirus disease and 6,839 deaths so far. Karnataka has 83,627 Covid-19 cases and 5,091 deaths.The government said on Thursday nine states and a Union territory have reported 89% of the deaths in the country in the last two weeks and that they need to have continued and rigorous vigil so as to contain the spread of infection as well as take steps to reduce fatalities. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir are among them.Union cabinet secretary reviewed the situation in nine states and a Union territory with high Covid-19 case fatality rate and have been urged to proactively limit transmission and keep the mortality below 1%. The states and UT were advised to proactively take steps towards reducing case fatality to less than 1% across all districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-77-000-covid-19-recorded-for-the-first-time-tally-goes-up-to-3-38-million/story-UcnWwAe9vcMWBPUFss6cQJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Srinagar-Jammu highway remains blocked for fourth consecutive day||The Srinagar Jammu national highway continues to remain blocked for the fourth consecutive day Friday even as the MeT department predicted improvement in the weather from this afternoon.Jammu and Kashmir witnessed moderate to heavy rainfall over the past two days which ended a three-month long dry spell across union territory.The MeT office said that intermittent light to moderate rain spells are expected Friday in Jammu division, south east Kashmir and Ladakh division while the weather is predicted to improve in other places. “Srinagar, Baramulla, Kupwara Bandipur and Ganderbal will have significant improvement in weather,” it said.According to traffic officials the heavy rainfall triggered landslides and shooting stones at least at 10 places on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway. The highway has been blocked since Tuesday when a large portion of it was washed away in Ramban district.“Due to the heavy rainfall restoration work has not been completed. Till the restoration work doesn’t get over and landslides are removed, traffic on Jammu-Srinagar national highway will remain closed,” a senior police officer said.The rain has increased the water level in all the major rivers and streams. The government, however, has ruled out the possibility of floods at this stage though flood control rooms have been activated in some parts of north Kashmir due to surging water levels.Heavy rain which began in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday brought down the temperatures. The rain also brought relief to farmers from the dry weather conditions from the past three months. Scanty rain had led to very low output in water bodies causing shortage of potable water across Kashmir valley and also affected the agricultural and horticultural produce. The temperatures have also hovered above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-jammu-highway-remains-blocked-for-fourth-consecutive-day/story-1PhSAUppucOJWhZETY0cCI.html
28-08-2020||India||Kashmir highway remains closed for 4th day, multiple landslides in Ramban district||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the only surface link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, remained snapped for the fourth straight day on Friday due to landslides in Panthial, Mompassi, Digdol, Cafeteria Morh, Battery Chashma and Marog in Ramban district. SSP national Highway J S Johar said, “The highway is still closed due to landslides at multiple places, like Mompassi, Panthial, Dalwas, Marog, Digdol and Monkey Morh in Ramban district. The weather is still inclement.” A local from Ramban said that Cafeteria Morh saw a massive landslide; around 500 meters of the road has been occupied by the debris. Incessant rains have rendered machines defunct so they could not clear the debris due to mud and slush on the affected stretches in the district. “The intensity of rains has now reduced to a drizzle. Around 300 vehicles are stranded in Ramban district,” he said. An official said that over 2,000 vehicles remained stranded at various places at Qazigund, Chenani, Udhampur and Nagrota. The men and machines of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) are on standby but rains are hampering the restoration work, he added. Light to moderate rains also lashed the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal on Friday morning. Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “Police and the army successfully accomplished a rescue operation this morning and saved four lives. These four people were trapped in flooded Suran river in Salotri area of Poonch.” The Jammu-Poonch highway, however, remains open for traffic. Poonch deputy magistrate Rahul Yadav said, Mughal road has not been opened for all traffic. “Mughal road is allowed only for downward movement of fruit trucks, empty oil tankers from Kashmir Valley to Jammu. No other movement is allowed via Mughal road”, Yadav said. Similar reports of light to moderate rains also poured in from the Doda region comprising Kishtwar and Bhaderwah. Paddar-Kishtwar highway has also been blocked by a massive landslide at Naigad near Padiyarna. India Meteorological department (IMD) director Sonam Lotus said the present weather system will start improving from Friday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-highway-remains-closed-for-4th-day-multiple-landslides-in-ramban-district/story-ttkXGmSwqA7ivEqrfexSzJ.html
28-08-2020||India||5 more volunteers inoculated with Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Pune: Latest developments||With India’s Covid-19 tally now at more than 33 lakh, the country may overtake Brazil sometime in the next two weeks if the cases continue to grow at the current pace.Pharmaceutical companies in India and around the world are racing to find a vaccine for Covid-19 which has infected more than 24 million people globally.A total of 26 vaccine candidates are being developed, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday directed states to focus on districts with high case fatality rate and refine and strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact-tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc.Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine in India and recent developments:•Five more volunteers were inoculated with the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Pune district as part of the phase II clinical trial launched in search for an antidote against the viral infection that is showing no signs of abating in the country. Three of the volunteers were administered the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate at Bharti Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital in Pune city, a senior doctor from the medical facility said. The volunteers who were administered the vaccine have shown normal vitals following the dose.•Premas Biotech has said its vaccine candidate for Covid-19 treatment has shown positive results, inducing a neutralising immune response in animal studies. The company is in talks with the Indian regulatory authorities concerned to plan and initiate next steps towards conducting human trials, Premas Biotech said in a statement.•Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, selected 17 sites in India to conduct the Phase II trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. A total of 1,600 candidates will take part in the study.•Communication between India and Russia are on as far as Sputnik V, the Covid vaccine, is concerned, the Union Health Ministry had said. “As far as Sputnik-5 vaccine is concerned, India and Russia are in communication. Some initial information have been shared,” Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union health ministry said while briefing the media.•Covaxin, one of the three vaccine candidates against Covid-19 being developed in India, has been approved for skin trials by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-more-volunteers-inoculated-with-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-in-pune-latest-developments/story-t7TnCHhOo18PhlhipJlFuL.html
28-08-2020||India||August records 24% excess rain in India, highest since 1983||This August recorded the highest rain—24% excess—for the first time since 1983, when 24% excess rain was recorded. In 1926, 33% excess rain was recorded in August.Several parts of India, particularly central and some parts of western India including Gujarat and Rajasthan, recorded excess rain during the first three weeks of August. The week ending August 12 saw 13% excess, the week ending August 19 saw 42% excess, and the week ending August 26 saw 41% excess rain. IMD, in its weekly weather update Friday, said there will be above average rain at least until September 3. Rainfall could reduce thereafter as no low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal until around September 10. Five low pressure areas have already formed in August, bringing extensive and heavy rain to east, central and west India. Low pressure areas are the main rain bearing systems during the monsoon. In the week ending August 26, for example, Hairamgarh in central India recorded 23 cm; Jodia in Gujarat recorded 34 cm; Bhungra in Rajasthan recorded 36 cm, all in the extremely heavy rain category (over 20 cm).Also Read: Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi todayThere is a well-marked low-pressure area over north Chhattisgarh and the adjoining east Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards across north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and weaken gradually, IMD said in its Friday morning bulletin.The western end of the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is near its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal) and the eastern end to the south of its normal position. The western end is likely to remain in its normal position during the next two days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas thereafter for the subsequent four or five days. “The convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal is very likely over the plains of Northwest India during next 2-3 days,” the bulletin read.Also Read: IMD’s weather forecast raised hope but Delhi remained dry; heavy rain warning for NW India remainsDue to these favourable conditions, very heavy rain is likely over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on August 28; over west Madhya Pradesh on 28 and 29; over Gujarat and Konkan and Goa on August 29. Widespread and extremely heavy rain are very likely over east Madhya Pradesh on August 28. Widespread and heavy rain is also likely over northwest India including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on August 28 and 29, the bulletin read. IMD scientists warned of mudslides and flooding in parts of central India as the soil is already saturated there.Overall monsoon rain is 8% excess with 23% excess rain over the south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; 12% deficient over northwest India and 4% excess over east and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-august-records-24-excess-rain-in-india-highest-since-1983/story-h9j3p0HjeKRWEfRlaJUFAL.html
28-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR begins second round of sero survey across India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in SeptemberThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun the second round of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sero survey to determine how many more Indians have been exposed to the infection since the first such exercise was conducted in May during the nationwide lockdown. Read moreAndhra HC stalls Jagan Reddy’s three capital plan till September 21The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday extended status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital till September 21, thereby halting the plan of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to shift the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam and judicial capital to Kurnool. Read moreA decade later, a school building in Uttar Pradesh is still in the makingA decade since it was sanctioned, the building of the proposed multi-storey school of state basic education department that was to come up at Kanshiram Awas Yojana in Phaphamau is yet not complete. Read moreRepublican leaders rally behind Trump, say Biden no longer has any principlesTop Republican party leaders Thursday night rallied behind President Donald Trump as they used the platform of Republican National Convention to launch a blistering attack on his Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden. Read moreIPL 2020: Quarantine rules in Abu Dhabi put KKR, MI in a spotA 14-day quarantine rule in Abu Dhabi has put Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) and Mumbai Indians (MI), the two IPL teams based there, in a spot. While the remaining six teams in Dubai can start training, KKR and MI players need an extra week before they can step out of their rooms. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput was haunted by MeToo allegations, thought Sanjana Sanghi was ‘part of a big nexus’: Rhea ChakrabortyActor Rhea Chakraborty has said that the #MeToo allegation made about Sushant Singh Rajput, and his Dil Bechara co-star Sanjana Sanghi’s delay in offering a clarification, greatly bothered Sushant. Rhea suggested that the allegation was made as a part of a larger conspiracy. Read moreSara Ali Khan is a sight to behold in pink, shares latest Instagram picture amid Ganesh ChaturthiSara Ali Khan shared pictures of herself praying to Lord Ganesha as Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are almost coming to an end. This season has seen a slump in several festivities due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, but Bollywood celebrities are ensuring that our spirits remain high by sharing the festive spirit with their followers, albeit virtually. Read more‘2020 has not been the best year’, lightning strikes as groom says these words. Video is now viral“What a timing,” this is probably what you’ll utter after seeing this now viral video of a wedding ceremony. Shared by groom Aaron Sawitsky, the video captures a surprising event which took place during his wedding ceremony with Denice McClure. Read moreWatch: IPL 2020 | I am ready to bat at No. 5 or 6: Ajinkya Rahane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updated-from-hindustan-times-icmr-begins-second-round-of-sero-survey-across-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R3xoe5SxRdiH69RX7LYWTL.html
28-08-2020||India||Make in India: DoT may ask BSNL to try local end-to-end networks for 4G upgrade||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is mulling advising BSNL and MTNL to test out locally consolidated networks for a few months before they take a call on who to select to upgrade their 4G spectrum services, Hindustan Times has learnt. Also read: May cancel spectrum licenses if telcos are not ready to pay AGR dues, says Supreme CourtThe decision can have far-reaching ramifications as the new setup, if found feasible, can be replicated for other network providers and to upgrade to 5G services, the tender process for which is yet to begin.HT has earlier reported that the DoT had set up a six-member panel to look into the 4G upgrade tender after it was scrapped on July 1. The decision had come in the wake of 20 Indian soldiers being killed in the Galwan Valley by China. The decision was also taken in keeping with the preference to Make in India policy of the telecom department, and a bid to reduce reliance on Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE. The six-member panel, which has representatives from DoT, BSNL, MTNL and the industry, has already met five times and is in the final stage of outlining requirements for the fresh tender. The final tender requirements are likely to be concretised by the end of the week. The Rs 7,000-8,000 crore tender is part of the BSNL revival package that will allow it to expand its telecom presence. “Indian manufacturers at present do not have a turn-key setup in place,” said a DoT official who did not wish to be named. “A turn-key setup offers end-to-end network, including both radio and core requirements that are consolidated at a central level by a single operator.”According to the official, tech giants such as Nokia and Airtel have their own turn-key setups in India. The official that while seven companies manufacture radio equipment, used to set up towers, only two companies at present are capable of making core equipment, which translates the signals to provide telecom services. “The core equipment is responsible for translating the signals that are carried by the radio equipment,” the official said. “The new approach likely incorporate multiple vendors to setup an end-to-end network.”A member of the panel, on the condition of anonymity, told HT that reservations had been expressed about the ability of Indian tech companies to set up the network.“We are discussing telling BSNL and MTNL to set up at least 10-20 towers using local equipment and connect it to the core,” said the member. “They can test if the equipment is giving appropriate results.”According to experts, nearly 75% of the telecom equipment is sourced from companies outside India, especially the internal components. Two major Chinese firms with a stake in the Indian market are ZTE and Huawei, both Chinese companies. Other major players include Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung.“We are not saying that Nokia or Airtel will not be able to provide services, but the idea is that the local manufacturers get a greater stake,” said the first official. “Nokia has an India-based office that employs many Indian engineers.”At present, according to the preference to make in India policy of the DoT, those doing over 50% addition to product and network by using equipment made in India and not just assembled here given preference. “If Tech Mahindra gives a bid for 112 and Nokia for 100, Tech Mahindra will be asked to match the bid,” said former DoT technical advisor RK Bhatnagar. “Ercisson’s value addition, for example, would be around 25%, making them eligible to be in preference category.”Bhatnagar added that a version of the DoT’s proposal was discussed at a meeting convened by NITI Aayog in early July. “Private players such as Tech Mahindra made a presentation that they have the capability,” said Bhatnagar. “They had asked for an opportunity, and NITI Aayog had suggested the same to DoT.”“The players can be asked to set up a consolidated network, which will then be tested over 4 months to see if it’s a workable solution and then can be replicated in other places,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-in-india-dot-may-ask-bsnl-to-try-local-end-to-end-networks-for-4g-upgrade/story-hxSi1tttWBx4otuCIgRYlM.html
28-08-2020||India||India reports 1,000 Covid deaths on third consecutive day||India reported around a 1,000 new deaths for the third consecutive day on Thursday, taking the total number of patients that has succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far in the country to 61,690. The first death in India was reported on March 12. On Thursday, the country saw the biggest spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day so far, with 76,870 samples testing positive for the viral disease. It was also the second consecutive day that the country reported at least 75,000 new cases. Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of Covid-19-related deaths in the country, with 355 deaths on Thursday alone, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 23,444. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayAnother extremely affected state in terms of death toll is Tamil Nadu, with 6,948 cumulative deaths reported so far, and 109 new deaths reported in a single day. Karnataka reported the second-highest (141) new deaths, taking the death toll in the state to 5,232. Maharashtra also has the maximum of Covid-19 positive cases in the country as 14,857 people tested positive in the state on Thursday. Andhra Pradesh is a close second with 10,621 cases reported in a single day, followed by Karnataka with 9,386 cases. Also Read: Battle shifting as Covid-19 threat stalks rural IndiaAs the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths is not going down, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday directed states to focus on districts reporting a high case fatality, and the urgent need for them to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact-tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols, etc. “There are some states with certain districts that are not performing well; there is a need to look into specific problems of those districts to be able to better contain the disease spread,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1-000-covid-deaths-on-third-consecutive-day/story-hffrU55bemRZf5ZeTkBizI.html
28-08-2020||India||Andhra HC stalls Jagan Reddy’s three capital plan till September 21||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday extended status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital till September 21, thereby halting the plan of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to shift the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam and judicial capital to Kurnool. A three-member bench of the state high court comprising chief justice J K Maheshwar, justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and justice A V Sesha Sai, acting on a batch of petitions filed by the farmers of Amaravati, said there would be stay on the implementation of two legislations passed by the state legislature on the repeal of AP Capital Regional Development Authority (APCRDA) and formation of three capitals till further hearing on September 21. The Jagan government has no chance to move the Supreme Court as the latter on Wednesday refused to interfere in the high court’s status quo orders. This is the third time that the high court had stalled the plan of the state government on formation of three capitals. The status quo was first ordered on August 4 till August 14, which was later extended till August 27. Now, it has been further extended till September 21. About 15 senior advocates, mostly from Delhi, have been appearing for the nearly 70 petitioners challenging the Jagan government’s decision to create three capitals and to abolish the APCRDA. The high court said the government could file its counter on the objections raised by the petitioners before September 11 and the petitioners could present their version by September 17. The division bench said it would like to hear the petitions in person, rather than in virtual mode, if it was convinced about the safety in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. “We shall take a call on holding the court physically or virtually a week before the next hearing on September 21,” Meanwhile, farmers of Amaravati filed a separate petition in the high court questioning the delay in annuity for their lands surrendered to the state government for construction of capital in 2015. According to the agreement signed with the APCRDA in 2015, each farmer has to be paid yearly amount of Rs 30,000 per acre for drylands to Rs 50,000 per acre for wetlands for a period of 10 years. Besides, landless poor who were working as agriculture labourer in the surrendered lands have to be paid Rs 2,500 per month. “The amount has to be paid in June. Though the government has issued orders last month itself, the money has not been paid till now,” a farmer Idupulapati Seetharamaiah told the court. On Wednesday, a group of farmers tried to lay siege to APCRDA office in Vijayawada demanding payment of annuity, but they were arrested by the police. The high court ordered the government to pay the amount due to the farmers within the next two days. Soon after the court judgement, state minister for municipal administration and urban development Botsa Satyanarayana said the government could not pay the annuity due to technical reasons. “We shall credit the amount to the accounts of farmers immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-stalls-jagan-reddy-s-three-capital-plan-till-september-21/story-JFPIjBVruqiz8EH0JcTZHN.html
28-08-2020||India||IMD’s weather forecast raised hope but Delhi remained dry; heavy rain warning for NW India remains||New Delhi: The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi, withdrew its ‘orange’ category moderate rain warning for the national capital on Wednesday, as it turned out to be a modelling error. RMC had issued an orange category warning that implied local authorities must remain prepared for traffic disruption and inundation of low-lying areas.The forecast was due to an error in the model forecast, according to scientists. The models were showing that the monsoon trough (the line of low pressure) would shift northwards from Tuesday and stay over Delhi for a couple of days, but the monsoon trough shifted very fast to the Himalayan foothills, leaving the national capital dry.There may be light to moderate patchy rain over Delhi-national capital region (NCR) for the next two days but not heavy rain as was expected, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said. RMC has issued a moderate rain warning for Friday. “We were expecting the monsoon trough to remain near Delhi for some time. But the western end of the trough shifted to the foothills bringing a lot of rain in Jammu and northern Punjab and the eastern end is near Bahraich. This explains the reason behind southern Uttar Pradesh (UP) is also getting rain. We may record some light rainfall on Friday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC). Delhi has an 8% rain deficiency until Thursday. Rain within -19% and +19% category during monsoon season is considered to be in the normal category. Also Read: Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today“We had issued a light rain warning. The models showed that monsoon trough would run along Delhi for at least a day or two. There was a low pressure area over south-west Rajasthan, where all the moisture was concentrated. When it weakened, we were expecting the moisture to reach to other parts of north-west India, but that didn’t happen. The monsoon trough is oscillating very frequently and fast this time. The model didn’t capture the shift this time,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private meteorological forecaster.A well marked low-pressure area is lying over south-west Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwest wards across northern Chhattisgarh, northern Madhya Pradesh (MP) and southern UP during the next three days and then weaken gradually, IMD said in its Thursday bulletin.Also Read: Rainy weekend on the cards in ChandigarhThe western end of the monsoon trough runs close to the Himalayan foothills and the eastern end runs to the south of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift southwards from Friday and remain along its normal position for the next two days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas for the next four-five days. “The convergence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal is likely over the plains of north-west India from Saturday onwards for the next two days,” the bulletin said.Due to these favourable conditions, widespread and extremely heavy rainfall is likely over eastern MP on Friday and Saturday and over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha on Friday. Heavy rain is also likely over Uttarakhand and western UP until Monday (August 31); over Punjab on Friday and Saturday; over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Saturday and Sunday; over western Rajasthan between Saturday and Monday; over eastern Rajasthan from Friday to Monday.“We are expecting widespread and good rains throughout north-west India for the next three to four days,” said Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general (D-G), IMD..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-s-weather-forecast-raised-hope-but-delhi-remained-dry-heavy-rain-warning-for-nw-india-remains/story-nS9EPbJTJ1CePoLrAh0WUK.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress at its historic low, needs 24x7 leader, says Kapil Sibal||The Congress party needs “leadership [that is] 24x7” at a time when it is at a “historic low”, senior leader Kapil Sabil said on Thursday in his first interview since he and 22 other leaders signed a controversial letter seeking sweeping reforms within the party.The letter sent to interim party president Sonia Gandhi on August 7 called for a “visible”, “effective” and “full-time” leader; elections at all levels in the party; and establishing an institutional leadership model to collectively guide the party, among other steps.“If people have access to the letter, they will know it is not an attempt to belittle anyone, including the Gandhi family. In fact, we have appreciated the services rendered by the leadership thus far,” Sibal told HT in an interview.Also Watch | ‘Another split in Congress imminent?’: Watch Sanjay Jha’s responseAlso Read: Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reforms“Our intent is to revive the party. We want to be partners in its revival. That is our commitment to the party constitution and the Congress legacy, and the absolute conviction that the Congress needs others to rally around, to oppose a government which has destroyed the very foundations on which the Indian Republic is built.“The Congress party is at a historic low and the election results of 2014 and 2019 reflect that,” he said.The letter led to a stormy and marathon session of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body in the party. In the seven-hour meeting on Monday, there was heavy criticism of those who signed the letter, and the focus of the discussion was largely on its timing, and its leak, rather than on its substance.Also Read: 22 Opposition parties may meet to chalk out plan to corner govtFour of the 23 leaders — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada — are members of the CWC. Other senior leaders who have signed the letter include Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and Prithviraj Chavan.Also Read: Congress names Gaurav Gogoi deputy leader in Lok Sabha in party rejig“I wish the substance had been circulated, then all those present (at the CWC meeting) would’ve realised that it (the letter) is about strengthening and reviving the Congress. One of those present even used the expression ‘traitor’. I wish those present had reprimanded him. There was not one uncivilised comment made in the communication. I am appalled that expressions like these are allowed within the highest forum,” Sibal added.Sibal said the party constitution calls for certain structures in the party that need to be re-established. “I have some knowledge of the party and its constitution and the constitution provides for several structures which need to be put in place, which are not in place. The intent and language of the letter dealt with the structures not being in place,” he said.The senior advocate expressed disappointment that Jitin Prasada was targeted on Wednesday by a Congress district committee in Uttar Pradesh that wanted action taken against him for signing the letter.Also Read: Sonia Gandhi names leaders in Parliament; Ghulam Nabi Azad retains spot“It is either an attack by sycophants or directed to demoralise those whose conscience has made them speak. It is a matter of grave concern that there are audios and videos which prove that Prasada was targeted at the behest of someone higher up in the hierarchy,” he said, without elaborating further.Asked if he, too, fears being targeted, Sibal said: “We have no fears. We are Congressmen at heart and we will remain Congressmen without fear.”Sibal — he had protested on Monday after incorrect media reports said that Rahul Gandhi had suggested that the letter-writers were in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and then withdrawn his tweet when Rahul Gandhi told him the words attributed to him were wrong — said: “I and the BJP are North Pole and South Pole. We are wedded to the Congress ideology and bitterly oppose the current dispensation (at the Centre).”The party, which at the CWC asked Sonia Gandhi to continue as interim president, is expected to hold an All-India Congress Committee session in six months to elect a new chief.In an interview to ANI on Thursday, Azad stressed on electing, rather than appointing, the next Congress president.Asked what his position will be going forward, Sibal said: “We are soldiers of the party and some of us are seasoned enough to know what needs to be done. We hope that we will be heard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-at-historic-low-needs-24x7-leader-kapil-sibal/story-yTRzhMpnklYQsSBEWVKFEM.html
28-08-2020||India||78 new routes added to Udan Scheme. Here’s the full list||In an attempt to connect small cities of India with each other, the Government of India launched a Regional Connectivity Scheme, Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik). The scheme reached its fourth stage as the aviation ministry gave nod to 78 fresh routes that will become functional soon. In this stage, north east states, hilly areas and islands of India have been given priority. With this, the total number of routes under Udan has gone up to 766. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that out of these 78 airports, 18 will connect cities to metros such as Delhi, Kolkata and Ranchi. The fresh routes will encourage tourism in these areas and help strengthen their economies, he added.Here is the full list:1. Guwahati To Tezu2. Tezu To Imphal3. Imphal To Tezu4. Tezu To Guwahati5. Guwahati To Rupsi6. Rupsi To Kolkata7. Kolkata To Rupsi8. Rupsi To Guwahati9. Bilaspur To Bhopal10. Bhopal To Bilaspur11. Hissar To Dharamshala12. Dharamshala To Hissar13. Hissar To Chandigarh14. Chandigarh To Hissar15. Hissar To Dehradun16. Dehradun To Hissar17. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Moradabad18. Moradabad To Kanpur(Chakeri)19. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Aligarh20. Aligarh To Kanpur(Chakeri)21. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Chitrakoot22. Chitrakoot To Prayagraj/Allahabad23. Prayagraj/Allahabad To Chitrakoot24. Chitrakoot To Varanasi25. Varanasi To Chitrakoot26. Chitrakoot To Kanpur(Chakeri)27. Kanpur(Chakeri) To Shravasti28. Shravasti To Varanasi29. Varanasi To Shravasti30. Shravasti To Prayagraj/Allahabad31. Prayagraj/Allahabad To Shravasti32. Shravasti To Kanpur(Chakeri)33. Bareilly To Delhi34. Delhi To Bareilly35. Cochin International Airport(CIAL) To Agatti36. Agatti To Cochin International Airport(CIAL)37. Aizawl To Tezpur38. Tezpur To Aizawl39. Agartala To Dibrugarh40. Dibrugarh To Agartala41. Shillong To Passighat42. Passighat To Guwahati43. Guwahati To Passighat44. Passighat To Shillong45. Guwahati To Tezpur46. Tezpur To Guwahati47. Guwahati To Misa(Heliport)48. Misa(Heliport) To Geleki49. Geleki To Jorhat50. Jorhat To Geleki51. Geleki To Misa(Heliport)52. Misa(Heliport) To Guwahati53. Agatti To Minicoy54. Minicoy To Agatti55. Agatti To Kavaratti56. Kavaratti To Agatti57. Guwahati To Shillong58. Shillong To Dimapur59. Dimapur To Shillong60. Imphal To Silchar61. Silchar To Imphal62. Shillong To Guwahati63. Agartala To Shillong64. Shillong To Imphal65. Imphal To Shillong66. Shillong To Agartala67. Imphal To Shillong68. Shillong To Silchar69. Silchar To Shillong70. Shillong To Imphal71. Shillong To Dibrugarh72. Dibrugarh To Shillong73. Delhi To Shimla74. Shimla To Delhi75. Diu To Surat76. Surat To Diu77. Diu To Vadodara78. Vadodara To Diu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-new-routes-added-to-udan-scheme-here-s-the-full-list/story-7c3tNZOUkGLDBgn97ncaWN.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid: J-K directs private clinics to report +ve, suspected cases to health dept||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday directed all private hospitals to report all positive Covid-19, Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like Illness (ILI) cases to the health department of the Union Territory. “The Jammu and Kashmir government today directed all private clinics/nursing homes situated in the Union Territory to report all cases found positive of Covid-19, and also cases of those from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI)/ Influenza-like Illness (ILI), or having radiological findings suggestive of Covid-19 infection for Covid-19 testing forthwith to the Director Health Services Kashmir/Jammu concerned or concerned Chief Medical Officers,” the J-K statement read. It further said that non-compliance of the direction would attract proceedings under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. As per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Union Territory has a total of 7,630 active cases, 26,193 recoveries, and 657 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-j-k-directs-private-clinics-to-report-ve-suspected-cases-to-health-dept/story-UUNTY0TvKRnrfurJxZ0E8K.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress will sit in opposition for 50 years if party election doesn’t happen: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Asserting that appointed Congress president may not have even one per cent support in the party, senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the signatories to the “dissident” letter, on Thursday pitched for elections to the Congress Working Committee and key organisational posts of state chiefs, district presidents, block presidents and said that those opposing are afraid of losing their positions.While adding that prospects of the party would be better if elected body leads the party otherwise “Congress will continue to sit in the Opposition for the next 50 years.”“When you contest the election at least 51 per cent is with you and you contest the election against only 2 to 3 people within the party. A person who will get 51 per cent of votes will be elected. Others will get 10 or 15 per cent votes. The person who wins and get charge of the post of part president, it means that 51 per cent people are with him. The election has the benefit that when you fight elections, at least your party is 51 per cent behind you. Right now, the person who becomes president might not even have one per cent support. If CWC members are elected then they cannot be removed. So what is the problem,” Ghulam Nabi Azad told ANI.“ Others who stood second, third or fourth will think that we have to strengthen the party while working hard and will win next time. But, the president who is elected now does not have even the support of 1 per cent of party workers,” he said while reiterating that elections make the foundation of the party strong. Drawing attention to the consequences of not conducting the elections on the party’s prospects in the elections, he said that Congress party has been appointing “someone as party president in the state” who comes and goes to Delhi and who are recommended by big party leaders.The remarks came three days after the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party passed a resolution and requested Sonia Gandhi “to continue to lead the Indian National Congress” until such time as circumstances will permit an AICC session to be convened. “We even do not know whether such persons have the support of 1 per cent or 100 per cent. There are many who do not have even 1 per cent support. This happens in the state, district, CWC elections for party leadership. An appointed person can be removed but an elected person can not be removed. What is wrong with this,” he said.He strongly criticised leaders who are opposing the elections, saying, the people who are claiming to be the loyalists are actually doing cheap politics and are detrimental to the interests of the party and to the nation. Slamming those for opposing elections, Rajya Sabha member said, “Those office-bearers or state unit presidents or block district presidents who attack our proposal know that they will be nowhere when elections happen. Whoever is genuinely invested in the Congress will welcome the letter. I have said that State, district and block president of the party should be elected by the party workers,” he said.He lamented for not holding the elections in the party for the past several decades, “For the last many decades, we do not have elected bodies in the party. Maybe we should have pushed for it 10-15 yrs ago. Now we are losing elections after elections, and if we have to come back we need to strengthen our party by holding elections.”“If my party wants to be in opposition for the next 50 years, then there is no need for elections within the party,” he said.Mentioning that the sole purpose is to make Congress active and strong, he said, “But those who simply got ‘appointment cards’ continue to oppose our proposal. What’s the harm in having elected CWC members who will have fixed tenures in the party.”“Anyone who has a genuine interest in the internal working dynamics of Congress would welcome our proposal to have every state and district president as being elected. The entire Congress Working Committee should be elected,” Azad said.Azad, who is Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said their effort was to make the party strong and active and those who simply got “appointment cards” continue to oppose their proposal.Stressing that he has no personal ambitions but is loyal to his party, he said, “I had CM once, Union Cabinet Minister, CWC member and general secretary of the party, I do not want anything for me. I will remain in active politics for the next 5 to 7 years. I do not want to be party president. As a true congressman, I want elections within the party for the betterment of the party”.Rajya Sabha member said that Congress worker who has little interest in the party welfare will welcome his letter.The CWC meeting was held on August 24 in the backdrop of a letter in which Azad and 22 other leaders had called for “full time” active leadership, sweeping reforms and elections of the CWC. There was also a suggestion for a mechanism for collective leadership to guide the party’s revival.Several leaders in the party, including party chief ministers, had raised questions over the letter and the issue figured in the CWC meeting.Apart from hailing the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, the CWC also lauded the role of party leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he has resolutely led the fight against the BJP-led government from the front.Sonia Gandhi continues to remain as interim president of the party in August last year after Rahul Gandhi resigned taking responsibility for the party’s dismal performance in the Lok Sabha polls. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-continue-to-sit-in-opposition-for-next-50-years-if-election-doesn-t-happen-in-party-ghulam-nabi-azad/story-Nv7UJAVNKYpup0liEfM8WL.html
28-08-2020||India||Amid pandemic, Mizoram holds local body polls||Even as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to sweep the country, Mizoram on Thursday, held elections to 550 village councils and 59 urban local councils . “I participated in Mizoram general election to village councils and local councils, 2020. Thanking all the election officials and every part-taker for providing safe platform to many voters in exercising our constitutional franchise amidst this pandemic,” Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted after casting his vote. The state election commission held the polls while maintaining social distancing, hygiene and all safety norms. Counting of votes is underway at present. “Polling went off without a glitch and it was very peaceful. We maintained all measures related to social distancing, thermal screening, wearing of masks and availability of hand sanitisers at all polling stations,” said Mizoram state election commissioner Laima Chozah told HT. Mizoram has over 4.54 lakh eligible voters in 558 village councils in 9 districts and over 2.18 lakh voters in 83 local councils under Aizawl Municipal Corporation. Polling in 8 village councils and 24 local councils have been deferred due to spread of Covid-19 in those areas. The contest is expected to be a triangular one among ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) and opposition Congress and Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM). MNF has already won 12 village councils unopposed while Congress has won 3. “We expect to get the final results by Friday and we should be able to issue gazette notification,” Chozah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-mizoram-holds-local-body-polls/story-3oUC8QHK15qi2noIQhS6bP.html
28-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Scientists have found the answers (or the beginning of answers) to two important questions about Covid-19.The first: why are men who contract the coronavirus disease at greater risk than women?The answer — like many others where Covid-19 is concerned — lies in the immune response to the virus.According to research by Akiko Iwasaki and others at the Yale School of Medicine, the male immune response is largely built around cytokines and chemokines, both signalling proteins that are part of the body’s immune response. The female response, the research, published in Nature says, is driven by T-cells, a major (and stronger) component of the immune system. The research offers the first plausible answer on why the mortality rate among infected men, especially those over the age of 60, is higher than that among infected women. As an aside, those interested in the more scientific aspects of Covid-19 would do well to follow Iwasaki’s work — she is among the clearest thinkers on many aspects of the disease.The second question: can someone cured of Covid-19 be re-infected?There have been many false starts to this answer, including some local ones, but according to a paper published on August 25 in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, the answer is yes.The paper is based on research by doctors and scientists at the University of Hong Kong and speaks of a 33-year old man who recovered from Covid-19 in April, and was re-infected in August. The viral genome from the first and the second infections were sequenced, studied and, found to be genetically distinct. This wasn’t simply a residual infection — it was a new one. Interestingly, the second time the man was infected, he remained asymptomatic, and his immune system kicked in, producing new antibodies.HT reported the Hong Kong incident soon after it happened, but there is a larger (and a related) learning in the two studies for vaccine developers. The first study (the one on gender differences) shows that they will have to factor in gender while developing vaccines to ensure that these are effective across the population. The second study shows that being infected once does not always rule out a re-infection — more research is needed, but, in general, it still could in many cases. This isn’t necessarily a blow for administrators and health care workers in regions hit hard by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, who were hoping that the high prevalence of the disease, as measured by antibody surveys, bestowed some level of immunity on the population. That could still be the case — but it cannot be taken for granted. Typically, this is also one of the things vaccines are tested for — not just whether they can provoke an immune response against the disease, but whether they can prevent a re-infection.The need to answer questions such as these is why vaccine development usually takes years. The global health and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has meant that vaccine developers have tried to shorten the development cycle — something that could have a bearing on the efficacy of the vaccines or the length of the protection they offer (but that’s another story).Nature’s website recently published a telling story (and graphic) on the extent to which the world is counting on the vaccines under development. Based on data from Airfinity, a research firm, the article said countries have struck deals or announced commitments for almost 4.5 billion doses of vaccines from nine vaccine developers. The UK, the article points out, has committed to buying 340 million doses. Its population is a little less than 70 million. The US, the European Union, and Japan have also committed to buying enough to vaccinate every one of their residents at least once, according to the article. India recently set up a committee to discuss various aspects of its vaccine strategy, from funding and sourcing to storage and delivery, but the global rush for vaccines only highlights the need to finalise this soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ZDV2fyGqjf5R54NuJqntAL.html
28-08-2020||India||Varavara Rao released from hospital after Covid treatment; back in jail||Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 81, one of the accused arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital on Thursday afternoon. Rao was admitted on July 19 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He has been taken back to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai where he was earlier lodged. Deepak Pandey, inspector general (south region prisons), has confirmed the development.Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family had alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea.“He was not normal at the time of discharge. While Sodium normal range was 134-145, he attained only 133 and potassium normal range was 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital record. But, later on June 2 it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of conspiracy by the police.“June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in the NIA Special Sessions Court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read a statement from the family.Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after voices were raised from various quarters Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. After he tested positive for Covid-19 he was shifted to St George’s Hospital.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also intervened and issued notices to the Maharashtra government asking it to ensure Rao is taken care of and adequate medical facilities are arranged. It also asked for a report on Rao’s health.The commission observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty bound to provide the same to a prisoner as well.The state has been directed to constitute a medical board to examine Rao’s health, provide him the best possible treatment and bear the cost for the same.Rao was then moved to Nanavati hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-released-from-hospital-after-covid-treatment-back-in-jail/story-OpdlkcToUZ45sOcHRDmbQI.html
28-08-2020||India||Andhra police bust fake Aadhaar racket, arrest eight||The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on Thursday busted an Aadhaar manipulation racket and arrested eight persons, including two belonging to Aadhaar centre who were involved in it. Guntur (urban) superintendent of police R N Ammi Reddy said the accused had indulged in forgery of signatures of gazetted officers to prepare fake birth certificates of people and use them to obtain Aadhaar cards for securing benefits of government schemes. Reddy said the accused had lured gullible women by promising them monetary benefits under government schemes like YSR Cheyutha and YSR pension schemes. Under YSR Cheyutha scheme, financial support of Rs 17,500 per year would be extended to women aged between 45 and 60 years for a period of four years so as to encourage them to become small entrepreneurs. Under YSR pension scheme, women above 60 years would get a pension of Rs 2,250 per month. “Taking advantage of the YSR Cheyutha scheme, the gang members lured women in the age group of 35 making them eligible for the scheme by manipulating their Aadhaar data, changing their age to above 45 years,” the SP said. Similarly, the gang manipulated the Aadhaar cards of some other women in the age group of 50-59 years to show their age as above 60 years so that they would become eligible for the YSR Pension scheme. Reddy said the gang created stamps in the name of some gazetted officers and issued fake birth certificates to these women. Later, the gang uploaded these certificates along with the Aadhaar data updating request forms so that they would get fresh Aadhaar cards. “This way, the gang tampered with the data of at least 500 women using fake age and address proofs. The gang members collected between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 from each woman,” the SP said. The arrested – A Tirupathi Reddy, A Sai, Shaik Khaza, R Sai Seshu, A Sai Kumar, N Sivannarayana, G Venkata Nagi Reddy and P Durgaprasad – were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and sent in judicial remand for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-police-bust-fake-aadhaar-racket-arrest-eight/story-M682LmiE9TohRk6MsOiqxN.html
28-08-2020||India||In highest single spike, Karnataka reports more than 9,300 Covid-19 cases||In the highest single-day spike so far, Karnataka on Thursday reported more than 9,300 Covid-19 cases in the state, pushing the infection tally to 3.09 lakh. The death toll reached 5,232 after 141 fresh fatalities.As of August 27 evening, cumulatively 3.09 lakh positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 5,232 deaths and 2.19 lakh discharges, according to data figures by the state health department.Click here for full Covid-919 coverageOut of 9,386 fresh cases, Bengaluru reported the highest number of infection with 3,357 cases, followed by Mysuru with 895 cases, Ballari had 550 and Davanagere registered 391 cases.A total of 26.48 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 68,187 were tested on Thursday alone.Among the samples tested today 29,004 were rapid antigen tests.Meanwhile, Covid-19 spread continued to rise rapidly in India as the nations recorded another highest-ever spike of the infection on Thursday.According to Union health ministry update, the country recorded 75,760 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed the nationwide tally to over 3.31 million.The number of active cases in the country are 7,25,991, while 25,23,771 patients have been discharged. The country also recorded 1,023 fatalities in the last 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 60,472, according to health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-spike-karnataka-reports-more-than-9-300-covid-19-cases/story-PWlIrKwnva2WYTIeemSHyL.html
28-08-2020||India||Rush at stops defeats social distancing in Delhi buses||How long do people wait at a stop for a bus in the Capital? Five minutes? Fifteen minutes? Half an hour? For 37-year-old Bhupinder Chaudhary, waiting for bus 544 or 540 at the AIIMS bus stop on one afternoon, the answer was 2 hours, 10 minutes, and counting. Milling around were 35-40 people like him, waiting as bus after bus filled to the reduced Covid capacity of 20 passengers drove by. Social distancing collapsed every now and then as Chaudhary and others would rush in a horde, jostling to get to the door first only to be turned away. For many, masks came off as patience wore thin. “Three buses that would have taken me to Uday Park have already gone. They were full as per the new seating rule and the driver doesn’t stop the bus. I thought I should have my packed lunch but dropped the idea because if an empty bus comes while I am eating, these two hours would have gone to waste,” said Chaudhary, a daily wage earner who does glass fittings as a job. Also Read: Delhi tally hits 48-day high, 76k+ new cases across IndiaThe scene at Delhi’s bus stops underscores a new worry for the Capital’s fight against Covid-19 and illustrates a transportation crisis. Buses are now the lone mass transit option available for a city of nearly 20 million people. The consequence is long waiting times at bus stops, where people are hardly able to keep the suggested six feet distance from one another, and the crowding makes screening of symptomatic people virtually impossible.Officials are urging that services be resumed in the Delhi Metro, where ridership will also need to be reduced in order to allow for social distancing, raising the possibility of crowding at and outside stations -- a factor that experts now say will need to be addressed on priority.“To prevent crowding inside public transport vehicles isn’t sufficient. The capacity of public transport must be expanded to prevent crowding at bus stops and train stations,” said Shreya Gadepalli, who leads the South Asia Programme of the Institute for Transport and Development Policy (ITDP) .Also Read: Haryana allows restaurants and hotels to serve alcohol at tables; bars to remain shutSince July, economic activity has picked up as offices and factories reopen after two-and-a-half months of lockdown that eroded earnings at an unprecedented sale. Compared to June 30, visits to office districts has increased considerably. According to Google Mobility Reports, visits to workplaces on June 30 (a Tuesday) was down by 48% compared to pre-pandemic levels. On August 18 (also a Tuesday), the number rose by 8 percentage point.Gadepalli said scientists now have evidence the virus is airborne, which suggests that the universal use of masks rather than physical distancing might be the most important solution to contain the spread of the virus. “Studies have not found public transport as Covid-19 hotspots. Singapore, Japan, and many European countries have relaxed physical distancing rules within public transport but mandate the use of masks and instruct passengers to not speak to stop droplets from going airborne,” she said.But adhering to rules becomes a challenge when people spend frustrating hours waiting for transport. Commuters HT spoke to during office hours at AIIMS, ITO, Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar – some of the city’s main bus stops that now see daily footfall of around 100,000 – said their wait times have now gone up to as high as three hours, from roughly 45 minutes before the pandemic. “Some people feel the virus has gone and do not wear masks or keep distance. The risk of contracting the virus seems very high at bus stops because they are always crowded. I worry if anyone is infected,” said Shahdaab Ali, an undergraduate student at Ram Lal Anand College in South campus, who said he avoids travelling in buses during peak hours now. Others HT spoke to said it is economic compulsion that drives them. “The government has allowed all offices to open, but there is no transportation. People like us, who earn Rs 10,000-Rs 14,000 per month and have four children, how are we supposed to commute?” said Ravinder Kumar, who arrived at Anand Vihar with his son from his village in Uttar Pradesh. Delhi at present has around 6,100 buses from the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and those operated by private companies under the Cluster Bus system. Previously, these would carry 35-60 people, but are now required to take in no more than 20 in order to prevent transmission of the coronavirus on board.The Covid-19 normal has also forced the Delhi government to deploy civil defence volunteers to manage crowds and carry out thermal screenings to identify people with symptoms. “Using these guns on every passenger boarding a bus consumes so much time that there will be stampedes and accidents,” said Ashok Kumar, a volunteer at an Anand Vihar bus stop.Another volunteer said crowd management collapses as people break into a sprint to claim the few seats that are available. “Drivers stop the bus not at the designated spot but a few metres away. As a result, only a few passengers who manage to run the fastest are able to board buses. The drivers, in any case, allow only those many people to board who get down from it,” said Pawan Singh at ITO bus stop.While no cluster or DTC buses were seen carrying more than 20-22 passengers, the rule of buses running at 50% capacity was being openly flouted by privately run mini buses that operate across the city, especially in border districts. When HT visited Anand Vihar, most of the mini buses that are popular in these areas were packed and few of the commuters were seen wearing masks.“The mini buses are operated privately. Since DTC and cluster buses are not running to their full capacity, a lot of private buses are out on the roads making brisk business while undermining all preventive measures. We will intensify our drive to prosecute and impound private buses that are not following social distancing norms,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (operations), in Delhi’s transport department. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said with the Delhi Metro not operating, demand for buses in Delhi has gone up manifolds. “The Delhi Metro used to carry around 2.5 million passengers every day. Even if we assume the majority of them are now using their private vehicles or cabs to work, that still leaves lakhs of people who are falling back on our buses,” said Gahlot. Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology, ICMR, said the Delhi Metro, once it opens, may also face similar crowding issues. “Only around 300 people will be able to board at a time. So, crowd management at the stations will be very important. Anyone who is found wearing masks the wrong way should not be allowed to enter the metro premises and the same should be practiced even at the bus stops. It is to be seen how social distancing will be managed inside the metro. Also, the DMRC should ensure common touch points like handles inside trains are frequently sanitised. It will be easier said than done though,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rush-at-stops-defeats-distancing-in-delhi-buses/story-3kKcnggCGi5OfeyREmiqWI.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress names Gaurav Gogoi deputy leader in Lok Sabha in party rejig||The Congress on Thursday named Gaurav Gogoi its deputy leader in the Lok Sabha and formed two groups for smooth and effective coordination with lawmakers in both houses of Parliament, according to people familiar with the development. Lok Sabha member from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu was also named as one of the whips of the party in the Lok Sabha. The group for the Rajya Sabha comprises Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader Anand Sharma, party treasurer Ahmed Patel, general secretary incharge of organisation KC Venugopal, and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who has also been named the chief whip in the Upper House. Azad and Sharma are among the 23 leaders who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking, among other things, a complete overhaul of the organisation and a full-time party chief. Apart from Gogoi and Bittu, the group for the Lok Sabha will have Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, K Suresh and Manickam Tagore as its members. While Choudhary is the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Suresh is the chief whip, and Tagore and Bittu are the whips. Thursday’s decisions appear to have caused unease among the dissenters. One of the leaders, who asked not to be named, said that the move ignores two former Union ministers and “serious claimants” Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor for the deputy leader’s post in the Lok Sabha, who have also not been included in the panel. Similarly, he said including a senior leader such as Patel and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s loyalist Venugopal in the panel for the Rajya Sabha is a clear signal that the leadership has “diluted the powers” of Azad and Sharma, and wants to “keep a check” on those who wrote the letter to Sonia Gandhi. “They should have included Kapil Sibal in the Rajya Sabha group,” said the leader quoted above. The other prominent leaders among the dissenters are Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithiviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Jitin Prasada. The appointments came ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that is set to begin on September 14, and are an attempt by the Congress to strengthen its team of floor leaders in both the Houses. The deputy leader’s post had been lying vacant in the 16th Lok Sabha. Even in the 15th Lok Sabha, the party had not named any deputy leader after Captain Amarinder Singh took over as Punjab chief minister in 2017. The decisions also came three days after the stormy Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting that asked Sonia Gandhi to stay on as the party chief till a new president is elected. The CWC members also came down heavily on the 23 dissenters who had written the letter to Gandhi. On Wednesday, Sonia Gandhi had constituted a five-member committee to discuss and formulate the party’s stands on key ordinances promulgated by the central government. Apart from Ramesh and Gogoi, the panel comprised of former Union minister P Chidambaram, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh and member from Punjab Amar Singh. Ramesh will be its convener.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-names-gaurav-gogoi-deputy-leader-in-lok-sabha-in-party-rejig/story-n83W5vGeYuGqFBfsVWM2zO.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt hikes funds for border road development projects||The Union government has increased funding for border road development projects and raised the allocation for maintenance of border roads -- a development that follows a military standoff with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Eastern Ladakh sector -- as it attempts to boost infrastructure in frontier areas.Funding for road development projects in border areas has been raised from Rs 340 crore to Rs 440 core in the current financial year. The budget for maintenance of border roads has gone up from Rs 120 crore to Rs 220 crore. This is the second revision of funding for border roads in the fiscal year; in June, the ministry of road transport and highways raised the allocation for border road maintenance by four times to Rs 120 crore.The government has been trying to reinforce infrastructure in border areas. The Chinese and Indian armies have been embroiled in a tense standoff along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh sector, where a brutal brawl in the Galwan Valley on June 15 led to the deaths of 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers.According to documents reviewed by HT, the additional allocation of Rs 100 crore for “general works” to the Border Roads Organization (BRO) is for projects under the Chardham Pariyojana, aimed at improving connectivity o the four pilgrimage centres of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri in Uttrakhand.Works for the Chardham Pariyojna are being implemented by three executing agencies of the transport ministry -- the Uttarakhand State Public Works Department, BRO, and the National Highway and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL).BRO functions under the defence ministry and is tasked with construction and maintenance of roads in the border areas, classified as General Staff (GS) roads in line with defence requirements. GS roads are developed and maintained through funds provided by the Border Roads Development Board through the ministry of road transport and highways.Strategic affairs analyst Brahma Chellaney said, “This raises two issues—one, given that the construction of any border road takes several years because of the treacherous terrain, why are authorities waking up to the need for increased funding in the midst of China’s aggression? And second, even with the increased allocations, the budget seems inadequate to build the kind of border infrastructure India needs to defend itself.”In June, the transport ministry had allocated Rs 1,691 crore for highway development by BRO in Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand for 2020-21. Of this, Rs 1,351 crore was sanctioned for road works in J&K and Rs 340 crore for Uttarakhand. The transport ministry also allocated an additional Rs 71 crore for highway works in Ladakh, Sikkim and Tamil Nadu.This time around, the ministry has also increased the allocation for roads in the Northeast under its road development programme from Rs 290 crore to Rs 390 crore.The allocation to the regional offices of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh has increased from Rs 140 crore and Rs 150 crore, respectively to Rs 190 crore and Rs 200 crore, taking the total funding for incurring expenditure on the Special Accelerated Road Development Programme for North East (SARDP-NE) in the financial year 2020-21 to Rs 390 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hikes-funds-for-border-road-development-projects/story-ZzYhEYIUCsNxjd1aeA1xFI.html
28-08-2020||India||PM Modi for self-reliance in defence production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India has the potential to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly foreign countries, strengthen its strategic partnerships and consolidate its role as a net security provider in the Indian Ocean as it takes strides towards self-reliance in the defence sector.Speaking at a seminar on self-reliance in defence, the PM said the government’s resolve for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ was not “inward-looking” but aimed at making the global economy “resilient and strong” as well as promoting world peace.The Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the defence ministry’s defence production department jointly organised the online seminar.There was no mention of the PM’s address in the line-up of events circulated before the seminar. In the surprise appearance, he spoke for 18 minutes, touching upon different aspects of self-reliance in the defence sector, the role of the domestic industry, steps taken by the government to transform India into a global hub for defence manufacturing and reforms towards ease of doing business.Enumerating the measures taken by the government for self-reliance in the defence sector — from creating a separate budget for the purchase of locally produced military hardware to notifying a negative import list and raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit — the PM said the domestic industry could look forward to more orders in the coming times as a result of initiatives taken to boost self-reliance.Earlier this month, the government announced a separate budgetary outlay of ~52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement and came out with a negative import list. In a significant step on the long road towards self-reliance in defence, India on August 9 announced it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years — from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles.Modi said more defence items would be progressively added to the negative import list to encourage the domestic industry. The government is likely to notify a second negative import list early next year. “We have to collectively achieve the target of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is a win-win situation for everyone including the public sector, private sector and foreign companies. The government is committed to providing a better eco-system for this,” he said.The PM said it was the best option for India’s foreign partners to start production in the country looking at its market size. He said the country’s focus was on a co-production model involving joint ventures with foreign partners.“We are witnessing a new mindset in the defence sector. For a modern and Atmanirbhar Bharat, self-confidence in the defence sector is very important,” he said, adding that the government’s focus was on cutting red tape and rolling out the red carpet for the industry.The PM said that it was no secret that India was one of the biggest arms importers in the world but things were changing and the government had taken several steps to unshackle the defence sector during the last few years.India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the United States and China, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) said in a report released in April.Imports account for 60-65% of the country’s military requirements and it has signed contracts worth billions of dollars during the last decade for weapons and systems including fighter jets, air defence missile systems, submarine hunter planes, attack helicopters, heavy-lift choppers and lightweight howitzers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-for-self-reliance-in-defence-production/story-viCBIDsxSWJg2CYOdDBi1I.html
28-08-2020||India||Contempt notices to Army and PWD over damage to trees along Ring Road||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued contempt notices to different Army officials and the public works department (PWD) over alleged damage to at least 45 full-grown trees along Ring Road in Dhaula Kuan during the construction of a boundary wall near Delhi Cantonment.The notice was issued to the secretary, Army Environmental Park and Training Area (AEPTA), commandant, Rajputana Rifles Regiment Centre (RRRC), General Officer Commanding (GOC) Station Area and engineer-in-chief of the Public Works Department (PWD).The construction was being carried out by the Station Area (HQs) in the tree line along the periphery of RRRC and AEPTA, while the violated green patch is under PWD’s jurisdiction.The PWD and the Delhi forest department had earlier this month issued notices to the Army Station Headquarters for the alleged damage to the trees. The deputy conservator of forest (west) had also issued a restraining order on August 26, asking the Army to stop work. The court directed the principal chief conservator of forests, Delhi government, to submit a status report in the matter before the next date of hearing.The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by a green activist, who had initially complained to the Delhi forest department and the PWD about the violations. The plea pointed at the violation of the court’s and the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders prohibiting any kind of construction activity within one-metre radius of a tree trunk.A senior PWD official on condition of anonymity, said, “We have not received the notice so far. We will be in a position to comment only when we see the order.”Indian Army spokesperson, Colonel Aman Anand, who denied any damage, said, “Our response to the Hon’ble Court’s Order will be filed once it is received and studied.” Forest officials had earlier said the trenching work for the boundary wall started from the Sawai Man Singh Dwar and goes up to the training area . The stretch is under PWD, which had served a ‘cease and desist’ notice to the General Officer Commanding of the station area on August 20. “Trenching activity within one-metre radius of a tree trunk is a violation of National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order as well as of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. It was found that during the trenching work, a total of 45 trees were damaged. The GOC is requested to stop the work in the tree line,” it said. The notice says full-grown varieties such as gular, semal, bargad, shehtut, neem and peepal were damaged. Another report by the Delhi forest department based on an inspection on August 7 said 27 trees had been “damaged/felled”. “In case of most trees, the roots have been exposed...The trees are located in a line in front of Metro pillar number 45 to pillar number 79,” the report said.When HT visited the spot on Tuesday, work was on. Deep trenches of about 5-6 feet were dug up. A portion had been cleared of trees and levelled with earth. Colonel Anand said a wall was being repaired on certified A1 defence land. “The scope involves recasting of plinth in the existing wall along with raising of height of wall at identified places for augmenting security of army area. The work pertains to repair of an ‘existing asset’ and does not involves fresh construction....neither any trees have been damaged in the process and nor any intent for such an act exists within this organisation”. C R Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at DU, said roadside trees and vegetation act as a filter against air pollution. “Trees such as gular, bargad, semal and peepal have a high dust-trapping efficiency... Trenching destroys the root system of the trees...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-contempt-notice-to-army-pwd-over-damage-to-trees/story-jKA1yBVtsyO8r2INzLTABL.html
28-08-2020||India||Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reforms||Uncertainty over leadership has weakened the Congress and demoralised its workers, the controversial letter written by 23 leaders to party president Sonia Gandhi on August 7 said, warning the high command of erosion in its support base with the desertion of functionaries across states.The letter, snatches of which were first reported on Sunday, outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation, called for an introspection of the reasons behind the party’s “steady decline”, and appealed to the Congress to take the initiative for the formation of a “national coalition of democratic and secular forces” against the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Even after 14 months of the 2019 electoral verdict, the Congress Party has not undertaken any honest introspection to analyse the reasons for its continued decline,” said the letter, of which HT has a copy. Also Read: Congress seniors demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than Modi-Shah, BJP: Shiv SenaAlso Read: ‘Unfortunate’ that Jitin Prasada is being targeted in UP, tweets Kapil SibalThe Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, was not guiding the organisation effectively in building public opinion against the BJP, according to the letter. The “institutional process of merit-based and consensus-backed” selection had been disrupted, it added. The letter, considered critical of the high command, sparked a heated discussion at a CWC meeting on Monday with Congress leaders mounting an offensive on the signatories. Just four of the 23 signatories — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada — are part of the 52-member CWC. After a seven-hour, high-decibel debate at the CWC meeting, the party authorised Sonia Gandhi to effect any necessary organisation changes, and reaffirmed its faith in her and her son Rahul Gandhi. Also Read: Sonia Gandhi names leaders in Parliament; Ghulam Nabi Azad retains spotOn August 10, 2019, CWC named Sonia Gandhi the party’s interim chief after Rahul Gandhi, who preceded her as the Congress president, turned down calls to withdraw his resignation in the wake of the 2019 Lok Sabha election rout. “We have witnessed a steady decline of the Congress Party reflected in successive electoral verdicts in States and General Elections in 2014 and 2019. Reasons are manifold and need to be immediately identified. Otherwise, the Congress Party will find itself marginalized, both in the States, which is already apparent, as well as at the national level,” the letter said. “The uncertainty over the leadership and the drift has demoralised the Congress workers and further weakened the Party...,” it added.At the same time, the letter-writers acknowledged the role of the Nehru-Gandhi family to make the Congress a formidable force in Indian politics. “We acknowledge the resolute struggle, the visionary leadership and notable contribution of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. His enduring legacy will always remain a source of guidance and inspiration for the Congress party. The Nehru-Gandhi family will always remain an integral part of the collective leadership of the Congress party,” the letter said, while also appreciating the leadership of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-dissenters-letter-outlines-11-point-agenda-for-internal-reforms/story-wE4ql871hFI0YSV9zWiG9O.html
28-08-2020||India||4 prisoners undergoing Covid treatment escape from Hyderabad hospital||Four prisoners undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at state-run Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad escaped from the hospital ward in the early hours of Thursday, the police said.The escaped prisoners were: M Javeed and Mohammad Abdul Arbaz, both undertrials in separate theft cases and P Narasimha and B Chander, who were convicted in connection with the property offences.Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Kamleshwar Shingenavar said six special teams were formed to launch a manhunt for the four prisoners. “All efforts are being made to arrest them and we are confident of tracing them soon,” he said.The four prisoners, who were lodged in Cherlapally central jail, were initially taken to the Government Chest Hospital, Erragadda, after they showed symptoms of Covid-19. After they tested positive for the virus, they were shifted to Gandhi Hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19 for treatment. According to the police, the four prisoners were put up at the exclusive ward for prisoners at the second floor of Gandhi Hospital. “Because of the pandemic, the escort police personnel had to be posted outside the ward. Taking advantage of the situation, the four prisoners broke open the iron grille of the bathroom and climbed down to the ground to escape,” the police said.Following an alert from the other inmates of the ward, the escort police informed the Chilakalaguda police who rushed there to launch a search for the accused. The police cordoned off the entire hospital premises and conducted a room-to-room search.“We are also examining the footage of CCTV cameras inside and outside the hospital to find out which route they had escaped,” a police official said, adding that they might be hiding somewhere within the city.Cherlapalli jail superintendent Sampath Kumar said so far the accused could not be tracked. “We hope to get some breakthrough on Friday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-prisoners-undergoing-covid-treatment-escape-from-hyderabad-hospital/story-iTri3oUEqNLg66YG90qhaL.html
28-08-2020||India||22 Opposition parties may meet to chalk out plan to corner govt||In a show of unity when the political odds are weighed heavily against them, 22 opposition parties are likely to meet soon to chalk out a plan for a united “people’s movement” against the Narendra Modi government. The meeting—most likely to take place online—will be held before Parliament’s monsoon session begins on September 14. according to opposition leaders involved in planning the event. A similar meeting took place on May 22 in which the parties were critical of the Modi government’s decision to impose a nationwide lockdown in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, called the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package a “cruel joke” on the country and how under the current regime, “the spirit of federalism is all but forgotten”. Also Read: Congress dissenters’ letter outlines 11-point agenda for internal reformsThe upcoming meeting is expected to chalk out a plan to launch a campaign espousing key issues, keeping in mind keeping in mind Covid-19 related restrictions. The leaders have identified the government’s “failure in both containing the pandemic and providing relief,” the need to “protect the constitutional order which is being eroded” and the need to give “immediate relief to people” in the backdrop of economic troubles, the leaders cited above said. The parties will also discuss how the Centre and its agencies “acted with bias” in the February communal violence in Delhi violence that left 53 people dead and how “any voice of dissent is dubbed anti-national, invoking sedition or UAPA provisions,” the leaders involved in the planning said. UAPA is short for the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act .The Congress, or the largest opposition party, will be at the centre-stage of this programme that will also try to showcase united protests. According to one opposition leader involved in the planning, “We wanted to hold it in August but the Congress managers told us they are preoccupied in the Rajasthan crisis. Then, they wanted time till the CWC {Congress Working Committee} meeting gets over. Now, we are trying to talk to each other to decide on a suitable date.” Also Read: Congress seniors demoralised Rahul Gandhi more than Modi-Shah, BJP: Shiv SenaApart from top leaders of the Congress, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena, his West Bengal and Jharkhand counterparts Mamata Banerjee and Hemant Soren, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s MK Stalin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) chief Sitaram Yechury, and leaders of the Communist Party of India, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Indian Union Muslim League, National Conference, All India United Democratic Front and Rashtriya Janata Dal are expected to join the meeting. Smaller parties such as Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), Revolutionary Socialist Party, Forward Bloc, Kerala Congress (Mani), Swabhiman Paksh, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Telangana Jana Samithi will also be invited. The meeting may also set the agenda of the Opposition for Parliament’s monsoon session, but the main topic of discussion is a larger fight against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) regime. As Covid-related restrictions also include a ban on big political congregations, the parties will have to settle for an online campaign and hold small demonstrations to reach out to their supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-oppn-parties-may-meet-to-chalk-out-plan-to-corner-govt/story-1X1khkQCB6wYrHK2jxcX4M.html
28-08-2020||India||In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest deals||Wealthy countries have leapfrogged the rest of the world in striking supply deals with the manufacturers of some Covid-19 vaccine candidates, according to a report by Nature that said low- and middle-income countries such as India could find themselves in a longer waiting list for shots for their populations.There are 31 vaccine candidates in human trials, according to the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Draft Landscape compilation. The front runners from among these are candidates by Oxford/AstraZeneca (UK), Moderna (US), Pfizer/BioNTech (Germany) and Johnson & Johnson. The United States has secured 800 million doses from six manufacturers, UK has purchased 340 million, and the European Union nations and Japan have struck deals for hundreds of millions, the report said, citing data from scientific information and analytics firm Airfinity.While developed economies have already committed an undisclosed amount of money as upfront payment for the producers, developing nations are likely to need to depend on an international effort led by WHO called Covax. In the case of the Oxford vaccine, which is largely considered the one at the most advanced stage of testing and thus possibly the first to reach conclusive results, almost 2.4 billion doses have been purchased by various countries (including an international effort involving developing nations). This 2.4 billion is of the 2.94 billion supply capacity estimated till 2021, according to the report published on August 24.In India’s case, however, vaccine supplies may be helped by the fact that some of the world’s biggest vaccine-makers are based in the country. Officials of Serum Institute of India (SII) have indicated at least half of their promised deliveries by the end of the year may be kept aside for India, and that the government could invoke further emergency clauses to secure more doses.Covax involves Geneva-based funder of vaccines called Gavi and CEPI and it aims to secure 2 billion doses. Of these, one billion are for 92 low- and middle-income countries (LMICS), which encompass half the world’s population. The vaccines will cost these regions little or nothing. The other billion is for up to 75 wealthier countries, who will pay for their own vaccines, the Nature reported.WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a briefing on August 18 that the world must prevent “vaccine nationalism”. Nature quoted Mark Feinberg, the head of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative in New York: “We’re not going to get rid of the pandemic until we get rid of it everywhere”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-race-for-vaccines-rich-nations-bag-biggest-deals/story-2ZRanZ7KLv40CKNokMUF2N.html
28-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: Vaccine coverage of at least 50% needed||A vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) needs to be administered to at least 50% of the population, even if it has 100% efficacy, to break the chain of infection and avert the peak of the pandemic, a new study has found. The multi-author study, conducted by scientists in the US and published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, flags vaccine coverage and vaccine efficacy as the two key parameters to watch in setting a disease-prevention policy.Vaccine overage refers to the percentage of the population administered the vaccine. Vaccine efficacy is the percentage reduction in disease incidence in a vaccinated group compared to an unvaccinated group.Also Read: In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest dealsSome are pushing for the introduction of a vaccine as quickly as possible so that life can return to normal. “However, we have to set appropriate expectations. Just because a vaccine comes out doesn’t mean you can go back to life as it was before the pandemic,” said lead investigator Bruce Y Lee at the City University of New York. “It is important to remember that a vaccine is like many other products -- what matters is not just that a product is available, but also how effective it is.”The study found the vaccine has to have an efficacy of at least 70% to prevent an epidemic and of at least 80% to largely extinguish an epidemic without any other measures.Also Read: Clinical trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune, 2 get first shotVaccine efficacy has to be at least 60% (when it prevents infection) to reduce the peak by >99% (i.e., number of new cases daily doesn’t exceed the initial number of cases on the day the vaccine is given) when the reproduction number is 2.5 and vaccination coverage is 100%. This vaccine efficacy threshold rises to 70% when coverage drops to 75% and up to 80% when coverage drops to 60%. “When coverage drops to 50%, it is no longer possible to eliminate the peak, even when vaccine efficacy is 100%,” the study said. As of August 25, there were 173 Covid vaccine candidates across the world in various stages of clinical trials, according to the World Health Organization’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. The US, UK and the European Union block have made deals worth billions of dollars with companies such as AstraZeneca Plc, Moderna Ploc and Novovax Inc.India has not pledged money to any vaccine candidate but has set up an expert panel to look into procurement. The country has two vaccine candidates undergoing trials while a third – the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate – is set to be produced by the Serum Institute of India.But questions of vaccine coverage and efficacy continue to dog experts and policymakers, especially in countries where poverty and lack of infrastructure make administering vaccine doses a challenge, or where active anti-vaccine groups spread misinformation.Certain vulnerable demographics – especially from marginalised communities – can be at a further disadvantage.“To boost vaccination rates, both long-term and short-term interventions are needed,” said Brandon Yan at the University of California, San Francisco. “We need a concerted public health campaign that includes public health officials, health care providers and local communities, and reaches those groups most at risk for not getting vaccinated. And we need a proactive primary care outreach strategy to address patient concerns and provide information on how and where to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-race-for-vaccines-rich-nations-bag-biggest-deals/story-9xmvFWNCGTwGpdTODXl2BJ.html
28-08-2020||India||Abbott antigen kit gets US nod, no India plan||The US multinational Abbott on Thursday announced that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved its rapid antigen kit to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). However, the company does not have any immediate plans to launch the kit in India.“As of now the test is launched only in the US,” said a company representative to HT.The kit gives results in 15 minutes, with a sensitivity (ability to detect true positives) of 97.1% and specificity (ability to detect true negatives) of 98.5% in clinical studies, making it a more accurate antigen-based test available in the market. The test costs $5.In June, Abbott had launched its laboratory-based serology blood test for the detection of the antibody, IgG (Immunoglobulin G), that identifies if a person has had past exposure to SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in India. The kits are being in used government and private hospitals and labs in Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Gujarat, the company had said in a statement.ICMR has approved Abbott’s CLIA (Chemiluminescence immunoassay) antibody tests that are technologically advanced.Experts using these kits say this technology is more accurate than the rapid antibody test kits. “CLIA is a technologically more advanced platform, which is why the result is also more accurate. These kits are giving satisfactory results,” said a lab in-charge for Covid-19 testing in Delhi, requesting anonymity.Due to its moderate sensitivity, experts in India have been critical of antigen-based testing. The data made public by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on the first kit independently evaluated by its lab in National Institute of Virology in Pune, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, found sensitivity ranging from 50.6% to 84%, and specificity of 99.3 to 100% at the two sites. Currently, between 30-40% of Covid-19 tests in India are performed using rapid antigen kits.“The low sensitivity of the test is the reason why it is suited more as a screening test rather than a confirmatory test. However, since positives are confirmed positives it can be deployed where mass testing is required, especially in containment zones, and the negatives can be re-tested using RT-PCR, which is the gold standard. However, if the sensitivity of the test is increased then chances are higher of the result being more accurate and can work well with an RT-PCR test,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is the gold standard for covid-19 diagnosis, but antigen-based testing is currently being used to supplement the testing process for diagnosis as it also helps determine the current infection in a shorter duration, without the need for a sophisticated laboratory and at a lower price as compared to RT-PCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abbott-antigen-kit-gets-us-nod-no-india-plan/story-lJT1NRQEShdFMFCk20CuyH.html
28-08-2020||India||ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in September||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun the second round of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sero survey to determine how many more Indians have been exposed to the infection since the first such exercise was conducted in May during the nationwide lockdown.The results of the sero survey to detect the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the general population are expected by September-end. The first sero survey, which was conducted by ICMR along with National Centre for Disease Control, state health departments and the World Health Organisation (WHO) had shown pan-India prevalence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, at 0.73%.Also Read: Vaccine coverage of at least 50% neededClose to 24,000 samples will be collected and tested from the same 69 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first sero survey. The sampling has already begun, with many states finishing sample collection and the others in various stages of completing the process. “We have from ICMR embarked on the second national serosurvey, and it is also a work in progress, and should be completed, hopefully, by the first week of September...Most of the sero surveys are looking at antibodies, and other details like neutralizing antibodies, T-cell responses etc. are not being studied in these large sero surveys,” said ICMR director general Balram Bhargava. The blood samples for the sero survey will be tested for the presence of Immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies against Sars-CoV2. Also Read: In race for vaccines, rich nations bag biggest dealsSero surveys are important also to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage “This Phase II sero survey is a follow up of the first survey, and the process is a repeat of what was done in May when movement of people was restricted. We have to see how much difference has lifting of lockdown made to the disease prevalence in the country. Same areas/clusters will be covered this time also, but samples will be lifted of different people,” said an official from ICMR, requesting not to be identified. ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai is the nodal agency to oversee the survey and will be processing samples, and analyzing the results. Like in the previous exercise, this survey is designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more from 21 states, wherein the districts were categorized into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population (zero, low: 0.1-4.7, medium: 4.8-10 and high: >10). The focus, say some experts, must not be merely on detecting antibodies in the population. “Even if you get to know people have developed antibodies, it is not good enough; what is important is to know the quality of antibodies and to determine whether people will get immunity against the disease in the long run or not,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-starts-second-all-india-sero-survey-results-in-sept/story-Pkx4C7Cet8sXyEWOrhNRYK.html
28-08-2020||India||Terminal for private jets at IGI airport ready, security nod awaited||India’s first general aviation terminal for private jets — set to open at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport last month — has been ready for use for at least a month, but is still waiting for security approvals before it can become operational, according to three people familiar with the matter.The facility is designed to ensure faster turnaround of business jets and chartered planes, shielding them from the clutter of general passenger terminals, where they now compete for taxiing slots with commercial flights.Two senior officers from the ministry of civil aviation, who asked not to be named, confirmed that the facility was ready for use in terms of infrastructure and other facilities, but was awaiting some security clearances from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS).A Delhi airport official said the terminal — it was tentatively due to be inaugurated on July 24 — is complete, but will be operationalised “as and when the government gives its approval”.Usha Padhee, joint secretary in the ministry of civil aviation, has additional charge as director-general, BCAS, after the previous incumbent, IPS officer Rakesh Asthana, was posted as director-general of the Border Security Force (BSF) on August 17. Padhee could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Calls, text messages, and an e-mail sent to her seeking a response remained unanswered. A BCAS official, who did not wish to be named, said any development at any airport in India requires security approval from the BCAS. The official, however, did not comment on the approvals pending regarding the new general aviation terminal.The terminal was built at a cost of Rs150 crore over one-and-a-half years by Bird ExecuJet Airport Services Private Limited, a joint venture between Bird Group and ExecuJet Aviation Group, an international business aviation company based at Zurich Airport in Switzerland.It has been designed to have parking space for a maximum 65 jets of all sizes, and has the capacity to handle a maximum of 150 business jet movements a day, the third official cited above said.Before the national lockdown was imposed in March, around 1,300 scheduled flights operated from Delhi airport every day, apart from an additional 40-50 small non-scheduled chartered or private planes.“Though the new terminal will be commissioned as an interim facility it will be equipped with state-of-the-art features and facilities including world class passenger lounges, retail, food and beverage [outlets] etc., DIAL had said in a statement in response to queries from Hindustan Times about the new terminal last month. Private aircraft will still have to compete for take-off and landing slots with commercial flights, and another official from Delhi airport said that the new terminal will cut time . “Runway 29/11 -- the largest in Delhi -- is closer to the new terminal, and this will make taxiing time of these private aircraft significantly shorter,” he said, adding that the shorter distance between the terminal building and flight boarding point will also make the process of boarding quicker and less cumbersome.Several VIPs and business travellers prefer to use private jets, and all their aircraft movements currently take place from Terminal 1, which was operating beyond capacity and undergoing expansion before the lockdown.Kanika Tekriwal, CEO & founder, JetSetGo Aviation, a private charter operater, said they are extremely excited and eagerly looking forward for the inauguration of aviation terminal for private jets at Delhi Airport. “The terminal will bring ease to flying operations at large,” said Tekriwal.Captain Archit Gupta, CEO, Atom Aviation, a Delhi-based private jets service provider, said they are also very excited about new general aviation terminal coming up in Delhi. Aviation expert Kapil Kaul said the pending approvals may be some last mile issues related to regulatory clearances. The new general aviation terminal, otherwise, is ready for commercial operations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terminal-for-private-jets-at-igi-airport-ready-security-nod-awaited/story-NL5KaDmm6cpAvrDY98lMVI.html
28-08-2020||India||Punish Mumbai and Pulwama plotters, shared enough proof: India to Pak||India on Thursday demanded Pakistan should prosecute the perpetrators of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and 2008 Mumbai carnage, saying the main accused in last year’s suicide bombing – Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar – continues to be sheltered by Islamabad. New Delhi also called on Islamabad to act against UN-designated terrorists such as Dawood Ibrahim, saying Pakistan’s assertion that its actions to enforce the global body’s sanctions doesn’t mean it admits to the presence of such individuals on its territory reflects its “insincerity” in tracking down global terrorists operating from Pakistani soil. India’s response to Pakistan’s rejection of the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) chargesheet in the Pulwama terror attack was outlined during a weekly news briefing by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, who said Islamabad was evading its responsibility even after New Delhi had shared “enough evidence” on the suicide bombing. The chargesheet filed by the NIA in a court in Jammu on Tuesday named Masood Azhar, his two brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar Alvi and Ammar Alvi, his nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq and 15 others who carried out the bombing at Pakistan’s behest. The attack killed 40 Indian troopers and triggered a brief stand-off between the two countries. Pakistan rejected the chargesheet on Wednesday, contending it contained fabrications to further the Indian government’s “anti-Pakistan rhetoric and its narrow domestic political interests”. It also said the Indian side had failed to respond to two requests for further information on the terror attack. Responding to a question on whether India will share further information with Pakistan on the attack, Srivastava said: “Jaish-e-Mohammed had claimed the responsibility of the Pulwama attack. The organisation and its leadership are in Pakistan. It is regrettable that Masood Azhar, the first accused in the chargesheet continues to find shelter in Pakistan.” He added, “Enough evidence has been shared with Pakistan but it continues to evade responsibility.” The chargesheet, Srivastava said, was filed after an investigation lasting a year-and-a-half since the attack on February 14 last year. “It has been filed to address the act of terrorism and to bring perpetrators of such a heinous crime to justice. Our aim is not to simply issue statements or notifications,” he said. Srivastava also pointed out that Pakistan was yet to take “any credible action” against perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008, which claimed 166 lives, including 25 foreign nationals. The Mumbai attacks were carried out by a 10-member team of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Pakistani security agencies arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rahman Lakhvi, in the weeks after the attack but their trial has made little headway even after scores of hearings. Lakhvi was released on bail in 2015 and his current whereabouts are unknown. Pakistan also recently issued two statutory regulatory orders (SROs) to enforce UN Security Council sanctions on hundreds of terrorist individuals and entities, including Masood Azhar, LeT founder Hafiz Saeed and Dawood Ibrahim ahead of an expected assessment of its counter-terror financing actions by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). One of the orders listed three addresses in Karachi for Ibrahim, though Pakistan has long denied the mob boss’ presence in the country. After the matter was widely reported in the Indian media, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement the SROs didn’t amount to “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory”. Asked about this matter, Srivastava said: “Pakistan’s assertion that the SRO does not mean that it admits to the presence of listed individuals on its territory or that it would impose any new measures on these listed individuals, lays bare the insincerity of Pakistan in responding to legitimate expectations of the world that they will track down international terrorists based on its soil.” Pakistan, he said, has “not only maintained its opposition to this international consensus but it has also chosen not to act against” the terrorists. “Pakistan has never taken any credible and verifiable action against terror entities or listed individuals, including the most wanted ones,” he added. Srivastava said the denial by Pakistan’s Foreign Office “calls into question their intentions and it would not mislead the world community in believing its propaganda”. He added, “Pakistan must take credible action and ensure that the listed individuals are prosecuted.” Ibrahim, wanted by India for his role in the 1993 Mumbai bombings, has regularly featured in lists of wanted terrorists and dossiers provided by India to Pakistan. In response to another question, Srivastava reiterated that Pakistan’s envoy to the UN had issued a statement on August 24 about addressing a Security Council meeting on Monday on threats to international peace and security from terrorism that subsequently turned out to be untrue. “The briefing and discussions at this UNSC meeting were confined to members only and we had sought clarification from the Indonesian chair, who informally confirmed to us that there was no scope for any non-member to speak in this discussion. Our permanent mission to the UN has clearly rebutted all allegations made by Pakistan in this statement,” he said. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it is important for the Indian government to keep highlighting the issue of terrorism emanating from Pakistan even if such assertions hadn’t resulted in any change in the neighbouring country’s behaviour. “The statement on Pulwama may be more for domestic consumption since cross-border terrorism remains an emotional issue. Not to highlight it could be seen as some sort of acquiescence on the issue, and no Indian government, least of all a BJP government, will want a charge like that levelled against it. But highlighting it also shows India is still pursuing the issue and this is important from the domestic and international perspective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punish-mumbai-and-pulwama-plotters-shared-enough-proof-india-to-pak/story-WDknCG1QltRHXiZi6VVJ0M.html
28-08-2020||India||‘Jammu and Kashmir, 9 states account for 89% of Covid-19 deaths’: Govt||Nine states and a Union territory have been told by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to ramp up testing and tracing to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic effectively as they accounted for 89 percent of the fatalities in the last two weeks. Gauba, along with the union health secretary, held a video-conference with the chief secretaries and health secretaries of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to assess the situation in the states. According to the press information bureau, these states account for 89 percent of the deaths in the last two weeks. “Union Health Secretary made a detailed presentation on the current status of Covid-19 in these States/UT, with a focus on districts reporting high case fatality and the need to refine as well as strengthen approach and strategies relating to testing, contact tracing, surveillance, containment, home isolation, availability of ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen, treatment protocols,” said a statement issued by the press information bureau. India reported over 75,000 cases on Wednesday in a highest single-day spike. Also read: Covid-19 ‘Act of God’, may result in contraction of economy - Nirmala SitharamanThe cabinet secretary has advised the states to initiate ‘effective containment, contact tracing and surveillance’. They have further been told to ensure that at least in 80 percent of new positive cases, all close contacts should be traced and tested with 72 hours.The states have also been asked to ensure 140 tests per million per day in districts while targeting positivity in containment zones at a rate of greater than 5 percent. They have also been asked to share information on the availability of beds and ambulances in the public domain and monitor week-wise fatality rates for each health facility with a focus on vulnerable patients.“The Chief Secretaries explained about the current situation in the States/UT and their preparedness to tackle the spread of Covid-19, health infrastructure available to meet the challenge and steps taken to strengthen it further. States/UT also highlighted steps taken towards reducing case fatality as well as involving the community in terms of Covid safe behaviour,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-9-states-account-for-89-of-covid-19-fatalities-govt/story-n89PcBdMW1SnYfHeo1KuOM.html
28-08-2020||India||Govt to clear $2 billion deal for Israeli-made AWACS amid stand-off with China||Spurred by the stand-off with People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh, the Narendra Modi government is all set to clear acquisition of two PHALCON airborne warning and control systems (AWACS) as early as next week. India has three PHALCON AWACS with a 360 degree rotodome mounted on top of the aircraft and two DRDO-built AWACS with 240 degree rotodome. China has 28 AWACS and Pakistan has seven for directing the air battle in the worst case scenario.While the government is tight-lipped about the entire process, the acquisition was given a final official go last week and has been put up before the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS). This is the second time it has reached the CCS. The last time, the CCS sent the proposal back to National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and sought some clarifications.The PHALCON radar is going to cost about $1 billion with another $1 billion going towards the purchase of the platform, in this case Russian A-50 aircraft. The radar and the platform will be integrated in Israel. It will take about two to three years for the delivery of the complete system.Also Watch | ‘Precious friend India’: Israel-UP govt sign deal for ‘flagship’ water projectThe need for more AWACS was first felt during the Pakistani aerial dogfight after the February 26 Balakot strike by the Indian Air Force. While Pakistan was flying two Swedish made AWACS round the clock to detect and repel any intrusion into its air space, the IAF was, at times vulnerable due to the limitation of its resources. The requirement for more AWACS or eyes in the sky were felt after the PLA unilateral aggression in East Ladakh and their reluctance to restore status quo ante even after the Special Representatives on both sides agreed to both dis-engagement and de-escalation.Apart from this the Modi government has decided to push road connectivity towards the Daulat Beg Oldie sector with the Border Roads Organization asking permission of the Ministry of Home Affairs to cut a road over the glaciated Saser La to link up DBO with Sansoma via Murgo as an alternative to the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road.The BRO has already built the road from Murgo to Saser Brangsa, which sits on the mouth of the Saser La. Even though Saser La is a glaciated moraine, the BRO has the ability to build a road over it for the present and a tunnel under the permafrost in the future. Once the road is built, it will allow Indian Army to rapidly move troops from the Siachen sector into Sub-Sector North depending on the requirement. Sansoma, on the banks of Nubra River is an important logistics base for the Siachen Glacier troop deployments.Apart from the high-value AWACS, the Indian Army is also acquiring 200 tactical drones for its battalion commanders so that the immediate battle theatre is transparent. This drones has been developed locally in collaboration with the DRDO and has undergone trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-clear-2-billion-deal-for-israeli-made-awacs-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-1JtIBkloVbKLRIO7rPG16K.html
28-08-2020||India||7-judge bench to reconsider 2004 order on SC/ST categorisation||Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities don’t constitute a homogenous group and can be further sub-classified to ensure the benefits of reservation in government jobs and higher education institutions percolate down to weaker sections, the Supreme Court observed on Thursday in a ruling that may have far-reaching political ramifications.In the ruling likely to reignite the debate on application of the so-called creamy layer principle to SC/STs, a five-judge Constitution bench headed by justice Arun Mishra said there are unequals within SC/ST groups, necessitating their sub- classification, which state governments are entitled to do. The bench also called for review of a past top court ruling that SCs and STs were homogenous communities.“In case benefit which is meant for the emancipation of all the castes, included in the list of Scheduled Castes, is permitted to be usurped by a few castes, those who are adequately represented, have advanced and belonged to the creamy layer, then it would tantamount to creating inequality whereas in case of hunger every person is required to be fed and provided bread. The entire basket of fruits cannot be given to mighty at the cost of others under the guise of forming a homogenous class,” the bench observed. Also Read: The Supreme Court’s jurisprudence on reservations has gaps | OpinionThe bench also said reservation for weaker sections was not contemplated by the Constitution makers in perpetuity and the constitutional goal of social transformation cannot be achieved without taking into account changing social realities. Creamy layer is a term used to describe better-off individuals among Other Backward Classes (OBCs) who are ineligible for reservations. Households with annual income above Rs 8 lakh fall under creamy layer. SCs have a 15% quota and STs a 7.5% quota in government jobs and university seats. OBCs have a 27% quota.Governments have been against extending this principle to quotas for SCs and STs on the grounds that they have been socially disadvantaged and backward for centuries and application of the creamy layer principle to them will defeat the object of reservation.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party declined to comment. The Congress said it was studying it.Also Read: No obligation on government to provide reservation, says Supreme Court“Supreme Court judgments are ultimately binding on us but subject to prescribed method of reviews and reconsideration. As of now, even the ink has not dried and therefore we are studying the judgment as it deals with a major social issue. Only after we finish reading what the apex court has said will we be able to formulate our views.” said the Congress’s Abhishek Singhvi. .Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Brinda Karat said: “We are against applying creamy layer to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes which would mean that some sections of these communities would be deprived of affirmative action. So we oppose these comments of the SC on applying creamy layer to SCs and STs. However. within the reservations there is already some sub-reservations, for example in tribal areas in Rajasthan; within the quota there is a specific quota for Bhils who form the majority. In Telangana, there is an issue between hill tribes and plains tribes. So it depends on the concrete situation in each state. This has not been taken into account by the Supreme Court.”.Attorney general KK Venugopal argued in 2019 against application of the creamy layer principle to SC/STs during the hearing of a plea by a non-government organisation (NGO) before the Supreme Court seeking exclusion of creamy layer among SC/STs from reservation benefits.The top court will now re-examine its 2004 judgment in E V Chinnaiah v. State of Andhra Pradesh in which it was held that SC/STs form a homogenous class and cannot be further sub-classified for reservations.“Chinnaiah is required to be revisited by a larger Bench; more so, in view of further development and the amendment of the Constitution, which have taken place,” the bench, which also comprised justice Indira Banerjee, MR Shah, Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose, said .Since the Chinnaiah case was also decided by a bench of five judges, the court directed that the matter be placed before Chief Justice of India SA Bobde to constitute a bench of seven or more judges to hear the case.The case, State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh, stemmed from a law enacted by the Punjab government in 2006 requiring 50% of vacancies in the quota for SCs in recruitment to be filled by the members of the Balmiki community and 50% by those from the Mazhbi communitySection 4(5) of the Punjab Scheduled Caste and Backward Class Reservation in Service Act, which stipulated this condition, was challenged before the Punjab & Haryana high court by a person belonging to Shikriband caste, which is also classified as SC.The high court ruled that section 4(5) was unconstitutional and contrary to the Chinnaiah judgment. When the case came up in appeal before the Supreme Court, a three-judge bench in August 2014 referred the matter to a Constitution bench. A major argument raised on behalf of the Punjab government was that the Chinnaiah verdict erroneously proceeded on the premise that reservation given by states by extending preference to certain SCs tinkers with the Presidential List under Article 341 of the Constitution.The Presidential List specifies the castes, races or tribes which are considered SCs. However, the apex court held that only inclusion or exclusion in the Presidential list is by Parliament and there is no bar on states taking further affirmative action . “It cannot be said to be violative of the list under Article 341 and 342A as no enlisted caste is denied the benefit of reservation. In the federal structure, the State, as well as the Parliament have a constitutional directive for the upliftment of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-judge-sc-bench-to-decide-on-sub-classification-of-sc-sts/story-xTqDbYgOKwhVEm0Z4grSrN.html
