29-08-2020||India||BJP chief Nadda preps for Bihar assembly polls, asks MPs to reach out to voters||Setting the stage for electioneering for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, BJP chief JP Nadda on Saturday instructed party leaders who are Members of Parliament to prepare for sampark or outreach across the state, covering every booth. He also reiterated that the MPs will have to ensure not only the victory of the BJP candidates but of those of the allies as well. According to party functionaries aware of the details, September has been designated as the month for outreach and MPs have been instructed to visit at least two panchayats everyday and organise meetings in small groups to avoid violating the protocol for social distancing to stem the possible spread of the Covid-19 virus. The Panchayats that the MPs have to visit are those which do not fall in their own constituencies. “All leaders including the MPs will have to hold meetings at the Shakti Kendra level (a cluster of booths) apart from holding at least one virtual rally every day,” said a person privy to the meeting. “Each MP will have to cover at least 60 panchayats through September. All senior leaders, including state cabinet ministers have been asked to convey the achievements of the NDA government in the state and at the Centre. They will also have to reach out to prominent people across sections for canvassing purposes,” said a second person aware of the details. MPs have also been instructed to ensure that they are present in their constituencies on four days, September 17 for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, September 25 for Deen Dayal Upadhayay’s birth anniversary and October 2, for Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary and ensure there is participation from the party cadre as well. Nadda has already held two rounds of meetings with Central ministers from the state and with the state cabinet ministers to chalk out the electioneering plan and work on the poll planks that will be pivoted around the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Nitish Kumar government at the state level. Though the Election Commission, mandated to decide the schedule of the general elections and the assembly elections, is yet to announce a date for the Bihar assembly polls, it is likely that the election will be held in October–November. The term of the current assembly expires on November 26. The election comes in the midst of a global pandemic and at a time when the state is also reeling under floods. The BJP has also refuted rumours of differences between allies; after LJP president Chirag Paswan attacked JDU leader and CM Nitish Kumar for failing to deliver on the promises made to the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-preps-for-bihar-assembly-polls-asks-mps-to-reach-out-to-voters/story-FvwAM45jrYgtA6TAmszvJP.html
29-08-2020||India||BJP’s Sakshi Maharaj put into quarantine in Jharkhand for violating rule||Sakshi Maharaj, BJP member of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao, was on Saturday sent to 14-day home quarantine in Jharkhand’s Giridih district allegedly for violating Covid-19 guidelines.The lawmaker arrived in Giridih on Saturday to meet his old-aged ailing mother in Shanti Bhawan Ashram in district’s Makadampur locality.Giridih deputy commissioner (DC) Rahul Kumar Sinha said that Maharaj was sent to observe 14-day home quarantine in his Shanti Bhawan Ashram as per the state’s Covid-19 guidelines.“He came from another state without registration, which is a mandatory norm here. There are no other restrictions put on him in the Ashram. If he submits an application for exemption of home quarantine, the administration will consider it,” the DC said.He added, “The parliamentarian was informed about quarantine rules in advance on Friday.”However, Maharaj forwarded an application to Jharkhand chief secretary on Saturday evening seeking exemption from home quarantine so that he can participate in Parliament Standing Committee in New Delhi on August 31.The MP on Saturday morning arrived in Dhanbad by Rajdhani express train and undertook a road journey to reach Giridih.While he was returning to Dhanbad in the afternoon, Giridih SDM Prerna Dikshit intercepted him and brought him back to Shanti Ashram to observe home quarantine.“With prior permission, I had come to meet my 97-year-old ill mother living in Shanti Bhawan. I had permission to stay from 10am to 5pm. But on DC’s directive, I set out for Dhanbad at 12.30 pm. Administration put me forcefully in home quarantine,” said Sakshi Maharaj.“I have to attend the Parliament Standing Committee meeting on August 31. The state government is acting against me under a political vendetta,” the six-time parliamentarian said.Meanwhile, BJP Giridih district president Mahadev Dubey has charged that the state government has adopted double standards in implementing Disaster Management Act. Tej Pratap had come to meet his father Lalu Prasad without permission but the government didn’t act against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-sakshi-maharaj-put-into-quarantine-in-jharkhand-for-violating-rule/story-J3kY2wIfNc7cFRi3WSxhwO.html
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry calls meeting with metro corporations to finalise SOPs||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry has called a meeting with all managing directors of metro rail corporations on September 1 to finalise the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the functioning of metro trains allowed under the ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, an official said.There are 17 metro corporations in the country. Once the detailed SOPs are issued by the ministry, they can issue their details keeping in mind local requirements, the official.The SOPs already circulated with all metro corporations will be discussed on September 1 through video conferencing, the official said.“All managing directors have been asked to look into the SOP prepared by MOHUA earlier because of the current realities. All suggestions will be considered in the meeting and accordingly, SOP will be finalised,” the official added.According to another official, “The Union Housing and Urban Affairs ministry will reconsider its earlier prepared SOP given the current situation and issue fresh SOP soon.” The Union Home Ministry issued the Unlock 4 guidelines on Saturday under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner.Also read | India enters Unlock 4: What is open, what remains closedOfficials said that wearing a mask and social distancing norms will be strictly followed once metro trains start operating.Metro passengers will be encouraged to follow anti-Covid-19 measures, they said, adding fines will be imposed on those violating the guidelines.Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said it will resume services for the public from September 7 in a calibrated manner.Taking to Twitter, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he was “glad” that the metro will resume operations in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-housing-and-urban-affairs-ministry-calls-meeting-with-metro-corporations-to-finalise-sops/story-mthlMzmhzvOif9SMb8E6GI.html
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: 50 people allowed in marriages, 20 in funerals amid Covid-19 outbreak||No more than 50 people can attend a marriage function till September 20 in the country, Ministry of Home Affairs ordered on Saturday in the fresh set of Unlock 4 guidelines. Additionally, no more than 20 people are allowed to be present at a funeral or last rites, the MHA order stated. However, a ceiling of 100 persons will apply after September 20, allowing a higher number of people to attend social events for the first time since the coronavirus lockdown was enforced in March this year. “Marriage related gatherings with number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral/ last rites related gatherings with number of persons not exceeding 20 will continue to be allowed upto September 20, 2020, after which ceiling of 100 persons will apply,” the MHA order stated. Also read | Unlock 4: Metro rail services from Sept 7; schools, colleges to remain closed Additionally, the order states that social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from September 21, 2020. However, such limited gatherings can be held with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer.Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30. The new guidelines are based on feedback received from the sates and UTs, and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments, the home ministry said.The Unlock process of the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain shut and international air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA, will not be allowed.Also read | India enters Unlock 4: What is open, what remains closedOpen-air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-50-people-allowed-in-marriages-20-in-funerals-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-51XwO6c1Pw4GHZmNc8fcDJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal applauds Centre’s move to allow Metro services in Unlock 4||Soon after Ministry of Home Affairs issued its guidelines for Unlock 4, allowing operation of Metro services in the country, the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday lauded Centre’s move giving further relaxations in restrictions imposed as a measure against Covid-19 outbreak. “I am glad that the metro has been permitted to start its operations from Sep 7 in a phased manner,” CM Arvind Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.In a new set of guidelines issued on Saturday, the MHA gave a green flags for the Metro rail services to resume in the country from September 7 in a graded manner. The Metro operations have been shut since March after the country went into lockdown against Covid pandemic. “The Metro rail will be allowed to operate in a graded manner by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA)/Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with MHA. In this regard, SOP will be issued by MOHUA,” the release said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-applauds-centre-s-move-to-allow-metro-services-in-unlock-4/story-131QbkIC9JwJAexsILCFNN.html
29-08-2020||India||Defence ministry sets up panel for better functioning of service headquarters||Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved the setting up of a three-man committee to identify posts in the service headquarters that are currently held by civilian officers but need to be manned by military officers with necessary domain expertise for effective functioning, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. The new committee has been constituted as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar committee in its report on enhancing the military’s combat potential and rebalancing defence expenditure. A key recommendation in that comprehensive report dealt with aspects related to the effective utilisation of the armed forces headquarters civil service (AFHQ-CS). Shekatkar will chair the new three-man panel consisting of R Chandrashekhar who retired from the AFHQ-CS and AN Das who is from the defence ministry’s finance wing. While identifying posts that need to be manned by military officers due to their expertise is a key task assigned to the panel, it will also conduct a study and identify appointments in service headquarters that may fall within the domain of AFHQ-CS officers due to their longer tenures and expertise, according to the terms of reference in the government order reviewed by Hindustan Times. Shekatkar told HT that the setting up of the panel was a step in the right direction as it would improve the overall functioning of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations. He said the committee was likely to submit its report in November. Military and civilian officers hold posts in different wings of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations including administration, finance, policy formulation and coordination, personnel management, training, vigilance and legal matters.The Shekatkar panel made 188 suggestions in its report submitted in December 2016 of which around 100 have been accepted by the ministry and others are under consideration. The defence ministry is working towards implementing more recommendations made by the panel. In May, the ministry announced that more than 9,300 posts in the Military Engineer Services (MES) would be abolished as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee. The MES is a construction and maintenance agency of the armed forces and has an annual budget of around Rs 13,000 crore. The ministry said the recommendation to cut the posts (9,304 out of total 13,157 vacancies) was aimed at making the MES an effective organisation, with a leaner workforce well equipped to handle complex issues in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee relate to several organisations including the MES, Defence Research and Development Organisation, Directorate General of Quality Assurance, Directorate General of Defence Estates, the Ordnance Factory Board and defence accounts.The panel’s recommendations also covered optimisation of signals establishments, restructuring of the army’s base workshops, revamp of ordnance depots, better utilisation of supply and transport units, closure of military farms and army postal establishments in peace locations and improving the efficiency of the National Cadet Corps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-sets-up-panel-for-better-functioning-of-service-headquarters/story-170p2AdsGJErLzKGba4lKI.html
29-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pakistani court convicts 3 LeT, JuD leaders, including Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistani court convicts 3 LeT and JuD leaders, including Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-lawA Pakistani court has convicted three leaders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), including LeT founder Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rahman Makki, in a case of terror financing and given them prison terms ranging from 18 months to more than 16 years. Read moreUnlock 4: Metro rail services from Sept 7; schools, colleges to remain closedStates cannot impose local lockdown restrictions outside containment zones and Metro rail services will resume from September 7 in a graded manner, announced the Centre in Unlock 4 guidelines, easing Covid-19 restrictions and opening up further activities in this phase of unlocking. Read moreNew satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku LaOpen source satellite imagery suggests China is developing two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors, including an area where Indian and Chinese troops had clashed in May. Read more‘He is a bit like Brian Lara and Sachin Tendulkar’: Brad Hogg’s huge praise for India youngsterFormer Australia wrist spinner Brad Hogg feels Delhi Capitals possess a good combination in terms of batting. Read moreCelebrities dads over 40 who gave us fitness inspiration during lockdownWhen times are tough we all need a little motivation to help us get back on track, and who better to look to for inspiration than certain celebrities that have proved time and time again that not only do they work hard to constantly keep up their talent and image for us, but also that they did not let something like a global pandemic deter them from their goals. Read moreMan noticed kid cycling on his driveway. What he did next has won heartsPeople who have grown up riding bicycles around the neighbourhood with a whole bunch of friends from the colony know all too well what a joyous time it would be. Read moreAmid India-China tension, Tibet govt-in-exile poll process to begin | ExplainedThe Tibetan government-in-exile is preparing to hold elections next year. The Tibetan Election Commission has announced dates for voter registration - from September 1 to October 15, 2020. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistani-court-convicts-3-let-jud-leaders-including-hafiz-saeed-s-brother-in-law-and-all-the-latest-news/story-x583rwB7SdUsefiB0v48WK.html
29-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Home Ministry issues fresh guidelines for Unlock 4||The Union Home Ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.However, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn a significant directive, the Home Ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.The ministry said that states and Union Territory governments may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work.Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.This will be subject to the written consent of their parents or guardians, according to the guidelines.Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from September 7 in a graded manner, by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), the Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with the MHA.In this regard, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the MOHUA.Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from September 21.However, such limited gatherings can be held with the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-home-ministry-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-unlock-4/story-F7uanAQsRjduVNMM0tfj0M.html
29-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt extends lockdown in containment zones till Sept 30||The Ministry of Home Affairs announced guidelines for Unlock 4 on Saturday. While the government allowed various activities including metro services, the govt extended the lockdown in the containment zones till September 30.“Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till September 30, said government while announcing Unlock-4 guidelines.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe new Unlock-4 guidelines for opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones will be effective from September 1.The new guidelines are based on feedback received from states and UTs and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments, the ministry of home affairs said in a statement.Meanwhile, the state and union territories governments are also ordered to not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zone without consulting the central government.Now states/UTs will have to take Centre’s permission before imposing any sort of local lockdowns like weekend lockdowns, district/city or statewide lockdown “as such lockdowns were disrupting the economic activity without any logic,” said a home ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-extends-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-sept-30/story-1jIly1I15JUvnzOCi2JsNM.html
29-08-2020||India||India enters Unlock 4: What is open, what remains closed||India on Saturday issued fresh guidelines of lockdown in ‘Unlock 4’, allowing opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones, marking gradual opening of the country and economy amid coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. While the MHA order allows certain phased re-opening of activities in the fourth round of unlock, it has continued to extend lockdown in containment zones till September 30. An MHA release said that the new guidelines are based on feedback received from states and UTs and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments. Also read | Unlock 4: Metro Rail services from Sept 7; schools, colleges to remain closedHere’s what is allowed in Unlock 4:• Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from September 21.• Open air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21.• From September 21, outside containment zones, States/ UTs may permit upto 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/ tele- counselling and related work.• Metro rail will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner.• There shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.Also read | Unlock 4: Metro rail services to operate in graded manner from September 7What remains closed:• Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity up to September 30.• Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres will continue to remain closed.• International air travel, except as permitted by MHA, to remain suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-enters-unlock-4-what-will-now-open-what-remains-closed/story-tz5CJFX4ELpyDI9EPxVKVK.html
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Metro services to operate in graded manner from September 7||As India slowly opens up after several months of restrictions and lockdowns, government has given a green flag to more activities in areas outside the Containment Zones in Unlock 4. In Unlock 4, which will kick-in from September 1, 2020, the process of phased re-opening of activities has been extended further.In the fresh guidelines issued on Saturday by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for Unlock 4, the biggest relief comes for the commuters as the metro services will resume from September 7 in a graded manner. “The Metro rail will be allowed to operate in a graded manner by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA)/Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with MHA. In this regard, SOP will be issued by MOHUA,” the release said.The new guidelines for Unlock 4 are based on feedback received from states and UTs and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments, MHA said.The guidelines also said open-air theatres will be allowed from September 21, 2020. However, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will continue to remain shut.The release also mentioned the “don’t” to be followed as a precaution against Covid-19 outbreak. The national directives for Covid-19 management mentioned face covering, social distancing and punish against spitting in public places.As the country enters Unlock 4, here’s what the guidelines say:1. Face covering: Wearing of face cover is compulsory in public places; in workplaces; and during transport2. Social distancing: Individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet (2 gaz ki doori) in public places. Shops will ensure physical distancing among customers3. Spitting in public places will be punishable with fine, as may be prescribed by the State/UT local authority in accordance with its laws, rules or regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-metro-rail-services-to-operate-in-graded-manner-from-september-7/story-dPBlDQjPW4xWJCbhWpPiXM.html
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Metro rail services from Sept 7; schools, colleges to remain closed||States cannot impose local lockdown restrictions outside containment zones and Metro rail services will resume from September 7 in a graded manner, announced the Centre in Unlock 4 guidelines, easing Covid-19 restrictions and opening up further activities in this phase of unlocking. Sports, entertainment, religious, political functions, among other congregations, will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 people, with effect from September 21, said the government. However, the Centre noted that strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones will continue till September 30.Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain shut for students and regular class activity up to September 30. Online/distance learning will continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged, said the government. Open air theatres will be allowed to open with effect from September 21. Also read | India enters Unlock 4: What is open, what remains closedStudents of classes 9 to 12, said the Centre, may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the Containment Zones only, on voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent of their parents, the government added.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (excluding open air theatre) and similar places will continue to remain shut. International air travel is also not allowed. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities will be allowed.The containment zones will be notified on the websites of the respective district collectors and by the states/UTs and information will also be shared with the Union home ministry.The district authorities are advised to follow the guidelines to effectively break the chain of virus transmission. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed, it said. Also read | Unlock 4: Schools and colleges to remain closed till Sept 30At an average, 69,558 new Covid-19 cases were reported in India every day over the past week, placing it above the seven-day daily case peak recorded in the US when the number touched 69,330 for the week ending July 25. On Friday, India reported 76,139 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the country to 3,458,186.New cases in India have been rising at an alarming rate and have shown no signs of a let-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-unlock-4-sports-entertainment-religious-political-functions-allowed-metro-trains-to-run/story-BX6MVPqObEgTSraIlkFFwJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Delhi HC refuses to vacate stay on Sudarshan TV show after controversy||Delhi High Court on Saturay refused to vacate the stay on the telecast of the show ‘Bindas Bol’ to be telecast by on private television channel Sudarshan TV. The court has asked Centre to decide on the notice given to the channel within 48 hours from September 1.The private television channel’s controversial programme which claimed a ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’ came under judicial scrutiny before the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court.In the viral clip, channel’s editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke had alleged a conspiracy in the “overwhelming” number of Muslim students clearing the Union Public Service Commission exams and was scheduled to broadcast big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’. While the apex court has fixed next date of hearing on September 15, the high court will hear the matter on September 7. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-refuses-to-vacate-stay-on-sudarshan-tv-show-after-controversy/story-xVJQ0Zs6aBJB2pjAapyOjO.html
29-08-2020||India||SC to pronounce verdict on Vijay Mallya’s review plea on transfer of $40 million to his children||The Supreme Court on Saturday said that on August 31 it would pronounce its verdict on the petition filed by businessman Vijay Mallya, who has sought review of its May 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children.A bench of Justice UU Lalit and Justice Ashok Bhushan on August 27, through video-conferencing, had reserved the order after hearing both the parties in the case.The bench had said that there were two allegations against Vijay Mallya, failure to disclose his assests and siphoning off money.The apex court had in June directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya’s review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years. It had directed the registry to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years.Mallya is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines and is presently in the United Kingdom.The Supreme Court’s May 9, 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred $40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in “flagrant violation” of various judicial orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-august-31-in-vijay-mallya-s-review-plea-on-transfer-of-40-million-to-his-children/story-lTXCM22r2xk6uOGEwO342L.html
29-08-2020||India||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj violates Covid-19 norms, put in 14-day home quarantine||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj was forcibly home quarantined here on Saturday for 14-day for violating COVID norms, a senior district official said. The MP from Uttar Pradesh had come to Giridih, over 200 km from Ranchi, to take part in a programme from Unnao via Dhanbad. Maharaj, who was returning to Dhanbad by road to take a train to Delhi, was intercepted by the district administration near Pirtand police station and sent on quarantine at Shanti Bhawan ashram, where he had gone to take part in a programme, Deputy Commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said. The action been taken in accordance with a state government order of 14 days quarantine for people coming from outside to the state, the DC said. “He had not informed the state government about his visit and therefore we have put him in quarantine for 14 days,” Sinha said. The DC, however. said if he wanted he can apply for the exemption. On getting information about visit and return of the Uttar Pradesh politician without advance information, the administration sealed borders of the district and put barricades. A team headed by Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Prerna Dixit which was following him stopped the MP at a barricade under Pirtand police station and sent him on 14 days quarantine at Shanti Bhawan, the DC said. Maharaj told reporters that he had come to see his ailing mother in Giridih after giving prior information. He, however, said had he been told about the mandatory 14-day quarantine condition for visiting Jharkhand, he would not have come. The BJP MP talked to Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary from the place he was intercepted in the presence of media and also put the DC over phone to the chief secretary. But, it did not help him and he was taken by the police to Shanti Bhawan for putting him in home quarantine. He took exception to th adminstration “forcibly” putting him in quarantine, saying “I am Member of Parliament and Jharkhand is part of India. Can’t I meet my ailing mother? “I have to take part in a meeting of the standing committee of Parliament on Sunday and I have been forcibly quarantined here...its really disgusting,” he said. He said, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap Yadav had on Wednesday visited Ranchi to meet his father in RIMS and returned to Patna by road, but the administration did not take any similar action. “This appears to be inspired by political jealously,” he alleged. Jharkhand has a coalition government of JMM, Congress and the RJD headed by Hemant Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-sakshi-maharaj-violates-covid-19-norms-put-in-14-day-home-quarantine/story-PYh7IGNpVnwyFPTnoSwUiP.html
29-08-2020||India||Congress writes to Zuckerberg on probe details, alleges nexus between WhatsApp and BJP||The Congress on Saturday reiterated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the alleged links of Facebook employees and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and once again wrote to the global social media giant’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg asking him to specify the steps being taken to investigate the charges against its India unit. The opposition party also threatened to pursue legislative and judicial actions to ensure that a foreign company does not create social disharmony in India. This is for the second time in a month that Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal has written to Zuckerberg on the allegations of Facebook being biased towards the ruling party. ALSO READ | Launch criminal enquiry into BJP-Facebook nexus, says CPI(M)Venugopal’s letter to Zuckerberg came in the wake of an article in Time magazine, which Congress said “revealed more information and evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship” of Facebook India with the BJP. A report in the Wall Street Journal earlier this month had mentioned similar allegations, which were strongly rejected by both Facebook and the BJP. Tagging the Time magazine report, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that it exposes the “WhatsApp-BJP nexus”. WhatsApp is also owned by Facebook. ALSO READ | Report on Facebook’s leniency to BJP members’ communal posts causes row“Used by 40 Cr Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi Government’s approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp,” he alleged. In his letter, Venugopal, referred to his earlier letter dated August 17, in which the party had requested the US-based company to investigate the allegations made in the Wall Street Journal article that the social media platform refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians. “We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27 that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling BJP,” he wrote in the fresh letter. “We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for their pursuit of private profits,” Venugopal warned. At the party’s press conference, spokesperson Pawan Khera and data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty called for an “exhaustive and unbiased investigation by a JPC between the unending links” of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment. “The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their own regulations,” they said. “In the last 10 days, BJP and Facebook’s close relationship have been disclosed. In a new revelation, an international magazine has disclosed a relationship between WhatsApp and the BJP,” Khera told reporters. “Beyond just Ankhi Das, what has now been revealed exposes that another senior executive, Shivnath Thukral of WhatsApp is an unabashed devotee of the ruling establishment and was partisan in his professional conduct,” he alleged. “The expose’ reveals Thukral was hired by Facebook in 2017 only because he was ‘extremely close’ to the ruling establishment. It elaborates that Mr Thukral’s relationship with the ruling party goes as far back as 2013 when he operated websites and Facebook pages for the 2014 election campaign in conjunction with other BJP affiliates who continue to hold senior positions in the current government,” Khera further alleged. “Can 40 crore (400 million) Indians trust WhatsApp, which is indirectly controlled by one political party? What is the assurance that bank details, transaction details and private data of Indian users using WhatsApp is not being shared with the BJP and misused?” asked Khera. “WhatsApp cannot be granted approvals for its payment operations until the inquiry is complete and the recommended actions are taken by the company,” the Congress leaders said. They also demanded that the report of the investigation ordered by Facebook into the conduct of its Indian unit be made public. “The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their regulations,” Khera said. Earlier on August 16, Gandhi had alleged that the BJP and the RSS control Facebook and WhatsApp in the country. He also alleged that they spread fake news and hatred through these social media platforms to influence the electorate. “BJP & RSS control Facebook & Whatsapp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-writes-to-zuckerberg-on-probe-details-alleges-nexus-between-whatsapp-and-bjp/story-jG2lqwtRE8UGtH31Y5NRsI.html
29-08-2020||India||India not to take part in multinational exercise with China, Pakistan on Russian soil||In a big step in the backdrop of an ongoing conflict with China in eastern Ladakh, India is likely to convey to Russia that its troops would not be participating in the multinational military exercise Kavkaz-2020 where Chinese and Pakistani troops are also going to be there.The Indian authorities have also taken into account the worsening global Covid-19 situation where India alone is witnessing over 70,000 positive cases daily to take a decision regarding participation in the wargames being held in the Astrakhan area of Southern Russia.“A high-level meeting was held in South Block in which External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat were present. After the meeting, it was discussed that it would not be right to take part in the multilateral exercise where Chinese and Pakistani military personnel would also be present,” defence sources told ANI here.Sources said while India is locked in a military conflict with the Chinese in eastern Ladakh and on high alert all along the 4,000 kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC), it cannot be business as usual for us to be participating in multilateral military exercises with them.India and China had clashed in the Galwan valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian troops had lost their lives while the Chinese also suffered a number of casualties with scores of Chinese soldiers killed and injured there.Sources said Indian defence minister would be visiting Russia on September 4-6 for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation defence ministers’ meeting but it is unlikely that the Indian representative would be holding any talks with his Chinese counterpart.During the meeting, India may raise the point of expansionist policies of the Chinese along the Indian border but a final decision in this regard would be taken closer to the event, sources said.India was invited by Russia to participate in the tri-services exercise with a contingent of around 200 personnel to Southern Russia in September for the multi-lateral Kavkaz-2020.The exercise is being held in the Astrakhan province of Southern Russia where member countries of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and Central Asian countries would be participating.Exercise Tsentr last year had the participation of India, Pakistan and all SCO member-nations.India and China have been engaged in a territorial conflict in Eastern Ladakh and Sub Sector North (Ladakh) where Chinese troops have transgressed into multiple areas and are refusing to completely disengage in areas such as Finger, Depsang Plains and Gogra heights. Both sides have amassed over 40,000 troops on their respective side of the LAC with the induction of heavy weaponry including long-range artillery and tanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-to-take-part-in-multinational-exercise-with-china-pakistan-on-russian-soil/story-TqwzYkBGhOvVAH4Lx0VwfJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Supreme Court order on Prashant Bhushan contempt case sentencing on Monday||The Supreme Court will, on Monday, pronounce its verdict on the sentence to be awarded to advocate Prashant Bhushan after it had held him guilty of criminal contempt of court on August 14 for his two tweets against the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The bench, headed by justice Arun Mishra, will pronounce the judgment at 10.30 am.According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence of criminal contempt carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both. The court has also, in previous instances, barred lawyers found guilty of contempt from practising before the court for a limited period while refraining from imposing any jail sentence.Bhushan had an opportunity to apologise for his tweets and express regret, but the activist lawyer stood his ground and stated that his tweets were based on his bonafide beliefs and an apology for his views, which be believed to be true, would be insincere.The court had reserved its judgment on August 25. The activist lawyer had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Bhushan’s first tweet said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second tweet referred to CJI Bobde and said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”The top court took note of the tweets after Mehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before it on July 9 seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. Maheswhari’s petition did not have the consent of Attorney General, a prerequisite under the Contempt of Courts Act for the apex court to entertain criminal contempt petitions filed by private individuals. The court, however, registered a suo motu (on its own) case based on Maheshwari’s petition and issued notice to Bhushan on July 22.The court then heard the matter on August 5 and held Bhushan to be guilty of a contempt of court in a judgment delivered on August 14. It then posted the case for hearing on August 20 to decide the sentence to be given to Bhushan.During the hearing on August 20, Bhushan maintained that he was standing by his tweets and also read out a statement prepared by him in which he expressed dismay at the judgment of August 14 which he said arrived at a conclusion against him without providing any evidence of his motives. He invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s stance in a case slapped against the father of the nation by the British government.“I can only humbly paraphrase what the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen,” Bhushan read out from his statement.The court had then asked Bhushan to think over his stance and get back to it.Later, Bhushan submitted another supplementary statement before the court on August 24 in which he continued to stick to his tweets saying they were in good faith and not intended to malign the court or the CJI but only offered constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution.Interestingly, Attorney General KK Venugopal, who had appeared in the case in his personal capacity at the court’s request, asked the court not to punish Bhushan and instead let him off with a warning.“Your Lordships should reprimand him and tell him not to repeat it in future. But do not punish him. It will be greatly appreciated at the Bar. That will be a fitting end to this case,” he said.The bench, however, pointed out that Bhushan has declined to apologise and has also filed statements sticking to his stance. “We have given him time to think it over. He says he is not ready to apologise. “Tells us what is wrong in using the word ‘apology’? Is it a reflection of guilt? It is a magical word which can heal. If you have hurt someone, you should apologise. There is no need to feel belittled by that,” justice Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-prashant-bhushan-s-contempt-case-on-monday/story-1BYDTJ3vQfx3HJWOnscSsM.html
29-08-2020||India||‘Personally supervising flood situation, relief measures in Madhya Pradesh’, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday conducted an aerial survey of villages hit by floods in Madhya Pradesh and the hailstorm-hit parts along the Narmada river.The chief minister said that he is personally supervising the situations and relief measures.Heavy rains over the last two days triggered flooding in several districts of Madhya Pradesh, including Hoshangabad, where the Army and the NDRF were roped in on Saturday to rescue people from inundated areas. The IMD (India Meteorological Department) issued a red alert of extremely heavy rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places of Chhindwara, Vidisha, Sehore, Rajgarh and Shajapur districts.CM Chouhan on Saturday held a high-level meeting on the rain and flood situation in the state where he directed the officials to pay full attention on the Narmada river as several parts of the states are predicted to receive heavy rains for the next 48 hours.“There is a possibility of heavy rains for 48 hours now but there is no need to panic. I am asking you to be careful not to be worried at this hour. Wherever necessary, all work of rescue and relief will be done. Our SDRF teams are active and we are sending NDRF teams where needed. We have also alerted the Army and the Air Force, and they will be called if necessary,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, according to ANI.The chief minister appealed to locals living in 16 villages where the floodwaters are entering to leave the area immediately and move to a safer place.“Boats, helicopters, divers, and other equipment have been properly arranged. Hoshangabad, Bareilly, and Shahganj; there are 16 villages where the floodwaters are entering. I appeal to the locals living in such villages, to leave the low-lying areas immediately. Go to a safer place where the administration is taking you,” he said in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personally-supervising-flood-situation-relief-measures-in-madhya-pradesh-says-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-XC28MAnyl5sQFPyAaiGwrL.html
29-08-2020||India||PM Modi to address the nation on ‘Mann Ki Baat’ tomorrow at 11 AM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on ‘Mann Ki Baat’ in the 68th edition of his monthly radio programme at 11 AM on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on Twitter earlier this month about topics for his radio programme where he addresses the country and range of issues. The Prime Minister had tweeted to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. Phone lines have been opened from August 10.In the previous edition of Mann ki Baat, which was also a date when India celebrates Kargil Vijay Diwas, PM Modi had paid tributes to soldier who fought valiantly against Pakistan’s forces during the Kargil War. He also said that despite efforts to establish cordial relations Pakistan remained resolute in pushing cross-border terrorism.PM Modi also reminded citizens to not let their guard down amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said that it is necessary to wear masks when outside and asked those who think wearing them is troublesome to reflect upon the amount of time frontline workers have to spend in a day wearing masks. He reiterated that people need to follow all precautions to prevent Covid-19.“At many places, Covid-19 is spreading fast. We need to be extra vigilant. We have to bear in mind that corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning - that’s why we have to be cautious,” PM Modi had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-in-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-at-11-am/story-jCtLnNXFVaRbRHX2Q1I9qO.html
29-08-2020||India||Three killed, nine injured in road accident in Andhra Pradesh’s Srikakulam||Three people were killed while nine others were injured after the car they were travelling in met with a major accident at a national highway near Mogilipadu flyover in Andhra Pradesh’s Srikakulam district, police said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday night at Nemali Narayanapuram village in Palasa Mandal.“A car was going from Jharkhand to Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. It was crossing Nemali Narayanapuram village in Palasa Mandal of Srikakulam district at around 11.30 pm when the vehicle met with an accident at the national highway near Mogilipadu flyover,” Kasibugga Police Station Sub Inspector Y Madhusudan said.Madhusudan said there were 12 passengers and one driver in the car at the time of the accident.“While the driver escaped the accident, the passengers were injured or killed. They have been shifted to Palasa Primary Healthcare Centre. Three persons have died while undergoing treatment. Remaining nine persons sustained injuries and are out of danger,” he said.The police suspect that the accident took place due to the negligence of the driver.A case has been filed under Section 304A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and an investigation is being undertaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-killed-nine-injured-in-road-accident-in-andhra-pradesh-s-srikakulam/story-9TK1bRVLgTy8HYZHA4WzIN.html
29-08-2020||India||Trust submits Ayodhya Ram temple complex layout plan for approval||The Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra on Saturday submitted the layout of the Ram Mandir, and other related documents, to Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) for approval. Dr Anil Mishra, member of the Trust, handed over the documents to Neeraj Shukla, vice chairman of the development authority. “The layout of Ram temple is submitted to Ayodhya Development Authority for approval, along with all necessary documents and no objection certificates (NOCs) from other departments,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust. The Trust has procured mandatory NOCs from around six departments of the government, including fire department. “The Trust will follow all procedures and complete all formalities for approval of Ram Mandir’s layout. It will not seek any concession from the development authority in fee of the layout or in development charges,” Rai added. The layout fee will be paid only for the portion of the land on which the sanctum sanctorum of the temple will come up - that is for 2.77 acre of the land - he said. While development charges will be paid for the entire 70 acre campus, which is expected to be around Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore, he said. “Construction of Ram Mandir will start after the development authority approves layout,” added Rai. The development authority is expected to approve the layout plan in one week’s time after the trust submits the requisite fee. The proposed Ram Mandir will be 360 feet long, 235 feet wide and 161 feet high. Larsen and Toubro, the country’s leading construction company, is carrying out construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. According to the Trust, the temple’s foundation will be laid by using modern techniques so that it could be preserved for more than 1500 years and its structure for 1,000 years. Experts from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorke and IIT Madras have been roped in to make the temple’s foundation strong so that it can withstand earthquakes and storms. The sanctum sanctorum of the temple will stand on around 1200 pillars. These pillars of one -metre diameter each will be laid 30 metres below the ground. Above these pillars there will be a two feet high concrete platform on which the temple’s base will be laid. On November 9 last, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram Mandir ending decades old Ayodhya title dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-submits-ayodhya-ram-temple-complex-layout-plan-for-approval/story-bgUownuVytD1XbDBzBuoII.html
29-08-2020||India||Influence of dictatorship on country’s democracy rising: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday alleged that anti-national and anti-poor forces were spreading hatred and venom of violence in India and the influence of ‘tanashahi’ (dictatorship) on the country’s ‘lokshahi’ (democracy) was rising.She also said that the founding fathers of the country would have never imagined that the Constitution and democracy will be in danger 75 years after the Independence as “bad thinking is now dominating, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined”.Gandhi was addressing the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building to be built in Nava Raipur, the upcoming capital city of the state, through a recorded video message in Hindi.“For the past some time, an attempt is being made to derail our country. New challenges have come before our democracy. Today, the country stands at a crossroads. Anti- poor and anti-nation forces and those who rule by making people fight against each other have been spreading hatred and venom of violence,” she said.“Bad thinking is dominating good thinking, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. The influence of ‘tanashahi’ has been increasing on ‘lokshahi’,” she added.Without naming anyone, Gandhi further said, they want to suppress the voice of the people of the country.“What do they want? They want people of the country, our youth, our tribal people, our women, our farmers, shopkeepers and small traders, jawans to keep their mouths shut,” she said.Two years later, the country will complete 75 years of Independence, Gandhi added.“Father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, former prime minister Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, G V Mavalankar (Speaker of Constituent Assembly of India), Dr B R Ambedkar and our other ancestors would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence, the country will face such a difficult situation and our Constitution and democracy will be in danger,” she said.Extending wishes on the foundation stone laying ceremony, she said, “Today is an important day and we all should take a pledge to protect the foundation of democracy.We should also take a pledge that till the time we are in power, we should take a decision keeping in view the interest of people standing at the end of a queue.” “It should be remembered that the Constitution will not be saved by buildings rather it will be protected by emotions,” she asserted.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also attended the programme via video-conferencing from Delhi, officials said.Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Chhattisgarh Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant and state ministers were present at the venue of the function in Nava Raipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/influence-of-dictatorship-on-country-s-democracy-rising-sonia/story-niq8c3i3jrE8AltTzfJH4K.html
29-08-2020||India||‘No workable solution came up’: UP top court refuses Muharram procession plea||Spotlighting that the coronavirus pandemic is spreading like wildfire, the Allahabad high court on Saturday dismissed a bunch of petitions seeking permission for Tazia procession during Muharram, adding the decision is very much in proportion to “unprecedented situation”. The petitioners’ plea was that any restriction on the carrying out of procession during Muharram is in violation of their fundamental right of freedom to practise religion. They also cited the Supreme Court order allowing Jagganath Rath Yatra in Puri, Odisha. On passing some direction to allow procession and burial of Tazia, the court observed, “We have also given serious thought to working out some mechanism in order to permit the processions for Taziya burials, while imposing certain restrictions. However, no such workable mechanism could be suggested even by the counsels for the petitioners.“There is no mechanism fathomable, by the means of which it can be ensured that all such persons be permitted to take the Taziyas to the burial ground in a single day, while avoiding the risk of transmission of the contagion or following basic rules of social distancing, which are an absolute necessity in these unprecedented times.” The petitioners cited the Supreme Court order allowing Jagganath Rath Yatra in Puri, Odisha. “Also other religious festivals were allowed by state government during the same period but only procession of Muharram is not allowed which is discriminatory action on the part of the state government,” said the petitioner’s counsel.Additional chief standing counsel(ACSC), Ramanand Pandey, appearing for the state government, contended that the freedom to practise religion is not an absolute right and the same is subject to public order, morality and health. He added the state government can restrict religious activities keeping in mind the issue of public health.“State action is not discriminatory rather during the month of August, procession was not allowed during the festivals of Ganesh Chaturthi and Krishna Janamasthmi also. Public is allowed to practice religion inside their house but no public gathering is permitted surfing such events”, said Ramanandey Pandey.The court rejected the discriminatory charge against the state government. “This argument has no legs to stand on and appears to be patently misconceived. Same yardstick has been adopted for all religious communities and they have been restricted from carrying on any processions or Jhankis or activities that have the danger of large congregations,” said the court.On permission to carry out the Jagannath Rath Yatra, the court said, “Apex Court had not passed any general directions, but the permission to carry out the Annual Chariot Procession (Rath Yatra) pertained to a specific place, Puri, and only from one point to another.”On restricting certain religious rituals like procession, the court observed, “Prohibition of practices which are essential to our religions is an extraordinary measure, it is very much in proportion to the unprecedented situation we are faced with, owing to the pandemic. The right to practise and propagate religion has been made subject to public order, morality and health, even under the Constitution of India.“Pandemic is spreading like wildfire, despite harsh lockdowns. We are standing naked at the shore and don’t know when the huge wave of Corona may sweep us into the deep sea. We really don’t know what tomorrow holds. Adoption of safe practices are needed to win over the health crisis,” observed the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-workable-solution-came-up-up-top-court-refuses-muharram-procession-plea/story-HQZkIL5N7jxovXfVhaQseO.html
29-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Clashes in Belgavi over a statue escalate into big political row in Karnataka and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Clashes in Belgavi over a statue escalate into big political row in KarnatakaKannada speakers and Marathi speakers clashed in Peeranwadi, a village in Belgavi district on the Karnataka - Maharashtra border on Friday, over the installation of a statue, leading to a lathi-charge by the police to break them apart. Read moreCongress writes to Mark Zuckerberg again, questions him on probe into Facebook India’s hate-speech biasThe Congress party on Saturday has written to Facebook’s chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, the second time in a fortnight, asking him to specify the steps being taken by his company to investigate the charges against its operations in India. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty to be questioned again todayActor Rhea Chakraborty is being questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the second day on Saturday, a day after she was interrogated for more than 10 hours, in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Read moreIPL 2020: 13 persons, including 2 players, test positive for Covid-19, says BCCIIndian Premier League in UAE: The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Saturday informed through an official release that a total of 13 people have tested positive for Covid-19 after arriving in UAE for the IPL 2020. Two among these are players, the release stated. Read moreResearchers develop algorithm to identify mysogynistic tweetsThe machine-learning algorithm has been trained to distinguish between tweets that may be jokes and those that actually target a person or group. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput admitted he was claustrophobic in 2015 interview, had said he had insomnia too. WatchA video interview from 2015 shows Sushant Singh Rajput admitting to being claustrophobic. The same was denied by his ex-girlfriend Ankita Lokhande. They were together until 2016. Read moreNASA’s dreamy picture of supernova blast in cosmos is all you need to ‘believe in magic’There isn’t perhaps any better way to wake up than to a glimpse of the unknown events in the cosmos and National Aeronautics and Space Administration treated us exactly to that pleasure on Saturday morning. Sharing a serene picture of “a small section of a Cygnus supernova blast wave”, NASA set sky enthusiasts on a frenzy. Read moreUK musician is joined by an unlikely yet lovely guest while busking. WatchA good tune and an excellent beat can often remedy a sombre soul. This video of a UK based musician named Jason Allan exemplifies that notion. Read moreWatch | ‘National Digital Health Mission will be rolled out in 6 months’: Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan spoke on National Digital Health Mission. He said that the mission has already been launched in six Union Territories. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-clashes-in-belgavi-over-a-statue-escalate-into-big-political-row-in-karnataka-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fwr0YIxFECZheQPR6DscQL.html
29-08-2020||India||Security beefed up for Telangana BJP MLA after police review threat perception||The Hyderabad Police have flagged a potential threat to the life of controversial Bharatiya Janata Party MLA in Telangana T Raja Singh and announced that additional security has been provided to him due to the threat perception. In a letter to Singh on Friday night, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that enhanced security had been provided to the MLA due to a threat perception. “Security personnel are being alerted and checked from time to time. Special training has been organized for all your PSOs periodically,” he said in the letter. Raja Singh, who represents the Goshamahal assembly constituency in Hyderabad, is the lone BJP MLA in the Telangana assembly. The commissioner advised Singh against moving around on two-wheelers in view of the grave security threat. He suggested that the MLA should use the bulletproof car provided by the government whenever he goes out. Security was enhanced at his residence, after an additional deputy police commissioner rank officer reviewed his threat perception. Stating that providing proper security to him was the top priority of the police, Anjani Kumar said the MLA’s practice to often move on a motorcycle posed a security threat to him. “Therefore, your kind cooperation is solicited to ensure proper security that you kindly completely avoid moving on a motorcycle and travel by the bulletproof car allotted. The government has provided this BP car only for your security,” it added. Singh is known for making controversial statements on communal lines. Recently, he made headlines after his name figured in a ‘Wall Street Journal’ story that Facebook’s content policies favoured the BJP. Singh, on the other, claimed that his official Facebook account was hacked and blocked in 2018. Expressing surprise over the letter written by the police commissioner, the BJP MLA wanted to know if the threat was from terrorists or local groups or someone else. The letter from the police had no clarity. He said he would write to Union home minister Amit Shah and state home minister Mohd Mahmud Ali seeking more information about the changed threat perception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-beefed-up-for-telangana-bjp-mla-after-police-review-threat-perception/story-95nk0lWIrcLgexHDKO0Y2I.html
29-08-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah recovers, likely to be discharged soon||Union home minister Amit Shah has recovered from post coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care and is likely to be discharged soon, officials at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi said on Saturday.“Sh. Amit Shah, Hon’ble Home Minister is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post COVID Care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time,” Dr Aarti Vij, the chairperson of AIIMS’ media and protocol division, said.Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and later tested negative for the viral disease on August 14. However, he was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 again for medical care after recovering from the viral infection.“Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid -19.He has been admitted to AIIMS for post COVID care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital,” hospital officials had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-recovers-from-covid-19-likely-to-be-discharged-soon/story-LClUPBZ7ZmchVYKszAZyfI.html
29-08-2020||India||Tripura woman kills husband, buries body under bedroom floor||A 21-year-old woman in a village in Tripura’s Dhalai district allegedly killed her husband and buried his body under their bedroom floor after a fight, police said on Saturday.Bharati Reang allegedly killed 30-year-old Sanjit Reang on Thursday afternoon at Gandacherra in Dhalai district, nearly 130 kilometres from Tripura’s capital city of Agartala, buried him and went to the police to confess to the crime. She was arrested later in the day.“We arrested 21-year-old woman Bharati and took her custody from a court through online mode. As per our preliminary investigation, the couple had a family dispute for long. They had a quarrel on the day of the incident and in between the quarrel, she hit her husband on his head and buried him under the bedroom floor,” an official at the Gandacherra police station said.Also read: 21% Covid-19 positivity rate recorded in Tripura’s capital cityOn the basis of the woman’s statement, Gandacherra Police found Sanjit Reang’s body under the bedroom’s mud floor. The police discovered deep cut and injury marks on the victim’s head. They said the woman may have hit the husband with a sharp weapon.Bharati, a mother of a seven-year-old, is presently at a Covid Care Centre at Ambassa, the headquarters of Dhalai district, after she tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-woman-held-for-murdering-husband-burying-him-under-bedroom-floor/story-dVAFKLR9ByEQupKZxottWP.html
29-08-2020||India||IMD upgrades rain warning to orange alert, heavy showers likely for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad||The weather bureau on Saturday afternoon upgraded its rainfall warning to an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas) for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad and Ratnagiri for the rest of Saturday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for Thane, Palghar and Raigad for Sunday while Mumbai and Ratnagiri could expect light to moderate rain.Between 8.30 am and 2.30 pm Saturday, Mumbai suburbs recorded 25.2 mm rain while 15.2 mm of rainfall was recorded in south Mumbai. Major areas in the northern, western and eastern suburbs recorded rain ranging between 20-40 mm while south Mumbai areas recorded rain between 10 and 20 mm. Maximum rain was recorded at Thane at 43.5 mm. Within the city, Dahisar recorded 35 mm, Bandra recorded 26 mm, Andheri, Goregaon and Lokhandwala all recorded 25 mm, Powai recorded 19.6 mm.The weather bureau said the city and suburbs could witness moderate to heavy rain with the possibility of very heavy rain across isolated areas. “Mumbai and surrounding areas have witnessed intermittent intense showers from Saturday morning onwards. Weather radars and satellite images are indicating dense cloud development and possibility of very heavy rain in some areas over north Konkan. Thus, we have issued an orange alert,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, adding, “Rain intensity in some low-lying areas is likely to cause flooding and lead to traffic disruption.”However, the intensity is likely to reduce for Mumbai city and suburbs from Sunday onwards.Mumbai has so far recorded 1,166.1 mm rain in August, which is the highest since August 1983, when it recorded 1,243.8 mm while the all-time highest August rain of 1,254 mm was recorded in 1958. At 61% excess rain, Mumbai has received over 3,000-mm rain this season with another month to go before the monsoon season ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-upgrades-rain-warning-to-orange-alert-heavy-showers-likely-for-mumbai-thane-raigad/story-L4j44QL8InnBOwfYiKvSOK.html
29-08-2020||India||IIT-Indore teaches ancient sciences, mathematics in Sanskrit||The Indian Institute of Technology in Indore has introduced a unique course to impart mathematical and scientific knowledge from ancient texts in Sanskrit, an official said on Saturday.Titled “Understanding Classical Scientific Texts of India in an Immersive Sanskrit Environment”, the course was started to in a bid to expose the present generation to ancient knowledge, the official from the institute said.The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)-sponsored quality improvement programme began on August 22 and will continue till October 2 with a total of 62 hours of online classes, he said.Over 750 candidates from all over the world were participating in the course, he added. “Ancient texts of India, originally composed in Sanskrit, have a rich heritage of mathematical and scientific knowledge and the present generation is unaware of this. We started this course to make them aware of this ancient knowledge in Sanskrit itself,” said professor Neelesh Kumar, officiating director of IIT, Indore.The course will inspire participants to research, innovate, study and teach mathematics and science in Sanskrit, he said.According to an IIT official, the course has been divided into two parts, under which participants will first be taught the nuances of Sanskrit to build their understanding of the language and in the next part, they will be taught classical mathematics in Sanskrit.A qualifying examination will also be conducted to evaluate the participants involved in the second part of the course and successful candidates will be awarded a certificate, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-indore-teaches-ancient-sciences-mathematics-in-sanskrit/story-2TKIluGYmX4hP25qJ5hIrL.html
29-08-2020||India||Clashes in Belgavi over a statue escalate into big political row in Karnataka||Kannada speakers and Marathi speakers clashed in Peeranwadi, a village in Belgavi district on the Karnataka - Maharashtra border on Friday, over the installation of a statue, leading to a lathi-charge by the police to break them apart.The two groups were fighting after the Kannadigas installed a statue of Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna at T-junction-- a landmark in Peeranwadi-- in the early hours of Friday.Rayanna is a revered freedom fighter who fought the British as a general of Kittur Rani Chenamma. The Marathi speaking group called the installation “surreptitious” and claimed that the T-junction had already been named in the honor of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.There have been tensions between a section of the Kannada and Marathi speaking population in the district with the latter wanting the district to be merged with Maharashtra.The Kuruba community (traditional shepherds) in Karnataka, who are the third largest caste group in the state after Veerashiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas, see Rayanna as their community icon.Even as the local administration said that no permission had been taken for the installation of the statue, the issue became politicised. Former chief minister and JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy tweeted that there was no need to take permission from anybody to install a statue of the unassuming freedom fighter in Kannada land and condemned the acts of some, who he described as, “Marathi-speaking miscreants”.He issued a warning saying whether it was Shiv Sena or the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samithi (MES) or any other party, insult of a son of the soil like Rayanna will not be tolerated by Kannadigas and they “would be taught a suitable lesson.”Also Read: Karnataka govt briefs governor about the action taken to implement NEP 2020Leader of opposition in assembly, Siddaramiah, too, said that there would be no compromise in protecting the state’s interests when it came to “land, water, language or the honor of great leaders of the state.”Home minister Basavarj Bommai said that he had spoken to the district police commissioner and the IGP.“The police have been asked to take strict action so that the situation remains under control,” said Bommai, who also consulted the deputy CM, Lakshman Savadi, who hails from Belgavi district. Also Read: Karnataka in talks to acquire Bharat Gold Mine land for industrial parkCM Yediyurappa also said that he had spoken to the district administration to ensure that the issue was resolved peacefully.Several Kannada organizations across the state have threatened to take to streets if Rayanna’s statue is removed from the installed place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-in-belgavi-over-a-statue-escalate-into-big-political-row-in-karnataka/story-dbUAb2fEor4ozH4nkJom0H.html
29-08-2020||India||One more dies of Covid-19 in J-K, death toll climbs to 679||With the death of a 68-year-old Covid-19 patient on Saturday, the death toll across Jammu and Kashmir has now gone up to 679.“A 68-year-old patient from Bhagwati Nagar with comorbidities died of Covid-19 on Saturday morning,” said a senior doctor at the government medical college and hospital.Till Friday, the union territory had a cumulative figure of 35,831 Covid-19 positive cases of which 27,372 have recovered so far. There were 7,781 active cases till Friday.A total of 9,29,733 people have been tested so far across Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 696 positive cases were reported on Friday.Also read: As cases surge at state secretariat, Goa orders 50% staff to report to workJammu district administration has said that targeted testing showed a Covid-19 positivity rate of four percent.“There is no need to panic. This is the only way we will be able to segregate the infected people and put them in isolation thereby arresting the spread of the virus,” said Jammu deputy magistrate Sushma Chauhan.“Friday was the third day of targeted testing started by Jammu district administration. I thought it would be valuable to share initial trends emerging from Jammu. In urban areas of Jammu (mainly markets), 6,960 samples were taken and antigen tests were performed, out of which 309 positive cases have been reported which forms 4.4 percent positivity rate,” she said.“In rural areas, 1,071 samples were tested, out of which 14 have tested positive which forms the positivity rate of 1.4 percent. A total of 8,031 tests were conducted out of which 323 were tested positive and therefore the positivity rate stood at 4 percent,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-dies-of-covid-19-in-j-k-death-toll-climbs-to-679/story-FHxMJ1omoqXcxY5VWxxhtK.html
29-08-2020||India||President Kovind writes to Neelakanta Bhanu Prakash for winning ‘World’s Fastest Human Calculator’ title||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday congratulated Neelakanta Bhanu Prakash of Hyderabad for winning a gold medal for India by becoming the fastest human calculator in the world.“I wish you all success in your future endeavour and hope you will bring in more laurels for the country,” the president wrote in a letter.The 20-year-old Neelakanta Bhanu Prakash bagged the first-ever gold for India in Mental Calculation World Championship at Mind Sports Olympiad (MSO) 2020 held in London recently. The event, held annually in London, saw virtual participation from 30 geniuses across 13 countries.Bhanu, a student of Mathematics (Hons) at Delhi University’s St Stephen College, has four world records and 50 Limca records to his name.“Breaking these records, once held by Math maestros like Scott Flansburg and Shakuntala Devi, is a matter of national pride. I have done my bit to place India on the global level of mathematics,” Bhanu told ANI.Bhanu was five years old when his tryst with maths began after an accident. Doctors had said that he would be cognitively impaired if he did not continue to work on his skills. “So my mom brought me puzzles and that’s how I knew my inclination was there. I realised that calculations are something that I loved doing,” he had told Hindustan Times in an interview.While growing up, Bhanu would practice for about 4-6 hours a day. He later diverted his focus on other skills too. “If I was just a mathematics calculator and didn’t know how business worked or how policy worked, I wouldn’t be able to contribute anything at all,” he said.Bhanu wants to spread the love of maths to millions of kids and his ‘VISION Math’ labs is an initiative towards fulfilling that dream.“Three out of every four students who study in the government schools of India have trouble in understanding basic Mathematics,” Bhanu told ANI. “Under the government’s listed goals, there are a lot of programs which emphasize on increasing the literacy, but as of now, there is no significant program or vision in increasing the mathematical abilities and numeracy which can put us ahead in the global race.”“Our visionary Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the lead as I want to initiate and take ‘VISION MATH’ of India ahead. A robust plan like this will put India on the global map of excellence and bring back the old Indian Math Glory,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-writes-to-neelakanta-bhanu-prakash-for-winning-world-s-fastest-human-calculator-title/story-5nKNqIiP5GTorwPiKJPzeO.html
29-08-2020||India||Chennai doctors perform Asia’s first lung transplant on Covid-19 patient||A brain dead man has breathed new life into a Covid-19 patient with severe lung infection and given new hope to a young Mumbai woman after his lungs and hands were transplanted to the respective donors. The 34-year-old deceased man’s wife also agreed to donate his heart, liver and skin for various recipients in city hospitals. Incidentally, the hands were airlifted to Mumbai with the hope of giving the woman a real pair of limbs after she lost her hands in a train accident in Ghatkopar on January 12,2014. The transplant that benefited more than one recipient was made possible due to the donation from the deceased, who was declared brain dead by doctors at Gleneagles Global Hospital in Chennai after intracerebral hemorrhage on Thursday, hospital sources said. After his wife’s consent, the departed man’s organs were allotted to various hospitals. While Global Hospital Chennai retained the liver, the heart, lungs, kidneys and skin were donated to different hospitals in the city. His hands went to Monika More, a young woman from Mumbai’s suburban area, who was using artificial hands and is now set to get a real pair, if the bilateral surgery succeeds. The heart and lung transplant surgeries were performed at MGM Healthcare here. Incidentally, the 48 year-old recipient of lungs from Delhi turned out to be the first case of “successful completion of a critical bilateral lung transplant” on a Covid-19 positive patient, MGM Healthcare, where he is undergoing treatment, said. It claimed this was Asia’s “first known lung transplant” on a Covid-19 positive patient and the second in the hospital since the lockdown began. The transplant was performed on August 27 and post the transplant, the patient is doing fine in the Transplant ICU at MGM Healthcare, the hospital said in a statement. The patient’s lungs were severely damaged due to Covid-19 related fibrosis after he contracted the infection on June 8 and only a small portion of the lungs was still functioning then. As he became breathless and oxygen saturation came down, he was put on ventilator support on June 20. His condition continued to worsen in spite of it and he was airlifted to MGM Healthcare from Ghaziabad on July 20, the hospital said. As his lung condition continued to worsen, he was put on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) support on July 25 for more than one month. Such patients are difficult to manage even in well-equipped ICUs. “Initially we were in a dilemma when his case was referred to us. But we prioritised the patient’s overall health over anything else. We decided to proceed with the surgery. Our team of doctors and the other support staff took up the challenge and boldly stood by the decision to go ahead with the transplant without thinking about the risk to their own health and safety.” “We are happy for the patient as the transplanted lungs are working well,” said Dr K R Balakrishnan, Chairman and Director of Cardiac Sciences and Director of the Heart and Lung Transplant Program at MGM Healthcare here, who led the team.According to Dr Suresh Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, the hospital accepted the heart from the same donor to another patient who was waiting for a heart transplant, “thereby giving a new lease of life to two people.” More, studying in a junior college in Mumbai, lost her hands at a local railway station Ghatkopar in a train accident in 2014. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya supported her with getting electronic artificial hands from his social outfit ‘Yuvak Pratisthan’ in July the same year. While More completed her graduation and started working at a local hospital at Kurla as a social worker, she subsequently registered herself for bilateral hands transplant at Global Hospital, located at Parel in that city. Somaiya claimed that the cost of her transplant is borne by Yuvak Pratisthan and Global hospital. “The surgery was proposed in summer itself, but had to be postponed after the coronavirus crisis. Finally, the hospital and More family decided to perform the surgery on August 27,” Somaiya said. “The hands were retrieved from a deceased donor at a private hospital in Chennai and airlifted to Mumbai on Thursday. The surgery conducted by a 12 member team led by Dr Nilesh Satbhai included Plastic, microvascular and reconstructive surgeons, Orthopaedic surgeons and Anaesthetists started on Thursday late night and was completed on Friday evening,” a statement from Global Hospital said. The patient has been shifted to the ICU post operatively for further management, it said. A hospital spokesperson thanked the donor family, donor hospital, Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre, Transtan, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation and National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation for the timely coordination and allocation. “It goes without saying that the support extended by Traffic Police and Airport Authorities of Mumbai and Chennai ensured timely transport of the organ,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brain-dead-man-breathes-new-life-into-covid-19-patient-with-severe-lung-infection/story-UUVnm1GL1Aqv4b1j9MILWN.html
29-08-2020||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap, Ranchi hotelier booked for lockdown violation||Former Bihar health minister and son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, a Ranchi hotelier and its manager have been booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for Covid-19 lockdown violation, police said on Friday. The FIR against Tej Pratap was lodged at Ranchi’s Chutia police station on Friday. “Tej Pratap was booked under sections-269 and 270 of the Indian Panel Code (IPC),” said Ravi Thakur, officer-in-charge, Chutia police station. However, the FIR copy mentions two sections-188 and 34 of the IPC.The case was lodged on a written complaint of circle officer (CO), Ranchi, Prakash Kumar. In his complaint, Kumar said that when he, along with officer-in-charge Chutia, visited room no-507 of the hotel around 9 pm on Thursday, Tej Pratap and other persons were found staying there without any prior information or permission.According to the complaint, “He (Tej Pratap) had no permission letter of any competent authority for his stay. Besides, he returned to Bihar without completing the mandatory 14-day home quarantine which is a violation of government order during the Covid-19 pandemic.” A day before on Thursday evening, the owner and the manager of hotel Capitol Residency at Ranchi’s station road were booked for allegedly offering room to Tej Pratap. The FIR was lodged against them at Ranchi’s Chutia police station on a written complaint of circle officer (CO), Ranchi, Prakash Kumar.The officer-in-charge of Chutia police station, said, “Hotel manager Dushyant Kumar and the owner have been booked under sections 188 and 34 of the Indian Penal code (IPC).” Also read: Bihar assembly elections - Take voter base into account, avoid faulty tickets, says Rashtriya Janata Dal to alliesHe said hotels have not been permitted to operate in Jharkhand yet amid the pandemic. “In such a case, they cannot offer rooms to anyone. It is a violation of lockdown rules,” he added. Pratap was in Ranchi on Thursday and met former Bihar chief minister and his father Lalu Prasad Yadav at Kelly’s bungalow located in the premises of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Yadav is undergoing medical treatment there. An accused in the fodder scam, the RJD president was serving jail terms and was been admitted to RIMS in December 2018 for the treatment of his critical illness. Pratap told media persons that he met his father to enquire about his health and discussed political issues as well. Before meeting Lalu, Pratap underwent rapid antigen test and was allowed to meet his father after testing negative for SARS-Cov-2. When Jharkhand RJD president Abhay Singh was contacted for his comment over the FIR, he said, “I have no official information of any such development. As far as I know, Tej Pratap had left the city on Thursday night.” State BJP spokesperson, Pratul Shahdeo said the FIR was lodged against Tej Pratap after constant pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “We have been putting pressure as over 60 vehicles entered the city with the RJD leader. A large contingent of party workers from Bihar and Jharkhand accompanied the leader in an open violation of social distancing and other Covid-19 norms in the hospital and around the city,” Shahdeo said. Reacting to the development, the office-bearers of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) said the FIR was uncalled for. “Hotel owners know that offering rooms to anyone during the lockdown is a violation of Covid-19 protocol. But, the situation for them turns tough when leaders like Tej Pratap seek a room. The administration should take care when such leaders visit Ranchi,” said Dheeraj Taneja, FJCCI general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-son-tej-pratap-ranchi-hotelier-booked-for-lockdown-violation/story-Pi8sRPKDIF67wt1RX3jGJM.html
29-08-2020||India||As cases surge at state secretariat, Goa orders 50% staff to report to work||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Goa government has ordered that no more 50 percent of the staff of each department at the state secretariat should report to work. This comes after the state’s premier administrative block witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases among its staff. “On account of the increase in Covid-19 cases in the Secretariat, Departments/Offices it is directed that not more than 50% strength of the secretariat employees shall attend the office on a particular day and the remaining employees shall work from home on an alternate day basis,” an order issued by the joint secretary of general administration said. The orders which come into effect from August 31 will remain in force at least until September 11, the order stated. The comes over ten days after a staff of the secretariat protested against the government’s inaction in introducing social distancing measures for employees. Back then, the number of cases was only around a dozen. It has now crossed 50. Also read: Unlock 4.0 - What to expect from September 1On August 18, around 150 employees, alarmed by the rising Covid-19 cases in the administrative complex, had gathered in the foyer while a few called on the chief secretary to urge him to introduce either a 50 percent workforce or staggered a mode of working for the employees. “If this continues like this then we will all become positive and the administration will totally collapse. So before it collapses, the government should do something and send out some guidelines. We cannot work from home because we don’t have amenities. At least we can work at 50 percent strength, but there should be some clarity on how we are supposed to work,” Sukarna Pai, an employee of the revenue department, said. Besides the secretariat, several other government departments have been plagued by Covid-19 with cases being detected in the electricity department, rural development agency, the Goa State AIDS Control Society and some district court complexes. The Goa government also resisted making it optional for teachers to work and conduct online classes from home. Instead, the government insisted that they report to school on all working days which led to some cases of infection among teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-surge-at-state-secretariat-goa-orders-50-staff-to-report-to-work/story-NBurucsuIg3rmwvjgdIUuJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Tirupati temple to draw monthly interest on Rs 12,000 crore deposits due to cash crunch||Apparently faced with a severe liquidity crunch due to a sharp fall in cash offerings by devotees to the Lord Venkateshwara temple on Tirumala, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Friday decided to convert its cash deposits worth over Rs 12,000 crore in various banks into monthly mode. A decision to this effect was taken at the TTD trust board meeting held in Tirumala in the morning. Hitherto, the TTD had been making cash deposits in the banks quarterly, half-yearly and yearly and getting interest only at the end of the maturity of deposits. “Now, we have decided to convert all these deposits into monthly mode with immediate effect. As the deposits are renewed every month, we can get monthly interest which can be used for paying salaries, bearing the overhead expenses and conducting regular rituals for the Lord,” TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy told reporters after the board meeting. As per the last year’s estimates, TTD has cash deposits in the banks to the extent of more than Rs 12,000 crore. In the 2020-21 annual budget for the TTD, adopted in February this year, the board projected an income of Rs 706 crore in the form of interest on deposits for the entire year. Interest on deposits is the second highest source of income after the Hundi (cash chest adjacent to the temple where devotees make offering) collections, which are projected at around Rs 1,313 crore in the TTD’s annual budget, which has a total outlay of Rs 3,309 crore. Also Read: With BJP, AIMIM, VBA on same page, Sena hints at reopening places of worshipThe decision to shift to the monthly mode of deposits was taken apparently in view of serious cash crunch because of the sharp fall in the income from pilgrim offerings on the account of Covid-19 pandemic and the prolonged lockdown that forced the temple to remain shut for 80 days. Even after the lockdown was lifted, the footfall of pilgrims has come down drastically. Also Read: After 11-day prayers, 40 priests in Uttar Pradesh paid with coupon notesThe TTD trust board also decided that the Lord’s gold deposits should be converted to long-term deposits from the current short-term, so as to get more interest. Presently, the gold deposits are yielding 2.5 percent income. Longer durations ranging up to 12 years will fetch a greater rate of interest. TTD deposits surplus gold-- donated by devotees but never used for decoration of the Lord-- in nationalised banks as per an order from the state government in 2,000. When the RBI brought in gold monetisation scheme in 2015, the TTD deposited 5,387 kgs of gold in State Bank of India, 1,938 kgs in Indian Overseas Bank and 1,381 kgs in PNB. The gold in PNB was withdrawn last year upon maturity and shifted to the SBI. Also Read: Nanda Devi festival begins sans devotees due to Covid; rituals live on social mediaThe board also decided that the Brahmotsavams in September would be held in Ekantam (without allowing devotees). Brahmotsavams are one of the biggest celebrations at Tirumala. This is the first time that Brahmotsavams will be celebrated in a simple way for a formality because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The chairman said there would be another Brahmotsavams in October. If the situation improves, devotees may be allowed. TTD board member Sudha Narayana Murthy offered Rs 1 crore as donation to the TTD for adopting the sophisticated technology for conversion of garbage on the Tirumala hill into compost. A consultant would be engaged for viable solutions, Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-temple-to-draw-monthly-interest-on-rs-12-000-crore-deposits-due-to-cash-crunch/story-tHcLzmtk768yfbM2sU3RPP.html
29-08-2020||India||21% Covid-19 positivity rate recorded in Tripura’s capital city||The Covid-19 situation in Tripura’s capital city Agartala is worsening as the positivity rate has been found at 21 percent compared to the state-level positivity rate that stands at 3.86 percent.As per the latest government data, the Covid-19 positivity rate is high in nine wards of Agartala Municipal Corporation ( AMC). The Covid-19 positivity rate was 92 percent in ward number four, followed by 52 percent in ward number six, 94 percent in ward number twelve, 99 percent in ward number twenty, 93 percent in ward number twenty-six, 32 percent in ward number thirty-two, 100 percent in ward number forty and 69 percent in ward number forty-six.Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that violation of maintaining social distance and other norms by the residents of the capital city have been noticed and has become one of the reasons for the hike in the positive cases.Also read: Unlock 4.0 - What to expect from September 1“In the past seven days, the state-level positivity rate was 3.86 percent whereas, in nine wards of the Agartala Municipal Corporation the rate was 21percent. The current situation is very risky. I request you all to maintain social distance and stay at home except for necessary works. Our government has taken required measures for the Covid-19 patients and to prevent the chain of transmission,” he said in a video message that was circulated to the media.As per precautionary measures, the state would include extra 110 beds with ICU, OT, and ventilators in state-run Govind Ballabh Panth (GBP) hospital, the first dedicated Covid hospital. Besides, the state government laid stress on conducting more Covid-19 tests.The Group A and B staffs of the AMC would attend offices regularly while 50 percent of Group C and D would attend offices, rest would work from home.Around 1,500 Covid-19 patients are currently in home isolation. The state government has decided to provide free pulse oximeter to them soon.Moreover, they would either be given free ration including rice, pulses, turmeric, cooking oil, soybean, eggs or Rs 1,500 for ten days as a package.The state has recorded total 10,436 Covid-19 positive cases of whom 7,037 have recovered. Total 94 Covid-19 patients have died so far.Earlier in April, the state government announced to give Rs 10 lakhs as compensation to families of Covid-19 patients who have lost their lives.Accordingly, the state would provide financial assistance to such families in three phases. “As announced earlier, we will provide the financial assistance in three phases with Rs 3 lakh in the first phase,” he said.The state health department recently ordered 50 vials of Tocilizumab and 100 vials of Remdesivir, two investigational drugs for the treatment of the critical Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-covid-19-positivity-rate-recorded-in-tripura-s-capital-city/story-Vx4ZuDiwc8USxSdZ1P00ZO.html
29-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty to be questioned again today||Actor Rhea Chakraborty is being questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the second day on Saturday, a day after she was interrogated for more than 10 hours, in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.Chakraborty, who is accused of abetting Rajput’s suicide, reached the DRDO guesthouse at 1.30pm, where she will be questioned by CBI officials again. She was reportedly interrogated by a superintendent of police-rank officer of the central agency on various aspects of the case, PTI cited an official as saying.Chakraborty, who appeared before the CBI for the first time on Friday, had left the DRDO guest house complex in Santacruz a little after 9pm, said an official.The CBI team, which is in the city for the last last days to investigate Rajput’s death case, had on Thursday recorded the statement of Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty. It has so far questioned Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Deepesh Sawant, among others, as part of its probe in the high-profile case.The central agency has also recorded statements of Rajput’s chartered accountant Sandip Sridhar and accountant Rajat Mewati.The agency, which took over the case following an order from the Supreme Court, is investigating allegations by Rajput’s family that Chakraborty and others allegedly abetted Rajput’s suicide and misappropriated his money.The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-to-be-questioned-again-today/story-La9Wzq26kCWIwDzFINCi7L.html
29-08-2020||India||No weekend shutdown across 7 districts in Odisha due to NEET, JEE||Around 37000 candidates of Odisha who would write the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) between September 1 and 13 would have to follow safety norms such as physical distancing, personal hygiene, mask inside the examination halls due to Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.Additional chief secretary (health department), PK Mohapatra said all candidates will need to follow safety norms such as physical distancing, personal hygiene, mask-wearing, etc. inside the examination centres. The district authorities will also ensure the implementation of these norms outside the premises, he said.Copy of the admit card of the candidates, including soft copies or any other document held by the candidates and any document held by the examination personnel and staff/ representatives of service providers in support of their deployment, would be considered as their valid movement pass throughout the state.Also read: NEET, JEE mains 2020 - Digvijaya urges govt, SC to postpone examsAll candidates, along with their guardian, if any, as well as the examination personnel, are allowed to travel from their place of stay to the examination centres either by their vehicles or hired/public service vehicle.Officials said the candidates would also be subjected to thermal screening before entering the halls. While the JEE-Mains exams will be held between September 1 and 6, the NEET is scheduled on September 13. In Odisha, JEE Mains would be held in 26 centres across 7 cities.The government said there will be no lockdown or shutdown in the 7 cities where the exams will be held. The cities are Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Balasore, Sambalpur, Angul and Rourkela. Accordingly, weekend shutdown would not be enforced in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Berhampur, Balasore, Sambalpur and Rourkela on August 30.On Friday, the Odisha government had said that if any of the 37,000 candidates of the state who would write the exams need transportation and accommodation facilities, the state government will provide it. “The government will provide buses to ferry candidates from their hometown to the designated entrance venues. But the students have to apply for the government facilities by August 31,” said chief secretary Asit Tripathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-weekend-shutdown-across-7-districts-in-odisha-due-to-neet-jee/story-dfPcL75xlDlAPU0RoHZU4H.html
29-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s renal parameters improve, still on ventilator support: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support after he underwent a critical brain surgery on August 10. His renal parameters, that were ‘slightly deranged’ according to a previous health update, have improved.The 84-year-old former President is haemodynamically stable. A patient is haemodynamically stable when his blood circulation parameters -- blood pressure, heart and pulse rate -- are stable and normal, doctors say.“Former President Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters have improved. He continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support. He remains haemodynamically stable,” said a medical bulletin of Army Hospital (R&R), where the former president is admitted.After his August 10 surgery, he developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction, the doctors said. He was also tested positive for the coronavirus disease on being admitted to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-renal-parameters-improve-still-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-3sL8yq0SegI3l0DUPOKw5L.html
29-08-2020||India||Business revival panel meets in Jammu-Kashmir, discusses way forward||The committee constituted for coming up with proposals for revival of business in Jammu and Kashmir met representatives of the business, industries and commerce fraternity of Kashmir division.The meeting was chaired by advisor to Lt governor K.K Sharma and attended by its members including financial commissioner finance, Dr Arun Mehta, commissioner secretary, tourism, Zubair Ahmed, chairman Jammu Kashmir Bank, R.K Chibber, special secretary, finance, Shamim Wani, director industries and commerce Kashmir, Mehmood Ahmed and other senior officers.The LG’s advisor said that the suggestions would be formulated and sent to the concerned departments for necessary interventions needed for revival of business in Jammu and Kashmir.The meeting also decided to hold awareness camps across the Union Territory to create awareness about the Atmanirbar Bharat programme which has a special focus on entrepreneurship, innovation and self-sustenance.“Finance, industries department and Jammu and Kashmir Bank would be coordinating the camps across Jammu and Kashmir so that the entrepreneurs are provided with an ample knowledge about the scheme and interventions of the Central government,” the official spokesman said.During the meeting trade bodies raised various issues faced by them due to Covid-19 restrictions.“The committee, while holding detailed deliberations with the business and industrial associations of Kashmir, assured them that the suggestions put forth would be taken into consideration while formulating a comprehensive program for revival of business in the UT,” the spokesman said.The committee was framed after representatives of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) met LG Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan and apprised him of the issues and problems of the business community.Also Read: After 4 days, Kashmir highway partially restored from Ramban to ValleyThe committee will submit its report to the LG by 1st of September, 2020.Led by its president Sheikh Ashiq Hussain, the KCCI apprised the Lt Governor about a range of issues concerning the prominent business communities including from industries, hospitality, handicrafts, houseboats, tourism, private schools, apple cold storage, and young entrepreneurs etc.“We shared the pain and hardships which the business sector and traders suffered in the past 13 months,” Sheikh Ashiq had told HT.“Businesses have been closed for the past one year and there are multiple reasons including post-August 2019 lockdown, internet shutdown, and then Covid-19,” he said.He said that the LG took on the spot decision to form the committee for time bound inputs. “People have suffered immensely. There is growing unemployment and small time traders are on the verge of closure. We are expecting a bailout package from the J-K government and the Centre,” he said.The economic activity has suffered since August 5 last year, when restrictions were imposed across J-K following the abrogation of the special status of the region. It was further aggravated by the lockdown since mid-March, 2020, announced to contain Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/business-revival-panel-meets-in-jammu-kashmir-discusses-way-forward/story-jMf2LHMoI37xlvx7qCz0AK.html
29-08-2020||India||Bihar assembly elections: Take voter base into account, avoid faulty tickets, says Rashtriya Janata Dal to allies||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD ) has asked the smaller allies in the Grand Alliance it leads in Bihar to choose their nominees for seats allotted to them by taking into account their base voters and avoid the mistake of faulty ticket distribution that led to their debacle in the 2019 national polls, people aware of the matter said.“The smaller parties--be it RLSP [Rashtriya Lok Samata Party] and VIP [Vikashsheel Insaan Party]--have been asked this time to ensure the transfer of their base votes and allot tickets based on their party’s support base. We want all GA [Grand Alliance] candidates to get base votes of different allies and mistakes of the 2019 [national polls] polls are not repeated,” said an RJD leader involved in seat-sharing talks, requesting anonymity.The RJD’s suggestion is based on the party’s internal assessment after the 2019 debacle that smaller allies did not allot tickets based on their support among different caste groups and thus failed to get the support of various groups among Other Backward Classes mainly Kushwahas.A second RJD leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said RLSP’s chief Upendra Kushwaha’s contested two seats and allotted another to Congress’s Akash Kumar Singh. He called it an unwise move as it prevented them from attracting base voters of the party as the cadres got disillusioned.The second RJD leader said the VIP’s ticket selection in 2019 was also faulty as it did not accommodate even a single candidate from the Nonia community, which has a sizeable presence in north Bihar.In 2019 polls, the RJD-led alliance won only one seat of Bihar’s 40. RJD could not even win a single seat even as it secured 15.68% of votes. Congress got 7.85%, RLSP 3.66%, and VIP 1.65% of votes.RJD state president Jagdanand Singh refused to comment on the RJD’s suggestion to smaller parties on the candidate selection. “Social combination is a factor in deciding the outcomes of polls. We want all parties to work together.”Kushwaha is believed to be unhappy with the development even as he denied the RJD had laid any such condition on distributing tickets. He recently said he will stay with the alliance “even if I have to consume poison”.Kushwaha is said to be annoyed with the RJD and the Congress for not getting any assurance of the number of seats his party would get to contest. He has said he expects to get at least 30 seats.“ Yes, I have said so. The seat-sharing talks getting delayed is quite worrying and my statement is in that context. But it should not be construed that I am angry with the partners. I am also not aware of any conditions laid down by RJD on ticket distribution,” he said.VIP chief Mukesh Sahni said they have spoken about ticket distribution based on a party’s base voters. “I have announced that 33% of seats allotted to VIP would be distributed to EBCs [extremely backward classes] from different caste groups. Maybe the number would be higher. The RJD’s proposal is quite logical as candidates should be picked up based on the support base of each GA partner. Even Congress should follow the same.”The alliance suffered a setback as Hindustani Awaam Morcha left it this month over delay in seat adjustments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-elections-take-voter-base-into-account-avoid-faulty-tickets-says-rashtriya-janata-dal-to-allies/story-5zVo4YgL0GlN0mkoYgzMUK.html
29-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttarakhand BJP Chief Banshidhar Bhagat tests positive for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand BJP president tests Covid-19 positive days after hosting party eventUttarakhand BJP president Banshidhar Bhagat tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday about five days after a major political event was held at his Dehradun residence on August 24. Bhagat tweeted his positive status on Saturday morning. Read moreCovid-19: No lockdown in cities conducting JEE, NEET exams, says Odisha govtThe Odisha government on Friday said there will be no lockdown or shutdown in cities that will be conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) from August 30 to September 7 and from September 12 and September 14. The exams NEET and JEE are for undergraduate medical and engineering aspirants respectively. Read moreTMC alleges political vendetta as Central agencies speed up probe in poll-bound BengalWith over six months left for West Bengal elections, heightened activity by the Central probe agencies since Monday has prompted the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to allege “political vendetta by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.” Read moreCovid-19 reinfection detected in US patient; saliva tests endorsedA case of coronavirus reinfection has been documented in a US patient from Reno, Nevada, according to doctors. The 25-year-old man tested positive for the virus in April after showing mild illness and then got sick again in late May, developing more severe Covid-19 symptoms. Read moreIPL 2020 | CSK’s Suresh Raina pulls out of tournament due to personal reasonsChennai Super Kings cricketer Suresh Raina on Saturday pulled out of IPL 2020, citing personal reasons. Raina has decided to return home from UAE. CSK informed about Raina’s decision through a post on Twitter. Read moreMasaba Masaba review: Glossy and good-natured, new Netflix India show plays the Neena Gupta trump cardFor a show that references both blind items and suicides — grave topics that have taken over public discourse in recent weeks — it’s surprising how chipper Netflix’s Masaba Masaba really is. Its confident command over tone is one of its biggest strengths — it is neither too frivolous, nor is it overwhelmingly sombre. Read moreEpic Games CEO reveals the truth after Apple terminate company’s developer accountsJust hours ago we saw Apple announcing that it is terminating the developer accounts of Epic Games on the App Store. This means no more updates to Fortnite for the foreseeable future. This decision, as mentioned by Apple, came from the court. Read moreNASA’s dreamy picture of supernova blast in cosmos is all you need to ‘believe in magic’There isn’t perhaps any better way to wake up than to a glimpse of the unknown events in the cosmos and National Aeronautics and Space Administration treated us exactly to that pleasure on Saturday morning. Sharing a serene picture of “a small section of a Cygnus supernova blast wave”, NASA set sky enthusiasts on a frenzy. Read moreMan asks artist to edit his pic in ‘Bahubali style’. This is the resultUnless you’re completely detached from social media - if you are let us know the trick - chances are you’ve come across posts where artists take people’s picture-editing requests too literally and offer them hilarious results. Read moreWatch: Sushant’s kin, Ankita Lokhande respond to Rhea Chakraborty’s big chargesAs the probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case intensified, Rhea CHakraborty made some big charges in back-to-back interviews. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttarakhand-bjp-chief-banshidhar-bhagat-tests-positive-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LacwSM5tJ2CYjlU9yPqtKJ.html
29-08-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates agriculture university buildings in UP’s Jhansi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the new buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi city would improve the education infrastructure, contribute to research in agriculture and help farmers.The Prime Minister inaugurated the college and administration buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University virtually. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath were present at the event.PM Modi interacted with several students of the university during the event and said the new buildings will inspire and encourage them to do better.“Be it drone technology, artificial intelligence technology, modern agricultural equipment, young researchers and scientists like you will have to work continuously to make it more and more useful in the country’s agriculture,” PM Modi said.He pointed out that there was just one central agricultural university in the country six years ago and now there are three across the country. Apart from this, three more national institutes are being established at Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Integrated Farming at IARI-Jharkhand, IARI-Assam, and Motihari, he added.The Prime Minister said that it is also necessary to take education related to agriculture and its practical application to schools. Efforts are being made to introduce the subject of agriculture at the middle school level at the village level, he added.“There will be two benefits from this. One benefit will be that the natural understanding associated with farming in children of the village will be expanded. The second benefit will be that they will be able to give more information to their family about farming and related technology, trade and business,” he said.The RLB Central Agriculture University, a prominent institute of the Bundelkhand region, started its first academic session in 2014-15. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry.It is currently operating from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute as the main buildings were getting ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-agriculture-university-buildings-in-up-s-jhansi/story-hfkFYKjwayU0hfFPazc6UP.html
29-08-2020||India||Covid-19: No lockdown in cities conducting JEE, NEET exams, says Odisha govt||The Odisha government on Friday said there will be no lockdown or shutdown in cities that will be conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) from August 30 to September 7 and from September 12 and September 14. The exams NEET and JEE are for undergraduate medical and engineering aspirants respectively. An order stated that safety norms such as physical distancing, personal hygiene, mask wearing etc have to be followed inside the examination centres in view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic adding that the district authority will ensure the implementation of these norms outside the premises. Earlier chief minister Naveen Patnaik spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi advocating the postponement of the exams in view of the Covid-19 crisis and floods which has gripped several districts in the state. Also read| NEET, JEE mains 2020: Moved SC in view of health, safety of students, say opposition partiesThe National Testing Agency had issued a directive to conduct NEET on September 13 and JEE from September 1-6. Six opposition states namely West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan on Friday filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its August 17 order to allow the conduction of exams. The apex court on August 17 rejected the petition to postpone NEET and JEE entrance exams by saying that life must go on and students can’t lose a precious year due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy said that the state government has decided to provide free transportation and accommodation to the 37,000 candidates appearing for both exams in the state. Also read| NEET, JEE 2020: Odisha govt to make transportation and accommodation provisions for 37000 candidates“The government will provide buses to ferry candidates from their home town to the designated entrance venues. But the students have to apply for the government facilities by August 31,” Tripathy added.Odisha on Friday logged 3,252 new coronavirus cases, 2503 recoveries and 14 deaths, which have taken the state’s tally to 97,920. The active cases have now mounted to 29,571, the state’s health department said. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-lockdown-in-cities-conducting-jee-neet-exams-says-odisha-govt/story-Jf7KuNZ6IyKaUAJMHqmaiJ.html
29-08-2020||India||‘Will the messenger of god answer?’: Chidambaram’s jibe at Sitharaman||Taking a dig at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over her “Act of God” remark on the economy, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday asked “the FM as the Messenger of God” to “please answer” how to describe the “mismanagement” of the economy before the coronavirus pandemic. Sitharaman on Thursday said the economy has been hit by the pandemic, which is an “Act of God”, and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. Taking a swipe at Sitharaman over the remark, Chidambaram said, “If the pandemic is an ‘Act of God’, how do we describe the mismanagement of the economy during 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. Before the pandemic struck India?” “Will the FM as the Messenger of God please answer?” the former finance minister asked on Twitter. In a series of tweets, the senior Congress leader also slammed the Centre for asking states to borrow more to make up for revenue losses due to pending GST dues. He asserted that the two options given by the Modi government to the states to bridge the GST compensation gap are unacceptable. “Under the first option the states are asked to borrow by pledging their future receivables under Compensation cess. The financial burden falls entirely on the states,” Chidambaram said. “Under the second option, states are asked to borrow from the RBI window. It is more market borrowing, only by a different name. Again, the entire financial burden falls on the states,” he said. Chidambaram claimed the Central government is absolving itself of any financial responsibility. This is “gross betrayal” as well as a “direct violation of the law”, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-the-messenger-of-god-answer-chidambaram-s-jibe-at-nirmala-sitharaman/story-ZdpnWhzJmsGCDaXFyCq18N.html
29-08-2020||India||French woman shot ‘nude’ video at Rishikesh’s Lakshmanjhula, held||A 27-year-old French woman was arrested in Uttarakhand for allegedly getting her nude video shot at Rishikesh’s popular Lakshmanjhula over Ganga, said police on Saturday. The woman was arrested on Thursday after a local ward councillor Gajendra Sajwan lodged a complaint against the woman on August 25, said police. RK Saini, senior sub-inspector at Rishikesh’s Muni Ki Reti police station, where the foreign national was booked said, “Sajwan had lodged a complaint that the woman had done a nude video shoot and a photo shoot and put them on social media platforms through which he came to know about it.”“Based on the complaint, a case was registered against her under the relevant sections of Information Technology Act. During the probe, it was confirmed that the act was done on Lakshmanjhula, which is a public place. Later, some locals said that the woman is living in a hotel in Rishikesh,” said Siani. After verifying her address, police then went to her hotel and questioned her over the incident. Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP president tests Covid-19 positive days after hosting party event “During the questioning, she accepted to have shot the video in nude but claimed she was not aware that it’s illegal in India. She said the video and the photoshoot was intended to promote her bead-necklace business. She was then arrested on Thursday,” said Saini.However, she was later granted bail.“It seems that she wasn’t aware that it’s illegal in India, as in France, it’s not so uncommon. She is in Rishikesh since the last four-five months and is staying in a hotel at present,” said Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-woman-shot-nude-video-at-rishikesh-s-lakshmanjhula-held/story-v6hzOTehfOHUg457lNbylN.html
29-08-2020||India||TMC alleges political vendetta as Central agencies speed up probe in poll-bound Bengal||With over six months left for West Bengal elections, heightened activity by the Central probe agencies since Monday has prompted the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to allege “political vendetta by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.” On August 24, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) sent notices to five TMC leaders in connection with the 2014 Narada News sting operation, the videos of which were made public before the 2016 Bengal assembly polls, seeking details of their family property. The videos purportedly showed high-profile TMC leaders receiving money to help a fictitious company. On August 26 and 27, the Kolkata office of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the Narada case as well as the Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS Group Ponzi fund scams involving thousands of crores of rupees, revamped its economic offence wing. Two officers of the rank of superintendent of police flew down from Delhi to join duty, a CBI officer said on condition of anonymity. On August 28, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) questioned Chhatradhar Mahato, the tribal leader from Jhargram district who headed the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA), an alleged Maoists-backed outfit launched during the Left government, in connection with the 11-year-old case of hijacking of the Bhubaneswar-Delhi Rajdhani Express. Also read: Bengal government requests railway board to resume local train, metro servicesChief minister Mamata Banerjee inducted Mahato into her party’s state committee in July. The Bengal government released him in February after his life term was commuted by the Calcutta high court. The back-to-back developments have not gone down well with the TMC leadership. In all her public statements this week, including virtual meeting with the chief ministers of opposition ruled states, Banerjee alleged that the BJP is using Central agencies to crush the opposition. “The chief minister cannot blame the BJP for everything. It is the judiciary that asked Central agencies to probe the Narada and Ponzi fund cases. On the other hand, it is the state government that is using the state police to file criminal cases against BJP leaders. This exposes the difference in mindsets,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Saugata Roy, one of the TMC MPs, who received ED notice on August 24, said, “The ED served me a notice after several years. There are clear indications of a political vendetta.” Other TMC leaders to have received ED notices are Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, former Lok Sabha member Aparupa Poddar, minister Suvendu Adhikari, and TMC leader Ratna Chatterjee. Chhatradhar Mahato who was grilled at the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in West Midnapore district on Friday, said, “I am a target because I represent the tribal community. The NIA said I will be grilled again.”The Central agency probes in these cases are going on. In the Narada case, the CBI filed the FIR in March 2017, acting on a Calcutta high court order that was upheld by the Supreme Court. The CBI also registered an FIR against then TMC Rajya Sabha MP Mukul Roy, who later joined the BJP and became the opposition party’s election strategist in Bengal. The trial in this case has not started yet.CBI officials said the agency is also trying to wrap up the probe in the Saradha Ponzi fund case involving an estimated Rs 2,460 crore that was raised from around 1.8 million depositors from West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh. Sudipta Sen, who owned the group, is in jail. Some TMC leaders named in the Saradha case files have tried to come clean. In 2019, Satabdi Roy, TMC’s three-time Lok Sabha member from Birbhum, returned to the ED a sum of Rs 30.64 lakh that she received from the Saradha group for being its brand ambassador, four years after actor Mithun Chakraborty, a former TMC Rajya Sabha member, returned Rs 1.16 crore to the ED. TMC’s former Rajya Sabha member Kunal Ghosh spent over two years in jail custody in the case. The Rose Valley scam, estimated at Rs 17,000 core, is, however, the biggest Ponzi scam in Bengal in terms of money involved. In 2014, the Supreme Court asked the CBI to investigate the scams and the role of ‘influentials’ in money laundering. The ED is running a parallel probe. “The Calcutta high court, which is overseeing the probes into the Ponzi scams as well as refund of money to investors, around 200 of whom have died by suicide, has taken a strong stand,” said lawyer Arimdam Das who represents the cheated investors of Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS groups. On August 26, while hearing a bail petition filed by MPS Group owner Pramathanath Manna, who is in jail custody for six years, the division bench of Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice Suvra Ghosh expressed displeasure and asked the CBI why the trial has not started yet, he said. Additional solicitor general YJ Dastoor, who is representing the CBI, informed the court that Manna had been delaying the trial by filing multiple cases.The elections to 294-member West Bengal assembly is scheduled for May 2021, in which BJP is expected to be the main challenger to TMC, which has been ruling the state for the past 10 years. In 2016 assembly polls, the TMC has romped home with 211 seats while the BJP could secure only six. The Left parties got 32 seats and the Congress 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-alleges-political-vendetta-as-central-agencies-speed-up-probe-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-XSW8iCZ0zsgsC7R2nHcqXM.html
29-08-2020||India||Food safety regulator cracks down on adulterated edible oil||In order to crack down on adulterated edible oil in India, the country’s apex food safety regulator—Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI)—commissioned a pan-India survey.The quality survey was conducted for the first time between August 25 and 27. This survey covered over 4,500 samples and 16 varieties of edible oil, including mustard, coconut, palm, olive and blended oil. Various hilly as well as difficult terrains, including Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Daman & Diu as well as Andaman (UT), were included in this exercise so as to ensure a holistic sample size across the country.The samples were drawn from hypermarkets and supermarkets as well as retail and grocery stores and included national and local brands.“The survey was conducted by the State Food Safety department officials. At least 50 samples were collected from the metro cities—Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Kolkata and 6-8 samples each in cities and districts, other than the metros. FSSAI had shared the detailed guidelines and SOPs for conducting the survey as well as procedure of sample collection with the Commissioners of Food Safety in all States/ UTs…” a health ministry statement read.The final survey results will help identify the key hot spots for the adulteration of edible oil in different parts of the country and will strengthen efforts at the state/UT level to devise targeted enforcement drives in the next few months. The whole exercise is aimed at ensuring the availability of pure and safe mustard and other varieties of edible oil in the country.“A comprehensive strategy for testing of these samples through the State Food Testing Laboratories or FSSAI notified food testing labs (including private NABL accredited) to analyze various parameters including Fatty Acid composition as well as adulteration of any other oils or harmful or extraneous substance/ chemical has been developed. The test results are expected in a month’s time,” an FSSAI statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-safety-regulator-cracks-down-on-adulterated-edible-oil/story-T6l7NJwVCLCDdJcnpvys3O.html
29-08-2020||India||Mumbai’s Covid-19 waste doubles in 3 months, treatment facility runs out of storage space||With a 104 percent increase in Covid-19 and associated biomedical waste generated in Mumbai over the past three months, the city’s waste incineration unit has run out of storage space at their one-acre plant in Deonar.Private waste operator SMS Envoclean Pvt Ltd, appointed by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to deal with the city’s entire Covid-19 waste, said plastic waste comprising syringes, saline bottles, masks, gloves, discarded medicines, equipment, empty ampules etc., weighing 2,000 kilograms, was piling up daily at the plant.“As per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines, we have been instructed to segregate plastic waste received from healthcare facilities (collected separately) in red bags. Each waste product is disinfected and kept aside to be sent to private recyclers. However, with hardly any recycling units functioning and less number of vehicles with us, we have completely run out of space to store any additional quantity,” said Amit Nilawar, director, SMS Envoclean.Also read: Good ventilation lowered viral load, Covid deaths in Asian nations - StudyThe rise in waste restricts the movement of people within the plant as well, said Nilawar. In June, HT had reported that 20 sanitation workers had quit the waste treatment centre in fear of being infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.According to SMS, the quantity of Covid-19 and biomedical waste increased from an average of 12,200 kilograms per day in June to 24,880 kilograms per day average in August being brought in yellow bags from across 12,000 healthcare facilities in Mumbai. Every Monday, the quantity of Covid-19 waste reduces to 18,000-19,000 kilograms.Additionally, 6,000 kilograms of recyclable waste is being presently brought to the plant. While SMS has 60 vehicles catering to only hospitals, another 35 vehicles from the BMC are bringing waste from quarantine camps and homes, containment zones in yellow bags. “The entire load of 24,880 kilograms is being incinerated daily but we are managing to send only 4,000 kilograms of the plastic waste to functional waste recyclers. The pile of treated waste stock has increased so much that we don’t have any space to park our vehicles,” said Nilawar. Each vehicle can carry an average of 250 kilograms of waste (ranging between 100 to 400 kilograms depending on the size of the vehicle). The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in April appointed a committee that directed all states to look into the expansion of waste treatment facilities apprehending additional Covid-19 waste. Then state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta had asked all municipal corporations to audit their respective facilities. “The BMC had asked us whether we would like to increase our capacity. We asked for 3-acres but they agreed and approved the handover of a one-acre plot adjacent to our facility in June,” said Nilawar adding, “Once we have the land, we will procure 10 vehicles immediately and build a storage shed for additional waste.”The BMC confirmed that the approval to hand over the land had been issued. “It will take some time to complete all formalities but will be done soon,” said a senior civic official.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said, “We are meeting with the contractor soon. We will try to come up with a way out of the matter. At the moment, we have asked all solid waste management staff to focus only on Covid-19 waste. We are getting very few complaints about the non-lifting of waste, and I am personally monitoring the progress on a weekly basis.”He added that antigen testing camps had been organised for all sanitation workers. “Only one or two persons handling and transporting waste have been infected so far since March, and as restrictions have eased in the city, the workforce has increased,” said Kakani.How the waste plant controls air pollution from excessive waste burning With almost 25,000 kilograms of Covid-19 and associated biomedical waste being incinerated daily at the private waste treatment centre in Deonar, air pollution is a concern for the operator and residents. However, they have built a mechanism to ensure minimal emission. The waste treatment centre follows a process of second combustion followed by scrubbing and water sprinkling to remove hazardous pollutants. First, the waste is incinerated in a chamber and resultant hazardous smoke is transferred to another chamber where it is burnt for the second time ridding the air of harmful pollutants. Then it is sent to a third chamber where the air is filtered using a scrubber, and finally to a fourth chamber where a water sprinkler using chemicals further purifies the air before residual steam is released from the chimney.“The chimney is located at a height much above the peripheral residential area and the steam (almost colourless) disperses quickly into the air, and no black soot or smoke is visible,” said Nilawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-s-covid-19-waste-doubles-in-3-months-treatment-facility-runs-out-of-storage-space/story-RB9z2efys8dlctlXXUxL0H.html
29-08-2020||India||PM Modi pays tributes to Major Dhyan Chand on National Sports Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid his tributes to Dhyan Chand on the occasion of National Sports Day. “Today, on #NationalSportsDay, we pay tributes to Major Dhyan Chand, whose magic with the hockey stick can never be forgotten. This is also a day to laud the outstanding support given by the families, coaches and support staff towards the success of our talented athletes,” tweeted PM Modi.National Sports Day is celebrated every year in India on August 29 since 2012 to commemorate the birth anniversary of hockey legend Dhyan Chand, who won gold medals in Olympics for India in 1928, 1932 and 1936.“#NationalSportsDay is a day to celebrate the remarkable achievements of all those exemplary sportspersons who have represented India in various sports and made our nation proud. Their tenacity and determination are outstanding,” the PM Modi tweeted.On this day every year, the nation honours its sporting heroes with recognitions like the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, Arjuna Award, Dhyan Chand Award and the Dronacharya Award. These are conferred in a special ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-major-dhyan-chand-on-national-sports-day/story-xHqIEUqlsazfmtF2gwPpBK.html
29-08-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses bail to stalker who stabbed Pune girl 6 times||The Bombay high court has rejected the bail application of a young man booked for stalking and later assaulting a girl with a knife since she rejected his marriage proposal.Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the bail plea of Amol Kashid, primarily on the ground that there was a threat to the life of the girl if the accused was released.The very fact that the Applicant – Kashid-- constantly harassed the complainant, entered her house and attacked her with a knife in front of her mother and grandmother after she rejected his marriage proposal makes it obvious that there was a threat to the victim if he was let out on bail, said the judge.“Therefore it is not desirable to release the Applicant on bail,” he added and rejected his bail plea.The assault took place on April 9, 2019 and Kashid was arrested from Pune district the next day.He had moved the high court for bail primarily on the ground that since the investigation was complete and the charge sheet had been filed in the case, his custody was no longer required.Also Read: Bombay HC says hospitals can’t be closed down without due process of lawIt was argued on his behalf that the young man was behind the bars for about one-and-half years, ever since he was arrested on April 10, 2019. Besides, the court was also assured that since Kashid was not a resident of Pune district, he will not enter the district again so that there was no threat to the complainant or her family.Also Read: Moderate rain in Mumbai, yellow alert issued for SaturdayJustice Kotwal, however, refused to accept the contention. The judge noted that the accused stalked and harassed the complainant for a long time. Though she did not respond to his overtures, he continued to call her and send her messages. The judge also noted that Kashid continued the harassment even after he left Shirur and went to Beed, and returned to assault the girl, who sustained six stab wounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-stalker-who-stabbed-pune-girl-6-times/story-F76e2il264AdUuOQc7mXMP.html
29-08-2020||India||Bengal government requests railway board to resume local train, metro services||The West Bengal government has requested the railway board on Friday to resume metro and local train services in the state in a limited manner, maintaining physical distancing among passengers. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay sent a letter to the ministry late on Friday intimating the state government’s views. “This is to bring to your notice that state government is of the view that metro and local train services can be resumed in Bengal in a limited manner maintaining the norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocols,” Bandyopadhyay wrote in the letter. Also read: Covid-19 Unlock 4.0 - What to expect from September 1On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that the state has no issues if local train and metro rail services are resumed. She even allowed resumption of flight services from six cities to Kolkata that had been suspended since July 6. “From September 1, flight services to Kolkata from the six cities may resume and can operate on three days,” Banerjee said after a cabinet meeting. Flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad were stopped from July 6 as the state government stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The dates were extended multiple times. The centre is likely to allow the resumption of metro services from September when the fourth phase of unlocking economic activities will begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-government-requests-railway-board-to-resume-local-train-metro-services/story-LIuFkAZmL9u6NrxnfJDv6M.html
29-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 3.4 million, recoveries cross 2.6 million||India reported more than 75,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the third day in a row and over 1,000 deaths for four consecutive days, taking the tally to 3,463,972, Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.There were 76,472 new infections--75,760 on Thursday and 77,266 on Friday--in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The number of active cases stood at 752,424, it showed. And, 1,021 people succumbed to the viral disease between Friday and Saturday morning after 1,059 died on Thursday and 1,023 on Friday.The number of people who have been recovered from the coronavirus disease rose to 2,648,998 after 65,050 patients were cured in a single day. This has taken the recovery rate to 76.47%.India’s Covid-19 recoveries went past 2.6 million after 65,050 patients recovered and were discharged from home isolation in case of mild and moderate cases and hospitals in severe and critical cases in a single day. This has taken the country’s recovery rate to 76.47%.The government said on Friday in the past five months more than 3/4 of Covid-19 cases have recovered and less than 1/4 is active now, attributing to its “strategic and graded TEST, TRACK and TREAT approach”.The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases, which comprise 21.90% of the total cases, it said.The government has also said that India’s Covid-19 testing has crossed the 4 million mark, with about 9 lakh tests done on Friday. According to the government data, at least 10 million tests have been done in the past two weeks.“…9 lakh COVID-19 samples each day for the second consecutive day, keeping a sharp focus on test, track and treat strategy of the Union government. India has already created a capacity of doing 10 lakh tests per day…,” the health ministry has said in a statement.The tests per million have also seen a sharp surge to 28,607. According to experts, it is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified at an early stage, their close contacts promptly tracked and isolated as well as timely and effective treatment can be ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-3-4-million-recoveries-cross-2-6-million/story-bQ46kgHQByV8y97X1t1T5H.html
29-08-2020||India||After 4 days, Kashmir highway partially restored to clear stranded vehicles||After remaining blocked for four straight days, the 270 km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway was partially restored by Saturday afternoon but only for vehicles stranded for the last 4 days. SSP national highway J S Johar said that while Kashmir highway has been temporarily and partially restored from Jammu to Srinagar, only stranded vehicles are being cleared and no fresh traffic is allowed from Jammu till Dalwas stretch in Ramban, till the highway is restored completely.The official, however, hoped that the stretch in Dalwas will be fully restored by Saturday evening. A portion of road had been washed away in a mudslide at Dalwas on Wednesday in Ramban district.A local from Batote said, “This morning only Kashmir-bound vehicles stranded between Ramban and Valley were being allowed to proceed to their destinations in Kashmir but in the afternoon Dalwas was partially restored. Light motor vehicles are being allowed to pass Dalwas stretch where mud and slush are causing great inconvenience to the vehicles.”The up-traffic is moving cautiously due to slippery road conditions, he added. Landslides have been cleared from Marog, Digdol, Monkey Morh, Cafeteria Morh, Mompassi and Panthial, he said.The weather has also opened up in Ramban, situated at the highest altitude on Kashmir highway. “It is bright and sunny today,” said the local, adding that daily commuters know that landslides are triggered when weather turns dry soon after rains as loose rocks and soil come off the hills. Also Read: Kashmiri Pandits trek to Harmukh Gangbal lake amid COVID-19 curbs,perform pilgrimage to Shiva’s abode“NHAI has pressed its men and machines to completely restore the highway. At Dalwas we are at work to restore the stretch,” said an NHAI official.After moderate to heavy rains in J&K since Tuesday, rains stopped Friday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-days-kashmir-highway-partially-restored-from-ramban-to-valley/story-jGAojfeBgADT9O3rGF2CAP.html
29-08-2020||India||‘Good ventilation lowered indoor viral load, Covid-19 deaths in developing Asian countries’: Study||Indoor spaces with good ventilation and fewer closed air-conditioned spaces are the reason for fewer deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in developing Asian countries including India, said an analysis published in the Asia Pacific Journal of Public Health.The virus remains airborne in enclosed spaces, leading to repeated exposure and a build-up of high viral load in the upper respiratory tract, increasing the severity of the disease and mortality, said authors from Delhi and Mangalore.“People in the developing countries tend to spend less time in air-conditioned enclosed places, where the viral load is higher due to lack of ventilation. This could be the reason for fewer deaths reported from several Asian countries. In fact, the initial surge in cases was reported from European countries, where people might have stayed indoors longer in the winter months of January and February,” said Dr Shyam Aggarwal, the first author of the study and chairman of the oncology department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, which collaborated with Max Smart Superspeciality hospital in Delhi and Kasturba Medical College in Mangalore for the article.Also read: Flouting Covid-19 norms in metro may attract heavy fines once it reopensIn India, the overcrowded homes is leading to the spread. “Even though not many people spend time in air-conditioned offices in India, the problem here is that of several people living in close proximity in small houses leading to transmission within families,” he said.While examining whether airborne transmission of the viral infection is possible, the World Health Organization in July said that “short-range aerosol transmission, particularly in specific indoor locations, such as crowded and inadequately ventilated spaces over a prolonged period of time with infected persons cannot be ruled out.”Clusters of Covid-19 infections have been reported across the world in such inadequately ventilated spaces such as a cluster of 10 cases reported in people who had eaten at an air-conditioned restaurant in January end in Guangzhou, China.Also read: Covid-19 Unlock 4.0 - What to expect from September 1Another cluster of 52 people was reported from a choir practice in Washington, US in March. Over 100 cases of Covid-19 were traced back to a dance fitness class in South Korea in February. One of the more recent clusters of 27 cases was linked to a coffee shop in South Korea in August.The doctor says there is a need to increase air exchange in such enclosed air-conditioned spaces. “To make places that do not have enough ventilation and are completely air-conditioned, the number of air exchange – circulation of outdoor air in the air-conditioning system – every hour has to be increased. In some places, there were just five air exchanges each hour once summer started as it puts more strain on the system and leads to more electricity consumption. This has to be about 12 to 15 exchanges an hour,” said Dr Aggarwal.Experts say that the existing evidence suggests that ill-ventilated, completely air-conditioned buildings must be avoided, but whether it leads to higher mortality is not known.“In a healthcare setting, some procedures lead to aerosolization of the bronchial fluids that have a high viral load and it has been seen that it puts people in the areas at a higher risk of infection. In other building, if adequate outdoor air infusion is not ensured and some way of killing the viral particles – such as plasma ionisation or UV ray treatment – then there may be a higher risk of infection,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor in the department of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital.“But I do not think it can explain the disparity in the number of deaths in various countries. Scientists are still trying to figure out the causes of fewer deaths in some places – whether it is demography, an unconducive environment for transmission, the virus mutating to become milder, genetic factors, use of certain medicines or vaccines like HCQ and BCG,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-ventilation-lowered-indoor-viral-load-covid-19-deaths-in-developing-asian-countries-study/story-v6yLU7U9WrYh5hK6gr8oHI.html
29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4.0: What to expect from September 1||Unlock 4.0, the fourth phase of opening of the economy after coronavirus lockdown, will start from September 1. This phase comes at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3.46 million mark and the number of deaths due to the disease have gone up to 62,550.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOfficials have said Unlock 4 guidelines, which will be announced later this week, only mention the activities which will be prohibited while the rest can resume. Here is a look at what will change during Unlock 4.0:• The Centre is likely to allow resumption of metro services, which were halted since March 22, in Delhi and the NCR from September 1. Contactless ticketing system will be put in place and passengers will not be allowed to use tokens anymore.• Flouting Covid-19 norms such as not wearing a mask, sitting on seats meant to be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing and spitting or littering on the station premises will attract hefty fines. • Schools and colleges will remain to be shut, while bars will be allowed to serve liquor over the counter for takeaways. • Cinema halls will also remain shut as it won’t be feasible to run shows with only 25-30% capacity due to physical distancing norms.• In Karnataka, the academic year of colleges for various degree courses will commence from September 1 with online classes while offline classes may begin from October 1, the state government has said.• Karnataka may push for opening cinema halls and allowing sale of liquor in restaurants in a relief to hospitality sector.• In Unlock 4.0, domestic flights from Covid-19 hotspots will be allowed to land in Kolkata. “We have received several requests to resume flight operations from six Covid-19 hotspot states. So from September 1, flight services from these six states (Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad) can resume thrice a week,” CM Mamata Banerjee said.• While pubs and clubs are expected to open next month, West Bengal will be under complete lockdown twice a week.• Local trains in Mumbai will not resume in this phase. Mumbai police has also warned motorists that they will impound vehicles if they cannot show a valid reason for being out.• Chennai has announced that e-passes will be mandatory for inter-state and inter-district movement. Restrictions on liquor shops and hotels may be eased in the city in Unlock 4.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-unlock-4-0-what-to-expect-from-september-1/story-fS0KTLbhLpcetOgjxVscPJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Three of a family electrocuted to death in Madhya Pradesh||Two brothers and their cousin were electrocuted to death in Madhya Pradesh on Friday morning when they got down in a well to check an irrigation motor pump that had stopped functioning, said police. The incident took place at Patai village under Devari police station, about 120 km away from Raisen district headquarters, the neighbouring district of Bhopal, at about 9 am, according to police. Sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP) Ashok Ghanghoria said, “The well is situated in the agriculture field of a Kushwah family. When the irrigation motor pump installed inside the well stopped functioning on Friday morning, Brijesh Kushwaha, 20, got down in the well to see what had gone wrong. The moment he touched the motor pump he was electrocuted. On seeing the condition of his younger brother, Jagdish Kushwah, 25, entered the well to rescue him and the moment he made an attempt to pull his brother out, he too was electrocuted. Their cousin brother Preetam Kushwah met the same fate when he entered the well.” Also Read: 7 injured in acid attack over dairy dispute in Madhya Pradesh The officer said though the villagers informed the police immediately, it could reach only around 2 pm since the main road was submerged due to heavy rains. After a post-mortem examination, the dead bodies were handed over to their families. Police lodged a report and initiated an investigation. Tehsildar of the area Chhote Giri Goswami said, “A sum of Rs 4 lakh each for the next to the kin of the deceased was announced by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-of-a-family-electrocuted-to-death-in-madhya-pradesh/story-r2QBTM6KgWeVEQ2ylkRpiI.html
29-08-2020||India||RSS sets up study centres for rural students, includes patriotism lessons||More than 1000 volunteers of RSS are reaching out to young minds through study centres-- Balgokulam—set up in more than 31 districts of Madhya Pradesh, as per RSS functionaries. RSS’ Madhya Bharat arm is helping students in their studies,--affected by Covid 19--while also introducing them to Sangh’s ideology, thoughts on patriotism and also moral and cultural values by introducing at least 600 study centres in villages of Madhya Pradesh in August, as per functionaries of the organisation. “The schools are closed and students are being educated through online classes due to Covid 19. There are many students in MP who are lagging behind in online classes as they don’t have smart mobile phones. To help such students up to class 8, more than 1000 volunteers have started teaching at Balgokulam centres for three hours daily with the help of books and community radio, in which special educational programmes are being run to teach students,” said Satish Pimplikar, a leader of the RSS and in-charge of the programme. “In this initiative, women volunteers of Rashtra Sevika Samiti are also participating in good numbers. The volunteers pay extra attention to weak students and if required, they teach them for extra hours,” he added. “While covering the syllabus, we are also instilling a feeling of patriotism in the students by telling them stories of our freedom fighters and also trying to educate them on our country’s rich culture,” said a volunteer from Guna, who didn’t wish to be named. The classes are being conducted to ensure that students maintain social distancing to avoid contracting the disease.Also Read: Former RSS ideologue Govindacharya wants parliamentary probe in workings of social media platforms“The class starts with Saraswati vandana (worship of Goddess Saraswati) and ends with Vande Matram. In the class, students maintain social distancing. The students come with their books, which have been distributed by school teachers during a door to door campaign. We explain one topic each of two subjects daily to students and also give them homework to see if they understood the topic,” said the volunteer quoted above. Most of the centres have been started in backward areas. In all, 1000 centres will be started in the next two weeks in the most backward areas of the state, said another leader, who didn’t wish to be named. Also Read: BJP used social media to spread religious hatred: Shiv SenaPimplekar said “The decision was taken after RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat guided us to help students in their studies amid the Covid-19 situation, during a meeting held in Bhopal in July last week.” However, opposition Congress alleged that the real motive of RSS is not to teach students but to spread their saffron ideology. Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “This is more an expansion plan of the RSS to spread their saffron ideology in MP. They chose school students because they could be brainwashed easily.” BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal, however, praised the initiative.“This is a very good initiative to help the students. The volunteers of RSS are doing welfare work across the nation. Congress leaders have made it their habit to get involved in criticism as they are pessimistic people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-sets-up-study-centres-for-rural-students-includes-patriotism-lessons/story-ZVigJhM5edu15eFCqSlUzK.html
29-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 curve flattening in Dharavi while cases are doubling in Mahim and Dadar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 curve flattening in Dharavi, rising in neighbouring Dadar and MahimWhile the Covid-19 curve has started to flatten in Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster, the number of Covid-19 cases have doubled in neighbouring Mahim and Dadar areas in the last 40 to 60 days. Read moreGovt may ask BSNL to test domestic network for 4GThe Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is considering advising state-run Bharat Sanchar NIgam Ltd. (BSNL) to test a domestically consolidated end-to-end network for 4G services before selecting a telecom company to upgrade its network, HT has learnt. Read more5 more die due to floods in Odisha, toll goes up to 12Five more people died in Odisha on Friday, taking the death toll in the state ravaged by floods to 12. Two people have also been reported missing since August 25. Read moreLouisiana avoided Laura’s ‘wall of water’? Not so, says forecasterThe 20-foot high “unsurvivable” wall of water Hurricane Laura was forecast to send onto the Louisiana coast showed up despite widespread reports of a lower peak, authorities said on Friday, rejecting criticism that they had raised too much alarm. Read moreInvincible Ray Parlour says Lionel Messi would fit well in EnglandSaturday’s Community Shield tie between Premiership champions Liverpool and FA Cup winners Arsenal will be the bugle call for a season unusual in equal measure for closed-door games and the possibility of Lionel Messi playing in the Premier League. Read moreBlack Panther star Chadwick Boseman dies of colon cancer at 43Black Panther actor Chadwick Boseman has died of colon cancer at 43, his family has said in a statement. The actor had been battling cancer for four years. Read morePoco X3 camera, fast charging speed teased by company execPoco has confirmed that the Poco X3 smartphone will launch soon. Poco’s global spokesperson has been dropping hints and now details for the upcoming smartphone. The Poco X3’s camera and charging details have now been revealed. Read morePreity Zinta is rightfully proud of her homegrown lemons in this cute Instagram videoPreity Zinta took to Instagram on August 28 to update netizens on her gardening adventures. The Bollywood actor appeared proud of her homegrown lemons and seeing them you may say rightfully so. Read moreWatch: J&K L-G Manoj Sinha takes stock of situation amid heavy rainfall||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-curve-flattening-in-dharavi-while-cases-are-doubling-in-mahim-and-dadar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-76ckXphH9PPucfaTPq6uvK.html
29-08-2020||India||India’s growth to pick-up from second quarter of FY-21: EY report||India’s growth in the first quarter of current financial year is likely to be “the worst” amongst the four quarters of FY-21 because of economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, an EY India’s report said indicating improved economic performance from the second quarter.“High frequency indicators for India are giving positive signals after the first two months of the pandemic,” the consultancy firm said in its latest edition of Economy Watch before the scheduled release of official gross domestic product (GDP) data on Monday.The optimism of the report is based on indicators such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), sales of passenger vehicles, power consumption and the rise in the foreign exchange reserve. “In June and July 2020, PMI manufacturing was close to the benchmark level of 50 at 47.2 and 46.0 respectively. Although IIP has continued to contract in June 2020, its rate of contraction has come down to -16.6% from its May 2020 level of -33.9%. In June 2020, passenger vehicle sales picked up sharply with sales of 1,20,188 units as compared to sales of 33,546 units in April and May 2020 considered together,” it said.Although power consumption shows a continued contraction, the rate of contraction has been coming down over successive months since April 2020 when it was at -25%. This fell to -0.4% in the first 20 days of August 2020, it added. It also pointed at the foreign exchange reserves continued to rise steadily reaching a level of $538 billion by August 7, 2020 as a positive indicator.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India, however, said one adverse development is the slowing down of bank credit growth to 5.8% in the fortnight ending 17 July 2020. “Due to subdued demand, average credit growth fell to 6.4% in the first quarter of FY21 as compared to 7.1% in fourth quarter of FY20,” he said.Also Read: World Bank pauses Ease of Doing Business rankingsHe said the center’s capital expenditure grew by 40.1% in the first quarter of FY-21 as compared to a contraction of -27.6% in the corresponding period previous year, indicating frontloading of capital expenditure by the Union government, which is “welcomed as it signals investment in infrastructure” in line with the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) objectives.In his Independence Day address on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled over Rs 110 lakh crore infrastructure projects to boost the economy and create jobs. “In order to rapidly modernise India, there is a need to give a new direction to overall infrastructure development,” he said, adding that over 7,000 projects under NIP have been already identified.Also Read: World Bank’s ‘Doing Business Report’ on hold over data fudging concernsThe report, however, pointed at rising fiscal deficit. The Controller General of Accounts (CGA) data released for the month of June 2020 shows that center’s fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is already 83.2% of the annual budgeted target. “In terms of magnitude, the fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is 53.3% larger than the corresponding magnitude in 1Q FY20. Center’s revenue deficit during 1Q FY21 stood at 94.8% of the annual budgeted target as compared to 77.1% in the corresponding period of FY20,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-growth-to-pick-up-from-second-quarter-of-fy-21-ey-report/story-7UrlrbDS2as0FCB1qwaE6L.html
29-08-2020||India||1 soldier killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s Pulwama||A soldier of the Indian Army was killed and three terrorists were gunned down on Saturday during a gun battle in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.“One AK and two pistols recovered. One soldier was critically injured and succumbed to his injuries. A joint operation is in progress,” Colonel Rajesh Kalia, the army’s spokesperson, said.Police officials said that the encounter started at around 1am on Saturday in Pulwama’s Zadoora area when army and police personnel launched a joint operation.#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 03 #unidentified #terrorists killed. #Incriminating materials including #arms & ammunition which. Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/zoygmus2PHThree terrorists were killed in an encounter in Shopian district on Friday, which has taken the total number of terrorists killed in the Valley to six in less than 24 hours. One terrorist was captured alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-bALavkJVZspUa5hoo8xklL.html
29-08-2020||India||Earthquake of 3.7 magnitude jolts Mizoram’s Champhai||An earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale jolted Mizoram’s Champhai on Saturday, the National Center for Seismology informed.NCS also informed that the tremors were felt in Champhai at 00:44 am today.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-3-7-magnitude-jolts-mizoram-s-champhai/story-ZR25KUbHICeMXmoUmx8tQP.html
29-08-2020||India||Govt may ask BSNL to test domestic network for 4G||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) is considering advising state-run Bharat Sanchar NIgam Ltd. (BSNL) to test a domestically consolidated end-to-end network for 4G services before selecting a telecom company to upgrade its network, HT has learnt.Such a decision could have far-reaching ramifications because the new setup, if found feasible, can be replicated by other network providers and to upgrade to 5G services, the tendering process for which is yet to begin.HT reported on June 22 that the DoT had set up a six- member panel to look into the 4G upgrade tender after which it was scrapped on July 1. The decision came in the aftermath of heightened tensions with China, particularly since the death of 20 Indian soldiers on June 15 in Eastern Ladakh Sector’s Galwan Valley in a skirmish with Chinese soldiers.The decision was also taken in the context of the telecom department’s preference for a Make in India option and to reduce reliance on Chinese companies such as Huawei Technologies Company Ltd. and ZTE Corporation. The six-member panel, which has representatives from DoT, BSNL, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited and industry experts, has already met five times and is in the final stage of outlining requirements for the fresh tender. The tender requirements are likely to be finalised by the end of the week. The Rs 7,000- Rs 8,000 crore tender is part of the BSNL revival package that will allow it to expand its telecom presence. “Indian manufacturers at present do not have a turnkey setup in place,” said a DoT official who did not wish to be named. “A turnkey setup offers end-to-end network, including both radio and core requirements that are consolidated at a central level by a single operator.”The official said while seven companies manufacture radio equipment, used to set up telecom towers, only two companies at present are capable of making core equipment, which translates the signals to provide telecom services. “The core equipment is responsible for translating the signals that are carried by the radio equipment,” the official said. “The new approach is likely incorporate multiple vendors to set up an end-to-end network.”A member of the panel told HT on condition of anonymity that reservations had been expressed by some members of the panel about the ability of Indian tech companies to set up such a network. “We are discussing telling BSNL...to set up at least 10-20 towers using local equipment and connect it to the core,” said the member. “They can test if the equipment is giving the appropriate results.”According to experts, nearly 75% of the telecom equipment India needs is sourced from companies outside the country. ZTE and Huawei, Nokia, Ericsson AB and Samsung Electronics Company Ltd are among the biggest suppliers. “We are not saying that Nokia or Airtel will not be able to provide services, but the idea is that the local manufacturers get a greater stake,” said the first official. “Nokia has an India-based office that employs many Indian engineers.”Those doing over 50% value addition to products and networks by using equipment that is made in India and not just assembled in the country would be given preference, according to DoT. “Say Tech Mahindra gives a bid for 112 and Nokia for 100, Tech Mahindra will be asked to match the bid,” said former DoT technical advisor RK Bhatnagar. “Ericsson’s value addition, for example, would be around 25%, making them ineligible to be in preference category.” Bhatnagar added that a version of the DoT’s proposal was discussed at a meeting convened by NITI Aayog, the government’s policy think tank, in early July. “Private players such as Tech Mahindra made a presentation that they have the capability,” said Bhatnagar. “They had asked for a chance, and NITI Aayog had suggested the same to DoT.”“The players can be asked to set up a consolidated network, which will then be tested over four months to see if it’s a workable solution and then can be replicated in other places,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-ask-bsnl-to-test-domestic-network-for-4g/story-Tum2HjqkGAuuuP3DDewZDM.html
29-08-2020||India||5 more die due to floods in Odisha, toll goes up to 12||Five more people died in Odisha on Friday, taking the death toll in the state ravaged by floods to 12. Two people have also been reported missing since August 25.“Five more people died in Odisha due to house and drowning in Bargarh, Nuapada, Jajpur, Baleswar and Bhadrak. Seven people had died earlier in Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Sundergarh and 2 were missing in Bargarh and Mayurbhanj,” Pradeep Kumar Jena, Special Relief Commissioner told ANI on Thursday. Inspection of Hon'ble Minister, School and mass Education along with EE, Nimapara to flood on Bhargabi river at Balanga.@CMO_Odisha @RaghunandanDas6 @SecyChief @SRC_Odisha @SMEOdisha pic.twitter.com/0v1KjGV5C4Around 7,000 people were evacuated from low lying and vulnerable areas and shifted to safe places, he had earlier said. Dry fruits and cooked food are being provided to them, he added. Meanwhile, six people, including a newborn baby, were rescued from a village in Jajpur district by a Bari Fire Service rescue team on Friday. The village was inundated by floodwaters from the Brahmani and Kharasrota rivers.The state’s Special Relief Commissioner had issued an ‘orange alert’ for the affected regions on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-odisha-floods-goes-up-to-12/story-5B3NCw6lxzEYM23HXAXJ4N.html
29-08-2020||India||Putting off the university exams could jeopardise academic session | Opinion||There is a clamour to postpone all exams including the JEE and NEET exams which are essential to ensure merit-based admissions in engineering and medical institutions across the country. For several days, various newspapers, TV channels and the digital media have been reporting arguments to postpone these exams. A few days back, chief ministers of several opposition-ruled states joined hands to demand the postponement of the JEE and NEET examinations and decided that they will jointly approach the Supreme Court in this regard. Those who want the exams postponed argue that in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, holding the exams will adversely affect the health of students and will increase the spread of the virus. They also argue that the restrictions on public transport due to coronavirus would make it difficult for many aspirants to reach the examination centers. Their demand is to defer the exams till at least November by when the virus situation is hoped to improve.The issue of postponement of exams was agitated before the Supreme Court also, which after hearing all the interested parties, declined to intervene in the matter and ordered that these exams be conducted as per schedule. The government was also directed to take all necessary precautions for the safe conduct of these exams. The Supreme Court, in another matter on Friday, decided that universities must go through with the examinations of final-year students and gave the freedom to universities to devise the schedule as per their convenience. Now, various opposition-ruled states have filed review petitions before the Supreme Court for postponement of the JEE and NEET exams.There is no doubt that these are extraordinary times and fear of coronavirus is looming large everywhere. At present, India is reporting the highest numbers of daily coronavirus infections in the world and the number of deaths occurring every day due to the virus is also the highest. So the arguments advanced by groups pushing for postponement of the exams have some merits. But if we look from the other side, the arguments advanced by the government also look weighty. These exams have been postponed twice earlier due to the same reasons. Time has now come to take a final call on holding these exams as any further delay may result in completely disrupting the current academic session for lakhs of students.The biggest fallacy of the arguments advanced by those demanding the postponement of the exams is that by November, things are likely to improve on the coronavirus front. We may recall that many experts had opined that virus infection numbers would peak sometime in July or August. We are nearing the end of August and so far, we do not seem to have succeeded in reversing the corona curve. Who can predict that our country will become safe to conduct these exams in November? And if we fail to conduct these exams, then? Surely then the whole academic session will be jeopardised as there will hardly be sufficient time left to complete the academic session.The government of the day has the responsibility to weigh the pros and cons of the issue, see the problem in a holistic manner and take a call in the wider interest of the students and the country. The government has the primary responsibility to not only ensure the conduct of these exams but also the smooth running of educational institutions as well as the health and safety of all those who are going to appear in these exams and to further see that these exams do not in any way result in the further spread of the virus. There is no doubt that only the students are going to be the losers in case of curtailment or zero academic session. Keeping in mind all these factors , the government has to ensure that the exams are conducted in a fully-secure environment with no danger to the health of students and others. Almost six months into the pandemic, the country has learned to live with the virus.During the past few months, most economic activities barring the tourism industry, cinema halls etc. have been opened with some restrictions. Similarly, trains, buses, taxis, and other modes of travel have been allowed. Factories , shops , industrial units, offices have started functioning after following standard operating procedures. It is now confirmed by experts that wearing masks in public places is the surest way of avoiding getting infected, in addition to using sanitizers and maintaining physical distancing. The government has to ensure that all the students and organizers observe these precautions scrupulously.Let us remember that across the world, people have devised their own indigenous solutions for carrying on their activities in all walks of life, so we should also. As our Supreme court has rightly opined that the country has to carry on despite the pandemic and hence these exams. The time has come to move forward, in the larger interest of our nation, rising above narrow political gimmicks. “Jaan hai to jahan hai “ is an old saying , we have to ensure “Jaan bhi jahaan bhi”(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putting-off-the-university-exams-could-jeopardise-academic-session-opinion/story-JBpiVjTTnTOMgdHlBFSpiM.html
29-08-2020||India||Blend of age, experience, merit could revive Congress||Only an organisational makeover that accommodates age, merit and experience can bridge the divide that has come to spook the Congress. Much of the media has shown the dissenting group as delivering a “letter bomb”. In reality, it was a distress flare gun meant to flag issues dogging the party. The intraparty fissures run deeper than can possibly be measured by outsiders. Their genesis is in myriad conflicts: egotistical, generational, temperamental, and ambition-driven. One side is in a hurry to arrive, the other disinclined to be cast aside. Nothing except a fine balance of competing interests will quell the discord. For the resentment the dissidents voiced has wider acceptance, including of those who made per forma statements of loyalty but with an eye on self-promotion. For that reason, the first appointments the party made after the heated August 24 Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting have been less than salutary. They’ve failed to dispel the notion of some in the party being more equal than others. Also Read: In poll-bound Bihar, Rahul Gandhi to address virtual rally; 100 online events plannedA low-profile MP saw a “shadow of the coming events” in the rejig in the Congress’s legislature parties in the two Houses of Parliament. A majority of the new inductees are either aligned with or are acceptable to what’s known as Team Rahul Gandhi. That’s true more of the Lok Sabha. In the Rajya Sabha, leading dissenters Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma continue as leader and deputy leader of the Opposition. The equation there could change when Azad’s term in the Upper House ends early next year. One reason for the party’s state of suspended animation since the 2019 electoral debacle has been the emergence of a de facto power group. Claiming allegiance to Rahul Gandhi, this faction has sought an upper hand against rival claimants to positions in the party and in states where the Congress has governments. Also Read: Congress at its historic low, needs 24x7 leader, says Kapil SibalThe internecine tussle gave rise to a party-within-the-party; a parallel power structure that limited the space of the old guard and their set of young supporters. The result: a largely dysfunctional Congress under an ailing Sonia Gandhi who enjoyed wide respect but lacked the energy that helped her navigate it to power in 2004 and 2009. In the short run, the haemorrhage can be plugged through a representative advisory council the CWC decided to constitute to help Sonia Gandhi in the remaining period of her interim presidency. The envisioned panel’s inclusive character could keep the chasms from widening. That’s needed because the most unsettling fallout from the feud has been the Congress’s obsolescence, in terms of public perception, as an alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party. It won elections in the interregnum, but not the popular trust to project itself as a viable democratic option. The authors of the much-debated letter seeking an organisational overhaul under an elected leader with a tangible presence could read the message -- and decided to alert the incumbent dispensation. They had their little nests to feather. They saw, nevertheless, the withering of the tree -- which is the Congress -- on which they were perched with the arriving sparrows of generational change. Be it as it may, several party functionaries consider the built-up friction more complex than a battle between the old and the young. They decode it as a pushback against relative beginners who have -- or pretend to hold – Rahul Ganshi’s power of attorney. Holding junior positions in the AICC set up, or as members of his inner circle, many among them have sought to “enhance their value without proving their worth”. These upcoming apparatchiks have for long been a subject of debate and criticism within the party. They’re often in disagreement with the seasoned players who, too, have been short on giving them room to groom. The dichotomy caused the party problems in Karnataka and Rajasthan at tremendous political cost. As much attributed to their inclination to play favourites are the nascent rebellions in Punjab and Chattisgarh. Till DK Shivakumar took over as the state party chief, it was difficult to discern as to who was the real PCC president, said a Bengaluru-based leader. Many veterans and their protégés have found themselves marked, marginalised or unwanted in the prevailing flux. The process has worked as much in the reverse. Can the hiatus be bridged within the span of the six months for which Sonia Gandhi has agreed to continue? The jury’s still out on that. The purpose with which she joined active politics in 1997-98 was to prevent the Congress’s disintegration under Sitaram Kesri. She cannot possibly let that objective unravel at this stage of her innings. A template that can help her address the diarchy was set by her husband Rajiv Gandhi, who forged a working relationship with leaders who owed their rise to his brother Sanjay. “It’s one piece of history from which all can learn,” said a CWC member. The letter-writers perhaps clumsily phrased a paragraph that came across as a farewell to the Gandhi family while mooting the idea of a collective leadership. The truth is that one cannot be at the expense of the other. There has to be opportunity for merit and regard for experience. In fact, many Congress men who dissociated themselves from the letter aren’t supportive of the work style of the “second line” aligned with Rahul. “Their behaviour leaves a lot to be desired,” bemoaned a senior leader. He was hopeful nevertheless of the ongoing debate having a sobering influence on those pushing boundaries and punching above their weight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blend-of-age-experience-merit-could-revive-congress/story-V1oEC2Hx6WIbkZkrRFFjSK.html
29-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This isn’t a plug for Abbott Laboratories as much as it is recognition of what the company’s new antigen test — $5, 15 minutes, simple, and highly accurate — represents at a generic level, for it is certain to be the first of many similar tests that all promise the same things. Low cost. High accuracy. Fast results. The very fact that I am celebrating these reflects what we have had to live with for the past eight months of the coronavirus disease. Tests that are complex (either in terms of testing requirements or expertise). Tests that are slow. And tests that are inaccurate. Those are the kind of trade-offs even people who understand testing have had to make. As for those that don’t, one test is as good as another — a behaviour exemplified by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), both of whom should know better, not bothering to enforce, or even issue guidelines on when which kind of test should be used.Antigen tests have been around for some time. They have always been relatively inexpensive. And they have always been quick. But they were also inaccurate when it came to so-called false negatives, or showing infected people as uninfected. This low specificity (the technical term for what are called true negatives, which means someone identified as uninfected in the test is actually uninfected) made them unreliable. Around the world, researchers, health care workers, and policymakers insisted that the right way to use them (if they had to be used) was to follow up a negative test with another antigen test or, preferably, a molecular test such as the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, or RT-PCR, one.Where time is a constraint, the use of antigen tests makes sense. For instance, they can help isolate infected people quickly in containment zones, or hot spots of the virus. Where it isn’t, molecular tests must be used.The fact that most early antigen tests for Covid-19 were unreliable was worrying, but expected. Most people (including this writer) were convinced that the problem was a temporary one.Science (and Big Pharma) were sure to find an answer to this — testing is an area where we have made huge progress over the years. Ergo, it was only a matter of time before companies started launching accurate antigen tests. We now have one. And there is a very high likelihood that there will be many more. We may even have molecular tests that provide results within the hour.According to clinical studies, the specificity and sensitivity (ability to identify true positives, or an infected person as infected) of the Abbott antigen test is on par with that of molecular tests such as RT-PCR. For those interested in details, the Abbott test’s sensitivity is 97.1% and specificity 98.5%. That’s a big jump over the previous generation of antigen tests.There is a caveat, though: field performance of any test, even the RT-PCR one, rarely matches its clinical performance. There have been some high-profile instances of RT-PCR tests going wrong (and that is only to be expected; that some of these will go wrong is a mathematical possibility).Still, the new antigen test (currently launched only for the US), and those that will invariably follow, provide a near-perfect solution to testing. And by providing accurate results soon (the antigen tests being used in India provide results within the hour, but are not very accurate) they can help isolate infected people, regulate entry into offices, schools and colleges, public places, and public events – basically play a key role in the return to normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-LWqQqSlP6PLVmTByuw08VI.html
29-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi says demonetisation, ‘flawed GST’, ‘failed’ lockdown hurt Indian economy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remarks that the economy has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic which is an ‘Act of God’, saying the Indian economy has been “destroyed” by three actions -- demonetisation, “flawed” GST and a “failed” lockdown. Sitharaman on Thursday said the economy has been hit by the pandemic, which is an ‘Act of God’, and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. Tagging a news report on her remarks, Gandhi tweeted, “India’s economy has been destroyed by three actions: 1. Demonetisation 2. Flawed GST 3. Failed lockdown. Anything else is a lie.” The former Congress president has been critical of the Modi government in the handling of the economy over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-demonetisation-flawed-gst-failed-lockdown-hurt-indian-economy/story-TEG1NIJvLkZwJ4NzFztNxH.html
29-08-2020||India||To reach 40k Covid-19 tests target, Delhi govt clinics to stay open longer||The Delhi government will increase the working hours of its dispensaries and clinics by two hours so that more Covid-19 tests can be carried out, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday, giving details about how the administration plans to ramp up a process that the chief minister has described as crucial for the city’s fight against the outbreak.The move was triggered by a consistent rise in the number of cases. The city added the most cases — 1,840 – in 48 days on Thursday. On Friday, this number was slightly lower at 1,808. Also Read: Maharashtra records over 14,000 Covid-19 cases for a third consecutive dayAfter becoming the first major region to register a sustained fall in cases, the national capital has seen an uptick this month, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold an emergency meeting on Wednesday where it was decided that the rate of testing will be doubled from current levels to nearly 40,000 a day in the next week.“We have asked all our dispensaries and seed PUHC (Primary Urban Health Centre) to start testing patients between 9 am and 2 pm – for five hours instead of three hours it was being done before. This is where the numbers would be scaled up mainly,” Jain said on Friday. The administration has 265 dispensaries and clinics, in addition to major hospitals it runs.“All Delhi government hospitals are also testing people for Covid-19 between 9 am and 2 pm. And, it will be free of cost. Anyone can get tested, even if they just suspect that they might have it. Apart from that, testing within the community through mobile vans, camps and in containment zones is happening in addition to this. We have said 40,000 – if each of the fixed centres test 100 people a day, hospitals 200 people a day, and additional tests are done in the community – the numbers are not difficult to achieve,” said Jain. Also Read: Flouting Covid-19 norms in Metro may attract heavy fines once it reopensShortly after Wednesday’s announcement, government officials said the plan was to increase rapid antigen on-site tests and RT-PCR lab tests proportionally. The lab tests are considered more reliable, but take longer and cost more than the antigen tests. Antigen tests show results within 15-30 minutes, while the lab ones can take up to a day depending on the number of samples and machine capacity. The minister said the government had enough rapid antigen test kits and the approved laboratories have adequate RT-PCR kits to increase daily testing. On average, 18,361 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Delhi during the last seven days. The positivity rate – the proportion of people who tests positive among those tested – has also gone up through the month from an average of 5.7% during the last week of July to 8% during the last seven days. The plan to increase testing was briefly the subject of confrontation between the Delhi government and the Union home ministry (MHA). The health minister on Thursday wrote to MHA urging it not to interfere with the Kejriwal government’s decision to double testing. The MHA later tweeted that the allegation was “false and baseless”, prompting Jain to reply in a tweet: “I hope that the officers will comply with this msg from MHA. I am sure that the officers, who were reluctant to increase testing today, citing pressure from MHA, will immediately increase testing in Delhi.” In a statement, the MHA said that only technical guidance was sought from an expert committee in the note by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt, which was cited by senior government officials to allege pressure from MHA. A copy of the note accessed by HT says, “Guidance may kindly be sought from the expert committee/ MHA on the following aspects: In light of the current Covid-19 situation and trajectory of cases in Delhi whether scaling up of testing numbers is to be done and if so, to what extent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-reach-40k-tests-target-delhi-govt-clinics-to-stay-open-longer/story-X2dRhAkHjSN8zB975CSXnK.html
29-08-2020||India||Karnataka in talks to acquire Bharat Gold Mine land for industrial park||Karnataka is in talks with the Centre to explore the possibility of obtaining 3,200 acres of land from Bharat Gold Mines Ltd, in Kolar Gold Fields, to set up an industrial park in Kolar, said state’s large and medium scale industries minister Jagadish Shettar.BGML is a government of India enterprise and at one time was the largest gold producer in the famed Kolar Gold Fields but has been inoperational as the gold deposits in Kolar had become unremunerative to extract after nearly a century of operations.Shettar said he had held talks with Union minister for mines Pralhad Joshi in this regard. “We held talks with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi to obtain 3,200 acres of unused land at Bharat Gold Mines Ltd to set up an Industrial park in Kolar.”The availability of the land will be known in six months after a survey is undertaken by the mines and geology department to assess the presence of any natural resources. After the survey, if the land parcel does not possess any natural resources, then Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) shall obtain the land from the ministry with necessary approvals to set up an Industrial park. The land, he said, is strategically located at 90kms from the Bengaluru airport, 260 km from Chennai Port, 314 km from Krishnapatnam port.The state minister further said that the New Industrial Policy 2020-2025 launched recently would help to build a prosperous Karnataka and create large-scale employment opportunities. “This industrial policy is very forward-looking and brings with it several incentives and regulatory reforms such as land access and labour market regulation,” he said.Promoting economic and industrial development of the state, he said, has always been a top priority for the government.Amid Covid-19 pandemic and months of stringent lockdown, Karnataka has attracted investments worth Rs 31,676 crore in the last five months which is expected to generate 65,459 direct employment opportunities, said Shettar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-in-talks-to-acquire-bharat-gold-mine-land-for-industrial-park/story-vggbzXtb5jg3W23w3Ghm9J.html
29-08-2020||India||Delhi riots: ED granted custody of Tahir Hussain for six days||A Delhi court on Friday sent suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain to six days Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody in connection with an alleged case of money laundering related to the Delhi riots. Police have accused Hussain of hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots, and of arranging funds for the same.The six-day custody order came after the agency moved the court seeking 14 days remand. In its remand application, the ED alleged Hussain had laundered money and also accused him of cheating, falsification of documents and criminal conspiracy.The ED told the court they had conducted searches at various premises and seized several incriminating documents. It said it had recorded statements of various persons under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and WhatsApp chats, bogus invoices and other incriminating documents have been recovered.“Accused has entered into a criminal conspiracy by fraudulently transferring money from the accounts of many company. The money so obtained are proceeds of crime which were then used for committing other various scheduled offences,” the ED said while also contending that the accused has not co-operated in the investigation and has been evasive in his replies.The agency is probing Hussain’s role in allegedly mobilising funds during the riots in February. Police and ED have accused Hussain of laundering around Rs 1.10 crore using shell companies to fuel protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots. Police have said Hussain mobilised funds to buy ammunition and get more rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-sent-to-6-days-ed-custody/story-2XAG7ydDQ9fX7vFGGe202O.html
29-08-2020||India||Delhi HC stays broadcast of Sudarshan News programme after plea by Jamia students||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed the proposed broadcast of a show titled “Bindas Bol” by Sudarshan News after former and current students of Jamia Milia Islamia, filed a plea seeking a ban on the telecast. This came even as the Supreme Court on Friday declined to impose a pre-broadcast ban on the channel from airing the programme. The show concerned Muslims entering civil services, which the channel allegedly likened to “infiltration” and “Jihad”.The plea alleged the show was an attempt to “defame, attack and incite hatred” against Jamia Milia Islamia, its alumni and the Muslim community at large. The HC stayed the broadcast until September 7.Justice Navin Chawla also issued a notice to the ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) on the plea filed through advocate Shadan Farasat contending that the trailer of the show has “openly engaged” in hate speech.Appearing for the I&B ministry, advocate Anurag Alhuwalia, the central government’s standing counsel, accepted the notice, following which the matter was posted for hearing on September 7.The petition said the proposed broadcast along with the trailer violates the programme code set out under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, read with the Cable Television Networks Rules 1994.“The proposed broadcast and trailer also constitute hate speech and criminal defamation and is an offence under Sections 153A (1), 153B(1), 295A and 499 of the Indian Penal Code,” the plea read. After the order was passed, the show that was supposed to be telecast was not aired. Instead, Suresh Chavanke, Suresh Chavanke, editor and CMD, Sudarshan News, conducted another show where he accused Jamia Milia Islamia students and alumni of using the court to get the show stopped. He said the order was passed when he was not present, and will urge the court to allow him to broadcast the show on the next date. “I am doing the show but I will not discuss the issues the court has restrained me from talking about. I ask the people of Jamia to face me directly rather than going to the court,” he said on Friday’s show.SC declines stay An apex court bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud said the court has to be cautious in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views and cannot prevent airing of a programme based on an unverified transcript of a 49-second clip.“At this stage, we have desisted from imposing a pre-broadcast interlocutory injunction on the basis of an unverified transcript of a forty nine second clip. The court has to be circumspect in imposing a prior restraint on publication or the airing of views. We note that under statutory provisions, competent authorities are vested with powers to ensure compliance with law, including provisions of the criminal law intended to ensure social harmony and the peaceful coexistence of all communities,” the bench which also comprised justice KM Joseph said.The top court issued notice to central government, Press Council of India, Sudarshan News and News Broadcasters Association and posted the case for further consideration in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-stays-broadcast-of-sudarshan-news-programme-after-plea-by-jamia-students/story-8oXMI5Kweu5iy84cHrRfjN.html
29-08-2020||India||SC upholds UGC order, backs final-year exams||Colleges and universities cannot award degrees to students without conducting final-year or final-term examinations, the Supreme Court said on Friday, upholding a decision by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that called for completing the evaluation process across the country by September 30. At the same time, the court made it clear that states were empowered to take decisions under the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, to postpone final-year or final-semester exams beyond the September-end deadline. It allowed states to approach UGC for new dates that have to be communicated to them “at the earliest”. The ruling by a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan is significant because it appears to have established finality as far as holding exams for final-year and final-term students are concerned. A large section of students protested UGC’s July 6 order mandating the exams — online, offline or by using a combination of both — and states such as Delhi and Maharashtra announced scrapping them in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the health risks it poses. The court was hearing seven petitions against the UGC’s decision to hold exams and three pleas seeking compliance by states with the UGC move. “The guidelines dated July 6, 2020, as well as Standard Operating Procedures for conduct of examinations circulated by UGC vide letter dated July 8, 2020, clearly shows deep concern with the health of all stakeholders, i.e., students as well as the exam functionaries. Challenge to the guidelines on the ground of it being violative of (right to life under) Article 21 is repelled,” the court said, referring to safety guidelines advocating social distancing during the conduct of physical exams. The bench, also comprising justices R Subash Reddy and MR Shah, said decisions by some states under the Disaster Management Act will prevail over the deadline set by UGC since the legislation “empowers states to take measures for prevention and mitigation of disaster”. The Disaster Management Act has been enforced across the country in the wake of the pandemic. It empowers the Union government and states governments to frames policies, formulate plans, and take measures for prevention and mitigation of disasters, including relaxations and restrictions on businesses and activities. “No state shall permit health of its subject to be compromised that is why overriding power has been given to the State Disaster Management Authority and the State Government (under the Disaster Management Act) with regard to any inconsistency with any other law for the time being in force,” the court said. But that did not mean states could go to the extent of promoting final-year students on the basis of previous performances and internal assessment while not holding final year exams, the three-judge bench said. “The prayer to quash the guidelines dated July 6, 2020, issued by UGC is refused,” the judgment read. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ welcomed the order. “Let’s us keep politics away from education but make politics more educated,” he tweeted.Alakh Alok Srivastava, the counsel for one of the petitioners who argued against holding examinations, said the court left it to the states to decide the course of action. “The Supreme Court has recorded most of my legal submissions... States have also been authorised to postpone the exams. I will sincerely request state governments to go for online and home-based final year exams,” he told HT. Supreme Court lawyer Haris Beeran said the ruling acknowledged that the power of states under the Disaster Management Act will prevail over UGC guidelines as far as the date of holding examinations was concerned. “The court has balanced it with the UGC’s powers by saying that states cannot go beyond their jurisdiction and do away with exams altogether and replace it with internal assessment,” Beeran told HT. The Delhi government did not comment on the matter.Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said his government respected the verdict and will decide about holding examinations after consultations with vice-chancellors of universities. “We will study the verdict in detail and then take appropriate actions,” he said. “We need to give priority to students’ health as well. In the current situation, students should not catch any infection if exams are conducted,” he added. UGC’s order on holding final-term exams across about 900 universities in the country triggered a storm with a section of students demanding the scrapping of examinations in view of the pandemic. In the top court, multiple petitioners also argued that online exams will not be feasible for many who do not have access to high-speed internet. Petitioners urged the court to declare results based on students’ past performance or internal assessment. But UGC argued that degrees cannot be conferred without examinations; that it alone was empowered to take a call on whether or not the exams can take place or should be cancelled; that the decision to conduct exams was in the interest of a large number of students; and that not holding the exams will badly impact the academic future of students. The higher education regulator first published guidelines on April 29 for holding exams in the time of Covid-19. The guidelines — based on a report by an expert committee headed by RC Kuhad, the chairperson of the Central University of Haryana —mandated the exams be held by July. In June, UGC requested the expert committee to revisit the guidelines in view of the evolving pandemic situation. Finally, the fresh guidelines were issued on July 6. While schools and colleges have been closed since March-end, the Union government has allowed colleges and universities to open for the conduct of final-year examinations. “A degree which is obtained after passing the required exam is acceptable globally. The Supreme Court order has also made this aspect clear,” Kuhad said on the Supreme Court order.In the court, students were represented by senior lawyers such as Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shyam Divan and Jaideep Gupta as well as advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta represented UGC while additional solicitor general SV Raju put forth the case of the Centre. Senior advocate PS Narasimha supported the Centre by representing a bunch of students in favour of holding the examinations. “It is a fair decision of the Supreme Court because it is concerned about the credibility of assessment done by the universities for the award of degrees. In the absence of this credibility, the degree loses its value,” said educationist and former UGC member Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-ugc-order-backs-final-year-exams/story-2JrxQIvFIdTnndX6zZb4qL.html
29-08-2020||India||World Bank’s ‘Doing Business Report’ on hold over data fudging concerns||The World Bank has put on hold the publication of its ‘Doing Business Report’, which carries the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) Rankings, over alleged irregularities in the underlying data., the Bank said in a statement.The effective suspension of the publication of the rankings has been announced in the wake of a number of reported irregularities regarding changes to data in the 2018 and 2020 reports published in October 2017 and October 2019. In a statement on Thursday, the Bank said it was conducting a “systematic review and assessment of data changes that occurred subsequent to the institutional data review process for the last five Doing Business reports”. “We have asked the World Bank Group’s independent Internal Audit function to perform an audit of the processes for data collection and review for Doing Business and the controls to safeguard data integrity,” it added.The culmination of this process will be followed by a retrospective correction in the rankings, the statement said. “The Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank has been briefed on the situation as have the authorities of the countries that were most affected by the data irregularities.”The Union ministries of finance and commerce did not respond to email queries on the effective suspension of the rankings.But officials from the two ministries, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Bank may have briefly paused the publication but not ended it, and a review would make it more robust and credible. They added this would neither halt nor deter India’s commitment towards Ease of Doing Business. In fact, India has gone a step further in striving to achieve Ease of Living, the officials said.“For example, just see reforms in tax administration. The Prime Minister recently unveiled faceless assessment system in the income-tax matters to curb corruption and released, for the first time, a taxpayers’ charter. Next month, faceless appeal system will be introduced. All these are part of ongoing reform aimed at Ease of Living for the common man, which will also benefit businesses,” said one of the officials on condition of anonymity.A second official said wide-ranging reforms have been introduced for the Ease of Business keeping both agriculture and industry in mind. “Farmers have been unshackled now so that they can sell their produce to lucrative markets. The commerce and industry ministry is considering introducing a technology-based single-window system soon that would ensure expeditious multiple regulatory approvals at both the Central and state levels from one point. Reforms are ongoing and not dependent on the ranking of the Ease of Doing Business.”The policy regime in India places a lot of importance on the rankings. After assuming power in 2014, the Narendra Modi government set a target for India to be among top 50 countries in the rankings. In 2014, India was ranked 142nd. It jumped to the 63rd position among 190 countries in May 2019.The rankings are based on a country’s performance on 10 indicators: starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency.This is not the first time the rankings are courting controversy. In 2018, Paul Romer, the then chief economist of the World Bank, quit after criticising the rankings in an interview with The Wall Street Journal for having “conveyed the wrong information” about the business environment in Chile. According to a Reuters story, Romer told the newspaper the decline resulted from methodological changes, rather than a deterioration of Chile’s business environment, and may have been the result of the World Bank staff’s political motivations.In his book, “The Rise and Fall of Nations: The Rules of Change in Post-Crisis World”, Ruchir Sharma, the chief global strategist and head of the emerging markets equity team at Morgan Stanley, criticised these rankings, saying they were “vulnerable to political manipulation and marketing”.”More than a few countries have started hiring consultants to help them raise their rankings... In 2012, President Vladimir Putin set a goal of raising Russia’s rank for ‘ease of doing business’ from 120 to top 20 within six years, and he soon saw results. By 2015, Russia was ranked at 51, more than thirty places ahead of China, and sixty places ahead of Brazil and India. That raised a question: If it was so easy to do business in Russia, why wasn’t anyone doing business there?” he wroteOther scholars have also criticised these rankings. A 2016 Indian Institute of Management Bangalore working paper by Vivek Moorthy and A Arul Jason argued the rankings cannot capture the true cost of doing business in countries with a large unorganised sector. Another 2019 paper by Sabyasachi Kar and others argued the fundamental premise of the rankings, that rules are the be all and end all of Ease of Doing Business in a country, might not be true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-report-on-hold-over-data-fudging-concerns/story-rAGvwoTLx922fhag2MgH8K.html
29-08-2020||India||Centre notifies distribution of power between L-G, govt in Jammu and Kashmir||The police, civil services and the anti-corruption bureau of Jammu and Kashmir will be under the Lieutenant Governor, the Union government said in a notification that now delineates roles and responsibilities between the Centre-appointed functionary and future legislators in a region that was turned from a full-fledged state into a Union Territory last year. The rules of “transaction of business” were notified by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 and stated that if the L-G and the council of ministers (whenever a government is formed in the UT) differ on any issue, the former is required to refer the matter to the President. The L-G is then required to act according to the decision taken by the President. The arrangement is similar to the set-up in Delhi, also a Union Territory, in terms of who controls police, IAS and IPS postings and the ACB. The national capital has been the ground for multiple confrontations between the elected government and the administrative structure headed by the L-G.The gazette notification said that the J&K L-G, on the advice of the chief minister (when elected), shall allot portfolios among the ministers by assigning one or more departments. The council of ministers shall be collectively responsible for all executive orders issued by any department in the name of the L-G and contracts made in the name of the President in connection with the administration of the UT, it added.The notification said there will be 39 departments in the Union territory, including agriculture, school education, higher education, horticulture, floriculture, election, general administration, home, mining, power, PWD, transport and tribal affairs.The erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir had a special status in the Union of India under Article 370 of the Constitution. The piece of the law was abrogated on August 5, 2019 and subsequently, the state was bifurcated into Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Union territories came into existence on October 31 last year.Thursday’s notification said all communications received from the Centre, including those from the Prime Minister and Union ministers, other than those of a routine or unimportant character, shall, as soon as possible after their receipt, be submitted by the secretary to the chief secretary, the minister in-charge, the chief minister and the L-G.Any matter, which is likely to bring the government of the UT into a controversy with the Centre or a state government, shall, as soon as possible, be brought to the notice of the L-G and the chief minister by the secretary concerned through the chief secretary, the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-notifies-distribution-of-power-between-l-g-govt-in-j-k/story-JXIKiy5nUqewrRjut6TaLO.html
29-08-2020||India||Don’t conduct parallel trial, PCI tells media outlets||The Press Council of India (PCI) expressed displeasure at the manner in which several media organisations have covered the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and advised them to follow the norms.In a statement issued on Friday, the PCI said that it had noted with “distress that coverage of the alleged suicide by a film actor by many media outlets is in violation of the Norms of Journalistic Conduct and, therefore, advises the Media to adhere to the Norms framed by the Press Council of India”.The media, the council said, should not narrate the story in a manner so as to induce the general public to believe in the complicity of the person indicted.“Publishing information based on gossip about the line of investigation by the official agencies on the crime committed is not desirable. It is not advisable to vigorously report crime related issues on a day to day basis and comment on the evidence without ascertaining the factual matrix. Such reporting brings undue pressure in the course of fair investigation and trial,” the PCI said.The death of the actor, who starred in films like Kai Po Che and the MS Dhoni biopic, has received wide coverage, especially in the electronic media. “The media is advised to refrain from giving excessive publicity to the victim, witnesses, suspects and accused as it will amount to invasion of their privacy rights. Identification of witnesses by the Media needs to be avoided as it endangers them to come under pressure from the accused or his associates as well as investigating agencies,” the PCI said.The media is advised not to conduct its own parallel trial or foretell the decision to avoid pressure during investigation and trial, it added.“Further, the reporting of the alleged suicide by the actor by some of the newspapers is also in violation of the norms formulated by the Council for reporting on suicide. The norm prohibits publishing stories about suicide prominently and advises the media not to unduly repeat such stories. The media is expected not to use language which sensationalise or normalises suicides or presents it as a constructive solution to the problems,” the council said in the statement.The media is advised not to use sensational headlines or use photographs, video-footage or social media links while reporting on suicide cases, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-conduct-parallel-trial-pci-tells-media-outlets/story-nAjTzaeF55KtoBdXrs227J.html
29-08-2020||India||Sushant case: Rhea, brother quizzed for first time by CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) began questioning actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty on Friday in the case of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Rajput’s flatmate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Keshav Bachner, too, were questioned for the fourth consecutive day at the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East) on Friday. Meanwhile, Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials issued summons to a Goa-based hotelier, Gaurav Arya, and have called him for questioning on Monday in a parallel probe into allegations of money laundering related to the Rajput case. Arya runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa.ED officials visited Hotel Tamarind at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found the property shut. They stuck a notice on the door of the hotel, which, according to officials, has been shut since lockdown restrictions were enforced in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.The notice stated that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11am on Monday in connection with a case filed under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.Arya has also been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and is being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The NCB had on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Rhea, Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the NDPS Act. Arya’s name cropped up in Rhea’s WhatsApp conversations related to drugs. ED officials, however, refused to divulge details of whether there were any financial transactions between Arya and Rajput, or Chakraborty. On Thursday, the ED questioned Saha and also summoned Rhea’s father, Indrajeet Chakraborty, to access his family’s bank lockers in the Vakola branch of Axis Bank.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. After a two-week quiet, a controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterparts. The probe was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the Supreme Court.Chakraborty, who has been questioned multiple times by the agencies, has denied all allegations levelled against her.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra unit of the Congress demanded an investigation into an alleged nexus between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh in connection with Rajput’s death. The BJP hit back questioning why the Maharashtra police overlooked the “drug dealing angle” to the case and whether they were trying to shield some political leaders from the ruling Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alliance.When HT called Singh for a comment, his phone was switched off, and he had not responded to a message till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-case-rhea-brother-quizzed-for-first-time-by-cbi/story-zMqpbT3ZOiYWa7KjITr8cJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Rainiest August in 44 yrs, 25% excess over the usual||India this year has recorded the rainiest August in 44 years, data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows, filling up agricultural reservoirs and recharging groundwater across large parts of the country in what could help the prospects of farmers for the next cropping season. According to the data, there was an overall 25% excess rain in August across India, a level not seen since 1976 when the country received 28.4% more rain than is usual for this time of the year. Districts in central India, the southern peninsula and in the west are now in severely or extremely wet categories, as measured by the standard precipitation index (SPI) for the cumulative monsoon period since June 1.“More wet districts are a sign that it’s a good year for agriculture and groundwater recharge. The rainwater harvesting potential is also huge for these districts and this will also ensure more water availability until next year,” said Pulak Guhathakurta, head, climate application and user interface, climate research and services at IMD Pune.SPI is an index used for drought monitoring. Many parts of northwest India and east India remain in dry and moderately dry categories. Also Read: Water level at Barvi dam rises; Thane collector issues alertThe largest excess rain recorded in the month of August till now has been in 1926 at 33%. Overall monsoon rain this year is 8% excess so far, with 23% excess rain over south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; 12% deficient over north-west India, and 4% excess over east and north-east India. The monsoon season runs from beginning of June to September end.The Central Water Commission’s (CWC) storage position of dams now shows that 34 of 49 reservoirs are at 90% capacity.“For most districts, except a few in Gujarat which are inundated, rain has been good for agriculture. This will give a boost to agriculture in the coming Rabi season also. Except Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and west Uttar Pradesh where rains are deficient, rest are in excess or normal category,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.IMD in its weekly update on Friday said there will be above average rains at least for the week till September 3 but rains are likely to reduce thereafter.Also Read: Heavy rain in Noida lead to water-logging, traffic snarls; more rain likely Monday nightAs on Friday, there is a well-marked low-pressure area over north Chhattisgarh adjoining East Madhya Pradesh. It is very likely to move west-north-west across north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during next 2 days and weaken gradually, the IMD said in its Friday morning bulletin.The western end of the monsoon trough – a band of low pressure -- is at its near normal position that stretches from Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal, while the eastern end is a south of its normal position. The western end is likely to remain along its normal position during next 2 days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas for the subsequent 4-5 days. Due to favourable conditions, widespread rain with very heavy rain is likely over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on August 28; over West Madhya Pradesh on 28 and 29; over Gujarat state and Konkan and Goa on August 29. Widespread and extremely heavy rain is very likely over east Madhya Pradesh on August 28, while heavy rain is also likely over northwest India including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on August 28 and 29. IMD scientists have warned of mudslides and flooding in parts of central India since the soil is already saturated in the regions.“After a peculiar July when no low pressure system developed over Bay of Bengal, five low pressure systems developed over Bay of Bengal in August. Two of them moved upto south Rajasthan bringing heavy rain continuously in its way,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainiest-august-in-44-yrs-25-excess-over-the-usual/story-PGrxUOoF2QUPNz1p1DNpEI.html
29-08-2020||India||Jaishankar attacks Pak for sheltering terrorists||New Delhi External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday criticised Pakistan for portraying itself as a victim of terror while grudgingly acknowledging the presence of wanted terrorists and crime leaders on its territory due to sustained international pressure. Jaishankar did not name Pakistan in his remarks while presiding over the Darbari Seth memorial lecture, but there was no doubt as to which country he was referring to. He described the 9/11 terror attacks in the US and the Covid-19 pandemic as “stand-out moments that disrupted the trajectory of human society”. Nineteen years after the 9/11 attacks and 12 years since the 2008 Mumbai attacks, the world has a range of mechanisms to counter terrorism, including the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), several UN sanctions committees and the Counter Terrorism Executive Directorate, he said. However, it lacks a comprehensive convention on international terrorism as members of the UN are still “wrestling with certain foundational principles”, he added. “All the while states that have turned the production of terrorists into a primary export have attempted, by dint of bland denials, to paint themselves also as victims of terror,” Jaishankar said, a clear reference to Pakistan’s use of terrorism as an instrument of state policy. “But as we have seen last week, sustained pressure through international mechanisms to prevent the movement of funds for terror groups and their front agencies can work. It has eventually compelled a state complicit in aiding, abetting, training and directing terror groups and associated criminal syndicates to grudgingly acknowledge the presence of wanted terrorists and organised crime leaders on its territory,” he said. Weeks ahead of an expected assessment of Pakistan’s counterterror financing regime, Islamabad issued two notifications on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions on hundreds of terrorist individuals and entities, including Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed, Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim. One of the documents listed three addresses in Karachi for Ibrahim, wanted by India for his role in the 1993 Mumbai bombings. After the issue was widely reported in the Indian media, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement the notifications didn’t amount to “Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory”. Jaishankar acknowledged the “struggle against terror and those who aid and abet it is a work in progress”. He said, “It remains for the international system to create the necessary mechanisms to shut down the structures that support and enable terrorism, whether in South Asia or across the globe.” The world, he said, also faces a structural challenge in improving the global architecture used to fight pandemics. In similar crises over the past century, the outbreaks occurred in remote sites or the monitoring systems managed to head off a crisis. “This time, however, the international warning systems, reporting protocols and response mechanisms were unable to prevent the spread beyond ground zero,” he said. This has highlighted the need for a more enlightened and responsive multilateral system, and a “new, inclusive and non-transactional approach to multilateralism”, he said. “The reform of international organisations is not merely desirable but imperative. We need to modernise the international system, step by step, to make it fit for purpose, beginning by making each entity relevant to the age in which we live, not when it was created,” he added. This will require revisiting membership and structures of control, reorienting operational principles and rules, and rebuilding resourcing channels of key pillars of multilateralism, Jaishankar said. Strengthening skill sets and creating a better enabling environment are the goals of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” campaign since India can make a difference at the global level only by scaling up its capacities, he said. The spirit of local action for global outcomes is reflected in India’s work with France to create the International Solar Alliance, whose framework agreement has so far been ratified by 67 countries, and the launch of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Jaishankar said. The memorial lecture was delivered by UN Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres, who said India has all the ingredients for exerting leadership at home and abroad. He added the drivers are poverty alleviation and universal energy access – two of India’s top priorities. “Scaling up clean energy, particularly solar, is the recipe for solving both. Investments in renewable energy, clean transport and energy efficiency during the recovery from the pandemic could extend electricity access to 270 million people worldwide – fully a third of people that currently lack it,” he said. He added, “These same investments could help create nine million jobs annually over the next three years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-attacks-pak-for-sheltering-terrorists/story-L6Jol8Vmr1yRawObFzzTCN.html
29-08-2020||India||IAF to formally induct Rafale jets on Sept 10||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will formally induct Rafale fighters at the Ambala air base on September 10 in presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. India has also invited Singh’s French counterpart, Florence Parly, to attend the ceremony, they added.Five Rafale fighters of the 36 ordered arrived at the airbase on July 29, ending IAF’s wait for new fighter jets to sharpen its combat potential. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and other senior air force officers were present when the jets arrived, but a formal induction ceremony was reserved for another day.The arrival of the jets coincided with the ongoing India-China border tensions in Ladakh.Shortly after they landed last month, the defence minister said the fighters would enhance the IAF’s capabilities and deter any threat to the country. He said those who want to threaten India’s territorial integrity should be worried about the new capability.Singh, who had travelled to France last year to formally receive the first fighter jet, showered praises on the multi-role aircraft for its capabilities, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision to buy 36 fighter jets.The Rafale fighters will significantly enhance IAF’s offensive capabilities and be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts say.The jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions — ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence.“I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity,” Rajnath had tweeted and posted in a video of the Rafale jets landing at the Ambala base.They are part of the IAF’s 17 Squadron also known as the Golden Arrows. The aircrew that brought them to India was headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the squadron.The aircraft covered a distance of nearly 8,500 km from France to India. The first stage of the flight covered a distance of 5,800 km from Merignac to Al Dhafra (UAE). The second covered over 2,700 km from Al Dhafra to Ambala.The new fighters are the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997.The IAF ordered 36 Rafale jets from France as part of a government-to-government deal worth ~59,000 crore in September 2016. They have been specially tailored for IAF.The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles. The weapons allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-will-induct-rafale-jets-at-ambala-base-on-sept-10/story-pPcemNoAKgsxKVQbfGCt3I.html
29-08-2020||India||IT panel drops J-K internet restrictions from its agenda||Parliament’s panel on information technology dropped on Friday the issue of internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir after Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla sent a letter to chairpersons of all House panels to not take up issues pending before courts. Panel members told Hindustan Times that a message with a “partially” modified agenda was circulated among those in the committee that mentioned Bihar and Delhi internet shutdowns, but left out Jammu and Kashmir. Hindustan Times has viewed the message. The panel was scheduled to hear from home ministry and telecommunications officials as well as representatives from Bihar, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir on September 1. However, on Friday, the message made no mention of Jammu and Kashmir.Hindustan Times on August 25 reported that Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla had written to the chairpersons of all parliamentary panels to select subjects following parliamentary rules and conventions, including not taking up subjects that are pending examination by courts. “The Committees should give due consideration to rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination,” Birla said in a letter, accessed by the Hindustan Times. “In addition, I would like to point out that as per convention, the Committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the Courts.”Also Read: Pakistani court sentences 3 aides of Hafiz SaeedAccording to rule 270, “A Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final”.Moreover, the rule adds that the government may decline to produce a document on the grounds that its disclosure would be prejudicial to the safety or interest of the state.The Supreme Court is still considering the matter of internet shutdowns in Jammu and Kashmir. While the next hearing has not been notified, on August 11 the Centre had told the court that it will be restore 4G internet services in the newly formed Union territory in a staggered manner after August 15.A day after the speaker’s letter, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey had written to panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor to cancel the meeting since the agenda was in contravention of the rules. Hindustan Times reached out to Tharoor for a comment but did not get a response till press time. The panel, however, is still slated to hear from Facebook about reports that its India policy head Ankhi Das allegedly acted in a manner favourable to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party by not censoring hate speech by some of its members. “We were never against calling Facebook for an explanation,” said BJP MP and IT panel member Nishikant Dubey. “We just said that the proper procedure should be followed. Now permission from the speaker has been obtained.”According to former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary, the committee can take a decision to drop a subject any time.“If the committee feels that a the subject need not be considered, they can drop it from the agenda,” said Achary. “We should still like to hear the facts from the government, even if we don’t have a discussion on Jammu and Kashmir,” said an IT panel member on the condition of anonymity. “A statement has been allowed in the past. It should not be against the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-drops-j-k-internet-restrictions-from-its-agenda/story-9dK6JXpx9i3QIUY7h4OFiI.html
29-08-2020||India||New moth species found, another rediscovered after 100 years in Arunachal||A group of five butterfly and moth researchers have found a new moth species and rediscovered another not seen in India in over a century at the Tale Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS) in Arunachal Pradesh. The researchers, two from Dehradun-based Titli Trust, two from Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences and one from Pune found the two species in August last year. The findings were published this week in Zootaxa, a peer-reviewed scientific journal for animal taxonomists in Auckland, New Zealand. “The new moth species that we discovered belongs to the rare genus ‘Metallolophia’, of which only 16 species are known globally and three in India. We have named it ‘Metallolophia taleensis’ after the Tale wildlife sanctuary where it was discovered,” said Sanjay Sondhi of Titli Trust. According to the article published in Zootaxa, ‘Metallolophia taleensis’ can be distinguished from other species in the same genus by the presence of prominent oval black-edged oval green spot on upperside forewing and smaller spot on hindwing. The new species, of which the researchers collected two specimens, has been recorded at the Tale wildlife sanctuary only in the month of August so far. It has not been seen at any other location in any other month. Nothing is known about its life history yet. The researchers also collected three specimens of ‘Metallolophia opalina’, another species of the same genus, from the Tale wildlife sanctuary in August last year. Two specimens of the species were last seen in Sikkim in 1886 and 1889. The species was also seen in Nepal in 1893. “The three species of ‘Metallolophia opalina’, collected from the Tale wildlife sanctuary in Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, represent the first published record of this species from India since its original description and extend its known range eastwards by over 900 km,” said the Zootaxa article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-moth-species-found-another-rediscovered-after-100-years-in-arunachal/story-RlAAWa6qhWWYUxgGDaamnJ.html
29-08-2020||India||Birla requests MPs to get tested before Parl session||New Delhi: Taking no chances against the coronavirus disease that has infected around 3.5 million people across India, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced on Friday all MPs would be requested to undergo an RT-PCR ( Reverse transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) test for Covid-19 as part of a raft of health and safety measures to conduct the monsoon session of Parliament amid the pandemic. The session will start on September 14 and run till October 1. Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha are all set to operate in daily shifts with the Lower House starting at 9 am and the Upper House at 3pm. A senior official added that the proceedings may even continue on the weekends if the agenda requires additional time. The RT-PCR test, considered the gold-standard for coronavirus testing, will not be made mandatory for now, said a second senior official on condition of anonymity.On Friday, Birla held a meeting with officials from the Union health ministry, Indian Council of Medical Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation and Delhi government to decide health safety protocols for the session that was shifted from its usual July schedule to a later date. This is the first time since 1952 that a Parliament session will meet amid a health emergency of such magnitude requiring massive preparation and several restrictive measures. “Parliament must function and infection must not spread”, Birla announced, as he laid down several key steps including a ban on the entry of visitors and a reduction in the number of officials during the session. “Along with this, there is a proposal to restrict the number of media persons, both from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Covid [RT-PCR] test will be mandatory for all media persons,” a communique said. While the Houses will have ultraviolet germicidal irradiation of the air-conditioning system, 10 display screens for live proceedings, placards to indicate names of parties, earmarked seats for top leaders and special cables linking the two Houses, thermal guns and thermal scanner cameras will be used for measurement of temperature at entry points in Parliament complex. For the first time, MPs of two Houses would be seated in both Houses, occupying the chambers as well as the galleries to ensure strict social distancing. Measures for sanitisation include touchless sanitizers at 40 places, an emergency medical teams and ambulances . All guidelines related to Covid-19 prevention will be strictly followed, said the secretariat. The Parliament complex will also have health check-up facilities and the session will be conducted with all necessary health safety arrangements. Birla said testing facility for officers and staff of Parliament will also be in place. “The staff may be reduced, if required. The facilities for testing of officials of ministries and personal staff of members will also be in place,” said a press release. Members will be allowed to address the Chair while seated, so that the risk of infection is minimised. A number of state assemblies have already conducted truncated sessions. Uttar Pradesh and Punjab made RT-PCR tests mandatory while Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh did not. Bihar conducted rapid antigen tests while Haryana asked MLAs to produce Covid -19 negative report not older than three days.The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended a total of 18 sittings, which would be primarily used to clear 11 ordinances. The government is also bracing for a demand from Opposition parties to debate the India-China standoff at the Line of Actual Control, the spread of the virus, the state of the economy, the problems of migrant workers and the recent allegations against social media company Facebook. On Friday, Congress floor leader in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, wrote to Birla, asking him not to curtail Question Hour and Zero Hour. Question Hour is usually the first hour of business in the House, when members can ask questions after having given notice 10 days earlier. Zero Hour follows Question Hour and is a more informal session where members can raise questions of public importance. “You will kindly appreciate the fact that raising questions in Parliament, and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to Members to vent issues of national and public interest,” Chowdhury wrote. “Curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour by way of restricting the number of issues that could be raised and time earmarked would, therefore, not be in the interest of elected representatives,” Chowdhury added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/birla-requests-mps-to-get-tested-before-parl-session/story-BVHtUcIz4Egfs4NVmS3sxK.html
29-08-2020||India||People with diabetes at risk of severe infection: Study||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has resulted in blood glucose levels shooting through the roof for diabetics who are struggling because of factors ranging from inability to contact their physicians and visit hospitals due to the fear of the infection, non-compliance with medication regimens because of reduced income and shortages of insulin and glucose strips, and weight gain, according to experts. A new paper from a consortium of leading Indian diabetologists and endocrinologists outlines five possible scenarios that have been leading to high sugar levels in people with Covid-19 and recommends actions to prevent complications and death. “Diabetes does not raise the risk of getting coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but people with diabetes who get infected are at a higher risk of severe disease, complications and death. Previous studies have shown that 70% patients with diabetes in India have poor glycaemic control, and many have diabetes-related complications. The paper has outlined five scenarios with implications on disease progression and severity that have been observed in patients since March, of which two are new,” said Anoop Misra, who led the consortium of experts from across India who published the study in the journal, Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews. The key factors that increase fatality among Covid-19 patients with diabetes are defects in T-cell immunity, baseline high levels of cytokines and comorbidities such as obesity, coronary heart disease, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, among others. High blood glucose levels at the time of hospitalisation may be due to undetected diabetes or recent weight. “What has also been observed is people with undiagnosed diabetes converting to full-blown diabetes after Covid-19 infection due to multiple factors, such as unhealthy diet, low or no exercise, use of steroids, and mental stress. Our study from Delhi found 40% people gained weight during the lockdown, with 16% gaining 2-5 kg during 49 days of lockdown,” said Misra, who is the chairman of Fortis Center of Excellence for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology in New Delhi. Nikhil Tandon, professor of endocrinology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, said: “Unmasking of an undiagnosed disease on hospitalisation is not uncommon, which could be stress-response hyperglycaemia or due the use of steroids.” The paper said unwarranted use of dexamethasone in mild Covid-19 infection and other seasonal flu increases the risk of hyperglycemia. “High fasting blood glucose at the time of hospitalization in people not known to have diabetes puts them at higher risk for mortality than those who have normoglycaemia (normal blood sugar),” it said. Another scenario is hyperglycemia in pregnancy, which is a grey area in the absence of studies on pregnant women with diabetes and Covid-19. “We recommend pregnant antenatal checks, nutritionist, and diabetes educators through teleconsultations, avoid labs and intensively control their diabetes...,” Misra said. The fourth scenario that affects 90% of diabetics is controlling diabetes on hospitalisation because of pre-existing diabetes and its complications, an infection attacking the pancreas, use of steroids to treat Covid, and stress. “Posing challenges are triggers for hyperglycemia is cytokine storm, use of corticosteroids, ketoacidosis and hyperosmolar states, inability to monitor blood glucose levels because of reduced contact between healthcare worker and patients, and non-inclusion of diabetes expert...,” the paper noted. The fifth scenario is new onset of diabetes, which is now being reported during Covid -19 infection because Ace-2 (angiotensin converting enzyme-2) receptors, which the new coronavirus binds to enter human cells. This can lead to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. Studies show 17% Covid-19 patients have some disruption of pancreatic cells, among them insulin producing cells, which leads to rapid deterioration of condition. “People with established disease deferring clinical visits is feasible and not a problem if they get their investigations, including blood work done regularly and consult through text or phone...” said Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-diabetes-at-risk-of-severe-infection-study/story-jw8pOcBoEdztS5O6YPIw8L.html
29-08-2020||India||Govt asks states to focus on elderly to reduce fatalities||In an attempt to bring down the number of Covid-19-related deaths in the country, the Union health ministry has asked states to focus on vulnerable population, such as patients with underlying health conditions and those with above 60 years of age.In a review meeting with states reporting higher number of deaths on Thursday, the ministry directed them to particularly pay attention to the vulnerable population. “There are about 10 such states that account for almost 90% of the Covid-19 deaths over the past couple of weeks. If we manage to control deaths in these states, then the national case fatality rate will automatically come down. These intensified measures will particularly be for implementation in these states. In some states, it is certain districts that are reporting high case load. So, the focus is being broken further down to the district level,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The states that are reporting higher deaths are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir.“Since a majority of those we are losing to Covid-19 belong to a particular population group, like those with underlying medical conditions or the aged population with less reserves in body to fight off the disease, more focus needs to be put on this population group and states have been directed accordingly,” the official added.The states have been asked to maintain a weekly database of Covid-19 deaths for each health facility managing patients, with particular focus on the vulnerable population. “They will have to document all information related to deaths in each of their Covid hospitals, especially the cause of death, to examine what could have been done to avoid these deaths,” the official said.The age-wise Covid-19 mortality data released by the health ministry earlier this week shows that more than half (51%) of the 61,690 Covid-19 patients who succumbed to the viral infection in India are 60 years and above.The findings about the age-wise distribution of deaths in India appear to be in line with what scientists have observed about global trends of the disease — it disproportionally infects younger people, while it severely affects those who are older.Doctors treating Covid-19 patients agreed.“Normally we see patients are recovering well. Comorbidities and old age both are contributing factors in patients turning serious. This category needs special care,” said Dr Sandeep Nayar, director, respiratory medicine department, BLK super speciality hospital.Clinical management is one of the key components of disease containment strategy.“How we treat our sick patients is what is crucial in saving their lives. We will be able to save more lives if we have a sense of what is killing them. There is a need to systematically and scientifically not just collect data but to also analyse it. We have managed quite well so far, and the gains need to be consolidated further for us to win this battle,” the official quoted above added.While national CFR (case fatality ratio) has dropped to under 2% and is currently at 1.83%, the health ministry has set a target of bringing it down to 1% or below.“The surveillance system will also put special focus on vulnerable population as they are currently most susceptible to contracting infection because they have had been largely indoors so far,” said another senior official from the integrated disease surveillance programme who did not wish to be identified.Other focus areas that states will have to work on include making available to masses real-time information on availability of beds and ambulances across Covid-19 facilities, while significantly reducing ambulance response time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-states-to-focus-on-elderly-to-reduce-fatalities/story-j61DuueHg7jmkXZL3MzhnL.html
29-08-2020||India||India’s case trajectory tops US Covid-19 peak||New Delhi ’s trajectory of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday became the highest ever recorded by any country, which means that the outbreak in the country currently is worse than it was at the peak in the United States (US) – the worst-hit nation in the world.At an average, 69,558 new cases were reported in India every day over the past week, placing it above the seven-day daily case peak recorded in the US when the number touched 69,330 for the week ending July 25. The US’s trajectory was the worst in the world in the eight months since the coronavirus disease surfaced in December 2019.On Friday, India reported 76,139 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the country to 3,458,186. To be sure, the US has over six million confirmed infections, more than 1.8 times those in India, which is unlikely to overtake America any time soon.Brazil, which is the country with the second-highest number of total cases, has around 350,000 more cases than India. The South American nation, however, has been adding around 30,000 fewer cases than India every day recently, so the latter has been closing the gap fast.New cases in India have been rising at an alarming rate and have shown no signs of a let-up. India’s doubling rate — the rate at which the total cases in the country would double — was 32 days on Friday against 96 days in the US and 68 in Brazil. For doubling rates, a higher number mean rising at an alarming rate and have shown no signs of a let-up. India’s doubling rate — the rate at which the total cases in the country would double — was 32 days on Friday against 96 days in the US and 68 in Brazil. For doubling rates, a higher number means cases are growing at a slower (thus better) rate. In fact, India has the worst doubling rate among the world’s 10 worst-hit nations.However, with 62,703 total deaths as of Friday, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among the confirmed cases — is 1.8%, which is not only much better than the global average of 3.4%, but also better than the US (3.1%) and Brazil (3.2%).The US became the worst-hit nation in the world on the back of two separate and massive case spikes. The first spike, which was milder, peaked towards early April and was centred in the country’s north-east with states such as New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania reporting high cases.Towards the end of June, a second spike started with new epicentres such as California, Texas and Florida, pushing new cases to record highs again. In this phase, the US set the global record for the highest cases in a single day on July 24 when it reported 78,586 infections. The country’s seven-day average peaked a day later on July 25. Since then, this wave of infections has also waned and the country is currently reporting around 42,000 new cases every day. In Brazil, the trajectory has been the most erratic of these three. It has seen smaller waves of infections that have dropped thrice — in mid-June, mid-July and mid-August. However, cases appear to have hit a plateau in the past two weeks, averaging around 37,000 new cases every day, against over 46,000 in the last week of July.Unlike the other two nations where the new case trend lines are uneven, the caseload in India has grown gradually and has not had any abrupt spike. But this does not necessarily translate to good news because it also means that the trajectory in India has never hit a plateau. With almost all states (except Delhi) reporting record high cases over the past few weeks, this trajectory has not yet exhibited any signs of slowing down.To be sure, the three countries are rather similar demographically, which may explain the extended trajectory of the pandemic. The US is the world’s third largest country by geographical area, Brazil fifth, and India seventh. As the infection wanes in one part of the country, it waxes in another. In terms of population, India is the second most populous country in the world, the US third, and Brazil sixth. Expectedly, per capita infection and death numbers are low for all three countries compared to smaller and less populous nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-case-trajectory-tops-us-covid-19-peak/story-nYxoxQ8jd1NJX5xBxKhhxK.html
29-08-2020||India||Six non-BJP states move SC seeking deferment of exams||Ministers of six states ruled by non-BJP parties approached the Supreme Court on Friday, seeking review of a top court order that allowed the National Testing Agency (NTA) and central government to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) in September in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country...,” the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes said. It added that not only health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET and JEE will be at risk but also the “public health at large would be in severe jeopardy”. The petition was filed by ministers Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra) in their individual capacity. On July 3, NTA, the central government body tasked with conducting JEE and NEET, came out with public notices to hold the exams in September. NEET, for students seeking admission to medical and dental courses, is slated for September 13. JEE, for those aspiring to join top engineering schools, is scheduled to be conducted from September 1 to 6.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra, on August 17, rejected a plea by 11 NEET/JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until after the Covid-19 crisis.Justice Mishra, while hearing that case, said “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and the court cannot put the career of students in jeopardy by interfering with NTA’s decision of to hold the examinations in September.In response to this remark, the petitioners submitted on Friday that the “advice of ‘Life Must Go On’ may have very sound philosophical underpinnings but cannot be a substitute for valid legal reasoning and logical analysis of the various aspects involved in the conduct of the NEET UG and JEE exams.” The chorus against the medical and engineering entrance tests has been growing with opposition leaders, including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, backing a section of students in seeking postponement of the exams. On Wednesday, chief ministers of several Opposition-ruled states discussed the matter. In a recent interview to HT, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” requested his “colleagues across the political spectrum to abide by the orders of the honourable Supreme Court” and leave politics aside. “I feel that this government is very empathetic and considerate to the cause of the students. Academic career is very important, and a zero academic year will cause tremendous loss to the students,” he said. He added that he every day he receives “innumerable mails from the silent majority” seeking the exams.“Only two reasons that can be discerned from the (August 17) order for dismissal of the petition — life must go on and students should not lose an academic year. With utmost respect, both the reasons, even if cumulatively taken, do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue,” the review petition said. A review petition is a legal remedy available after the Supreme Court has pronounced its judgment in a case. The grounds for filing a review petition are limited and the petitioners seeking review should show that a new fact or evidence has come to light or that the court committed an obvious or apparent error while delivering its judgment. It is not necessary that a review petition should be filed only by those who were parties to the original case. However, the court is cautious while entertaining review petition filed by non-parties.In this case, none of the ministers, who have filed the review petition, were parties before the Supreme Court in the plea filed by the 11 students.“The petitioners are all eminent citizens with impeccable record of public service and have the necessary standing to make some pertinent submissions before the Supreme Court on this subject. Though they weren’t formal parties in the (main) petition filed by 11 students, we would seek Supreme Court’s permission to allow them to file the review petition, as per Supreme Court practice,” Sunil Fernandes told HT.The petitioners highlighted that students from rural areas and semi-urban areas might be forced to use unsafe modes of transportation to reach examination centres and would thereby expose themselves and everyone else to Covid -19. Besides, students residing in distant placed will find it difficult to reach examination centres due to limited availability of transportation services during Covid -19.They also pointed out that certain states have inadequate examinations centres which will make implementation of social distancing norms impossible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-non-bjp-states-move-sc-seeking-deferment-of-exams/story-UoNCMFHIA4aNSmJn8Htj2L.html
29-08-2020||India||UGC right to make exams compulsory but states can postpone schedule: SC||The Supreme Court ruled on Friday students cannot be promoted without writing the final year or terminal semester examinations, upholding a July 6 directive of the University Grants Commission (UG).However, states will have the liberty to defer such exams beyond the September 30 deadline in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan said. “States cannot promote students based on internal assessment or past performance. If states want to hold exams after September 30, they can approach UGC for the same,” the bench said.Also Watch | JEE, NEET 2020: Should exams be postponed? Education minister answersYuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, is among several petitioners in the top court who questioned UGC’s directive to hold examinations amid the coronavirus pandemic. The bench had reserved its verdict on the issue on August 18.UGC had earlier told the top court that its July 6 directive, asking universities and colleges to conduct final year exams by September 30 amid the Covid-19 pandemic, is “not a diktat” but states cannot take the decision to confer degrees without holding the exams.The “benefit of students” as the universities have to start admissions to postgraduate courses and state authorities cannot override the UGC’s guideline, it had added.On August 10, UGC had questioned the decisions of Delhi and Maharashtra governments to cancel final year exams of state universities amid the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they were against the rules. The Solicitor General had earlier informed the bench that out of over 800 universities in the country, 209 have completed the examinations while around 390 universities are in the process of conducting exams.UGC had said that in June this year, considering the evolving situation of the pandemic, it requested an expert committee to revisit the guidelines in which it had asked the universities to hold final year examinations in July 2020.The committee submitted a report recommending that terminal semester and final year examinations should be conducted by universities by the end of September, 2020 in offline or pen and paper or online or offline mode, UGC had said. UGC had said, while assailing the decisions of some states like Maharashtra and Delhi of cancelling the final year exams, that such decisions directly affect the standards of higher education. It will be an encroachment on the legislative field of coordinating and determining the standards of higher education that is exclusively reserved for Parliament under Schedule VII of the Constitution, it had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-verdict-on-final-year-university-exams/story-D2OrJNPE83HGyw4m4tWexJ.html
