30-08-2020||India||Justice Mishra declines invite for SC bar farewell||New DelhiSupreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra, who is set to demit office on September 2, has turned down the invitation of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to attend a farewell function being organised for him. In a written communication to SCBA president Dushyant Dave, Justice Mishra said on Sunday that his conscience does not permit him to participate in a farewell function in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Taking into consideration the severe situation and sufferings the world over on account of Covid-19 pandemic, my conscience does not permit me to participate in any farewell function. I may, therefore, be excused,” the letter said. The judge, who was elevated to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014, also declined to participate in the farewell function organsied by another lawyers’ body, the Confederation of Indian Bar, for the same reason. “I assure you as and when the situation normalizes, I will visit the Bar and pay my respect,” he wrote in his letter. In Februray this year, SCBA had criticised Justice Mishra for heaping praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an international judicial conference organised by the Supreme Court. “The Prime Minister is a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally. India is a responsible and most friendly member of the international community under the stewardship of the internationally acclaimed visionary Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi,” he said back then. SCBA had passed a resolution on February 26, condemning Justice Mishra’s remarks while saying that such statements by sitting judges reflect poorly on the independence of judiciary. “The SCBA believes that any such statement reflects poorly on the independence of the judiciary and so calls upon Hon’ble judges not to make statements in future nor show any proximity or closeness to the Executive including high functionaries,” that resolution by SCBA said. A bench headed by Justice Mishra is scheduled to deliver its verdict on the sentence to be awarded to lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-mishra-declines-invite-for-sc-bar-farewell/story-hBqWB0xp6P0vwltXjg4AwL.html
30-08-2020||India||Odisha Flood: 17 dead, 1.4 million people affected as situation improves||The flood situation in Odisha improved considerably on Sunday even as the floodwaters affected 1.4 million people in 20 districts leaving 17 dead.Among the casualties, was a minor girl of Nayagarh district who was attempting to save her friend from being swept away by the flood water of Brutanga River. Sradhanjali Jani of Takera village was performing the traditional Odia ritual ‘Khudurukuni Osa’ with 3 of her friends in the river when one of them was swept away by the current. The three girls including Sradhanjali jumped into the water, but were swept away by the strong current till they were rescued by a fire brigade team. However, Jani was declared brought dead at a local hospital.Officials meanwhile said the flood situation is under control as Subarnarekha, Baitarani, Brahmani; Budhabalanga rivers are no longer in spate while the situation in Mahanadi river system will be better by Monday. “As the inflow at Hirakud Dam has gone down, the amount of floodwater of Mahandi received in Mundali head will be 10 lakh cusecs. The floodwater will effectively reduce in coming days in affected districts and by tomorrow the situation is likely to get better,” said special relief commissioner Pradip Jena.Water resources secretary Anu Garg said Subarnarekha, Budhabalanga, Baitarani; Brahmani rivers are stable now and flowing below the danger level. Three sluice gates of Rengali dam have been closed and the fourth will be closed soon, said Garg.The SRC said a total of 45 medical and 42 veterinary, 14 NDRF, 17 ODRAF, 22 Fire Services teams and 254 boats have been deployed in the affected areas to rescue people as 107 roads were cut off and 32 river embankments breached in five districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-flood-17-dead-1-4-million-people-affected-as-situation-improves/story-xhmccAq1khN9gXmD7dNUAO.html
30-08-2020||India||Goyal asks Asean to bolster rules||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal has asked the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to strengthen their “rules of origin” provisions, one of the key concerns of India, which has experienced an influx of Chinese goods routed through some members of the 10-member grouping.Co-chairing the 17th Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations on Saturday through video conference, Goyal highlighted that the free trade agreement (FTA) has to be “mutually beneficial” and expressed the need to strengthen the rules of origin provisions, work towards removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access, a commerce ministry statement said on Sunday.He asked for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA) as the trade pact is hurting India’s interest, particularly because of violations of rules of origin. India is concerned and wants to review FTAs as several Chinese goods are dumped in its market through a third country with which India has a free trade agreement, a government official said, requesting anonymity.The review is necessary as many items enter the Indian market taking advantage of the Asean-India FTA. Imports at reduced or zero duty put Indian industry at a disadvantage, the official said.At the Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations on Saturday, Goyal reiterated India’s consistent position that the review of the FTA has been inordinately delayed. India wants a review of the trade pact as balance of trade is heavily tilted in favour of Asean members: Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. According to official data, India’s exports to Asean in 2019-20 were worth $31.49 billion while its imports from the group of countries reached $55.37 billion. An industry study pointed out that India’s imports from Asean countries increased sharply after the signing of the FTA in 2009. India in 2009 signed an FTA in goods – Asean-India Free Trade Agreement (AIFTA) – with the group, and in 2014 inked an FTA in services.The report, India’s trade and investment opportunities with Asean, prepared by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in November 2019, said that in the post-AIFTA era, India’s merchandise exports to Asean economies increased from $23 billion in 2010 to $36 billion in 2018 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 5%, while its merchandise imports from Asean nations increased from $30 billion in 2010 to $57 billion in 2018 — a CAGR of around 8%. The report also emphasised the need to review the existing trade arrangements for mutual gains.On Saturday, Goyal asked for closer engagement towards finalisation of the scoping exercise, before the Asean-India Leaders’ Summit scheduled in November 2020 and to start the full review before the end of this year, the commerce ministry said in the statement. Goyal co-chaired the Saturday meeting with Vietnam’s minister of industry and trade Tran Tuan Anh.A report of the Asean India Business Council (AIBC) was also presented in the meeting. It also recommended a review of the AITIGA for mutual benefit. The ministers from India and Asean countries instructed senior officials to start discussions to determine the scope of the review at the earliest to make the FTA more user-friendly, simple, and trade facilitative for businesses.Sangita Reddy, co-chair of AIBC (India), said India and Asean should develop a roadmap for collaboration in the health care and pharmaceutical sectors along with knowledge exchange and digital connectivity. “She shared that special incentives for Indian pharmaceutical companies should be introduced for setting up plants in dedicated Asean zones,” the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) said in a statement. The industry association is the Indian secretariat of the AIBC.Asean ministers reaffirmed their commitment to taking collective action in mitigating the economic impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic and resolved to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability and resilient supply chain connectivity, particularly the unimpeded flow of essential goods and medicines in the region, in compliance with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, the statement said.AIBC also recommended elimination of non- tariff measures to enable seamless movement of goods and services, Ficci said in the statement. It proposed the introduction of a business travel card which would facilitate business travel between India and Asean countries. It would have minimum 90-day validity. “A review of all existing FTAs is necessary because of two reasons – the geopolitical dimensions that gives an opportunity to India to become a manufacturing hub for several products such as pharmaceuticals and information technology-enables services, and to check dumping of Chinese products from Asean countries that is hurting our domestic industries,” said chartered accountant Vijay Kumar Gupta, a former central council member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-asks-asean-to-bolster-rules/story-T4gPcD2TSSGCv9VL4uGxwK.html
30-08-2020||India||Education secy seeks states’ ‘unstinted support’ for NEET, JEE||New DelhiWith dates for the Joint Entrance Examination, or JEE (Main), for admission to top engineering schools and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical and dental courses approaching, the Centre has written to state governments seeking their support for the conduct of the exams in which over 2.5 million students will appear across the country.In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states, Union higher education secretary Amit Khare has sought the “unstinted support” of all states and Union territories for successful conduct of JEE, NEET and other tests by the National Testing Agency, an autonomous body under the education ministry.The JEE (Main) exam, on the basis of which admission to top engineering schools including the elite Indian Institutes of Technology is decided, is due to be held from September 1 to 6. NEET is scheduled to take place on September 30.Scheduling of the two examinations at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is still raging has triggered concern among some students, parents and educationists, but the Centre has dismissed worries and said all requisite precautions will be taken in conducting the tests. In the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT, Khare also referred to the Supreme Court ruling on the matter, and that the future of the students cannot be put in peril and a “full academic year cannot be wasted”.The top education ministry official said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Vineet Joshi, the director general of the National Testing Agency, had also written to states seeking their support in the conduct of these exams. Precautions include adequate police protection at each exam venue, he said. The education secretary asked the chief secretaries of all states to issue suitable instructions so that the exams can be conducted smoothly.Significantly, on Sunday, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ also sought the support of all stakeholders in the smooth conduct of the exams. Pokhriyal said there had been attempts to spread misinformation on the issue, adding that this is a subject that shouldn’t be politicised .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-secy-seeks-states-unstinted-support-for-neet-jee/story-i589lu1YnOzzJuSCZh9iUP.html
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 will be under control by Diwali: Dr Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday expressed confidence that the country’s Covid-19 count will be “under control” by Diwali this year.Inaugurating the ‘Nation First’ webinar series, organised by the Anathkumar Foundation, he pointed out that the country was much ahead in tackling the pandemic.“The Covid-19 will significantly come under control by the Deepavali this year. The leaders and common people effectively worked together to fight the pandemic. He inaugurated Nation first webinar series organised by Ananth Kumar Foundation,” the press release said.He further said that the health officials had held a meeting much before the first Covid-19 case was reported in India. “Later on, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formed a committee led by me which has already met 22 times until yesterday,” he said. “There was only one laboratory in June by February, which has now been increased to 1,583 nationwide. Out of this, more than 1,000 are government labs. The country is conducting about 1 million tests per day which is way ahead of the target,” the health minister said.He observed that compared to earlier there is no scarcity of PPE kits, ventilators, and N 95 masks now“The scarcity of PPE kits, ventilators, and N 95 masks is no more now. Every day, five lakh PPE kits are produced in the country while 10 manufacturers are producing N95 masks. 25 producers are manufacturing ventilators,” he added.He said that vaccine trials are in full swing, with three clinical trials and four pre-clinical trials underway. “We are expecting vaccines to be ready by the end of the year. It is because of the farsightedness of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that we could reach until here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-will-be-under-control-by-diwali-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-zKxXOqNlFtBBA9z5blKF9K.html
30-08-2020||India||DMRC will offer safe travel amid Covid-19 pandemic: Official||The resumption of metro services amid coronavirus disease outbreak in the national capital should not be a cause of worry as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation will take all necessary measures on the premises to ensure safe travelling experience, officials said. Metro services in New Delhi were curtailed in March this year to prevent the spread of the viral contagion. “Once metro services resume from September 7, the DMRC will strive to facilitate all necessary measures and precautions on its premises to provide a safe travelling experience to its commuters amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications, DMRC told news agency PTI. Metro officials have decided to introduce range of measures, in order to follow Covid-19 safety norms, like limiting the number of people in lifts, longer halting time for trains at stations to allow commuters to board and alight with social distancing. As opposed to pre-Covid functioning where a train would halts for 10 seconds to 30 seconds at a station, depending on the traffic flow and the nature of station. “Now, trains will halt for longer duration than 10 seconds or 30 seconds,” a DMRC official told PTI.Additionally, two-three persons will be permissible inside a lift from concourse to the platform at any point of time against 8-9 on regular days, the official told PTI. People not wearing masks will not be allowed to enter metro premises.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmrc-will-offer-safe-travel-amid-covid-19-pandemic-official/story-5VnAKo6yQV3a1QUmODKQWN.html
30-08-2020||India||Amit Shah congratulates India for winning gold at online Chess Olympiad||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday congratulated Indian chess player for winning gold for the country in the 2020 Online Chess OlympiadIndia scored a joint victory alongside Russia in the FIDE online Chess Olympiad.“Congratulations to Team India on winning the FIDE online #ChessOlympiad. This has been possible because of the unparalleled commitment of our chess masters. I am sure this stellar achievement will further the spirit of our young players across the nation,” Amit Shah wrote on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, applauded India and Russia on their joint win.“Congratulations to our chess players for winning the FIDE Online #ChessOlympiad. Their hard work and dedication are admirable. Their success will surely motivate other chess players. I would like to congratulate the Russian team as well,” PM Modi tweetedFor first time, FIDE, the international chess federation, was holding the Olympiad in an online format due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  Initially, Russia was declared as the winner. India lodged an appeal as both its players, Nihal Sarin and Divya Deshmukh, lost connection to their games in the second round and had to forfeit. After review, both India and Russia were announced as joint winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-congratulates-india-for-winning-gold-at-online-chess-olympiad/story-LcELGT2askEkZDF5YTfIOJ.html
30-08-2020||India||ASI, 3 terrorists killed in Kashmir||Srinagar An assistant sub-inspector and three terrorists affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were killed in an encounter in Srinagar, officials said Sunday.The encounter was triggered after the three terrorists attacked a checkpoint manned by police and CRPF officials in Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar late on Saturday night, J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said. The attackers opened fire and attempted to snatch the rifles of the security personnel, he added. The militants opened fire when security personnel cordoned the area. “The fire was retaliated by the forces in which one militant was killed initially,” he said.“During the exchange of fire we lost a brave and daring officer of our lead SOG team, Babu Ram. He was an experienced member of our SOG team and had been involved in operations for a long time. We pay our tributes to this brave jawan,” he said.The officer said that the encounter continued till early morning after security forces tried to convince the militants to surrender. “But the firing started again during which the other two terrorists were also killed,” Singh said.The terrorists were identified as Saqib Bashir Khanday, Umar Tariq Bhat and Zubair Ahmad Shiekh. The three were affiliated with the proscribed outfit LeT, the DGP said. “One of the militants was a commander who was involved in terror activities for some time. He was active for the past one and a half years,” he said.The DGP hailed the efforts of the security forces. “Our alert forces not only averted a major tragedy but also succeeded in a major operation,” he said.A wreath laying ceremony was held for the ASI at District Police Lines Srinagar. In the last three days, 10 militants have been killed in three separate encounters. Three Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and an Army soldier were killed on Saturday in a gunfight in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. On Friday, four militants were killed in a joint encounter by the army and paramilitary forces in Shopian district of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-3-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir/story-J7r7U2OlPeRdcDtJHothxL.html
30-08-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh cops arrest man in Dewas for allegedly hoisting Pakistani flag||A man was arrested on Sunday after a Pakistani flag was allegedly hoisted at his home Dewas district, 153 km south west of Bhopal, police said. Farukh Khan, a resident of Shipra village of Dewas district, was arrested under section 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), police said. Khan, who is in his 40s, was arrested after a video clip went viral on social media in which Pakistan’s national flag was seen hoisted on the roof of his house. No one is seen in the video while the flag flutters in the wind. HT cannot vouch for the veracity of the video clip.The tehsildar concerned of the area sent a revenue inspector Lakhan Singh to visit the spot to check if there was actually a Pakistani flag.“When I met Farukh Khan he told me that his minor son had unfurled Pakistan’s national flag due to ignorance and that when he came to know about it he burnt the flag,” Lakhan Singh said. Industrial Area police station, Dewas in charge sub-inspector RK Sharma said, “The revenue inspector Lakhan Singh lodged a complaint with the police station on Sunday based on the statement of Farukh Khan.” “A team reached the house of Khan in Shipra village for investigation. Khan repeated his statement that his minor son had unfurled Pakistan’s flag due to ignorance and that when he saw it he removed the flag and destroyed it by burning it,” said Sharma. Khan runs a tyre puncture repair shop.However, investigating officer Jitendra Yadav said on Sunday night, “The statement of Farukh Khan was found partly untrue as he had not destroyed the flag which has been seized now. The FIR has names of the family members of Farukh Khan too but we will not disclose the names right now. However, only Farukh Khan has been arrested and he would be produced before the local court on Monday.”“It’s a matter of investigation as to from where Farukh Khan or any other member of his family got the national flag of Pakistan. The investigation is still going on. The family members will be questioned too,” Yadav said.pro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cops-arrest-man-in-dewas-for-allegedly-hoisting-pakistani-flag/story-G1LCvbL5XoHo5Tx4OAMSJN.html
30-08-2020||India||17-year-old JEE aspirant writes to CJI SA Bobde, requests for postponement of exams||A 17-year-old JEE aspirant on Sunday wrote a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, requesting him for directions to postpone NEET and JEE exams in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in India, according to ANI.Despite several requests to postpone the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Testing Agency (NTA) on August 25 had released fresh guidelines for the exams to be held on September 1 to 6 (JEE) and September 13 (NEET). So far, aspirants and several politicians have written to the government, asking for the exams to be postponed. However, the agency has decided to go ahead with the scheduled dates. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively.According to a report in PTI, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given permission for holding JEE and NEET exams in the city.A proposal for holding JEE and NEET exams in Delhi was put forth in the last meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which was attended by the L-G and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the report said.“The Delhi government in its file sent to the L-G on Saturday recommended not to hold the exams in view of safety of students. Delhi Chief Minister had also decided against holding JEE and NEET in view of the pandemic. However, the L-G returned the file giving his permission to hold the exams,” PTI reported quoting sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-year-old-jee-aspirant-writes-to-cji-sa-bobde-requests-for-postponement-of-exams/story-PMj9xt4GE2StTfBhiGWPhK.html
30-08-2020||India||J&K records highest single-day spike of 786 Covid-19 cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day spike of 786 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 37,163 while nine more casualties took the death toll to 694, the government said.Before Sunday’s spike, the highest number of infections in a single day was reported on July 20 when 751 people had tested positive.As many as 432 people tested positive in Kashmir, including 39 travellers, while 352 cases were reported from Jammu, of which 46 were travellers.A total of 490 people were cured and discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recoveries to 28,510 which account for the recovery rate of 76.7%. There are, at present, 7,959 active cases in J&K.A government spokesperson said 108 people were discharged in Jammu division and 382 in Kashmir. Of the 28,510 recoveries, 22,097 were cured in Kashmir and 6,413 in Jammu division.Officials said nine more people have succumbed to the disease, six of them in Kashmir and three of them in Jammu division.The total death toll has reached 694 of which 631 fatalities are in Kashmir and 63 in Jammu so far.The death toll had crossed the 300-mark on July 25, the 400-mark on August 3, the 500-mark on August 13 and the 600-mark on August 22.Most deaths were reported in July and August. As many as 276 people died in July and 317 died between August 1 and 30.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 161 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 52 and Ganderbal at 44.A total 258 cases was reported in Jammu district, the highest jump so far in the district.Srinagar is the worst affected district with 9,186 cases and 219 deaths. The active cases in the district are now at 1,589 after 167 people recovered on Sunday.Till date, 4.58 lakh people have been put under observation - 45,176 in home quarantine, 7,959 in isolation, and 45,033 under home surveillance. Besides these, 3.60 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.A total 9,56,733 tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-786-covid-19-cases/story-MWiafQvOX6tSUSUcMYAfAK.html
30-08-2020||India||‘My conscience does not permit’: SC judge Arun Mishra declines farewell invites||Citing severe situation and sufferings the world over” due to the coronavirus disease outbreak, Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra on Sunday declined farewell invitations of bar bodies. Justice Mishra, who superannuates on September 2, is a part of benches pronouncing key judgements in cases including verdict of punishment to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan in a contempt case and timelines for payment of AGR dues by telcos.Supreme Court judge Justice Arun Mishra turns down Supreme Court Bar Association invite for a farewell function to be organised ahead of his retirement on Sept 2.Justice Mishra says, my conscience doesn't permit me to participate any farewell function, due to COVID-19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/mPhVp5lZzg“I am grateful for your kind invitation inviting me in the farewell function... I have always considered the bar as the mother of the judiciary, and it would have been a great pleasure to attend said function,” Justice Mishra wrote in the letter. Declining the requests made by bar bodies, Justice Mishra said, “However, taking into consideration the severe situation and sufferings the world over on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, my conscience does not permit me to participate in any farewell function.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-conscience-does-not-permit-sc-judge-arun-mishra-declines-farewell-invites/story-vU9m6r0S0ftmcZJI26jnnK.html
30-08-2020||India||In MP, superstructure of new bridge built under PMGSY washed away due to flood||The superstructure of a new bridge constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) over Wanganga river in Seoni district, 344 kilometres south east of Bhopal, was washed away in floods caused by incessant rain in several parts of the state since Thursday, prompting the district administration to institute an inquiry. There was damage to another bridge too over the same river, according to administrative officials. The state Congress blamed the BJP government for what it said was a sample of corruption during the BJP government’s tenure. The damage to the bridges came to light on Sunday morning when the water level receded after the incessant rains continuing for more than 48 hours, stopped. At the same time, another bridge which was about 10 years old constructed over the same river near Bheemgarh was also damaged, as per administrative officials. According to the district information officer, district collector Dr Rahul Haridas has instituted an inquiry into the damage to the bridges. State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Two bridges couldn’t withstand the intense rainfall in Seoni district. Construction of one of the bridges began during the previous tenure of the BJP government and its construction was completed just one month back. This is a sample of the corruption during the BJP government’s tenure.”However, executive engineer of PWD JP Mehra said, “The bridge is new situated near Sunwara village, construction of which was completed in June this year under PMGSY. It was 150 metres long and 9.28 metres in height. Its construction involved a cost of Rs 3.12 crore. The second bridge is situated near Bheemgarh dam. Due to incessant rain and floods, all the 10 gates of the dam over Wanganga river near Bheemgarh were opened on Friday night and it caused damage to both the bridges.” (With input from Azhar Khan in Seoni)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-superstructure-of-new-bridge-built-under-pmgsy-washed-away-due-to-flood/story-FldpS39oisnTSoSKnf2P7O.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP shuts Jammu office for 10 days after 2 senior leaders test positive for Covid-19||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday shut its headquarters in Jammu’s Trikuta Nagar area for ten days as a precautionary measure after two of its senior leaders tested Covid 19 positive.“Following Covid-19 protocol we have decided to close our headquarters for 10 days,” said a party spokesman. The two leaders are the two general secretaries of the party Ashok Koul and Vibodh Gupta.Earlier in the week, BJP’s Lok Sabha member Jugal Kishore Sharma, his wife and personal secretary had tested positive for Covdi-19.Koul and Gupta had returned from Kashmir recently after attending party meetings of national general secretary Ram Madhav, who was on a two-day tour to the Valley.Ravinder Raina, president of the J&K unit of the BJP, had recently recovered from the Covid-19 which he had contracted during his visit to Kashmir following the killing of party leader Waseem Bari, his brother and their father.Raina said that given the rapid spread of the infection, the party decided to close its headquarters for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shuts-jammu-office-for-10-days-after-2-senior-leaders-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-I2VnR8qnKBaUM8ZvUms3IN.html
30-08-2020||India||CM Pinarayi Vijayan unveils 100-day action plan for Kerala ahead of Onam||A day before ‘Thiru Onam,’ the most auspicious of the 10-day harvest festival of Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday unveiled a 100-day action plan with 100 programmes aimed at elevating the image of the government that has suffered a dent after the gold smuggling case surfaced in the state. “This is the fifth year of the Left Democratic Front government. Though last two years we avoided celebrations due to flood and pandemic there was no holiday for our development activities. As part of our endeavour we are announcing a 100-day action plan,” Vijayan said adding these programmes will be implemented in 100 days. He said the welfare pension will be increased from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,300 and beneficiaries will be increased from 38 lakh to 58 lakh and free food kits to the economically weaker sections will be extended for four more months. He also said the base price of 12 essential vegetables will be announced to help farmers. The CM said the state government has also written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Union government to extend moratorium on all loans in the state. The Covid-19 pandemic has crippled many sectors and people need more time to recover from it, he said. The government has also decided to recruit more health professionals and grassroot workers to help ease the burden of overworked health workers. “We will give more emphasis to the health sector in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Daily tests will be increased to 50,000 and 153 new family health centres will be opened,” the CM said. But he evaded questions at the press conference this time. A youth allegedly committed suicide in Thiruvananthapuram district on Sunday after he failed to get a government job though he was in the merit list of the state public service commission. The list lapsed last month after the PSC failed to fill vacancies. Many youth activists hit the streets alleging that the government was responsible for his death. A number of issues have been plaguing the government as only eight months are left for the assembly elections. It is at the receiving end after the customs seized 30 kg of gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the UAE consular office in the state capital. Later, it was forced to suspend the CM’s powerful private secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, for his alleged liaison with prime accused Swapna Suresh. A multi-agency headed by the National Investigation Agency is probing the case. State higher education minister K T Jaleel is also in trouble after he accepted “monetary gift and religious books” from the consulate flouting the foreign contribution regulations act. Last week many important files were destroyed after a fire at the state secretariat and the opposition alleged that it was a sabotage to weaken the smuggling case. Kerala has reported 2,154 virus cases on Sunday taking the total cases to 73,798_ 49,849 people have recovered and the active cases in the state now stand at 23,658. With seven deaths, the toll has gone up to 288. There are complaints that many Covid-19 deaths are not finding place in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-pinarayi-vijayan-unveils-100-day-action-plan-for-kerala-ahead-of-onam/story-vOzZHRZfpifbaidiIOAPpJ.html
30-08-2020||India||How race for vaccines is shaping up||A look at where some of the leading Covid-19 candidates stand, and what we know about them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-race-for-vaccines-is-shaping-up/story-tHzEMkbNcrTlxesqid00hI.html
30-08-2020||India||Authorities bust pangolin smuggling racket in Satara, 6 arrested||The Maharashtra forest department and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) in a joint operation busted a pangolin smuggling racket in Satara with six persons arrested between Saturday and Sunday, officials said.The forest department and WCCB officials acted as dummy customers to lure and nab the smugglers.Investigators also rescued a live pangolin and seized three motorcycles, six mobile phones, and other items from the smugglers. All six accused, residents of Warje, Ramnagar and Pune, were arrested and will be presented before a district court on Monday.Hunting pangolins is an offence as the animal is protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, akin to the protection status given to a tiger, leopard or elephant. The crime invites imprisonment between three to seven years and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000.Senior WCCB official said this was the second major pangolin smuggling racket busted along west Maharashtra this year, and authorities were edging closer to bust the overall racket. On June 10, six people were arrested from Nanded and one from Pune, all involved in a similar racket and two live pangolins were rescued.“Illegal pangolin trade has become a serious matter of concern along west Maharashtra. Both these cases (Nanded and Satara) have opened up trade routes and information that will help us nab more persons involved in this money-making scheme,” said M Maranko, regional deputy director, WCCB.In the latest case, forest officials said they were tipped off about a group of persons involved in this trade. WCCB member Rohan Bhate and a team of forest and police officers headed by Sachin Dombale, range forest officer (vigilance squad) Satara portrayed themselves as buyers and set up a trap to nab the accused. “Pangolins are being used for their meat, their scales are valuable in the international market, and they are also kept by some as a sign of good luck or superstitions allegedly involving witchcraft. This is activating the illegal trade, which involves a lot of money,” said Dombale.Bhate said one of the six accused had a bogus identity card showing he assisted the forest department. “We are coming across such frauds that are either smuggling snake venom or pangolins using such illegal ID cards. Their registration needs to be cancelled at the earliest to prevent such crimes,” he said. Maranko said from both cases, Nanded and Satara, WCCB believe there is a poultry farm located somewhere between Pune and Satara where live pangolins were being stored for trade. “We are working with local teams to identify and arrest more persons to nip this illegal trade in the bud,” he said. Meanwhile, in another incident from Karad, a dead Indian crested porcupine (schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972) was recovered from a flat and one person was arrested,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/authorities-bust-pangolin-smuggling-racket-in-satara-6-arrested/story-gY4VstOGe4GCV386hBP1TM.html
30-08-2020||India||Over 3 million tested in Bihar for Covid-19, recovery rate climbs 87%||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,35,013 on Sunday with the addition of 2,078 new cases while the death toll mounted to 688 with nine more casualties, the health department said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, the total number of tests for Covid-19 has crossed the 3 million mark.The recovery rate also climbed to 86.88%, which was more than 10% than the national average, said information and public relations secretary, Anupam Kumar. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the past 24 hours 1,07,730 tests were conducted out of which 2,078 tested positive. “In past 24 hours, 2,231 patients have recovered, taking the total count of people who recuperated from the disease to 1,17,305,” he said, adding there were 19,259 active cases in Bihar. So far 30,97,137 tests have been conducted in the state, he said. Also read: Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministryPatna still remains a hotspot with detection of 253 cases on Sunday and pushing the tally to 20,889. Muzaffarpur has the second highest number of cases at 5,879, followed by 5,409 in Bhagalpur. Among the latest casualties was a 12-year-old boy who became one of the youngest victims of Covid-19. Five patients died in Patna, two in Begusarai and one each in Nalanda and Sitamarhi, the health bulletin said. The child and a 78-year old person died at AIIMS-Patna, said its nodal officer, Dr Sanjeev Kumar. While on the day 15 patients were admitted, 17 were discharged. No death was reported from NMCH, said its nodal officer, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. The flow of patients in NMCH has drastically fallen. On Sunday, just nine positive patients were admitted while seven discharged. Dr Singh said 410 beds were available in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-million-tested-in-bihar-for-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-87/story-w6RjKiwuqmUD0F8aAeG06H.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inauguration and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inaugurationWork on the long-delayed strategic all-weather Atal Rohtang Tunnel that will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh throughout the year has been completed and will be ready for inauguration in two weeks, officials aware of the development said.Read more. Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministryIndia reported around 78,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, as the number of active viral infection cases climbed to 7,65,302 until Saturday night, according to the data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).Read more. Lucknow double murder: Scribbled notes, scary pictures puzzle police probing casePolice in Lucknow, probing the killing of an Indian Railway officer’s wife and teenage son on Saturday allegedly by his 14-year-old daughter, are puzzled by scribbled notes in her notebook, plastic skulls, scary pictures and a sad emoji drawn on her bedroom wall, officials privy to the investigation said on Sunday.Read more. Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till September 30 amid coronavirus outbreakState-wide lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended till September 30, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Sunday. In the fresh guidelines for the lockdown, all places of worship, hotels and resorts are allowed to re-open. As of Sunday, Tamil Nadu has 52,726 active cases taking the cumulative tally to 3,55,727.Read more. ‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailerCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced a new series of videos to talk about the Centre’s handling of the Indian economy after attacking the government over the border standoff with China in July.Read more. Watch: PM Modi hails Army dogs who sniff out bombs, says adopt Indian breedsPrime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the contribution of canine units in national security and disaster response. He began with invoking the work of Vida and Sophie, two dogs who were recently felicitated with the Chief of Army Staff Commendation Cards. Vida, a labrador deployed with the canine unit at Army’s Northern Command, has helped find 5 mines and 1 grenade buried underground. Read more. Disha Patani takes Kokilaben’s place in recreated ‘Rasode Mein Kaun Tha’ video as she grills her two dogs, watchDisha Patani has shared her own version of the Rasode Mein Kaun Tha viral video. While the actor plays Kokilaben, her two dogs play Gopi and Rashi in the hilarious video.Read more. ‘Back to Hogwarts’: Potterheads get robes and wands ready as ‘classes’ resume in wizarding worldSeptember 1 is a momentous day in the Wizarding World, as it marks the day that Hogwarts students return to school for the new term and this year, you can be among the students boarding the Hogwarts Express.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-strategic-atal-rohtang-tunnel-ready-for-inauguration-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5fM69rCagSWaKJeGeTgtIK.html
30-08-2020||India||Increased testing, opening economy, complacency among people behind Covid-19 case surge: Experts||The surge in coronavirus infections in India can be attributed to increased testing on one hand and opening of the economy on the other accompanied by complacency among people towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour, experts have said, as the country witnessed over five lakh cases in a week.A record single-day spike of 78,761 cases took India’s Covid-19 tally to 35,42,733, on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am. The country has been registering over 70,000 cases for the last four days.Dr Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said this increase in cases was expected but pointed out that it is not a homogenous phenomenon across the states.“It is happening in some pockets and among groups where there is an intermixing of the susceptible population and asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases which is leading to a transmission of the disease. So, efforts have to be made to interrupt this transmission in these pockets,” Dr Panda said.Also, testing has been ramped up exponentially which is leading to more number of cases getting detected, he said.“Further, with the opening up of the economy and people’s movement increasing, some complacency is being seen among people towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour which is also contributing to the rise in cases,” Panda said as he stressed on the need for a sustained Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Leading virologist Shahid Jameel said that people are not following advisories on wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. “This is driven by a complacency that results from the official narrative which only talks of increasing recovery and low death rate. The fact is that we are producing the largest daily numbers. We are now third in total infections and going to be on the third spot on total deaths as well,” he said.Experts underlined that the way forward is for the people to follow Covid-appropriate which includes wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette in a sustained manner while the government should focus on preventing deaths. Dr K K Aggarwal, the president of the Confederation of Medical Association of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) and former IMA chief said, “There is no way the number of cases can be checked by government efforts at this stage.” He stressed that prevention will have to be at an individual level now.“If this current trend continues, nobody can stop India from crossing Brazil and America (in the number of cases). That would happen in probably six weeks. There is no way we can check the number of cases by government efforts. Now, prevention will have to be an individual effort.“Opening up (of the economy) will lead to a surge in cases. The locking period was to prepare and sensitise people about how to prevent themselves from getting infected. What is more important now is to put a check on mortality. So government efforts should focus on mortality reduction,” Aggarwal said.India has till Sunday recorded 63,498 fatalities linked to Covid-19 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data.According to sources in the government, a record 10.5 lakh tests were conducted for detection of Covid-19 on Saturday, which took India’s cumulative tests to 4,14,61,636. India’s Covid-19 positivity rate as on date in 7.50 per cent.The number of recoveries has surged to 27,13,933 pushing the recovery rate to 76.61 per cent while the fatality rate has declined to 1.79 per cent.The health ministry had on Saturday said, “The global comparison depicted that India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 and 107.2 respectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-testing-opening-economy-complacency-among-people-behind-covid-19-case-surge-experts/story-Qq5lXz1xFg11EXKe01M8GM.html
30-08-2020||India||J-K police DySP was tasked by Pak to establish ‘contact’ in MEA: NIA chargesheet||The suspended Deputy Superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Devender Singh, who has been chargesheeted by the NIA for providing support to banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen, was tasked by his Pakistani handler with establishing a “contact” in the Ministry of External Affairs for carrying out espionage activities.According to the chargesheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed before a special court in Jammu, Singh, who was posted in the sensitive anti-hijacking unit of Jammu and Kashmir police, had been in constant touch with his handlers in the Pakistan High Commission who have since been repatriated to Islamabad.The 3,064-page chargesheet, filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code against Singh and five others, gave a graphical description of the police officer’s involvement in providing shelter to the terrorists of the banned group.The chargesheet said he had saved the number of his contact at the Pakistan High Commission as ‘Pak Bhai’ (Pakistani brother). The contact had been giving him various tasks which included deployment of forces and arrival of “VIPs” in the Kashmir valley.After having committed himself to Hizbul Mujahideen, Singh was asked to establish a contact in the Ministry of External Affairs by his Pakistani handler so that espionage activities could be carried out there.However, Singh was unable to make any headway into the nefarious plan of the Pakistani embassy officials, the NIA officials said.The chargesheet, filed in the first week of July, has accused Singh and others of allegedly waging “war against India” with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and members of the country’s high commission in Delhi.Besides Singh, others named in the chargesheet are self-styled commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, his brother Syed Irfan Ahmad as well as the group’s alleged overground worker Irfan Shafi Mir, alleged accomplice Rafi Ahmad Rather and businessman Tanveer Ahmad Wani, former president of the Line of Control Traders Association.Detailing the conspiracy, the NIA alleged that Deputy Superintendent of Police Singh, who is in a jail here, was “in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information”. The central agency said in the chargesheet that the probe in the case has brought “on record that the Pakistani establishment has been devising all possible ways and means to fund, arm and sustain the terrorist activities of the banned terrorist organization Hizbul Mujahideen”.Singh was arrested on January 11 this year along with Naveed Babu, Rather and Mir, an advocate, when their car was intercepted by Jammu and Kashmir police near Qazigund on the national highway connecting the Valley with the rest of the country.A search of the vehicle led to the recovery of an AK-47 rifle, three pistols and a cache of ammunition and explosives. The NIA took over the case on January 17.The investigation found that Singh, in an apparent bid to shield Naveed Babu, had shifted him along with the advocate to Jammu and arranged safe shelter for them in the city in February last year.Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons, the NIA alleged.Investigations show that the accused were obtaining weapons and ammunition from across the border with the help of arms smugglers and Singh. These weapons were later used for terrorist activities, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-dysp-was-tasked-by-pak-to-establish-contact-in-mea-nia-chargesheet/story-8AtdujTdk7Ls2tq42lpGsM.html
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 case fatality dips to 1.79%, active cases cross 765,000 in India: Health ministry||India reported around 78,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, as the number of active viral infection cases climbed to 7,65,302 until Saturday night, according to the data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).With 65,000 recoveries, 77% people diagnosed with Covid-19 have recovered from their viral infection during the same period. So far, 2.7 million Indians have recovered from their viral infection.Maharashtra is still the epicentre of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, as it reported 16,286 new cases on Saturday. While Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Karnataka reported 10,548 and 8,324 new Covid-19 cases, respectively, the data collated by HT showed. The Centre has credited the effective implementation of its testing, tracking and treating policy for the high recovery of Covid-19 cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.India has been focussing on increasing the daily testing of swab samples. Around 1.5 million swab samples being tested in the last 24 hours. Tracking and timely surveillance of close contacts and effectively treating those with the viral infection through widening medical infrastructure has increased the recovery rate, the ministry said. The ministry has attributed the low case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.79% until Saturday to the effective and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases. In a meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoMs) on Saturday, Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan said that India has been able to keep the CFR much lower than many countries, despite resource constraints. On average, 3.42% of the patients diagnosed with Covid-19 died across the world. The CFR in the United Kingdom (UK) and Mexico is 12.55% and 10.79%, respectively, he pointed out. “It was noted that despite the resource constraints and being densely populated, timely lockdown restrictions and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have helped to keep the Covid-19 case per million and deaths per million considerably lower, as compared to other countries,” the minister tweeted. The minister said that only 2.88% of the active Covid-19 cases were on oxygen, 1.93% in the intensive care units (ICUs) and 0.29% on ventilator support. Almost 81% of the Covid-19-related deaths have been reported from seven states such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, AP, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the minister said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-fatality-dips-to-1-79-active-cases-cross-765-000-in-india-health-ministry/story-LUxIizUZtkR6QzGl6Uh5dP.html
30-08-2020||India||Lucknow double murder: Scribbled notes, scary pictures puzzle police probing case||Police in Lucknow, probing the killing of an Indian Railway officer’s wife and teenage son on Saturday allegedly by his 14-year-old daughter, are puzzled by scribbled notes in her notebook, plastic skulls, scary pictures and a sad emoji drawn on her bedroom wall, officials privy to the investigation said on Sunday.Her ‘unpredictable behaviour’ too perplexed the police, the officials added.Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey said it was important to consult a psychologist about the girl’s behaviour to understand the crime.ALSO WATCH | Daughter of senior railway officer killed mother, brother in Lucknow, say cops“We would mention in the judicial proceedings (the need) to consult a psychologist as her father had also admitted before me that she was in depression and her behaviour was not normal,” Pandey said.The police commissioner said the girl wrote ‘disqualified human’, on the washroom mirror and similar words were scribbled in her notebook.“The writing was not very clear, so it took time to understand it. We compared the scribbled notes with the handwriting in the girl’s other notebooks that matched hers,” he said.“We will seek the opinion of forensic experts on these points,” he said.Pandey said a dedicated team had been constituted to contact the girl’s class mates, friends and teachers, who could reveal more about her behaviour. A police team also spoke to the girl’s close relatives to know about her but nothing very conclusive emerged, he added.The commissioner said the initial findings suggested that she was a meritorious student and actively participated in sports like shooting from a very early age. She was a trained shooter, he said, adding that the.22 bore weapon used in the crime had already been recovered and it was registered in her father’s name. He said a similar bore weapon was often used by shooters and the girl was trained to use it.On Saturday, the girl allegedly shot dead her mother and elder brother while they were sleeping in their room at a bungalow under the city’s Gautampalli police station limits.The victims’ relatives told reporters that it was the railway official’s birthday on Sunday and his wife and son had planned to celebrate the occasion.The bodies of the two victims were cremated at Baikunth Dham crematorium on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scribbled-notes-scary-pictures-puzzle-cops-probing-murder-of-rly-officer-s-wife-son/story-EY1MmVVZFJYiyfsIOMCifO.html
30-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel to go in isolation after 2 staff members test Covid-19 positive||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said he will go in isolation for the next four days as a precautionary measure after two of his staff members, including a personal security officer, tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister has tested coronavirus negative.“My OSD (Officer on Special Duty) and PSO (Personal Security Officer) have found corona positive. My (test) report is negative at the moment, but I will be in isolation for the next four days as a precautionary measure. This is a period of crisis, everyone please be careful,” CM Baghel tweeted.Chhattisgarh on Saturday recorded 1,157 new coronavirus cases and eight fatalities, taking the count to 28,390 and death toll to 262.The state has 12,313 active cases at present, and as many as 15,818 people have recovered from the disease. As per Saturday’s tally, worst-hit Raipur district reported 630 new cases which took the total case tally in the district to 10,078.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-to-go-in-isolation-after-2-staff-members-test-covid-19-positive/story-EM32DyRZW6jrifJ5ylzNPI.html
30-08-2020||India||Karnataka CM flags off first ever RORO train between Bengaluru and Maharashtra’s Solapur||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday flagged off first-ever Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) train between Bengaluru (Nelamangala) and Solapur in Maharashtra through video-conferencing.Yediyurappa said RORO is a hassle-free and environment-friendly service.“Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) service is hassle-free, reduces accidents on the road, is environment friendly, and presents a win-win situation to truck operators and industries. Happy to flag the maiden RORO train service between Bengaluru and Solapur. My best wishes to all stakeholders,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet.South Western Railway in a tweet said, “Hon’ble MoSR while addressing said that it is dream of Hon’ble PM to extend multimodal connectivity that will boost trade, reduce travel time.”Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, state revenue minister R Ashoka and senior railway officials were present during the event.A RORO train has wagons on which trucks and other vehicles with goods can be loaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-flags-off-first-ever-roro-train-between-bengaluru-and-maharashtra-s-solapur/story-raUwKyOzePYbvBGRF1SyGI.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM meets DRDO chairman, discusses plans of promoting defence sector in region||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday met Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy at his residence in Dehradun. During the meeting, the two discussed the possibilities of promoting the defence industry in the state after the recent restriction by the Centre on the import of 101 defence items. They also discussed about taking the help of DRDO in developing state-based industries and in agricultural activities in the border villages of the state. During the meeting, CM Rawat discussed the matter regarding providing training and internship to the state’s engineering students in DRDO establishments in Dehradun and other places. to which Dr Reddy gave his approval. The DRDO has one of its defence laboratories named Instruments Research & Development Establishment (IRDE) in Dehradun. In July this year, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S Deswal met CM Rawat and raised issues related to roads, mobile and power connectivity, land for housing ITBP personnel and the promotion of tourism in remote and border areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-meets-drdo-chairman-discusses-plans-of-promoting-defence-sector-in-region/story-LWkpyfplPs4GVqaF5Pip4H.html
30-08-2020||India||BSF to lodge protest with Pakistan Rangers, show photographic evidence of tunnel||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday said that it would soon lodge a strong protest with Pakistan Rangers with photographic evidence of a trans-border tunnel. On Saturday, the BSF detected the trans-border tunnel originating in Pakistan and entering India through Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector.“The BSF will soon lodge a formal protest with Pakistan Rangers with pictorial evidence along with a written note,” said BSF Jammu Frontier Inspector General, NS Jamwal. He said that the trans-border tunnel that originated in Pakistan was being dug from about 500 yards of the Rangers’ Afzal post.“It would not have been possible for the rogue elements to dig the tunnel without their (Rangers) knowledge, approval and guidance,” said JamwalHowever, Pakistan Rangers remain in denial mode to any such activity whenever detected and conveyed to them, he added. The BSF IG also informed that there were no tell-tale signs, which could suggest successful infiltration.“The markings on sand bags to reinforce the mouth of the tunnel had recent dates of August 18 and 20. So, it was a fresh activity, which has been detected well in time.”Around 10 plastic sandbags, which had ‘Karachi and Shakargarh’ written on them have been recovered from the opening of the tunnel. The bags have a manufacturing and expiry date printed on them. The tunnel’s opening was around 170 meters from the international border. It opened into a farmer’s field.In September last year, the BSF had launched a massive operation along the International Border (IB) with Pakistan to detect underground cross-border tunnels The BSF also uses ground penetrating radars to detect tunnels. In the past, infiltrators have attempted digging underground tunnels in Hiranagar, Samba, RS Pura, Pallanwala and Munawar Tawi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-to-lodge-protest-with-pakistan-rangers-show-photographic-evidence-of-tunnel/story-ef60WI47hfG4axn8Xp9svK.html
30-08-2020||India||Toy cluster at Koppala can generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||India’s ‘first toy manufacturing cluster’ to come up at Koppal has the potential to create 40,000 jobs in five years and attract over Rs 5,000 crore investment, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said here on Sunday.“In line with PM @narendramodi ‘s vision of #VocalForLocal & boosting toy manufacturing, Koppala will have India’s first toy manufacturing cluster.With the eco-system to support toy cluster in place, this 400 acres SEZ will have top-class infra & generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years,” Yediyurappa tweeted.The tweet by the chief minister came following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme, pitching India to become the world’s toy hub.Modi on Sunday said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being “vocal about local toys”. He said the global toy industry is over Rs seven lakh crore, but India’s share was very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it.The Karnataka government is inviting global toy makers to the “first of its kind” toy manufacturing cluster in India at Koppala and had recently held a webinar cum panel discussion with a panel of leading toys manufacturers.Karnataka is poised to emerge as a leading toy-making cluster in the country due to the robust ecosystem the state has created to support toy making industries, the state government had recently said.It said, the state has supported and nurtured the setting up of Tool Manufacturing & precision engineering (TMTP), polymers manufacturing clusters Bengaluru, Dharwad, Tumkuru and Mysuru, robust design capacity and testing certification agencies in Bengaluru, Dharwad and Koppal and GTTC (Government Tool Room & Training Centre).With such a dedicated push by the government towards toy manufacturing, the state’s toy industry has grown at a CAGR of 18 per cent (2010-17) and is expected to reach USD 310 million by 2023, it added.Karnataka is the third-largest market for toys in India (USD 159 million) 9.1 per cent of the national market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toy-cluster-at-koppala-can-generate-40-000-jobs-in-5-yrs-cm/story-7IDmItj0GpF23SxZjso1UP.html
30-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till September 30 amid coronavirus outbreak||State-wide lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended till September 30, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Sunday. In the fresh guidelines for the lockdown, all places of worship, hotels and resorts are allowed to re-open. People can travel across Tamil Nadu without e-pass and public and private bus transport within districts shall resume, the new lockdown guidelines state. Shopping malls, show rooms and big formal stores can open with 100 per cent staff but cinema halls cannot function yet, the chief minister said. Complying with the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, Tamil Nadu government will allow the Chennai Metro to resume from September 7. Measures like prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPc, closure of educational institutions and restrictions in containment zones without any relaxations, have been extended till September 30. As of Sunday, Tamil Nadu has 52,726 active cases taking the cumulative tally to 3,55,727. The extension of lockdown in the state - third worst-hit in India - comes on the day when death toll mounted to 7,137. Tamil Nadu is among the seven states -- Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, according to the health ministry.India on Sunday recorded 78,761 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data. This pushed the nationwide tally to 3,542,733.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-september-30-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-V3XP8EqQvpRvy23g3W5AOO.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP killing democracy using money power, investigative agencies: Ajay Maken||The Congress’ Rajasthan in-charge and national general secretary Ajay Maken hit out at the BJP on Sunday, accusing it of “killing democracy” using “money power and misusing investigative agencies”.During his first visit to Rajasthan after he was appointed the party’s Rajasthan in-charge, Maken addressed party workers in Alwar district’s Shahjahapur and alleged that the BJP “killed democracy” in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Manipur.But when they tried doing so in Rajasthan, they faced defeat, he said.“Across the country, they (BJP) killed democracy by using money power and misusing the CBI and ED. The braves of Rajasthan... at least 102 MLAs have proved that no matter how much money is offered or pressure is mounted, we will not bend. We will protect the democracy, the way Congress fought with British and got freedom,” Maken said.The senior Congress leader, however, warned that “there would be more such attack on democracy” in the days to come. “We have to be prepared for them and by no chance should allow democracy to be defeated in Rajasthan,” he said.Maken is also the member of a three-member central panel set up by the Congress to address issues of disgruntled MLAs including Sachin Pilot. The panel would help evolve a mechanism to ensure better coordination between the government and the party in Rajasthan as well as among all factions.During his visit to Rajasthan, Maken would hear out senior leaders, office bearers of the party’s state unit, former and present legislators and ex-MPs. The aim of the visit is to strengthen and reorganise the party at block and district levels.On Monday, Maken is scheduled to meet leaders and workers of Jaipur division at state party office. Such meetings will continue for the next two days in Ajmer and Kota, in which about 50-60 leaders of every district would attend, Congress leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-killing-democracy-using-money-power-investigative-agencies-ajay-maken/story-RjMMJfqzAIYq9LTqwVrXsL.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 76.61%, case fatality rate dips to 1.79%: Govt||The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has crossed 2.7 million, pushing the country’s recovery rate to 76.61% while the case fatality rate has come down to 1.79%, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.On a day when India posted 78,761 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily spike in the world, recoveries from the infection also rose to 2,713,933 keeping the hope up.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The ministry underlined that of the total 3,542,733 confirmed cases in the country, 765,302 are active, implying that the active cases comprise only 21.60% of the total caseload. The number of recoveries exceeds the active cases by 3.55 times, it added.The Centre credited effective implementation of its policy of “testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively through timely surveillance of close contacts and treating effectively through a widening medical care infrastructure across the country” for the rising number of recoveries. “With the recovery of 64,935 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Recovery Rate amongst the COVID-19 patients has improved to 76.61% and is demonstrating a continuous progress. The number of patients recovering is on a steady rise over the past several months,” it said.The recovery rate was 7.69% on April 5. It improved to 26.59% on May 3 and 47.76% on May 31. It was recorded at 60.77% on July 5 and has now gone up to 76.61%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Even as the death toll from the viral disease has climbed to 63,498, the case fatality rate is on a downward slope. “Timely and effective clinical management of the patients in critical care through a slew of holistic measures has been instrumental in keeping the case fatality rate low and on a steady downward trajectory. It has further dipped to 1.79 per cent today,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-at-76-61-case-fatality-rate-dips-to-1-79-govt/story-FpRgH2pPXNNclDB3CWMiFI.html
30-08-2020||India||‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailer||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday announced a new series of videos to talk about the Centre’s handling of the Indian economy after attacking the government over the border standoff with China in July.Gandhi released the promo of his upcoming video series ‘Arthvyavastha Ki Baat, Rahul Gandhi ke saath’ (A Talk About The Economy with Rahul Gandhi). He said the video series will be available on Monday at 10am.Watch my video series on how the Modi Govt has destroyed Indian economy.First video tomorrow at 10am on all my social media channels.देखिए मेरी वीडियो श्रृंखला कि मोदी सरकार ने भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था को कैसे नष्ट किया।मेरे सभी सोशल मीडिया चैनलों पर पहला वीडियो कल सुबह 10 बजे। pic.twitter.com/AZBhObLxopAlso read | In Rahul Gandhi’s latest video, a message to PM on China and ‘national vision’“The BJP government has attacked the unorganised economy. I can give you three examples right now - demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown,” he said in the promo in Hindi.Gandhi had previously attacked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the country’s border row with China in the Galwan Valley. In several videos, Gandhi talked about India’s ties with China after the brutal Galwan Valley faceoff in June when 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-modi-govt-destroyed-indian-economy-rahul-gandhi-s-new-video-series-trailer/story-36oRJ9bOUCv5vjt06ZW5xO.html
30-08-2020||India||Rape accused Uttarakhand BJP MLA seeks narco analysis, woman insists on DNA test||Amid the ongoing probe in the case involving BJP MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused of rape and fathering a child by a woman, the lawmaker and his wife have asked police to conduct narco test on him and the woman to ‘reveal truth’. Negi’s wife Rita Negi who had earlier accused the woman of allegedly blackmailing and trying to extort Rs 5 crore from Negi by threatening to frame him in false case, wrote to the police for a narco test, circle officer (CO) Sadar, Anuj Kumar who is investigating the case.Negi said he has requested the police for the narco test because it will reveal everything about all those who are involved in this conspiracy against him and planning to extort Rs 5 crore. “It is a very big conspiracy and many people are involved in it, hence it is important that a narco test is held”, he said. Confirming the development, Anuj Kumar said, “The MLA’s wife Rita Negi had given the letter to us two days ago, requesting a narco test on both Negi and the woman.” “In the letter, she also stated that the MLA will bear the cost of the test. We are, however, looking for legal options and probing the matter,” said Kumar. On Saturday morning in a series of four videos, the woman accused Negi of ‘manipulating police to influence the probe with the request for a narco test. She said, “I have been demanding a DNA test of Negi and my daughter to prove my allegations. Nothing is being done on that and now he is requesting a narco test.” “Why is he doing that? He should agree for a DNA test as it will reveal the truth and not the narco test,” she said. The woman also refused to undergo ‘any sort of tests with Negi’ and alleged that Negi is trying to twist the case with his ‘dragnet of words’. “I will not undergo any type of test with Negi. He is trying to trap me in his dragnet of words. He shouldn’t manipulate the probe. He should undergo the DNA test to let the truth come out. He knows very well that my daughter is his blood then I don’t know why he is not ready to give his name to her,” said the woman. On the allegations of Negi that Congress is conspiring against him with the woman, she said, “No third party is involved in this or behind me. I am all alone in this fight. In the last two years during sexually harassing me, he had forced me to keep mum by threatening me, but not anymore.” In the videos, she also accused the police and administration of working under ‘pressure of the ruling party of which Negi is the MLA.’ “There are two different types of treatments in the state; one for the common man and another for VIPs like Negi. This has been proved in this matter where police is not taking any action against Negi. My daughter’s and my lives are under threat from Negi and his associates,” she said. On the woman’s demand of DNA test and allegations of manipulating the police probe, Mahesh Negi said, “I have never refused any test and am ready for both DNA and narco. As far as the allegations of influencing the probe is concerned, they are all baseless. Police are investigating it on their own and will reveal the truth soon.” The police also rubbished the woman’s claim that they were working under pressure.“We are not working under any pressure. We are probing the whole matter unbiasedly and fairly as per the law. We are questioning all the parties involved in it as per the requirements of the probe,” said CO Kumar. Earlier the police recorded the statements of the woman, her mother, Negi and his wife. It is yet to record the statements of the woman’s husband who too has been named in the blackmailing and extortion case registered on the complaint of Negi’s wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-accused-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-seeks-narco-analysis-woman-insists-on-dna-test/story-KnhNxPca0fahSO27d6b7zM.html
30-08-2020||India||Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inauguration||Work on the long-delayed strategic all-weather Atal Rohtang Tunnel that will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh throughout the year has been completed and will be ready for inauguration in two weeks, officials aware of the development said. The tunnel is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September. The strategic tunnel which is nearing completion, is a step in the direction of providing all weather connectivity to remote border areas of Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, which otherwise remained cut off from the rest of the country for about six months during winters. The tunnel is also significant from a military logistics point of view and will provide better connectivity to the armed forces in reaching Ladakh.ALSO READ | 8.8 km long, 3,000 metre above sea: Know everything about Atal TunnelOn completion, it is set to become the world’s longest road tunnel at an altitude above 3,000 metres. The Rohtang Tunnel is being constructed in the Pir Panjal ranges of Himachal Pradesh, since the Manali-Sarchu-Leh road remains closed for nearly six months in a year due to the Rohtang Pass being completely snow clad between November and April. Upon completion, the all-weather tunnel will connect Manali to Lahaul and Spiti valley throughout the year and will reduce the road length of the Manali-Rohtang Pass-Sarchu-Leh road by 46 km. The Rohtang Tunnel was rechristened Atal Tunnel by the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December last year. The decision to construct a strategic tunnel below the Rohtang Pass was taken by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2000.In 2002, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee declared the construction of Rohtang Tunnel and laid the foundation of the approach road to the tunnel. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) engaged RITES in March 2002 to undertake feasibility studies. The 8.8-kilometre long tunnel is the world’s longest tunnel above an altitude of 3,000 metres. It will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kilometres and reduce travel time by 4.5 hours. It is a 10.5-metre wide single tube bi-lane tunnel with a fire proof emergency ‘escape tunnel’ built into the main tunnel itself. On September 24, 2009, a contract was awarded to Strabag-Afcons Joint Venture (SAJV) for the tunnel’s construction. Construction for the project finally began in 2010, in the presence of then UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. The long-delayed tunnel has, however, gone through tough challenges for construction owing to the geographical location and difficult topographic profile of the region. The delays to due tough weather conditions also escalated the cost of the project from Rs 1,458 crore to around Rs 2,500 crore.“The Atal Rohtang Tunnel will be ready for inauguration purpose in the next two weeks…It has been the most challenging project in terms of construction due to geographic conditions, weather and multiple hazards faced during the construction. We have faced multiple avalanches. In 2013, the tunnel collapsed at the north portal. In 2014, we had to evacuate the site in a hurry due to sudden harsh weather conditions… Army helicopters have had to be used to rescue nearly 100-150 workers. Full credit goes to Strabag-Afcons and the Border Road Organisation for their strict safety regulations and hawk-like vigil in the tunnel construction that was able to ensure the tunnel was constructed without any fatality in the project,” Satish Paretkar, Director, Hydro and Underground division, Afcons said. Since there were multiple avalanche zones at both the portals the workforce were also given GPS trackers that could track their location and send a signal to the control room in case anyone was stuck or hit by any avalanche. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and the contractors had to deal with major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah Fault Zone. The so-called breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017. “The biggest challenge we faced was due to the Seri Nalla Zone that took us almost four years to excavate 041 km of the zone. At the Seri Nalla Zone in the south portal, we dealt with constant collapse of the tunnel’s face. The zone threw up extremely fractured and pulverized rock and very poor geological conditions. We experienced huge water ingress of up to 127 litres per second. When you have so much water from a top glacier lake it becomes impossible to continue. We could not trace the glacier’s source, and had we not found the solution Rohtang would not have been possible,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-strategic-atal-rohtang-tunnel-ready-for-inauguration/story-Zp8qCpIo92d9zVPzoHmcUN.html
30-08-2020||India||JD (U) makes seat swap offer to BJP for Jharkhand assembly bypolls||The Jharkhand unit of the Janata Dal (United) on Sunday offered a seat swapping formula for the bypolls to Dumka and Bermo assembly seats in the state to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). JD-U also claimed that this would pave the way for reorganization and revamping the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Jharkhand and also enable it to win the upcoming Bihar assembly elections easily.The two parties do not have an alliance in Jharkhand. JD (U)’s Jharkhand unit president Salkhan Murmu said the offer was being made in the wake of reports of former Jharkhand chief minister Babulal Marandi’s reluctance to fight from Dumka assembly seat, which fell vacant as incumbent CM Hemant Soren kept the Barhait seat while vacating the Dumka seat.He said reports suggested that BJP central leadership has sent feelers to Marandi for fielding him from Dumka, which he had earlier won in 1996 defeating JMM stalwart Sibu Soren. This is a plan ‘B’ to counter the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition by keeping the post of the leader of opposition for Marandi pending despite BJP being the largest political party in the state assembly. This even after Election Commission’s ruling the merger of Marandi’s JVM-P’s with the BJP as valid.State assembly speaker Ravindra Nath Mahato, however, has been weighing the merger under anti-defection law and is yet to pronounce his verdict despite repeated demands by the BJP. The BJP is still without a legislative party leader and the assembly without leader of the opposition. The BJP felt Babulal Marandi winning from Dunka on its ticket would help break the deadlock.“As far our information, Babulal Marndi is not very keen to fight from Dumka and the BJP seems not much confident of Louis Marandi as a second choice. Hence, JD-U proposes to support Babulal Marandi if he fights from Dumka and if he does not, JD-U is keen to fight from the seat. In such a case, BJP may fight from Bermo and if Babulal fights from Dumka, then JD-U can settle for Bermo,” Salkhan Murmu said.CM Soren had vacated Dumka seat in January this year while Bermo seat fell vacant after death of Congress MLA Rajendra Singh in May this year. The bypolls are pending amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Murmu, a former BJP MP from Mayurbhanj said he had talked and got the approval for a proposal of 50:50 seat sharing between the JD(U) and the BJP for the bypolls and rural and urban body polls in future from the JD(U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and party in-charge of Jharkhand Arun Kumar Singh.“We strongly feel this will have a positive impact in Bihar assembly polls also and will give NDA alliance an upper hand in the upcoming panchayat and urban body elections in Jharkhand. This is just the right time as the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance is already losing ground with its complete failure in dealing with Covid-19 pandemic and it’s dithering on its electoral promises,” said Salkhan. Jharkhand’s BJP president Deepak Prakash said the seat swap proposal was Salkhan Mumru’s personal view and it was also premature. “Let the bypolls be declared. We will discuss the matter and decide within the party forum at the state level and with the Central leadership at the right time. BJP named Babulal as our leader of the legislative party long ago, but the ruling dispensation is trying every trick to deny him the rightful status. We have even sought the Governor’s intervention,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-makes-seat-swap-offer-to-bjp-for-jharkhand-assembly-bypolls/story-WzK0N0EHmlprqmILo6JfYO.html
30-08-2020||India||India, France in talks for Mission Alpha-like equipment for Gaganyaan astronauts||Space agencies of India and France are in an advanced stage of discussions for providing necessary equipment to ‘Gaganyaan’ astronauts, similar to the one to be used by French astronaut Thomas Pesquet for Mission Alpha next year, officials said.A senior official of the National Centre for Space Studies (CNES), the space agency of France, said work on the equipment for Mission Alpha is on.French astronaut Thomas Pesquet, as part of the European Space Agency (ESA), will be returning to the International Space Station (ISS) while flying on Crew Dragon spacecraft early next year.“Discussions are in the final stage. An announcement is likely to be made soon. Work on the instrumentation for Mission Alpha is on,” the CNES official said without elaborating on the details of the equipment.India and France share a robust collaboration in the area of space. Space agencies of the two countries are also collaborating on nearly Rs 10,000 crore Gaganyaan mission that aims to send three Indians to space by 2022.Last year, flight surgeon Brigitte Godard, then with the CNES, was in India to train physicians and engineers.France has a well-established mechanism for space medicine. It also has the MEDES (French Institute of Space Medicine and Physiology) space clinic, a subsidiary of CNES, where space surgeons undergo training.“The Indian space surgeons will also go to France next year once the coronavirus situation eases,” an ISRO official said. He also did not comment on specific collaboration for supply of the equipment to Gaganyaan astronauts.Four short-listed Indian Air Force pilots and prospective astronauts for the Gagangyaan mission are currently undergoing training in Russia.Meanwhile, ‘Alpha’ was chosen as the name for Pesquet’s new mission after a competition organised by the European Space Agency in partnership with CNES that attracted more than 27,000 entries.The name came up 47 times in the entries received.Pesquet, who spent six months on ISS between November 2016 and June 2017, is currently training with Crew Dragon spacecraft and station simulators for Mission Alpha.To give Europe’s scientists an opportunity to gain access to ISS and to coordinate activities on the station, the ESA has established User Support and Operations Centres (USOC), of which the CADMOS centre for the development of microgravity applications and space operations at CNES’s Toulouse Space Centre is one, according to an official statement on Mission Alpha.For human space flights, CADMOS is the point of contact between the ground segments in Europe, the United States and Russia and the science teams supporting astronauts, as they perform experiments in real time, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-france-in-talks-for-mission-alpha-like-equipment-for-gaganyaan-astronauts/story-xbBBBD3HBzRkHDN4EvjfaL.html
30-08-2020||India||Over 1 lakh respond to Jharkhand CM’s Twitter poll on NEET-JEE exams||Over 1.7 lakh people have responded so far to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s call on Twitter, seeking students’ opinion on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Exams (JEE)-Main exams. More than 45,000 students are likely to participate in the upcoming exams across 40 centres in five cities.Chief minister Soren took to Twitter last night and posted a poll, calling students’ to share their opinion over the NEET-JEE exams which are scheduled in September amid the Covid-19 pandemic.ALSO WATCH | Explained: JEE-NEET exams amid Covid | What students must do; NTA rules“I want to particularly ask and seek feedback from all my young engineer and doctor friends. Will students face huge difficulties if #JEENEET exams are postponed?” Soren had tweeted. People responded to the CM’s call, which seeks vote on any of three options - ‘Yes, No and Don’t Know’. The voting will come to an end on Sunday late night.Also read: Flying to India for NEET amid Covid-19 risk stressful, impractical, say aspirants in Gulf nationsIn another tweet, the CM said, “Tonight I’m worried & tensed as India continues to report over 75,000 Covid-19 cases every single day. Yet our union education minister @DrRPNishank ji (Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank) is not even remotely concerned about safety & health concerns of lakhs of students made to write #JEENEET exams in September.”Earlier, the chief minister had written to the union education minister demanding postponement of the examinations.When the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya was asked if this exercise would help in postponing the exams, he said, “Let the exercise get completed. Thereafter, we will say on it.”Reacting on the development, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “This is actually unprecedented. A chief minister is holding a referendum on the Supreme Court’s earlier judgment. This is being conducted at a time when the state has filed a review petition in the Supreme Court and hearing of which is pending.”Shahdeo said, “I think the chief minister should put all his energy to conduct the examination smoothly and in a healthy manner instead of making a strategy to spoil students’ career.”The National Testing Authority, the nodal body to conduct the examinations, and the central government are supposed to hold JEE-Main and NEET between September 1 and 6 and on September 13, respectively. JEE-Main and NEET are for undergraduate engineering and medical aspirants, respectively. From Jharkhand, more than 45,000 students would appear for both the examinations. Around 23,000 students would write the JEE-Main, while 22,000 would appear for NEET examinations. The exams will be conducted at 40 centres spread across five cites-Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Hazaribag and Jamshedpur. Ranchi has a maximum of 25 centres. The district administrations of respective cities have begun preparations to conduct free and fair examinations. The administration officials in Ranchi said all Covid-19 protocol including mask, social distancing and sanitization would be followed strictly.In view of the examinations, the Jharkhand government has also allowed operation of intra-state bus service, hotel and restaurants from September 1 under the fourth phase of ‘unlock’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-respond-to-jharkhand-cm-s-twitter-poll-on-neet-jee-exams/story-XUPsMo8HA7oZ7MTmYuJCKN.html
30-08-2020||India||Police officer, 3 terrorists killed in night-long gunfight in Srinagar||A counterinsurgency police officer and three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists including a commander were killed in an overnight encounter in Srinagar that ended Sunday morning, police said.Officials said that Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of Special Operations Group of Police, Babu Ram was killed during the encounter with the terrorists which erupted on Saturday night at Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar.“During the exchange of fire we lost a brave and daring officer of our lead SOG team Babu Ram,” said J&K Director General of Police, Dilbag Singh.“He was an experienced member of our SOG team and had been involved in operations for a long time. We pay our tributes to this brave jawan,” he said.The DGP did not identify the three terrorists but said all were working for the LeT.“One of them was a commander who had been involved in terror activities for some time. He was active for the past one and a half years,” he said.The nightlong gunfight was triggered after the three terrorists attacked a checkpoint manned by police and CRPF at Pantha-Chokh late Saturday evening.The DGP said that the attackers, travelling on a bike, opened fire and attempted to snatch the rifles of the security personnel who were checking vehicles on the road.“The police and CRPF were alert and they not only foiled the attack but also chased the attackers who were forced to leave behind their bike and run away,” Singh said.The DGP said that the terrorists entered Dhobhi Mohalla in Pantha-Chokh and when the forces cordoned the area, the militants opened fire. “The forces retaliated in which one terrorist was killed initially,” he said.Babu Ram also lost his life in the shootout.The DGP said that the encounter continued till early morning and before going for the final push, the security forces attempted to convince the two terrorists to surrender.“We gave the terrorists a chance to surrender though we had lost one of our men,” he said.Parents of one of the terrorists were brought from the nearby Pampore area to convince them to come out from the house. “But the firing started again during which the other two terrorists were also killed,” Singh said.“Our alert forces not only averted a major tragedy but also succeeded in a major operation,” he said.To pay respects to the ASI Babu Ram a wreath laying ceremony was held at District Police Lines Srinagar where floral tributes were paid to the fallen policeman. R R Bhatnagar Advisor to the Lt Governor led the officers and other personnel in paying homage to the slain cop. This is the third encounter in the past three day which in which 10 terrorists and two security forces personnel including an army jawan have been killed.Three Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and a soldier were killed on Saturday in a gunfight in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police said Friday, four militants were killed in a joint encounter by the army and paramilitary forces in Shopian district of the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officer-3-militants-killed-in-night-long-gunfight-in-srinagar/story-e3MPEXPHH9EAGkEEQQr9HM.html
30-08-2020||India||2 minor boys beheaded in Bengal village for fishing in inundated paddy field||Beheaded bodies of two minor boys who have been missing since Friday were recovered on Sunday morning from the Kanthali area of Berhampore in Bengal’s Murshidabad district. Eight people were detained by the police for questioning while tension gripped the area. The families of the two boys have alleged that the crime was committed by some local youths who threatened the minors after they were found catching fish from an inundated field. According to the police, the murdered boys, Manjarul Sheikh, 15, and Tanjarul Sheikh, 16, were cousins. Their fathers work as labourers in Saudi Arabia. Since there was heavy rainfall in the region, lowlands and agricultural fields were inundated. On Friday morning, Manjarul and Tanjarul went to the Hijaler math area with a small boat to catch fish. They were not seen again. The families looked for the boys for two days. On Saturday, officers from Berhampore police station went to Kanthali after receiving a complaint but the boys could not be traced. A search operation was launched again on Sunday morning when the beheaded bodies were spotted near a bush. The severed heads were recovered about 40 meters away. Firoza Bibi, an aunt of the boys, said, “The fathers of the two boys work as labourers in Saudi Arabia. The boys were catching fish to financially help their families. Some local youths threatened them in connection with fishing at Hijaler math. We informed the police after we found their boat, fishing net, sandals and their clothes near Hijaler math.” “There are several stab injuries on the bodies,” said Firoza Bibi. A mob thrashed four local youths when police were taking them to the police station for questioning. Superintendent of Police, Murshidabad, K Sabari Rajkumar said, “We are investigating the murders. So far we have detained eight people for questioning. Raids are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-minor-boys-beheaded-in-bengal-village-for-fishing-in-inundated-paddy-field/story-XMOMzv43xq3M85c87M9M0I.html
30-08-2020||India||India has record single-day infections as coronavirus hits hinterland||India announced a record number of coronavirus infections for a single day as the world’s second-most populous nation becomes the latest epicenter of the pandemic that has already swept through Europe, the US and South America.As many 78,761 new cases were reported Sunday, according to data from the health ministry. The US had set the previous highest number for a single day at 77,638 on July 17, according to Agence-France Presse.From a former president to multiple ministers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet, the virus has spread further from India’s biggest cities to its vast hinterland, where most of the population lives and health infrastructure is mostly archaic. India has the most number of confirmed cases worldwide after the US and Brazil, while it’s fourth in the overall list of deceased.With one of the world’s fastest-growing epidemics but also one of the lowest testing rates, India in late June started to use quick antigen tests to ramp up detection. But the tests, which can report false negatives as much 50% of the time, threaten to obscure the true picture of its outbreak, further challenging containment efforts.Between 25%-30% of the country’s daily tests now are rapid antigen tests, Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told reporters at a briefing in New Delhi. It was the first time India’s premier research group had broken down the testing data -- the ICMR’s website still does not specify what type of tests are being done in its daily data.Despite the surge in recent weeks, India continues to ease the restrictions as the economy faces the biggest contraction in four decades. The government announced new re-opening steps on Aug. 29 that includes permitting metro rail services to resume in a graded manner from Sept. 7, and barring provinces from local lockdowns other than in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-record-single-day-infections-as-coronavirus-hits-hinterland/story-xbu5OCD8OHlYtDds5XworK.html
30-08-2020||India||Hundreds pledge help, donate cycles to get Mumbai’s dabbawalas back to work||Within a few hours after Hindustan Times reported about the plight of Mumbai’s dabbawalas and their appeal to the public to donate cycles, good samaritans on the internet instantly responded with help. Manish Mundra, who has produced films like ‘Masaan’ and ‘Newton’, pledged 100 cycles for the dabbawalas after reading the story. “Anybody in Mumbai can help me negotiate for 100 cycles for Mumbai Dabbawala association. They need Atlas double bar cycle for sturdiness. I am donating 100 cycles. Anybody else wanna donate or contribute for more ?’, he tweeted. Mundra’s appeal got a good response with nearly a 100 people volunteering to help the community. “Please count me in for 10 bicycles,” stated a Twitter user. Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala Association said he was flooded with phone calls. “So many people have come forward to help our dabbawalas. The community is really happy and is looking forward to start work now. Thanks to this, thousands of dabbawalas will now get help. We are all eager to start work soon and are now hoping to get permissions to ply on the trains too,” he added. Anybody in mumbai can help me negotiate for 100 cycles for Mumbai Dabbawala association. They need Atlas double bar cycle for sturdiness. I am donating 100 cycles. Anybody else wanna donate or contribute for more ? @lifeofapatrakar @samarmumbaikhan @Rajput_Ramesh @HTMumbai https://t.co/PLzyDKiQqYOn Saturday, Mumbai Dabbawala Association appealed to people to donate cycles to them as they could not afford to pay the maintenance costs of their rusted cycles which have been lying outside the stations for six months now. The association has been demanding the central government to start regular local trains or allow dabbawalas into the essential services category. They submitted a written request to that effect on Saturday. There are nearly 5,000 dabbawalas working in the city who deliver meals to people on a daily basis. Known for their timely and accurate food deliveries, Mumbai’s dabbawalas have been used as a case study in several management institutes. In 2003, when Prince Charles met a few members of the community, he lauded their work. Ever since, the dabbawalas have always been in the limelight. With the growing uncertainty around the nature of work and the utility of tiffins in future, the community is now clueless about what the future holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-pledge-help-donate-cycles-to-get-mumbai-s-dabbawalas-back-to-work/story-XiKUNnrfxqeJlOug3eZ9mK.html
30-08-2020||India||Apps developed under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat app challenge’ get praise from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat on Sunday highlighted the innovation potential of the country’s youth by drawing attention to the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology’s (Meity) Atmanirbhar application (app) challenge that aims to showcase that India could become a self-reliant nation. “Dear countrymen, everyone acknowledges the capability of Indians to offer innovation and solutions. When there is dedication and sensitivity, this power becomes limitless. At the beginning of this month (August) an app innovation challenge was put before the country’s youth,” said PM Modi. “Under #AtmaNirbharBharat App innovation challenge, there is the KutukiKids learning app. This is an interactive app for children that teaches several aspects such as mathematics and science through songs and stories,” he added. Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushThe challenge was launched by Meity to find an alternative to the Chinese apps that were banned by the Modi government after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops on June 15. The applications securing the first, second and third positions will get a cash reward of Rs20 lakh, Rs15 lakh and Rs10 lakh, respectively.Meity has been launching successive challenges in a bid to promote the Modi government’s flagship scheme, Make in India. The most recent challenge to be launched is Chunauti, which aims to identify 300 start-ups and funnel over Rs 95 crore to boost software products in the country. Chunauti focuses on Tier-II towns. Each selected start-up will be provided Rs25 lakh as seed funding along with other facilities. “I urge the young, talented innovators of India to come forward and avail the benefits of the Chunauti challenge and create new software products,” said minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who heads the ministry..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apps-developed-under-atmanirbhar-bharat-app-challenge-get-praise-from-pm-modi/story-DYBkVZfgKdbnVyDqKlJVEN.html
30-08-2020||India||Will ensure people maintain social distance on Delhi Metro: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday the government will ensure commuters follow all safety norms to reduce the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when the services of Delhi Metro resume next month in the Capital.Welcoming the lifting of restrictions by the Centre on Metro rail services, Gahlot said the move will bring relief to commuters.Also read | Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should know“We will ensure that social distancing is maintained in the Metros. Thermal screening of passengers will be done at the entry. No tokens will be issued, smart cards and other digital methods of payment will be used,” Gahlot told news agency ANI.“I am sure that once the Metro gets operational, the crowd in the buses will also be reduced. I am happy that people are getting relief after five months,” he added.The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which Metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while emphasising on the stringent need to wear masks and practising social distancing. The standard operating procedures will be issued by the Centre later.The Metro trains have not been plying since March when the first phase of the lockdown came into effect.The order on the resumption of Metro trains comes amid an increasing number of coronavirus disease cases in the national capital. Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,954 fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s highest single-day spike in August till date, taking the tally to over 1.71 lakh, while the death toll from the viral infection climbed to 4,404.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-people-maintain-social-distance-on-delhi-metro-transport-minister-kailash-gahlot/story-PcTXOCyBv5iwDkJm9FeMsM.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from Pune amid evolving flood situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid evolving flood situation, 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from PuneFour teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Pune were airlifted for Nagpur due to potential flood situation in the district. In view of the evolving flood situation in districts of Vidarbha division, the NDRF teams were airlifted from Pune to Nagpur. Read more After Covid-19 vaccine deal with China, Bangladesh firm now inks pact with India’s SIIA pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh has sealed a deal with the Serum Institute of India (SII) to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccines being developed by the world’s largest drug manufacturer. Read more ‘Can’t see heavens falling’ for need of elected Cong president: Salman KhurshidAsserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he “can’t see the heavens falling” for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue. Read more Bihar polls: Congress to hold virtual rallies across state from September 1The Congress party has decided to hold virtual rallies across Bihar from September 1 ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. The development comes as several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bihar after September 6 in view of the upcoming Assembly polls. Read more Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Nitu Singh asked Shruti Modi for his medical prescription, newly accessed chats revealSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Nitu Singh had a conversation with his ex-manager Shruti Modi in November, 2019 about the details of the late actor’s treatment for depression. Read more Chadwick Boseman’s tweet hits record likes, a perfect tribute to the Black Panther actorChadwick Boseman’s tweet has received at least 6.4 million likes and 3 million retweets and comments. Read more Foodies may relate to this adorable baby’s reaction over seeing his food. WatchThe recording of a baby shows him sitting on a sofa. The cameraperson shakes a bottle of baby milk while approaching the tiny tot. “Me, when I see food headed my way,” reads the text on the screen. Read more Acne remedy: Malaika Arora reveals the ‘terrific trio’ of simple DIY to control ‘bad timing breakouts’Malaika Arora shares the secret to dealing with acne woes, even for sensitive skin and we can’t help but take note this humid monsoon season. WatchSushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress questions Sandeep Singh’s link to BJP leadersCongress has raised 10 questions on the ongoing probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi raised questions about Sandeep Singh’s proximity to BJP leaders. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-nagpur-from-pune-amid-evolving-flood-situation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RjptqG8QN3mNbM1QYCeopL.html
30-08-2020||India||70-year-old Ganga activist on fast unto death says govt indifferent to ecology||Environment activist and spiritual leader Swami Shivanand Saraswati who is on fast unto death in Haridwar since August 3 demanding that hydropower projects on the Ganga and stone quarrying on the riverbed be stopped, has now reduced his daily water intake, his followers said Sunday. In the fourth week of his fast unto death, the 70-year-old founder and head of the famous Matri Sadan ashram in Haridwar has now decided to reduce his daily water intake from 5 to 4 glasses. According to ashramites, he has not eaten any solid food and has been only drinking five glasses of water every day since he started the fast. The seer is demanding scrapping of all hydropower projects on the Ganga, Yamuna and their tributaries, total prohibition on quarrying on Ganga river bed, enactment of Ganga Act, inclusion of pro-environmental activists in the drafting panel and related demands on which another seer Swami Gyan Swaroop Sanand had also agitated. Swami Shivanand said that he is “deeply hurt” by the indifferent attitude of the state and Central government and alleged that the political parties only view the Ganga and ecology through a political angle. “I don’t fear giving up my life for the cause of the holy Ganga, ecology and the society. Until the government accepts all my demands in writing and takes concrete steps, I won’t stop,” he said. Expressing concern that not a single Central or state minister has visited Matri Sadan ashram since Shivanand’s agitation that began four weeks ago, Magsaysay awardee Rajendra Singh said that environmentalists across the country are with Shivanand Saraswati and concerned about his fragile health. “All the demands, earlier put up by Swami Gyan Swarup Sanand, Brahamchari Atmabodhanand, Sadhvi Padmavati and now Shivanand Saraswati are genuine which need to be addressed on priority level by the government,” he said. Ganga Vichar Manch national founder Dr Bharat Pathak has also urged Swami Shivanand to give up his agitation. “We have apprised Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat about Swamiji’s agitation. He is quite concerned and we hope soon the demands are met. The life of Swamiji is precious and the whole society needs such a revered seer to guide us,” said Dr Pathak. Earlier Ganga activist Swami Gyan Swarup Sanand, a former Indian Institute of Technology professor, had staged 112 days of fast unto death and died on October 11, 2018.Shivanand is the latest seer from Matri Sadan ashram to agitate for the cause of the Ganga.Last year Sadhvi Padmavati from the ashram had launched a fast unto death for the same causes before authorities took her away and force fed her. She resumed her fast after returning to the ashram Shivanand prevailed upon her to give up for health reasons and the Covid-19 pandemicSadhvi Padmavati had started her indefinite agitation on December 15, 2019 and fasted for 100 days.Another young seer Brahamchari Atmabodhanand too had started his agitation in support of sadhvi from January 30 and continued for 40 days before Swami Shivanand Saraswati also urged him to break his agitation.In October 2018, Sant Gopal Das had also started fast unto death agitation at Matri Sadan ashram, within hours of the demise of Gyan Swarup Sanand. He was also taken away and force fed by authorities.On June 13, 2011, a young swami named Nigmanand had died after 114 days of indefinite fast at Matri Sadan ashram on the same demands. Ashramites had then alleged that he was poisoned by people with vested interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-ganga-activist-on-fast-unto-death-says-govt-indifferent-to-ecology/story-eJTKwK9nOI96zU5l810AVO.html
30-08-2020||India||Odisha breaches 1-lakh Covid-cases mark, hopes for decline by mid-September||The Covid-19 tally in Odisha breached the 1-lakh mark on Sunday as the state added 3,000-odd more cases over the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 100,934. The number includes 70,714 recoveries and 535 people who have lost their lives because of the Covid-19 infection.The 1 lakh caseload came on the back of massive rise in testing, most of which was rapid antigen testing that gave results within half an hour of the swab being tested. With its resources strained over RT-PCR tests and the results taking 6-8 hours, the government by end-July started doing rapid antigen tests that cleared much of its backlog. In August alone, the labs in Odisha tested over 1 million samples compared to 6.7 lakh tests done in the last 4 and half months.In the last 9 days, the labs have tested around 62,000 samples on an average everyday with sample positivity rate dropping below 5.Odisha’s additional chief secretary of health, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said the number of positive cases in Odisha have risen as per the predictive model applied by the state government.“As per the model, we were supposed to see around 1 lakh cases by the end of August with 3,000-odd cases every day. We are doing around 60,000 tests every day and seeing 3,000-odd positive cases with the positivity rate over the last 7 days remaining below 5. The mortality rate is less than 0.5 per cent, which is lower than the national average. The recovery rate is now 71 per cent, which is slightly lower than the national average. We would catch up soon,” said Mohapatra.Renowned microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra, a former advisor to ICMR, said Odisha’s numbers can start flattening once the recovery rates reach 75 per cent.“The states which have reached recovery rates of more than 75 per cent would experience decline in number of cases. Odisha too would see a plateau in numbers soon,” said Dr Mohapatra.However, public health officials in Odisha said they were not so sanguine about the numbers plateauing. “It’s a new virus and it has defied all scientific models so far due to its better infection rate compared to other viruses. The debate on any state reaching its peak infection is of no use. What we should focus on is limiting mortality, an area where Odisha has done better than other states,” said a senior official of the health department.Ganjam district, which till mid-August was a Covid hotspot with sample positivity rate crossing 60 per cent on some days, has now started seeing a decline in the numbers due to increased testing and tracing of positive contacts. The district which reported 732 cases, its single day-high in July, is now reporting less than 200 cases a day. Though its cumulative Covid number 17,672 is the highest in Odisha, over 90 per cent of these patients have recovered, suggesting that it has turned the corner.Watch: Odisha floods: 18-yr-old rescued hours after being stranded on a tree In comparison, Odisha’s new Covid hotspots-- Khordha district including capital city of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack-- have reported over 24,000 cumulative cases between them.Since last week, the two districts are reporting around 960 cases daily. Khordha’s recovery rate is now down to 61 per cent while in Cuttack it is about 41 per cent.However, senior health officials said the rising numbers is not a major concern except the paucity of ICU beds in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.Also Read: 6 arrested for raping 14-year-old in Odisha“About 55 per cent of the total active cases of 29,685 in the state are now in home isolation. As the recovery rates are rising, the pressure on health infrastructure is also decreasing. Hopefully, we will start seeing a decline in daily new cases by mid-September. But what remains a matter of concern is the discarding of masks and social distancing measures by the people as it may lead to re-infection and possible mortality. We can’t drop our guards so soon,” said additional chief secretary (health) Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-breaches-1-lakh-covid-cases-mark-hopes-for-decline-by-mid-september/story-9JYyrPoQkC76SH2mtYWX5J.html
30-08-2020||India||After Covid-19 vaccine deal with China, Bangladesh firm now inks pact with India’s SII||A pharmaceutical company in Bangladesh has sealed a deal with the Serum Institute of India (SII) to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccines being developed by the world’s largest drug manufacturer.Pune-based Serum Institute, in association with AstraZeneca, the Gates Foundation and the Gavi vaccine alliance, will be producing a billion doses of a Covid-19 vaccine to supply to the world. The Oxford vaccine candidate, one of the three being developed by the drug manufacturer, is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other states.ALSO WATCH | Covid: Serum Institute begins human trials, 5 volunteers given first shotFollow latest updates on coronavirus here The deal comes days after Bangladesh also approved a late-stage trial of a potential coronavirus vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd in a bid to become a priority recipient of the shot.Beximco Pharmaceuticals’ plan to invest in SII was announced on Friday after Dhaka said earlier this month said that it was ready to hold trials of candidate vaccines being developed by India as both countries seek to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.Also read: Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concerns“This landmark agreement reflects the deep-rooted desire for collaboration between the two countries and as representatives of the two nations, between us we can go a long way towards helping to mitigate the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,” the heads of both companies said in the statement.The details about the amount of investment and number of doses to be supplied, however, have not been revealed yet. Beximco’s investment amount will be treated as an advance and once the vaccine receives regulatory approvals, SII will include Bangladesh among the countries which will receive an agreed quantity of the vaccine on a priority basis, according to the statement.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage here Beximco would be the exclusive supplier in Bangladesh for the vaccine, the statement added. The pharma firm will also secure additional doses to be distributed to the private pay market in the country.SII’s deal with Beximco comes at a time when Bangladesh has 310,822 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and the toll from the viral disease has surpassed 4,200, according to worldometer.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-19-vaccine-deal-with-china-bangladesh-firm-now-inks-pact-with-india-s-sii/story-XYQUopTM6jeBDXjrFBRHSL.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Can’t see heavens falling’ for need of elected Cong president: Khurshid||Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he “can’t see the heavens falling” for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue.Khurshid, a former Union minister and among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, told PTI in an interview that he would not have signed the letter even if he was approached by the group that wrote to Gandhi seeking urgent organisational overhaul, including an active and full-time leadership.ALSO WATCH | ‘People are laughing’: Sanjay Jha on Congress leadership after CWC resolutionOn Ghulam Nabi Azad, the most vocal among the 23 letter writers, seeking organisational elections to ensure that the Congress does not remain out of power for decades, Khurshid said the senior leader from Jammu and Kashmir had been part of the top echelons of the party for years when there has been no such elections and still the party prospered.He said probably Azad wanted a change now in what the party has been doing over the years and expressed confidence that the leadership will give a thought to what he is saying as he is a senior leader Khurshid said the leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi always had access to her and could have approached her rather than writing to her.“It is very clear that the important persons in this letter do belong to the top echelons of our party and therefore Mrs Gandhi has indicated that it was best that they could have discussed it within the confines of the party,” he said.Khurshid’s remarks assume significance as they come days after the ‘group of 23’ wrote to Gandhi calling for far-reaching reforms within the party such as having a “full time, active and visible” leadership, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in line with the party constitution.Asked about the suggestions made in the letter, Khurshid said the discussion seems to be about electing a leader and the Congress president has indicated that it can be done at an appropriate time when physically it is possible.“For people like me, we already have leaders, we have a leader in Mrs Sonia Gandhi, we have a leader in Rahul Gandhi. So for me there is no sense of urgency about electing leaders. Electing a president, yes that will happen when it happens, I can’t see the heavens falling down. What is the sense of urgency that is being expressed, is not clear to me,” he said.“We don’t have a part-time president, we have a full-time president but the full-time president is an interim president and no ordinary person as an interim president as she is the longest serving president. We must just trust and leave it to the longest serving president to take steps when she thinks it is appropriate,” the Congress leader said.On whether it would have been better to go to the president for articulating concerns than writing a letter, Khurshid said the leaders had done that for the last 20 years and he did not know what was different now or had changed that they felt the need to write a letter.Asked about the future of the party with knives out within the organisation at a time it needs to be revitalised, he said, “The pens are out, so what is the problem.Of course the words written with pens can hurt and they did, but they don’t draw blood...it’s only ink, it’s something we can live with and I am sure that the ink will fade in due course.” Khurshid said no one had approached him for signing the letter and even if anyone had done so, he would not have signed because he does not agree with the letter.“There is nothing about that letter that gives an opportunity for me to express and say that I may want to say...We have always spoken directly with the leadership, so I don’t know what changed because of which people are not speaking directly. Nothing has changed for me and therefore, I don’t see the urge for writing the letter,” he said.Khurshid said he still feels that instead of leaders continuously urging Rahul Gandhi to come back as party chief, they must leave the decision to him.“Surely he understands the implications of that letter more than I do, he will do what he thinks is the best to do,” he said, when asked if it was now imperative for Rahul Gandhi to return as party chief to set the house in order.After the seven-hour meeting of the party’s top decision-making body last week, the CWC urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as its interim chief till an AICC session could be convened and authorised her to effect necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges facing the party.It made it clear no one would be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership.The CWC also resolved that inner-party issues cannot be deliberated through the media or in public fora and all such issues must be raised within the party “in the interest of propriety and discipline”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-see-heavens-falling-for-need-of-elected-congress-president-salman-khurshid/story-0yeKp4RB1YBJRxVuXYi4aJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand college principal booked for sending obscene messages to girls in Nainital||The principal of an Uttarakhand degree college in Kotabagh area under Kaladhungi police station of Nainital district has been booked for allegedly sending obscene messages to girl students, an official said. “We have booked the principal of the degree college on the complaint of a girl. She had handed over a complaint about the principal’s inappropriate behavior and our probe found the complaint to be genuine,” said Dinesh Nath Mahant, station officer, Kaladhungi police station in Nainital. Some girl students of government degree college Kotabag had alleged that principal Prem Prakash Tamta has not only been sending obscene messages to them but also using inappropriate language while talking to them on their mobile phones for the last one year. They had kept mum due to fear, said police. Mahant said, “After receiving the complaint, we recorded the statement of the girls and then registered an FIR against the principal.” Tamta has been booked under IPC section 254 (assault or use of criminal force against woman) and 504 (intentionally insult), police said. When contacted, Tamta said he used to send ‘good morning’ and ‘good night’ messages to his students. “Some wrong messages might have gone inadvertently. He would apologize to the students concerned for the same and is ready to bear any punishment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-college-principal-booked-for-sending-obscene-messages-to-girls-in-nainital/story-BTMOTc4MgZ1SUhIXpiNxZN.html
30-08-2020||India||Amid evolving flood situation, 4 NDRF teams airlifted to Nagpur from Pune||Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Pune were airlifted for Nagpur due to potential flood situation in the district.In view of the evolving flood situation in districts of Vidarbha division, the NDRF teams were airlifted from Pune to Nagpur. The teams will join the NDRF team that was positioned in Nagpur district last week.Also read: Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief camps“These teams will be deployed in Nagpur and Chandrapur district tentatively. These 4 teams are in addition to the one team already deployed for flood water rescue operation in Nagpur district,” said an NDRF official.“There are severe weather warnings at all India level by IMD for next 5 days,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD, Mumbai, tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-evolving-flood-situation-4-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-nagpur-from-pune/story-v8lWf2dqpowGpEdOTwngDO.html
30-08-2020||India||Bihar polls: Congress to hold virtual rallies across state from September 1||The Congress party has decided to hold virtual rallies across Bihar from September 1 ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state.The development comes as several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bihar after September 6 in view of the upcoming Assembly polls.Earlier, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and Congress Campaign Committee Chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh had said that the seat-sharing in Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) has still not been finalised but added that all smaller allies like Left front, RLSP, HAM will be adjusted.It was reported that left parties, especially the Communist Party of India (CPI), CPI(M) and CPI(ML), are ready for an alliance with the Mahagathbandhan to “defeat the NDA” in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections.On August 27, left party leaders had met RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and discussed a greater unity between the Opposition Grand Alliance and the Left parties for the Bihar poll.Bihar has 243 Assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29.The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-congress-to-hold-virtual-rallies-across-state-from-september-1/story-ZJDjJq2EmHrKYGoysuVp6I.html
30-08-2020||India||Thrusting GST debt on states a planned strategy to crush federalism: Amit Mitra||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday said that asking states to borrow and meet the shortfall in revenue from Goods and Services Tax (GST) “appears to be part of a planned strategy to destroy the financial health of the states and crush federalism”. Addressing the media at a webinar, Mitra, who attended the GST council meeting on Thursday, said, “Many people are worried and see this as a pattern. Once the financial health of the states becomes shaky, the brute power of Centralism will come into play. Is this the new ideology?” Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic “as an act of God,” as had been done by some Central ministers, Mitra said demonetization and GST were not acts of God but “acts of man”. Mitra also claimed that Infosys chairman Nandan Nilekani said in his official presentation to the GST Council on March 14 that there had been fraudulent transaction to the tune of Rs 70,000 crore in GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thrusting-gst-debt-on-states-a-planned-strategy-to-crush-federalism-amit-mitra/story-VzYxCMrgwNajllhAvE7t9I.html
30-08-2020||India||TMC takes ‘flagged it first’ approach to tackle corruption taint in poll-bound Bengal||Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has recently ordered a few probes and audits into allegations of corruption or that may lead to it and has asked top bureaucrats to address all grievances that have reached her office immediately. While she has already ordered a probe into the allegations of corruption in purchasing of medical equipment to fight Covid-19 pandemic in the state, she is also displeased to see embankments collapse within three months of repair and has asked senior officials to look into it. ALSO WATCH | JEE, NEET exams: Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, others discuss postponementIn an administrative meeting, held earlier this week, Banerjee told the chief secretary to address all grievances that have come to the CMO immediately. Officials said that allegations of corruption, like the one related to purchasing of medical equipment, often reach the CMO. A senior official said that the government is considering a third-party audit after allegations of corruption surfaced in the state panchayat department. “The party has already faced several allegations of corruption and these are taking a heavy toll on its image. Elections are coming. The party won’t be able to take any more allegations at this stage particularly when the BJP is looking for an opportunity,” said a senior TMC leader. With Bengal heading for a crucial assembly polls, expected to be a highly polarised political battle between the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, political analysts say the TMC supremo is aiming to nip corruption-related controversies in the bud before the opposition uses it as a tool against the ruling party. “This seems to be a course correction drive of the ruling party in which it has taken up an ‘I flagged it first’ approach so as not to leave opposition with any opportunity to raise allegations of corruption. If the opposition finally raises it, the ruling party would say that we have already ordered a probe. This would help it to remain on the front foot,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, a political analyst and professor of political science at Bangabasi College in Kolkata. The TMC had received a jolt in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when its tally came down from 34 seats to 22 while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s tally rose from two to 18 and senior leaders said that the TMC wants to recover from the losses. While Mamata Banerjee’s nine-year rule has been riddled with some major scams such as the Saradha, Narada and Rose Valley, central probe agencies investigating these scams have already heightened their activities. The Enforcement Directorate has sent notices to five TMC leaders and summoned a suspended Indian Police Service officer in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Since May this year, the TMC has already been on the back foot at least twice. Some party leaders had to be expelled and others were slapped with show cause notices after they were found to be involved in corruption in the distribution of relief materials in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan.The Bharatiya Janata Party had also leveled charges of corruption in the public distribution system and had raised demands of a CBI probe. “It is not because of the elections. The party doesn’t tolerate any corruption. Actions have been taken against corrupt leaders in the past too. It is our duty and also ethical to look into any allegations which reach us – be it against officers or party leaders. Mamata Banerjee has made it amply clear that she won’t allow any corrupt leader in the party and no one is indispensable,” said Tapas Roy, a minister and a TMC spokesperson. Also Read: 90% NEET, JEE candidates from Bengal want to sit for exams, Mamata ‘ruining’ their future: VijayvargiyaWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, whose acrimonious relation with the ruling party has often made the headlines and the BJP, however, took a jibe at the ruling party. When the chief minister formed a panel headed by the home secretary to probe allegations of corruption in the purchase of medical equipment to fight Covid-19, Dhankhar had said that it was an attempt to cover up the truth. “Multi Crore Scam-Pandemic Purchase @MamataOfficial. Cover Up Probe-Lacks credibility. Decision Makers (-one) probing to shield culpability #MAP. Post facto saviour mechanism! Independent Probe can alone fasten culpability. Need Probe to track money trail and ill gotten gain,” Dhankhar had tweeted. Also Read: Child labour among school going children increased in lockdown period in West BengalThe BJP has also lashed out at the TMC saying the ruling party won’t be able to hide behind such probes and a change in 2021 in inevitable. They call these probes are just an eyewash so that the opposition’s charges could be mellowed down. “TMC is synonymous with corruption and people have come to know this. They are afraid and hence are coming up with new drama every day. But they won’t be able to hide behind such probes and audits. They have been unmasked and a change is inevitable,” said Sayantan Basu, the BJP’s state general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-takes-flagged-it-first-approach-to-tackle-corruption-taint-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-PA9vi1aJjrjR0pN0jU4BOL.html
30-08-2020||India||Fake college admission list surfaces on social media; features names of actors, adult stars||Authorities of a state-run college in West Bengal lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday after a fake provisional merit list of the college, allegedly featuring names of Bollywood actors and adult stars, was circulated on social media.On Saturday the names of Sunny Leone, Mia Khalifa and Dani Daniels allegedly appeared in a ‘fake’ merit list of Barasat Government College in North 24 Parganas.“A fake merit list, featuring the names of some actresses and stars, was being circulated on social media. The original merit list doesn’t feature these names. Somebody downloaded the merit list and edited it and then circulated it on social media. We have lodged a complaint with the police,” said Debesh Roy, principal of Barasat Government College.Also read: Never met Sushant Singh, saw Rhea in 2017, claims Goa hotelier Gaurav AryaThe Trinamool Congress’ student’s wing filed a separate complaint alleging that people with vested interests are trying to malign the college.This comes a day after Sunny Leone’s name topped the merit list of another Kolkata-based college. Asutosh College authorities too had lodged a complaint. Later the name of Sunny Leone also featured in the merit list of another college in South 24 Parganas.While Leone is a Bollywood actor, Khalifa is a former adult movie star. Daniel is an American adult movie star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-college-admission-list-surfaces-on-social-media-features-names-of-actors-adult-stars/story-zGT1cSzfTVIxFt9f1Wd2mM.html
30-08-2020||India||A year since publication of NRC in Assam, the process remains in limbo||Ending years of speculation and a gargantuan process involving thousands of personnel, the final list of Assam’s updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) was published on August 31 last year. But a year since that date, the process hasn’t moved forward much. The 19 lakh applicants (of the total 3.30 crore) who were left out of the list, meant to identify Indian citizens and leave out suspected foreigners, have not been able to file appeals as they are yet to get rejection slips needed to do so. The state NRC office has to issue to rejection slips. The rejection slips, which will mention reasons for exclusion of an applicant’s name, are required for those left out of the NRC to file appeals in the foreigners’ tribunals (FTs), a quasi-judicial body that decides the fate of those declared suspected foreigners. “While issuing the rejection slips, we need to attach ‘speaking orders’ for each applicant. But several of these are not in order due to some discrepancies. All of these need to be checked before issuing the slips,” NRC state coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma said. “But the process is stuck as state government officials who do the checking are busy in Covid-19 duties for the past six months. We don’t know the exact number of ‘speaking orders’ which have discrepancies. During random checking, several such were detected. If these are not in order, it would lead to legal issues when the applicants file appeals,” he added. The NRC was first prepared only for Assam in 1951 on the basis of the census conducted the same year. The process to update the 1951 list started in 2015 following directions from the Supreme Court, which acted on petitions seeking detection of illegal immigrants, especially from Bangladesh. The updated list was to include names of all those persons (or their descendants) who appear in the 1951 NRC, or in any of the electoral rolls up to the midnight of March 24, 1971- when the liberation war for Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan began. Names of foreigners found residing in Assam illegally after that date, were to be excluded from the updated list. The demand for identification of illegal immigrants, deletion of their names from voter lists and deportation started in 1979, with All Assam Students Union (AASU), spearheading a 6-year agitation. The agitation ended with signing of the Assam Accord in 1985, with March 24, 1971 as the cut-off date for entry of foreigners into the state. The complete draft of NRC released in July, 2018 had left out nearly 40 lakh applicants. An additional list released in June last year, had excluded 100,000 more taking the total tally to 41 lakhs. The final list released on August 31 last year included names of 22 lakh applicants missing from the two earlier drafts. It was clarified that those left out of the final NRC won’t be declared foreigners. They would have the option of filing appeals within 120 days in FTs which will decide their citizenship status based on provisions of Foreigners Act, 1946, and Foreigner (Tribunals) Order, 1964. Publication of the NRC final list was expected to end four decades of demands for detection of illegal foreigners residing in Assam. But the list was immediately denounced by the ruling BJP in the state claiming many genuine Indians have been left out while illegal immigrants have been included. The state government later filed a petition in Supreme Court seeking 20% re-verification of names of applicants from districts bordering Bangladesh. The plea was rejected by the apex court. In November last year, Prateek Hajela, who was the state NRC coordinator and had overseen the entire updating process, was transferred to Madhya Pradesh following a SC order and replaced by Hitesh Dev Sarma, who went on a month’s leave immediately. The developments in court and in the NRC office delayed the process of issuing rejection slips much earlier than the start of Covid-19 pandemic this year. In order to hear appeals filed by those left out of NRC, the state government had last year appointed 221 members for new FTs to be set up across the state. But they are yet to become operational and appointment letters of 1,600 people selected as support staff for these tribunals have also not been issued. “I was selected as an upper division assistant cum accountant in September last year. Following the selection, I resigned from my job in a junior college. But even after 11 months since our selection, the state government hasn’t issued us appointment letters,” said Ritika Panging, a resident of Jonai in Dhemaji district. “Our lives have been turned upside down due to this delay. I was the only earning member of my family, but I’ve been unemployed for 11 months now. Our recruitment was to be valid for a year. The government should clarify whether that time limit will be extended and our appointment letters issued,” she added. These new FTs are in addition to the 100 such tribunals which are already functioning. Those declared foreigners by a FT are sent to detention centres where they are kept for deportation to Bangladesh. But that process is not feasible as India doesn’t have an extradition treaty with that country. Bangladesh has been clear that the NRC process is India’s internal matter and those left out of the list are not its citizens. There are currently around 500 inmates in 6 detention centres in Assam which are inside district jails. A large detention centre that can house around 3,000 inmates is being constructed in Goalpara district. The state government says it can’t appoint the 1,600 support staff for the new FTs as the process of appeals by those left out of NRC hasn’t begun yet due to non-issuance of rejection slips. “The additional FTs are yet to be established and the new members are still attached to existing tribunals. The FT members and support staff were recruited for the NRC purpose,” said MS Manivannan, commissioner and secretary, home and political department. “The process is yet to start due to non-issuance of rejection slips by the NRC office and that’s why the appointment of the 1,600 support staff is also stuck. The Covid-19 pandemic is another reason why there is delay in issuing the rejection slips as officials are busy tackling it,” he added. Both Sarma and Manivannan said that there’s no clarity yet on when the process of issuing rejection slips, starting the new FTs and issuing of appointment letters to the 1,600 support staff would begin. Meanwhile, Assam Public Works (APW), the Guwahati-based NGO on whose petition the SC ordered updating of the NRC, has reiterated its demand for 100% re-verification of NRC list. “The NRC was supposed to be a vital document to bring closure to the pending infiltration issue. But how can we accept this NRC that has included names of illegal Bangladeshis and even ‘jehadis’ in it? A year has passed, but the NRC process is still caught in stalemate,” said APW president Aabhijeet Sharma. Amid all this, the 1.9 lakh applicants left out of the NRC list are still waiting for the process to move ahead so that they can file appeals, remove the ‘foreigners’ tag and get included in the list as Indian citizens. “Our names were in the draft NRC released in July, 2018, but names of 16 of my family members including myself, my three children and 5 sisters were missing in the final list. Despite being Indian citizens, we have been labeled foreigners. I hope the process starts soon and our nightmare ends,” said Idris Ali, (43), teacher in a madrasa and resident of Hahsori in Chaygaon of Kamrup district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-since-publication-of-nrc-in-assam-the-process-remains-in-limbo/story-AOnBZmezYB18Nz6DSZSJCP.html
30-08-2020||India||Watch: IAF rescues elderly man from flooded Madhya Pradesh village||As swollen rivers continue to inundate large parts of Madhya Pradesh, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has been airlifting villagers stranded in different parts of the flood-hit central state.The IAF on Sunday pressed into service a Mi17V5 helicopter to rescue three men, including a senior citizen, from their inundated houses near Mowad village in Balaghat, situated along the banks of the overflowing Wainganga river.In a video shared by the force, an IAF personnel is seen being lowered to a roof of a house surrounded by floodwaters. Shortly after, the personnel is seen being pulled back up holding the elderly man tightly.#SavingLivesToday morning, #IAF launched a Mi17V5 helicopter to rescue 02 youth and an elderly man from their inundated houses near Mowad village in Balaghat,Madhya Pradesh situated along the banks of the overflowing Wainganga river.@SpokespersonMoD#IndianAirForce #AirWarriors pic.twitter.com/I7MNoHiXTNAfter the rescue, the man is seen drinking water in the IAF chopper. In the same video, the two men were also seen being rescued from the roof of their house.Also read | Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief campsThe government has launched operations in different parts of the state as a group of people, including women and children, were rescued from Somalwada village in an IAF chopper on Sunday. Around 20 to 25 people were rescued by the IAF personnel.Earlier in the day, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the flood situation in the state.At least eight people have been killed and more than 9,000 moved to relief camps as hundreds of villages across 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh were affected by floods following incessant rains since Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-iaf-rescues-elderly-man-from-flooded-madhya-pradesh-village/story-HQHjwvaFwoS90bdwg5IxFI.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat thrusts brave army dogs into limelight||A pair of army dogs, honoured with the army chief’s commendation card on Independence Day for their heroics, found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday, with the PM hailing them as “bravehearts” who performed their duties diligently to protect the country. While Vida, a black Labrador, sniffed out landmines and grenades during a de-mining operation in Jammu and Kashmir and prevented army casualties; Sophie, a Cocker Spaniel from a bomb disposal unit, helped avert a tragedy by detecting explosives in Delhi, two army officials said. Their names and unique service numbers will be put up on roll-of-honour boards at their respective units. Army dogs have contributed to a raft of successful operations during the last one year --- they helped recover 30 improvised explosive devices (IEDs), played a key role in tracking and locating five terrorists who were later eliminated and facilitated the recovery of soldiers stuck in avalanches, the officials said. “Our armed forces and security forces have many such brave dogs, who not only live for the country but also sacrifice themselves for the country. Such canines have played a very important role in thwarting numerous bomb blasts and terrorist conspiracies,” the PM said his in his monthly radio address, referring to the outstanding contribution of dogs to military service alongside soldiers. Five Labradors were awarded commendation cards on Army Day 2020 for helping soldiers track down terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir and sniffing out deadly explosives in the North-east last year. The army has more than 1,000 dogs trained for a variety of roles such as detecting mines and explosives, tracking, assault, infantry patrol, and search and rescue. “Army dogs and their handlers perform dangerous tasks but they receive little attention. Many of them have been killed in the combat zone. The PM has thrust them into the limelight by highlighting their contribution in his address,” said a senior army officer, asking not to be named. Watch:Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar push’; seeks to make India a ‘toy hub’Mansi, a Labrador, was posthumously “mentioned in dispatches” (the highest honour that a dog can get in military service in India) four years ago for her role in a counter-infiltration operation in north Kashmir. Her handler, Bashir Ahmed War, was posthumously awarded Sena Medal for gallantry.The army’s Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) pioneered war dog training in India in the late 1950s. “RVC trained dogs are in demand in countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar and Cambodia. Also, South Africa, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Seychelles are getting their dog handlers trained in India,” the officials said. In his address, the PM also talked about the gallant actions of Balaram, who detected explosives on the Amarnath Yatra route and Bhavana, who sniffed out an IED many years ago but was killed as terrorists managed to trigger the explosive.Also Read: PM Modi congratulates National Sports Awards winners“Two or three years ago in Bijapur, Chattisgarh, a sniffer dog Cracker of the CRPF also attained martyrdom in an IED blast. You might have seen a very moving scene on TV a few days ago in which the Beed Police were giving their canine colleague Rocky a final farewell with all due respect. Rocky had helped the police in solving over 300 cases,” the PM said. The PM said indigenous dog breeds such Mudhol Hound, Himachali Hound, Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai were “fabulous,” cheaper to raise and better adapted to the Indian environment. He said the security forces were increasingly inducting these local breeds. The PM said, “The next time you think of raising a pet dog, consider bringing home one of these Indian breeds. At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-thrusts-brave-army-dogs-into-limelight/story-VzN97LwkJkBXi6lLvmcLfP.html
30-08-2020||India||Yamuna river flowing close to warning mark||On Sunday morning, the water level of the Yamuna river at Old Railway Bridge in Delhi was recorded at 203.98 metres, which is close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres. The level rose after 4,353 cusecs of water was released from Haryana’s Hathini Kund barrage into the Yamuna at 8am.Officials in the Delhi government’s irrigation and flood control (I&FC) department said that the level recorded is much below the warning mark and could go up only if a higher volume of water is released into the river, or if there is heavy rainfall in the national capital.At 4am on Sunday, the river was flowing at 204.06 metres and by 8am, the water level had receded, said officials.An I&FC official said that water is released into the barrage every four hours. On a regular basis, only 350 cusecs of water is released. However, during monsoon, because of higher volume of water in the barrage and also because of rainfall in the hilly regions, more water is released, which leads to a surge in the Yamuna. “It takes between 36 and 72 hours for the released water to reach Delhi. We are monitoring the water levels,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.Also read: ‘Doorstep Covid testing, sit and deliver speech’ - Top suggestions for monsoon sessionLast year, Haryana had released over eight lakh cusecs of water in a day following which the water level had breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres.I&FC Officials said that preparations are in progress in case a higher volume of water is released and evacuation operations need to be launched. “We have identified locations for pitching tents. Social distancing is a norm because of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. We have also identified schools, which are closed because of the pandemic, where the flood-hit public can be provided temporary shelter while maintaining adequate physical distance among them,” the official said.Delhi had reported a major flood in 1978, when the water level in the Yamuna had risen to its highest-ever level recorded to date at 207.49 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yamuna-river-flowing-close-to-warning-mark/story-11zCy2CwM81qP6FjopTBMI.html
30-08-2020||India||Need to nurture the nature, celebrate sanskars: RSS chief Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday stressed on the conservation of nature, saying it should be nurtured and not just consumed as is being done in the present world.Addressing a programme organised by the Hindu Spiritual Seva Foundation through virtual mode to celebrate ‘Prakruti Din’, Bhagwat emphasised on the way of living followed by our ancestors who nurtured nature as an important part of their life.He said people believe nature is for their consumption and that they do not have any responsibility towards it.“We are living like this for last 200 to 250 years and its ill-effects and consequences are coming to the fore now.If it continues like this, then neither we nor this world will survive,” he said.In order to address this problem, the concept of the Environment Day came into existence, Bhagwat said.“Our ancestors understood the truth of existence in its entirety and that we are one part of the nature and it is the responsibility of humans to nurture the nature,” he said.“Our way of life was respecting all, but we were misguided by the world’s way of living. Hence, today we have to remember all this by observing the Environment Day,” he said.Referring to the ‘Nag Panchmi’, ‘Govardhan Puja’ and ‘Tulsi Vivah’, Bhagwat said “all these ‘sanskars’ should be celebrated and rejuvenated, and the new generation will also learn that we are part of the nature and we need to nurture the nature and not just consume it”.“If the future generation will think this way, then only we will be able to correct the harm done over the last 300 to 350 years, in next 100 to 200 years wherein the world and humankind will be safe and life will be beautiful,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-nurture-the-nature-celebrate-sanskars-rss-chief-bhagwat/story-lPD3B3HWY1FT9RVm0u2HaL.html
30-08-2020||India||Never met Sushant Singh Rajput, saw Rhea Chakraborty in 2017, claims Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya||Hotelier Gaurav Arya, who has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a parallel probe into allegations of money laundering in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, on Sunday claimed he had never met the actor.ED officials have called Arya, who runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa, for questioning on Monday.“I have no connection with the case. I never met Sushant Singh Rajput. I met her (Rhea) in 2017,” the Goa-based hotelier was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO WATCH | Sushant death case: Congress questions Sandeep Singh’s link to BJP leadersArya has also been linked to the drugs angle in connection with Rajput’s death at his Mumbai apartment on June 14. His name sprang up in Chakraborty’s WhatsApp conversations related to drugs. Investigators believe he used to supply drugs to Chakraborty.He has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and is being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The bureau had on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Chakraborty, her brother Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi and Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the NDPS act.Also read: Drivers explain why two ambulances were present at Sushant Singh Rajput’s houseED officials had also visited Hotel Tamarind run by Arya at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found the property to be shut. They stuck a notice on the door of the hotel stating that Arya must meet Rajiv Kumar, assistant director, ED, at 11am on Monday in connection with a case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.According to officials, the hotel has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Also read: Here are the 14 people facing probe in Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Rajput’s death case and has so far questioned Chakraborty, Showik, Rajput’s manager Samual Miranda, domestic help Keshav, cook Neeraj Singh, flatmate and friend Siddharth Pithani and accountant Rajat Mewati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-met-sushant-singh-rajput-saw-rhea-chakraborty-in-2017-claims-goa-hotelier-gaurav-arya/story-Pi3Obcd9RbEIjeMCZ495nI.html
30-08-2020||India||Jails across India remained overcrowded and under-staffed in 2019: Report||Jails across India remained overcrowded in 2019 with these facilities lodging 4.78 lakh prisoners against the actual capacity of 4.03 lakh, reveals the latest data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).On the other hand, the prisons were under-staffed with a sanctioned strength of 87,599, while the actual strength was 60,787 as on December 31, 2019, the data showed.The actual capacity of prisons has increased to 4.03 lakh in 2019 from 3.91 lakh in 2017 and 3.96 lakh in 2018 (as on December 31 of these respective years), it said.The number of prisoners lodged in various jails increased to 4.78 lakh in 2019 from 4.50 lakh in 2017 and 4.66 lakh in 2018 (as on December 31 of each year).The total number of prisons in the country were 1,361, 1,339 and 1,350 at the end of 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The occupancy rates during the period rose steadily at 115.1 per cent, 117.6 per cent and 118.5 per cent, respectively, according to the data.Out of the 4.78 lakh prisoners in 2019, 4.58 lakh were men and 19,913 women, the NCRB, under the Union home ministry, stated.The total 1,350 prisons in the country in 2019 consisted of 617 sub jails, 410 district jails, 144 central jails, 86 open jails, 41 special jails, 31 women jails, 19 Borstal School and two other jails, it added.The central jails of the country had the highest capacity of inmates (1.77 lakh) followed by district jails (1.58 lakh) and sub jails (45,071) last year.Among the other types of jails, special jails, open jails and women jails had the capacity of 7,262, 6,113 and 6,511 inmates, respectively, as on December 31, 2019, the data said.The highest number of inmates were lodged in central jails (2.20 lakh) followed by district jails (2.06 lakh) and sub jails (38,030). The total number of inmates in women jails were 3,652, the data showed.The highest occupancy rate was in district jails (129.7 per cent) followed by central jails (123.9 per cent) and sub jails (84.4 per cent). The occupancy rate in women jails was 56.1 per cent by the end of 2019, it showed.According to the data, the sanctioned strength of jail staff was 87,599, while the actual strength was 60,787 by the end of 2019.Among the jail staff, the sanctioned strength of officers (DG/Additional DG/IG, DIG, AIG, superintendent) was 7,239, but the actual strength was 4,840.Similarly, the sanctioned strength for jail cadre staff (Head Warder, Head Matron, Warder) and correctional staff (probation officer or welfare officer, psychologist/psychiatrist) was 72,273 and 1,307, respectively, while their actual strength was 51,126 and 761, respectively last year, the NCRB data said.The sanctioned strength of medical staff was 3,320, while the actual strength was 1,962 as on December 31, 2019. The actual strength of women jail officers and staff was 7,794 (including 254 medical staff) that year, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-jails-remained-overcrowded-and-under-staffed-in-2019-report/story-lLC0LU5sqHibUeSIshuCbM.html
30-08-2020||India||Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief camps||At least eight people were killed and more than 9,000 have been moved to relief camps as hundreds of villages across 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh were affected by floods following incessant rains since Thursday. The state government had to seek the Indian Army’s help in the rescue operation. Rains came to a halt on Sunday morning bringing respite to people and rescue teams in affected areas. However, as per the forecast, western MP which covers the Malwa region of the state may witness heavy rain on Sunday, the state government said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday morning and had earlier spoken with defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday evening to convey them the flood situation in the state. Chouhan sought their help in rescue operations being carried on by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Home Guards, police and personnel of other departments. Flood-hit districts of the state include Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Bhopal, Vidisha, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Seoni, Katni, Sagar, Shivpuri and Ujjain, as per official information. Several villages in these districts were marooned due to flood water. A large number of people were airlifted with the help of Air Force helicopters, including 62 people from Somalwada village alone in Sehore district. Army personnel too have joined the rescue operations. In Sehore district, people were accommodated in boats which converted into relief camps in several villages, the officials said. Talking to journalists on the rescue and relief operations on Sunday morning, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “the rescue operations have been continuing since Friday evening. There are 454 villages in 12 districts affected by the flood. As many as 9,300 people have been moved to 170 relief camps. About 1,200 people trapped in flood in 40 villages are yet to be rescued. Air Force personnel lifted several people from Hoshangabad, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Sehore and Raisen districts.”The CM said, “I monitored the flood situation in the control room set up at my residence whole night along with all concerned authorities. The NDRF, SDRF, Home Guards and Police’s joint teams are carrying out excellent rescue operations. Two companies of the Army are reaching Sehore and Raisen districts. There is a sense of relief that there is no casualty among those who were trapped in flood. The eight who were killed were because of the collapse of mud walls or people crossing culverts submerged by floodwater while ignoring the warning.”He said, “Gates of several dams, including Gandhisagar, Indira Sagar, Bargi, Tawa etc., were opened as the dams were overflowing. This also added to the increasing water level in various rivers but this was inevitable given the dams overflowing. Last year, a delay in the opening of gates of Gandhisangar dam had caused havoc in western Madhya Pradesh. Narmada, Pench and several other rivers were flowing much above danger mark causing floods in towns and villages. In Hoshangabad, Narmada river was flowing at 982 feet, 16 feet above the danger mark causing flood in a part of the city.” Chouhan said, “Huge damage has been caused to standing crops too. A survey to assess the damage will be conducted after the situation becomes normal. The affected farmers will be provided relief under the crop insurance scheme and RBC (Revenue book circular) provisions.”“I will conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas today. The health department has been instructed to be prepared to help people post-flood situation as after flood there is apprehension of diseases affecting people,” the chief minister added.Four children, including a girl, belonging to three families were killed when a mud wall of a kutcha house collapsed on them at Banihara village of Dheemarkheda tehsil of Katni district on Saturday. The children were playing near the house when the incident took place, said sub-divisional magistrate Sapna Tripathi. In Sehore district, a kutcha wall collapsed on Saturday night and four members were trapped under debris. Three of them were rescued while the remaining one couldn’t be saved, administrative officials said.(With input from Mahendra Thakur in Sehore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-batters-madhya-pradesh-8-killed-over-9-000-moved-to-relief-camps/story-3ukQao6rtSn0Of4tLby6VM.html
30-08-2020||India||Goyal asks Asean nations to strengthen rules of origin to check influx of Chinese goods||Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for commerce and industry, has asked the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to strengthen the “rules of origin” provisions, one of India’s key concerns, because the nation’s markets are being flooded by Chinese goods through some Asean countries.Goyal co-chaired the 17th Asean-India Economic (AEM) Ministers’ Consultations held on Saturday via videoconference in a bid to maintain social distancing norms because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.He highlighted that the free trade agreement (FTA) has to be “mutually beneficial” and expressed the need to strengthen the rules of origin provisions, work towards removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access, a ministry statement said on Sunday.Goyal asked for an early review of the Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement (AITIGA), as the trade pact is hurting India’s interest, particularly because of the violation of rules of origin clauses. Also read: PM Modi lauds India’s farmers for higher crop production amid Covid crisisIndia is concerned and wants to review FTAs, as several Chinese goods are dumped in its markets through a third country with which the nation has an agreement, a government official said requesting anonymity.The review is necessary, as many items enter Indian markets taking advantage of Asean-India FTA. Imports at reduced or zero duty put the domestic industry at a major disadvantage, the official said.Goyal used the Asean ministerial forum to reiterate India’s consistent position that the review of the FTA has been inordinately delayed. He asked for a closer engagement ahead of the Asean-India Leaders’ Summit scheduled to be held in November and to start the full review before the end of this year, the commerce ministry said in the statement. Goyal co-chaired the meeting with Tran Tuan Anh, Vietnam’s minister of industry and trade.A report of the Asean India Business Council (AIBC) was also presented in the meeting. It also recommended a review of the AITIGA for mutual benefit. The ministers from India and Asean countries instructed the officials to start the discussions to determine the scope of the review at the earliest to make the FTA more user-friendly for businesses.Sangita Reddy, co-chair of AIBC (India), said the nation and Asean should develop a road map for collaboration in healthcare and pharmaceuticals sectors along with exchange of knowledge and digital connectivity. “She shared that special incentives for Indian pharmaceutical companies should be introduced for setting up plants in dedicated Asean zones,” the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) said in a statement. The industry association is the Indian secretariat of AIBC.The meeting was attended by the trade ministers of all the 10 Asean countries such as Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The ministers reaffirmed their commitment to take collective actions in mitigating the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and resolved to ensure macroeconomic and financial stability and resilient supply chain connectivity, particularly the unimpeded flow of essential goods and medicines in the region, in compliance with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, the statement said.AIBC also recommended elimination of non- tariff measures to enable seamless movement of goods and services, FICCI said in the statement. It proposed the introduction of a business travel card which would facilitate business travel between India and Asean countries with a minimum 90-day validity. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-asks-asean-nations-to-strengthen-rules-of-origin-to-check-influx-of-chinese-goods/story-x9qZTXOW9jVkU26cFNCI7M.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Just because you did it…’: Jaishankar’s crushing comeback to Imran Khan’s barb||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has dissed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s effort to run down the growing partnership between India and the United States and call India a frontline state of western countries such as the United States.“Those who say all this — they are perhaps reflecting their own history and their own self-worth. This is certainly not India,” Jaishankar told Hindustan Times in an interview on Saturday, delivering his sharpest comeback to the Imran Khan government that aligns with China and accuses India of playing for the United States.ALSO WATCH | Pak terror tunnel unearthed in J&K; Karachi sacks used in construction‘For peace along border, one must adhere to agreements’: S Jaishankar | InterviewIn an interview to Dunya News, Imran Khan had linked Pakistan’s future with China, asserting that China was the only country to have always stood by it. In the same interview, Khan also said that “it was unfortunate that western powers were using India to contain China”. This, he added, was one more reason why China needs Pakistan on its side; its geo-strategic location was the other.Jaishankar’s acerbic counter to Imran Khan’s description of India-US ties is seen to allude to Islamabad’s policy over the past few decades to operate like a proxy for a powerful country, first for the Americans and over the last decade or so, for China.“Think about it,” Jaishankar said.“India is a civilisational state of very unique nature. Look at our history. Because we went through two very difficult centuries, we particularly prize our independence. Some people feel that because they did something, we will also do the same. India has a certain self-perception of itself,” he said.Jaishankar said India has a personality of its own. “India has interests of its own. India has a character of its own. It cannot be defined negatively as being against somebody,” the minister said, echoing India’s stand on QUAD, the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue with the US, Japan and Australia that is also viewed as an anti-China front in Beijing.China and the United States have been at loggerheads after trade and human rights issues, coupled with China’s attempts to arm twist its neighbours in the disputed South China Sea and beyond.India and the US have found themselves on the same side vis-a-vis China, mostly after People’s Liberation Army soldiers were parked at India’s doorsteps along the Line of Actual Control in India’s East Ladakh sector. The deployment of soldiers set off a stand-off between the two armies that will complete four months next week. China has, despite agreements to disengage, not withdrawn its soldiers from many forward locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-because-you-did-it-jaishankar-s-crushing-comeback-to-iman-khan-barb/story-9DkSDC3MrShA2AkpwmYSJI.html
30-08-2020||India||NDA govt not concerned enough to deal with problems caused by Covid: Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi has charged the NDA government with not showing enough concern to address the job losses and other adverse effects brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country He said 1.8 crore people all over the country were now not receiving salaries and eight crore daily wage labourers were out of work.Also, 10 crore school children who used to get mid-day meals have reportedly been deprive of it because of the lockdown, he said, addressing an online public meeting here on Saturday night. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ‘invited’ all this on the country by imposing an unplanned, unconstitutional lockdown, he alleged. He also alleged that there has been a 64 per cent dip in child immunisation and that 10 lakh children had not received their BCG vaccination during the lockdown.Besides, six lakh children had missed getting their oral polio vaccine since the Covid-19 outbreak, he said.The Prime Minister, he alleged, also was not worried about Chinese intrusions along the nation’s borders.Owaisi urged his supporters to help people during the Covid-19 pandemic, regardless of ones religion. He said his party would contest the coming assembly polls in Bihar.AIMIM had gained a foothold in Bihar in 2019, winning minority Muslim dominated Kishanganj assembly seat in a bypoll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-govt-not-concerned-enough-to-deal-with-problems-caused-by-covid-owaisi/story-z6WuOZtBQaxtq4qmJwnKhP.html
30-08-2020||India||September to be observed as ‘Nutrition Month’: PM Modi in Mann ki Baat||September would be celebrated as the nutrition month and schools should have not just report cards but also nutrition cards and nutrition monitors along with class monitors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday.In his monthly radio broadcast “Mann Ki Baat”, the PM also called on teachers to involve students in finding out the stories of the unsung heroes of the country’s freedom struggle. The country would soon celebrate 75 years of Independence, he pointed out.Referring to the importance of nutrition, he said it had played a key role in building the nation. Also Watch | Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar push’; seeks to make India a ‘toy hub’“September will be celebrated across the country as the nutrition month,” Modi said. In this campaign towards nutrition, the participation of the public is important, the PM said and added that attempts were being made to spread its awareness.Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar push“Schools are being involved. There should be a nutrition monitor just like there is a class monitor. There should be a nutrition card along with the report card. These initiatives are in the works,” he said.Modi said a Bharatiya Poshan Krishi Kosh was being developed to provide information about food produced in every district of the country.The PM also mentioned that the country would soon celebrate the 75th year of independence. He said the students should be made aware of the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters. School students could be involved in spreading information about the unsung heroes of Independence and this should be the central theme of this year’s Teachers’ Day programme on September 5, he added.Also read: PM Modi lauds India’s farmers for higher crop production amid Covid crisisThe PM pointed out that this time of the year is usually festive, but the situation is different this year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. He said there has been unprecedented restraint and simplicity in festivals this year. He said many Indian festivals celebrate nature and cited the Bihar’s Tharu tribe as its worshipper and also Onam, a harvest festival, in Kerala.Modi lauded farmers because the sowing of kharif crops had seen an uptick, as compared to last year, despite the Covid-19 outbreak. The PM said he had held talks with various ministries on how students and children should spend their time during nationwide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25 for 68 days in a bid to prevent the spread of the pandemic. He urged India to emerge as a hub for toy production. The global toy industry is over Rs7 lakh crore, but the nation’s share is insignificant and India would need to increase it, Modi said. Some areas are being developed as toy clusters, he said. The best toys are those that encourage the creativity of children, he said. He suggested start-ups to produce local toys. “The seed sown should grow into a big tree through the Atmanirbhar Bharat mission,” Modi said.The PM also emphasised on making progress in the gaming industry. At present, most of the games are based on foreign themes. Make games in India and also about India, he said. Small start-ups would turn into big global companies with time, Modi said. He said an application (app) innovation challenge had received a huge response.He also singled out the role played by two Indian Army dogs – Sofi and Vida – who were feted for protecting the country. He said dogs of Indian breeds were being inducted in Indian armed forces and urged the public to adopt them as pets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/september-to-be-observed-as-nutrition-month-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-v2RsEgpelrW1RhowjcPcvO.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi lauds India’s farmers for higher crop production amid Covid crisis||The farmers of India have proved their mettle even during the Covid-19 pandemic and the sowing of Kharif crops has been seven per cent higher than the last year while cotton has been sown about three per cent higher, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. “There is a mantra in the Rig Veda which means...praise to the giver of food, praise to the farmer. Our farmers have proved their mettle even during this Covid-19 pandemic. Sowing of Kharif crops has been seven per cent higher than last year. Paddy has been sown 10 per cent higher, pulses 5 per cent, coarse grain oats cereals around three per cent, oilseeds about 13 per cent and cotton has been sown about three per cent higher,” said the Prime Minister during his monthly “Mann Ki Baat” programme.Also read: Meet Vida and Sophie, Army dogs PM Modi spoke about on Mann Ki Baat“I congratulate farmers of our nation, bow down before their toil,” he added.The Prime Minister further pointed out that Onam is a festival linked with farming. It is the time of a new beginning for our rural economy. “Our lives and society are driven by the power of agriculture. Our festivals derive their colour only through the hard work of our farmers. Vedas have also gloriously described the life-giving energy of our farmers,” the Prime Minister. Also read: Verve of Onam can be felt everywhere: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatHe said that the verve of Onam festival can be felt everywhere and it is turning out to be an international festival.“The zest of Onam today has reached distant shores of foreign lands. Be it America, Europe or Gulf countries, the verve of Onam can be felt everywhere. Onam is increasingly turning out to be an international festival,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-india-s-farmers-for-higher-crop-production-amid-covid-crisis/story-3o6d4uqvGWN3xU9wCzHXbI.html
30-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, 208 deaths in last 29 days||With the highest single-day spike on Saturday, Chhattisgarh recorded total 208 deaths in last 29 days out of 262 deaths reported in the state till now. The state capital witnessed highest toll of 139 deaths so far, as per figures provided by the health department.On Saturday, Chhattisgarh reported 1,157 new coronavirus cases and eight fatalities, taking the count to 28,390 and death toll to 262.“On July 30, the total deaths reported in the state were 54 and on August 29, total deaths in the state increased to 262. More than 200 people died in this is period which is concerning for the health department, “said an official. Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the sameThe state, at present, has 12,313 active cases, as many as 15,818 people have recovered from the disease. As per Saturday’s tally, worst-hit Raipur district reported 630 new cases which took the total case tally in the district to 10,078.On Saturday, other districts where fresh cases were detected were Durg (172), Rajnandgaon (66), Bilaspur (66), Bastar (59), Dhamtari (44), Sukma (43), Janjgir-Champa (41), Raigarh (40), Mahasamund (27), Kanker (27), Narayanpur (23), Kabirdham (21), Bijapur (21), Gariaband (18), Balod (15), Koriya (15), Balodabazar (14), Surguja (9) and Bemetara (8).Seven cases each were reported from Mungeli and Jashpur districts, four each from Korba and Dantewada, three from Surajpur and two from Kondagaon, the official said.“Among the eight fatalities, two patients were from Raigarh district while one each was from Raipur, Durg, Balod, Mahasamund and Rajnandgaon districts. Besides, a person from Nuapada district of neighbouring Odisha died at a private hospital,” he said.Five of these deaths took place on Saturday while died in the last three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-208-deaths-in-last-29-days/story-pdDiEFHhuxg1qHRNUmCPGK.html
30-08-2020||India||Meet Vida and Sophie, army dogs PM Modi spoke about on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the role of dogs in various security operations in the country during his 68th Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday. He lauded the Indian Army dogs Vida, a labrador, and a cocker spaniel Sophie who were earlier this month awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day. Vida of an army dog unit located in Northern Command was instrumental in detection of five mines and one grenade buried underground thus preventing any casualties/injuries to own troops.Also read| ‘Come, let’s play’: PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushSophie of Special Frontier Force (Bomb Disposal Squad), on the other hand, is an explosive detection dog that sniffed out the presence of initiator/accelerant which could have been hastily used to fabricate an IED, thereby saving lives.The Prime Minister hailed the dogs for performing their duty and also urged the people to bring home dogs of locals breeds when planning on adopting a pet.The army dog unit, fondly called “The Silent Warriors”, have time and again proven to be an asset for the security forces. Also read| ‘Bring home dogs of local breeds’, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Top quotesAlso, to increase the operational capabilities of its troops, the army had in December last year developed an audio-video surveillance system integrated with a protective bulletproof jacket, which can be mounted stealthily on the army dogs to receive information about location and strength of enemy from a safe distance. The camera and transmitter on the gadget send the information on the receiver that can be at a safe distance up to one-km from the enemy location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-vida-and-sophie-the-army-dogs-pm-modi-spoke-about-on-mann-ki-baat/story-NfETgTiVwog2FlWzDQ0hYO.html
30-08-2020||India||Gurugram Cyber City accident: Car owner arrested, released on bail||The police on Saturday arrested a 50-year-old Gurugram businessman, owner of the vehicle that was allegedly driven by a minor that crashed into a motorcycle and killed its 49-year-old rider on August 23 in Cyber City area of the millennial city. Police said the minor had taken the car to return home from his friend’s party that day. The arrested businessman is the father of the friend and allegedly allowed the minor to take the car. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (east), said that the accused was booked under section 5 of Motor Vehicle Act as he gave his car to a juvenile despite knowing he was a minor and had no licence. “As the offence is bailable, he was granted bail,” he said. The suspect did not respond to messages and calls. On August 26, police had added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (for drink driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act to the FIR as the minor was allegedly inebriated while driving and had allegedly confessed this to police. Police said the minor and his parents joined the investigation and will be produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) and court while police files the challan. Also Read: New drain channels to stop flooding in GurugramPolice said they have followed the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar of 2014 where it was directed that in offences involving punishment up to seven years’ imprisonment the police may resort to the extreme step of arrest only when the same is necessary and the applicant does not cooperate in the investigation.Mohan said the minor’s family was cooperating. “If not, then they would have been arrested. The offence is bailable so we have not apprehend the juvenile and have given direction to parents not to allow him to travel abroad or outstation without informing us. We will send him for counselling to child welfare committee once his injuries are healed,” he said. Also Read: Greater Noida: Three killed in two separate road accidentsThe motorcyclist, Alok Gupta, was on his way to Jewar in Greater Noida on Sunday morning, when the accident happened near Belvedere Towers in DLF Phase-2 and he died on the spot. He was accompanied by a friend, who was following him in another bike who took him and two minors in the vehicle to a private hospital in an ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-cyber-city-accident-car-owner-arrested-released-on-bail/story-XyeQCATMVssnaVJ7vKkHnM.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Doorstep Covid testing, sit and deliver speech’: Top suggestions for monsoon session||Doorstep coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests, liberty to sit and deliver a speech in the House, freedom to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at a constituency, a one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors are some of the new measures Parliament will offer to the Members Parliament (MPs) to ensure a safe and secure monsoon session that will be held between September 14 and October 1.In the meeting with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, health experts gave several suggestions to ensure maximum safety for MPs during the upcoming monsoon session. The MPs will sit maintaining the minimum required distance between two seats in a mini cubicle, which will be separated by plexiglass sheets.Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the sameDr. Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, suggested in the meeting that MPs should be allowed to sit and talk instead of the tradition of being on their feet. Sitting would ensure no spread of aerosol, Dr. Guleria explained. Speaker Birla is believed to have appreciated the suggestion, the officials said.Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary, health and family welfare, suggested another plan and that, too, met Speaker Birla’s instant approval. Bhushan suggested that on the lines of the Vande Bharat Mission evacuees, who would undergo RT-PCR test before boarding a flight, similarly, MPs could be requested to undergo the Covid-19 test 72 hours before attending Parliament. Lawmakers could be asked to take the RT-PCR test either at their homes or respective constituencies, he added. Also read: Row over Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics concernedDr. Guleria also suggested that one-way movement be allowed in some key corridors and the Central Hall of Parliament. Visitors and media persons will not be allowed access to these areas during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. The measure, the AIIMS chief explained, would prevent MPs coming from face to face frequently and reduce the chance of transmission of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Speaker Birla has taken the call that Indian Tea Board and Indian Coffee Board would supply the beverages in disposable paper cups and no glass would be used. There was also some debate on installing an RT-PCR machine in the Lok Sabha. While Birla asked if such a machine can be installed in the Lower House of Parliament, health experts pointed out that handling large quantities of swab samples could be a risky proposition, as some might prove to be Covid-19 positive.Instead, Dr. Guleria suggested that technicians could be sent to an MP’s residence in the national capital to collect the swab sample that could be sent for a test in a government-run laboratory. Birla lapped up the proposal and quipped: “Why didn’t I get such a good idea earlier?” In the Vande Bharat Mission, the evacuees are required to upload their Covid-19 negative test report 72 before boarding a repatriation flight, if they would like to avail exemption from the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. The guidelines stated that within 96 hours before boarding the flight, the evacuees could undergo an RT-PCR test at their city of departure, and if the tests show Covid-19 negative, they must post the result and go to their respective homes upon arrival in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doorstep-covid-testing-sit-and-deliver-speech-top-suggestions-for-monsoon-session/story-LUTRuhdWQ1dZze3qXK46LK.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concerns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Controversy around Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine in Australia, some clerics raise concernsA controversial imam in Australia has asked Muslims not to get the vaccine for the coronavirus disease being developed by Oxford University. Sufyaan Khalifa claimed the vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca is ‘haram’ - meaning forbidden. Read more Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should knowAfter five months, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will finally resume its service in the national capital from September 7. As per the Union ministry of home affairs in its guidelines for Unlock 4.0 issued on Saturday, the service will resume in a “graded manner.” Read more Sushant Singh Rajput case: Here are the 14 people facing probeIn the 78 days since Sushant Singh Rajput passed away (since June 14), the CBI has narrowed down its probe and is now focussing on 14 people. Read more Haryana govt revokes order directing markets to be shut on Mondays, Tuesdays: Anil VijHaryana government revoked its August 28 order directing markets to be shut on Mondays and Tuesdays in view of coronavirus crisis, according to cabinet minister Anil Vij. Read more Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer on reports of her confessing to drugs chats: ‘We go by what CBI, ED, police or NCB officially says’Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde dismissed anonymous reports which claimed that she confessed to having drugs-related chats. Read more Covid-19 travelling rules: New dos and dont’s for flights and trainsWherever you’re headed and whatever the reasons, it’s going to take longer and cost more. Airports are distanced and digital. Train bookings open a week in advance. And don’t forget to pack your own snacks. Read more ‘It takes time’: Smriti Irani’s latest Instagram post is all about motivationUnion Minister Smriti Irani often takes to Instagram to share witty or inspirational posts which are highly relatable. Her latest motivational post is no different and now it has left many impressed, including actor Neena Gupta. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-controversy-around-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-australia-some-clerics-raise-concerns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PIgTKVdRwFZQpjJWk9h6jI.html
30-08-2020||India||JCO killed in Pak shelling at LoC in Jammu’s Rajouri||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed in Pakistani shelling along the LoC (Line of Control) in Nowshera sector of Jammu division’s Rajouri district on Sunday morning. A defence official said that Pakistan resorted to ceasefire violation on Sunday morning using small arms at Kalsian, Khanger and Bhawani areas along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri.“A JCO sustained injuries in Pak shelling in the Kalsian sector. He was immediately evacuated to an army hospital but he succumbed to his injuries,” said the official.In the incident, Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” said Colonel Anand.The deceased soldier belonged to Goindwal Sahib village in Khadur Sahib Tehsil of Amritsar district in Punjab.On Saturday, the BSF had detected a transborder tunnel that originated from Pakistan and stretched 150 meters into Samba sector of the union territory. Also Read: Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s SrinagarSince the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, Pakistan has been regularly pushing militants across and also opening heavy fire on the LoC and international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jco-killed-in-pak-shelling-at-loc-in-jammu-s-rajouri/story-pdVNTCWbUYZVFvdOMVfo7M.html
30-08-2020||India||Haryana govt revokes order directing markets to be shut on Mondays, Tuesdays: Anil Vij||Haryana government revoked its August 28 order directing markets to be shut on Mondays and Tuesdays in view of coronavirus crisis, according to cabinet minister Anil Vij.In a tweet, the minister said that the Unlock 4.0 guidelines released by the Centre on Saturday did not allow states to impose a lockdown. केंद्र सरकार ने अनलॉक 4 में प्रदेश सरकारों को लॉक डाउन करने का अधिकार नही दिया है इसलिए हरियाणा सरकार का दिनांक 28 अगस्त का सोमवार और मंगलवार को बाज़ार बंद रखने का आदेश वापिस ले लिया है । इसलिए अब कोई लॉक डाउन नही होगा ।Unlock 4.0, the fourth phase of opening of the economy after coronavirus lockdown, will start from September 1.On Friday, an official spokesperson of the Haryana government had said all shops and shopping malls could now remain open on weekends but would shutdown on Mondays and Tuesdays.Meanwhile, India on Sunday set a grim world record of highest Covid-19 cases reported in 24 hours. With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, the country’s tally has breached the 35 lakh-mark. As many as 63,498 people have died of the infection in India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-directing-markets-in-haryana-to-be-shut-on-mondays-tuesdays-revoked-anil-vij/story-DMPizXjjvFDmdwyfYphpkK.html
30-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee haemodynamically stable, still on ventilator support: Hospital||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continued to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, according to a bulletin issued by the Army Hospital (R&R), Delhi Cantt where he is being treated. The 84-year-old is being treated for lung infection and his condition is haemodynamically stable, the hospital addedAs per doctors, a patient is said to be in a haemodynamically stable condition when his or her blood circulation parameters, which include blood pressure, heart and pulse rate, are normal. Mukherjee suffered at fall at his Rajaji Marg residence in the national capital and was hospitalized on August 10 where he underwent a surgery to remove a clot in his brain. Earlier, he tweeted that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.  On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19. #CitizenMukherjeeWith a political career of five decades, Mukherjee, a senior Congress leader served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-haemodynamically-stable-still-on-ventilator-support-hospital/story-n4qza68XY4ZB8cpOGWzeTL.html
30-08-2020||India||DGCA in touch with Boeing after 3 international airlines pull back 8 Dreamliner aircraft||The country’s aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), is in touch with Boeing after the aircraft-maker asked three international airlines to pull back eight of their B787 (Dreamliner) aircraft on discovering manufacturing defects.Currently, India has 28 operational B787 aircraft (27 with Air India and one with Vistara). Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA, said, “We are in touch with them, if need be suitable action will be taken (sic).” As per latest information, the eight Boeing 787 aircraft belonged to Air Canada, United Airlines and Singapore Airlines. In a telephonic conversation with HT, Boeing spokesperson, said, Boeing has identified two distinct manufacturing issues in certain 787 aircraft “(near or towards the tail of the aircraft) body fuselage sections, which, in combination, result in a condition that does not meet our design standards.”Sources, however, told HT that no 787 flying for Indian airlines’ will be pulled back for this reason. Former defence pilot and aviation expert Vipul Saxena said the aft fuselage portion – called aft pressure bulkhead – that carries the load of rear passengers is made of lightweight or composite material. Also read: Pitching for Made in India toys, PM Modi discusses Aatma Nirbhar plan in Mann Ki Baat“It (aft fuselage portion) helps an aircraft aerodynamically, and is usually made by third party manufacturers. It is subsequently integrated with the front portion of the fuselage using metallic joints, chemical compounds and sealants to withstand the aerodynamic pressure and stress that an aircraft encounters while flying,” said Saxena. “For the safety of aircraft and passengers, there are periodic checks to ensure that the front portion of the fuselage and aft bulkheads are joined together securely and are intact as an integrated body.”Saxena further added, “This step by Boeing is subsequent to observing some signs of material failure due to fatigue /excessive stress, risking safety of aircraft. Hence, Boeing being manufacturers of 787 issued the recall to mitigate the risk in the interest of aircraft and passenger safety.”Boeing also said they have notified and briefed US aviation regulator, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), about the issue. “We are conducting a thorough review into the root cause and in addition, as part of our assessment, we determined that eight airplanes in the delivered fleet are affected by both issues and therefore must be inspected and repaired prior to continued operation. We immediately contacted the airlines that operate the eight affected airplanes to notify them of the situation, and the airplanes have been temporarily removed from service until they can be repaired,” said the spokesperson.This is not the first time when Boeing787 aircraft are reported to have a technical problem. On January 16, 2013, the FAA had issued an emergency airworthiness directive ordering all US-based airlines to ground their Boeing 787s until modifications were made to the electrical system to reduce the risk of the battery overheating or catching fire. This step, which was the first such, was taken after smoke was detected from a Japan Airlines flight from Tokyo landed at Boston’s Logan International Airport in January 2013. Though the smoke was observed after all passengers deboarded, from the plane’s electrical bay, it was later learnt traced to one of its two lithium-ion batteries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-in-touch-with-boeing-after-3-international-airlines-pull-back-8-dreamliner-aircraft/story-Vj7MJtg6w9KyySOFrkMpaK.html
30-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt stresses on safety measures for NEET-JEE tests, Congress intensifies protests||Uttarakhand government is gearing up to conduct the NEET-JEE examinations even as Opposition Congress has started protests across the state on the issue.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday evening instructed all the district magistrates to take necessary protective measures including enforcing necessary physical distancing and limiting the number of students at each centre holding the JEE-NEET examinations in view of the coronavirus pandemic.“Social and physical distancing should be followed and for this, the number of examination centers can be increased if required. Along with this, all the necessary guidelines of JEE-NEET exam should be followed in the larger interest of the students,” said Rawat.Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress has started protesting across the state demanding the postponement of the entrance exams.Pritam Singh, president state Congress unit said, “The prime minister of the country or the chief minister are all working from their homes using different online methods, then why are they forcing students to come out and give exams during a pandemic.”Also Read: With 658 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 18,000-markHe claimed that safety of the entire official apparatus engaged in holding of the examinations as well as of the parents will be compromised if the tests are not postponed.“It is not just about the safety of the students but also their parents and all the staff involved, who will be there during the exam. Just increasing the number of exam centres does not solve the problem, what about the safety of all the support staff needed to conduct the exams,” Singh asked.Also Read: Covid-19: No lockdown in cities conducting JEE, NEET exams, says Odisha govtMost opposition states are demanding postponement of the twin examinations while NDA ruled governments including Uttarakhand government have expressed their willingness to conduct the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-stresses-on-safety-measures-for-neet-jee-tests-congress-intensifies-protests/story-lBKgerG1flimBeKYRWQu6K.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Bring home dogs of local breeds’, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 68th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. Click here for Mann Ki Baat highlightsThe PM’s address comes a day after the Centre releases guidelines for Unlock 4.0, the fourth phase of opening of the economy after coronavirus lockdown. Meanwhile, coronavirus cases in India crossed the 35 lakh-mark according to the health ministry dashboard on Sunday morning.Here are PM Modi’s top quotes from the broadcast:• On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi hailed the discipline shown by people during festival time in view of the coronavirus crisis.• The PM also praised the farmers of India for having proved their mettle during the pandemic. Sowing of Kharif crops has been seven per cent higher than the last year while cotton has been sown about three per cent higher, he said.• ‘I thought about children during Covid-19 lockdown and discussed ways to make India a global hub in making toys’, PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat. • ‘We have given focus on toys in the National Education Policy too. Learning while playing, making toys etc has been made a part of curriculum’, said PM Modi.The global toy industry is worth Rs 7 lakh crore, but India’s share in it is quite small, he said, adding that India now needs to become vocal for local toys.• PM Modi encouraged youth to be more innovative. He asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games and talked about Niti Ayog’s Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge. This challenge is aimed at identifying the best Indian Apps that are already being used by citizens and have the potential to scale and become world class Apps in their respective categories. “India is known as a land of innovators,” he said.• India is celebrating Nutrition Month in September, PM said, pointing out the importance of nutritious diets for pregnant women and children. “Schools are being involved. There should be a nutrition monitor just like there is a class monitor. There should be a nutrition card along with the report card. Such initiatives are also being taken,” the PM said.• PM Modi hailed the role of dogs in various security operations. He spoke about the Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie, who were awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year. He urged all Indians who were thinking of adopting pets to bring home dogs of local breeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-home-dogs-of-local-breeds-says-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-top-quotes/story-PU29dQMYaSX8UwnS4KKkTI.html
30-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Here are the 14 people facing probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has questioned a number of people in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The CBI took over the case after a recommendation from the Bihar government on request from Rajput’s family.In the 78 days since he passed away (since June 14), the CBI has narrowed down its probe and is now focussing on 14 people.Rhea ChakrabortyShe was Rajput’s girlfriend and is the prime suspect. Chakraborty had left the actor’s house on June 8, a few days before his death. Rajput’s family has accused her of siphoning off money from his account, and harassing him mentally. Rajput’s father has accused Chakraborty of abetting his suicide.Showik ChakrabortyHe is the brother of Rhea Chakraborty and was the director in two of the companies floated by Rajput. The actor’s family claims these companies were used to siphon off Rajput’s money.Siddharth PithaniPithani was Rajput’s close friend and his flat-mate. He was present in the house on June 14, when Sushant was found dead. He has told the CBI that Rajput an Chakraborty had a fight before she left the house on June 8.Also Watch: 5 reasons why SC chose CBI probe for Sushant Singh Rajput death case Neeraj SinghHe used to work as a cook at Rajput’s house in Mumbai. He was also present on the day the actor was found dead. The CBI is questioning him.KeshavHe was Rajput’s domestic help. He was also present at Rajput’s house on June 14, and gave him banana, juice and coconut water for breakfast (according to what he has told the CBI).Deepesh SawantSawant was Rajput’s housekeeping manager and used to stay with him. He was among the people who first spotted Rajput’s body.Samuel MirandaHe was Rajput’s former housekeeping manager. He was appointed by Rhea Chakraborty in May last year. He used to manage all the household expenses. Rajput’s family claims Miranda helped Chakraborty in this entire plan.Mahesh ShettyCommon friend of Chakraborty and Rajput. It has been reported that the later actor had called Shetty the night before he died, but they couldn’t speak. The CBI and other agencies involved in the probe are questioning Shetty to know about the relationship between Chakraborty and Rajput.Sandeep SinghHe claims to be a close friend of Rajput. He wasn’t in touch with the late actor after September 2019, but Rajput’s family doesn’t trust him.Surjeet Singh RathoreHe is a member of the Karni Sena and has linked Rajput’s death with Dubai.Jaya SahaShe worked as talen manager for Rajput. Her name was revealed after a link with drugs came to fore in the probe in Rajput’s death. Saha has been accused of giving drugs to Rajput. The investigators have said that Chakraborty spoke to Saha twice on phone on June 14 and five times on June 15.Gaurav AryaHe has also been linked to the drugs angle. Investigators believe he used to supply drugs to Chakraborty.Indrajeet ChakrabortyHe is the father of Rhea Chakraborty. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent summons to him in connection with the probe into missing Rs 15 crore from Rajput’s account.Rajat MewatiHe was Rajput’s former accountant. He was fired after Rhea came in Rajput’s contact. He has claimed that transparency in handling of Rajput’s fund ended after Chakraborty entered his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-here-are-the-14-people-facing-probe/story-b2mC7eSBKDsC2tZYKk19KI.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP to organise ‘Seva Saptah’ next month to mark PM Modi’s 70th birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise a week-long Seva Saptah from September 14 to 20 to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday on September 17.The party has sent a circular to all its state unit chiefs, suggesting activities that could be taken up as part of the week-long campaign.Arun Singh, who is in-charge of the BJP’s central office and a party general secretary, has sent a circular that contained the list of programmes, including social initiatives, with the theme 70 that states have been asked to organise.According to the circular, the programmes will include the presentation of artificial limbs and other equipment to 70 differently-abled people in every district of the country. Spectacles will be distributed to 70 blind people in every district. BJP leaders will distribute fruits in 70 hospitals and poor colonies while complying with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines.Also read: ‘Come, let’s play’ - PM Modi talks about toys in India’s Aatma Nirbhar pushThe party has asked its leaders and members to make arrangement for the donation of plasma to 70 Covid-19 patients in accordance with local hospitals’ need.Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), led by Poonam Mahajan, has been asked to organise at least 70 blood donation camps in major states and at least one camp in every district of smaller states, according to news agency reports.Plantation of 70 saplings in every booth has to be done by BJP workers. Cleanliness drive is to be organised in 70 villages of every district and a pledge will be taken on the occasion to get rid of single-use plastic. Cleanliness drive will be undertaken at 70 public places in each district headquarters.Also, 70 virtual conferences on the Life and Mission of PM will be organised through webinars.The circular stated that the party would not be able to organise exhibitions on the “splendid work” done by PM Modi highlighting various aspects of his personal life because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Instead, the party will circulate 70 slides on the PM’s feat via social media. The BJP’s central leadership has also asked all its Members of Parliament (MPs), members of legislative assemblies (MLAs) and public representatives to participate in all these programmes while adhering to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-mark-pm-modi-s-birthday-bjp-to-organise-seva-saptah-next-month/story-BNUqw4uoa8dIhSttjWagDK.html
30-08-2020||India||JP Nadda chairs virtual meet with Bihar BJP MPs for impending state polls||Ahead of electioneering for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, BJP chief JP Nadda on Saturday chaired a virtual meeting, in which party leaders in the State who are MPs were present.Bihar BJP President Sanjay Jaiswal said that every MP will visit two panchayats every day in September to prepare for the elections. Jaiswal further said that all the MPs will also meet the district officials separately.“There will be virtual meetings in every block and every MP has the responsibility to conduct these meetings,” he added.Earlier on August 23, Nadda addressed the Bihar BJP State working committee via video conferencing and said that BJP, and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will fight elections together under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and win the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar.“BJP, JDU, and LJP will fight elections together and win. We have to add value not only to BJP but to our alliance partners also,” Nadda had said addressing Bihar BJP State Karyasamiti via video conferencing.The party, aiming to retain power in the state, has asked former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to go visit the election-bound state.Bihar has 243 Assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29.The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-chairs-virtual-meet-with-bihar-bjp-mps-for-impending-state-polls/story-tJ7kkqK4BjNX46p76xFiPN.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Come, let’s play’: Pitching for Made in India toys, PM Modi discusses Aatma Nirbhar plan in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday once again exhorted the people of the country to make India self-reliant. Addressing the nation on ‘Mann Ki Baat’, PM Modi focussed on toys to realise this dream.“Global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small. We will have to work to increase it,” he said.The prime minister said that thinking about children during Covid-19 lockdown, and held discussions with industry representatives to increase the production of indigenous toys.He also called upon start-up entrepreneurs to ‘team up for toys’, saying it is time to get vocal for local toys. “Come, let’s play,” said PM Modi on the 68th edition of his monthly radio address.Also read| Verve of Onam can be felt everywhere: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatHe also said that the new National Education Policy too focuses on toys for children to nurture their creativity and innovation quotient. The prime minister also asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and about India.He talked about an app innovation challenge which was held earlier this month in which many indigenous applications won great honours. “Everyone acknowledges capability of Indians to offer innovation, solutions. And when there is dedication and sensitivity, this power becomes limitless,” he said.“Under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat App innovation challenge, there is an app called Kutuki Kids Learning app. This is an interactive app for children in which they can easily learn many aspects of maths, science through songs and stories,” he said. The prime minister also listed other similar apps on different topics.PM Modi also hailed the discipline shown by the people of India during the festival season, which will help check the spread of Covid-19.“We have seen unprecedented restraint and simplicity in our festivals during Covid-19 times,” said PM Modi. “People are being responsible. They are showing great discipline in celebrating festivals.”Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordHe also hailed the farmers for increase in sowing area for different grains. “Our lives and society are driven by the power of agriculture only. Our farmers have proved their mettle even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.The prime minister talked about the importance of nutrition and said it is the duty of every citizen to eat healty food. PM Modi said that apart from children, the women too should have healthy food. “We have a saying ‘Yatha Annam Tatha Mannam’. It means our mental and intellectual development is directly related to the quality of our food intake,” said PM Modi.He ended the Mann Ki Baat address with wishing people good health and urging them to stay safe during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-let-s-play-pitching-for-made-in-india-toys-pm-modi-discusses-aatma-nirbhar-plan-in-mann-ki-baat/story-f6jklWE3oh35I6TFOGv4oJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Two members of Khalistan Zindabad Force arrested for hoisting Khalistan flag on DC office in Punjab||Two suspected members of the banned terror outfit, Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), have been arrested from GT Karnal Road in north Delhi on charges of hoisting a Khalistan flag at a Punjab government office in Moga district on the eve of the Independence Day on August 14, the Delhi Police’s special cell said on Sunday. Police identified the two arrested “hard core members” of the KZF as Inderjeet Singh Gill and Jaspal Singh, who belong to Moga district. Also read: ‘My son had left home to find a job with his brother,’ says father of man lynched in Naraina“On the eve of the Independence Day, the two men had hoisted a Khalistan flag on the roof of the office of district collector of Moga,” said Sanjeev Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police. They had also joined the Sikhs for Justice (SJF), a secessionist group based in the United States of America (USA) that supports the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan. “We had received a tip-off on Saturday evening that the two KZF members would visit Delhi and we could catch them from GT Karnal Road in north Delhi. We laid a trap and nabbed them,” said the DCP Yadav. No weapons were found on them. Delhi Police has alerted its counterparts in Punjab to take custody of the two KZF members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-members-of-khalistan-zindabad-force-arrested-for-hoisting-khalistan-flag-on-dc-office-in-punjab/story-J9iwZmy9NHgI6LBQMPe4xH.html
30-08-2020||India||Verve of Onam can be felt everywhere: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday during his monthly “Mann Ki Baat” programme said that the verve of Onam festival can be felt everywhere and it is turning out to be an international festival. “The zest of Onam today has reached distant shores of foreign lands. Be it America, Europe or Gulf countries, the verve of Onam can be felt everywhere. Onam is increasingly turning out to be an international festival,” the Prime Minister said. “Onam festival is also being celebrated with gaiety and fervour. This festival arrives in the month of Chingam. During this period, people buy something new, decorate their homes, prepare Pookalam, enjoy Onam-Saadiya. Variety of games, competitions also held,” he said. Tere is a close link between nature and our festivals, the Prime Minister stated. “This is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation,” said PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verve-of-onam-can-be-felt-everywhere-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-lPU4fnNgJhVQ8UifUUEPMJ.html
30-08-2020||India||‘My son had left home to find a job with his brother,’ says father of man lynched in Naraina||The youth (23), who was lynched on Friday in west Delhi’s Naraina on suspicion of stealing a mobile phone, was on his way to Gurugram in neighbouring Haryana to find a job with his elder brother’s help. He was caught, tied to a tree and beaten to death , his father alleged. Four men have been arrested for allegedly lynching the victim, identified as Rahul, in a park in Naraina, said Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (west), Delhi Police. The victim was a resident of Jawahar Camp in Kirti Nagar, which is located across the railway tracks from Loha Mandi in Naraina. “We were pestering Rahul to get a job after he was released from jail on August 17. On Thursday at around 8 pm, he packed his clothes and said he was leaving for Gurugram to meet his elder brother, who would help him find a job in his company,” said his father, Raghubir (58). “I had spoken to my eldest son, who had said that he had found a job for Rahul in the same private company, where he works,” said Raghubir, a private security guard in west Delhi’s Mayapuri. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMDThe family members said they had urged Rahul not to leave the house at around 8 pm on Thursday. “I had requested him to leave the next morning, but he was adamant to leave at that point in time. I regret for failing to stop him from leaving,” said Raghubir.The police had received a call about the assault on Rahul at around 6 am on Friday and found him lying unconscious under a tree in the park. A coconut fibre rope and a white muffler found at the spot showed that Rahul was tied to the tree. He succumbed to his injuries at a hospital allegedly due to the thrashing he had received with wooden sticks and iron rods. Raghubir said that it wasn’t the first time Rahul was assaulted. “About two months ago, Rahul was left with a fractured arm after he was roughed up following a quarrel,” said Raghubir. “The police would catch him, whenever there was any crime in our neighbourhood. He could be involved in quarrels and fights, but not in thefts. He was the son of a security guard, who prevents thefts,” Raghubir added. Though police said Rahul was named in a dozen crimes and jailed thrice in the past, they did not find any evidence that he had stolen the mobile phone for which he was lynched. He was sent to jail last in mid-July and released on August 17 for allegedly carrying a knife and a pistol. Rahul is survived by his parents, elder brother, wife and two children.He had got married four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-son-had-left-home-to-find-a-job-with-his-brother-says-father-of-man-lynched-in-naraina/story-RZeknYxNZKaBQ0vnWnXcZM.html
30-08-2020||India||West Delhi car crash: 11-yr-old boy dead, four family members injured||New Delhi: A boy (11), Mayank, died on the spot in a road accident after the car he was travelling in crashed into a road divider and flipped twice at Sector 22 in Dwarka, west Delhi, on Thursday night. Four of Mayank’s family members -- parents, sister (2), and grandmother -- sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dwarka, said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Dwarka), Delhi Police. Mayank’s family lives in an apartment at Pochanpur village in Dwarka. Mayank’s father, Sujeet Kumar (35), owns another property in Pochanpur village that has been put on rent.“The accident occurred at Sector 22 in Dwarka at around 9pm on Thursday while the family was returning from a relative’s home. Kumar was driving the car and Mayank was seated next to him. Kumar’s wife, mother and daughter were in the back seat,” said a Delhi Police official, who is investigating the case.Preliminary probe revealed that some “distraction” caused the car to veer towards its right and crash into the road divider. The vehicle flipped twice before landing on its side. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMD“Mayank’s neck got severed while the car was flipping. Either, the car’s front left window was half open at the time of the accident, or the window’s glass got shattered while the vehicle was flipping,” said the official. Local residents came to the family’s rescue and admitted them to a nearby private hospital. “Mayank had died on the accident spot,” he added. A case of causing death due to negligence and rash driving has been registered against Kumar at Dwarka’s Sector 23 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-delhi-car-crash-11-yr-old-boy-dead-four-family-members-injured/story-LeY52jpBunUx1OCUMVHKsM.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Private hospitals to spare 50% beds for Covid-19 patients if needed’: UP govt||Private hospitals will have to spare 50 percent of their beds for Covid-19 patients and provide treatment at the rates prescribed under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in case the available Level 2 and Level 3 beds in any district fall short of the requirement for coronavirus infection patients, stated an order issued by a state government official.The fee to be taken is also prescribed and coordination for the bed requirement will be done at the district level by the administration and the health department, the order said.The order issued on Saturday by special secretary, UP government, stated that a shortfall may arise as the positivity rate was high in some districts. Some districts have a 5 percent positivity rate while in some others it is up to 10 percent.Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordPrivate hospitals have been divided into two different categories. Rates for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) - accredited hospitals and those not accredited have already been fixed. The new order is in addition to this.Currently, not all beds at private hospitals are being utilised as the number of (non-Covid-19) patients there are fewer. On the other hand, there is a shortage of beds for critical care. Hence, it will be binding on private hospitals to provide 50 percent beds at the Ayushman Bharat scheme rates, the order said.The rates announced earlier in July for private hospitals admitting Covid-19 patients varied from Rs 8,000 to Rs 18,000 per day, depending upon facilities and category of cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-to-spare-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients-if-needed-up-govt/story-1ZA9H2Wb7pNVU9Vgr6nozM.html
30-08-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat 68th edition highlights: PM Modi urges startups to team up for making innovative toys locally||Bring an Indian breed dog home: PM ModiPM Narendra Modi hailed the role of dogs in the security operations in the nation. He also spoke about the Indian Army dogs Vida and Sophie who were awarded the Chief of Army Staff ‘Commendation Cards’ on the 74th Independence Day this year for their role in different operations.He urged the citizens to bring home dogs of Indian breeds next time they think about adopting a pet.PM Modi shares value of nutritionPM Modi said that India is marking Nutrition Month in September that will benefit young children. He also talked about the importance of a nutritious diet for pregnant women. India is known as a land of innovators: PM ModiOn the 68th edition of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi said “India is known as a land of innovators.” He also talked about an Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge.Our responsibility to make India self-reliant: PM Modi”The seed that was sown during non-cooperation movement 100 years ago, it is our responsibility to transform that into a tree of self-reliant India”, says PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi urges startups to team up for making innovative toys locallyIn a push for self-reliance, PM Narendra Modi said that India’s share in the Rs7 crore worth global toy industry is very small and urged startups in the country to team up for making toys and go vocal for local. “The global toy industry is worth Rs 7 lakh crore, but India’s share in it is quite small”, he said. “Making toys for the entire world...India has the talent and the ability to become a toy hub,” he added. National Education Policy focuses on toys too: PM Modi“We have given focus on toys in the National Education Policy too. Learning while playing, making toys etc has been made a part of curriculum”, says PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi pushes for India to become a global hub of making toys“I thought about children during Covid-19 lockdown and discussed ways to make India a global hub in making toys”, PM Modi says on Mann Ki Baat“The best toys are those that bring out creativity,” he said. PM Modi hails close link between nature and our festivalsPM Modi said that there is a close link between nature and festivals in India. He said that many of our festivals inspire us to conserve the environment. Sense of discipline among people due to Covid-19 situation: PM ModiThis is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation, says PM Modi on Mann ki Baat.PM Modi addresses nation on 68th edition of Mann ki BaatPM Modi addresses nation on 68th edition of Mann ki Baat PM Modi to address nation at 11 amPM Narendra Modi will address the nation on his monthly Mann ki Baat programme at 11 am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-68th-mann-ki-baat-address-to-nation-live-updates/story-h1giAEJ5MrSQefvK4BUssJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Amid pandemic, Mumbai’s dabbawalas seek cycle donations; want trains to start||The last time Keshav Jadhav, 35, delivered a lunch box (dabba) on his cycle on March 22, little did he know that it wouldn’t happen again for the next six months. Jadhav, a dabbawala, who lives in a 10x10 room in a chawl complex in Borivali, has been out of work ever since the lockdown was implemented in the city due to rising Covid-19 cases. As he returned to Mumbai from his hometown in Sangli last week, he first headed to the station to fetch his cycle. “Since we were all out of work with offices shut and trains suspended, many of us returned to our hometowns. Our cycles were still parked outside the railway station, but are in a poor condition now due to heavy rains,” said a distraught Jadhav. On Saturday, the Mumbai Dabbawala Association (MDA) appealed to people to donate cycles as they could not afford to pay the maintenance costs of their rusted cycles once work begins. The association has also been demanding the central government to start regular local trains or allow dabbawalas into the essential services category. They will submit a written request to that effect on Saturday. Also read: Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic - 10 things you should knowSubhash Talekar, president, MDA, said with business being at a standstill, dabbawalas, once acclaimed across the world for their professionalism and precision in delivering food, are staring at an uncertain future. “Over the last 6 months, the community has faced a lot of hardships. With local trains remaining shut for so many months, we have no source of income. Many have taken odd jobs like driving auto-rickshaws, gardening etc. to make ends meet. We are thus requesting the government to at least allow us to travel by train. We will take all the necessary precautions and use sanitisers, masks and gloves while delivering dabbas,” he added. Talekar said that even when things reopen, they might still have to struggle to start work. “Our cycles have not been used for so long now as business is closed. Besides, many dabbawalas have gone to their hometowns and thus once they come back, they might have to spend Rs. 7,000 to 8,000 to get them fixed,” he said. A Borivali-based dabbawala said many from the community are forced to move to other means of earning as there is uncertainty around their work. Also read: Unlock 4 from September 1 - What changes, what remains the same“The state government has said things will open in a phased manner. While hotels, offices and everything else is operating, why are dabbawalas, who are considered as the city’s lifeline, not allowed to work? Especially in the current situation wherein people prefer home food due to the risk involved in outside food, our job is very important,” he added. With many corporates introducing work from home policies for their employees, the future seems dismal. Nearly 5,000 dabbawalas are working in the city who deliver meals to people daily. Known for their timely and accurate food deliveries, Mumbai’s dabbawalas have been used as a case study in several management institutes. In 2003, when Prince Charles met a few members of the community, he lauded their work. Ever since, the dabbawalas have always been in the limelight. With the growing uncertainty around the nature of work and the utility of tiffins in future however, the community is now clueless about what the future holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-mumbai-s-dabbawalas-seek-cycle-donations-want-trains-to-start/story-BRvUJwdIZXQefrO8fk8OfN.html
30-08-2020||India||Now, call to oust Ghulam Nabi Azad from Congress citing indiscipline||After venting their ire against senior party leader Jitin Prasada, Congressmen in Uttar Pradesh are now targeting senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and questioning his earlier role as the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh.Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who signed the controversial letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a full-time, “effective”, “active” and “visible” party president.Now, former Uttar Pradesh Congress committee president Nirmal Khatri has accused Azad of forcing the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance on the party in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“As far as I know, Rahul Gandhi, too, was opposed to the alliance, but probably kept quiet due to Azad’s recalcitrance and defeatist political thinking….His principles of political science focused on the politics of alliance,” said Khatri in a post on the social media, directly targeting Azad.In an interview to a news agency, Azad, who is the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, had defended the letter, saying, “Any Congress worker having a genuine interest in the party will welcome the letter.”Khatri has countered the points raised by Azad in his interview after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.“Azad forgot to mention his role as in charge of Uttar Pradesh where he destroyed the Congress. In 1996, the Congress alliance with the BSP failed to work. He (Azad) entered into an alliance with the SP in 2017 and the Congress won the lowest number of seven seats in the state assembly,” Khatri said.He questioned Azad for pointing out that no election had been held in the CWC for the past 23 years and asked why he didn’t raise the issue for so long. He also targeted Azad for raising issues on a public platform, saying “CWC resolved that no leader will ever speak about internal issues. Azad’s interview (to a news agency) is a violation of the spirit of the resolution.”In response to Khatri’s post, a demand to expel Azad from the Congress is being made on social media.“I demand from Soniaji and Rahulji that in the interest of the Congress, Ghulam Nabi Azad should be expelled from all the party posts,” read a post on social media. Khatri, in his posts, had made point-to-point rebuttal to Azad and said he had realized from the latter’s observations that he was senior to Azad.Also Read: UP Congress leaders slam Azad over letterKhatri said Azad got only 320 votes in the first assembly election from Jammu and Kashmir in 1977 while he (Khatri) lost the poll for the Ayodhya assembly seat by 428 votes only.Lakhimpur Kheri district Congress committee (DCC) has already passed a resolution, demanding action against all the 23 senior leaders, including Jitin Prasada. Khatri’s comments, shared by many other partymen on social media, have become a point of discussion in the party circles.Also Read: Congress likely to set up panel for internal polls After the Lakhimpur Kheri resolution, the DCC president Prahalad Patel claimed that DCC passed it under pressure from an office bearer of UPCC.This is not the first time that controversies are in focus in the state unit of the party. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s (UPCC) revamp after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had led to a section of partymen questioning the rejig and accusing the new team led by UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu of being anti-upper caste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-call-to-oust-ghulam-nabi-azad-from-congress-citing-indiscipline/story-1PdmXAKcseldLGuI4isqWP.html
30-08-2020||India||‘Standard Covid-19 treatment protocol is saving lives’: Health ministry||Adherence to standard treatment protocol by all health facilities across the country as well as daily monitoring of positive cases under home isolation has led to progressively improving recoveries from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Union health ministry has said.The total recoveries in India have surpassed 2.7 million, with the current recovery rate reaching 76.47 percent.“A significant feature of India’s management of Covid-19 cases is the growing rate of recovered patients. A higher number of patients are recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases). These recoveries are being achieved because of adherence to the “National Standard Treatment Protocol” by all health facilities across the country as well as by regular daily monitoring of positive cases under home isolation,” said the health ministry in a statement.Also read: With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world recordApart from implementing standard treatment protocol, the ministry also attributes improved numbers to the holistic and strategic policy of testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently in supervised home isolation, facility isolation, and in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.To ensure there is no shortage of skilled doctors to man intensive care units, the health ministry has designated All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, to impart training to critical care experts largely working in peripheral hospitals.Also read: Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic - 10 things you should knowAIIMS, Delhi, through its tele-consultation sessions every Tuesday and Friday is building the clinical treatment capabilities and skills of the doctors in the states. With better ambulance services ensuring reduced response time, focus on the standard of care and use of non-invasive oxygen, steroids and anticoagulants, the recovery rate has not only improved but the case fatality rate (CFR) has also been low when compared to the global average.India’s case fatality rate, which is the percentage of deaths out of total positive cases diagnosed, is on a continuous decline and currently stands at 1.81 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standard-covid-19-treatment-protocol-is-saving-lives-health-ministry/story-V9M4YYtkLXXrUNuqTwmm9J.html
30-08-2020||India||NGT directs pollution control bodies to study impact of brick kilns on MMR air quality||Mumbai: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has questioned the Centre and Maharashtra government on how brick kilns in the densely-populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are being allowed to function because they contribute to the worsening of air quality and also cause a potential health hazard for the public.A brick kiln is a traditional method of baking bricks in an insulated chamber or clamp, which is similar to a large oven, by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them and then setting the fuel on fire. Traditional brick kilns use clay, while the comparatively modern ones use fly ash and other industrial waste for brick manufacturing.A study by the air pollution research group, Urban Emissions, has identified that brick kilns account for 2.3% of all particulate matter (PM2.5) sources for Mumbai. Also read: Maharashtra’s decision on final-year varsity exams to be announced by MondayThe western NGT bench, comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Siddhanta Das, directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities to study the impact of permitting brick kilns in MMR and submit a report within three months. The matter was heard on July 1, while the order was published on August 28. The case will be heard next on October 10.NGT was hearing a January 2, 2018, application by the environment group, Vanashakti, that had sought action – both closure and penal -- against brick kiln manufacturers operating without licences and environment clearance in the MMR. The plea had expressed concern about the desertification in the Tansa valley region. It had drawn the tribunal’s attention to villages in the Thane and Palghar regions. The application had focused on Usgaon village, which has a population of 700 people. But the plea had stated that the MPCB authorities were aware of the fact that there were 35 operational brick kilns, which were located 300 metres away from the village, and posed a grave health hazard for the villagers. NGT noted that the emissions from brick kilns could worsen the air quality in Palghar, Thane, Mumbai and Pune districts. It directed both bodies to assess different types of brick kilns, their respective source emissions based on fuel usage, their impact on degradation of top soil, carrying capacity assessment, including the number of brick kilns, evaluate their performance against background pollutant concentration and carrying capacity of the area, and assess the impact of their operation on ambient air quality.“It is necessary to look at the relevant data at different locations (for) 24-hour and monthly average during the relevant months. CPCB may collect such data for corresponding months of March, April, May and June 2019 and submit them before the next date (October 10). The break-up of location of the brick kilns district-wise may also be submitted,” the order stated.The operation of brick kilns in MMR should be regulated through a graded response action plan (GRAP), it added. “In view of the expected higher concentration of PM emissions during winter months, brick kilns of high pollution in the region may be kept closed during this period,” it further stated.The application had alleged that these illegal activities had not only caused water and air pollution but also affected the flora and fauna of the ecologically-fragile areas close to the Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS) and Tansa river valley. The plea had also drawn attention to the negative impact on agriculture in the Thane and Palghar districts. “The state government is assisting these brick kiln units in illegal manufacturing and transportation of bricks through an informal lobby of builders in the Vasai-Virar and Palghar areas. Though such units are banned in an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), such operations are underway at a rampant pace within the TWLS ESZ,” alleged Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Both CPCB and MPCB officials said they were preparing the report and it would be submitted before the next date of hearing but refrained from commenting on the matter because it was subjudice.Vanashakti’s application had requested the tribunal to provide fly ash at site for brick manufacturers to avoid damaging the environment and to direct authorities to frame a comprehensive policy for regularly monitoring and inspecting brick kilns in Maharashtra. NGT directed both the bodies to provide expert opinion on the issue of using fly ash, which is a by-product for making bricks after coal is burnt at thermal power plants. Fly ash utilisation in making bricks within a 200-kilometre radius of thermal power plants helps reduce groundwater deterioration and improves air quality since it is an environmental hazard, if dumped openly or near water bodies, according to the Central government guidelines. “This NGT order is most welcome because it emphasises the importance of ascertaining the carrying capacity of a region for allowing operation of brick kilns. Many places in MMR have a high number of brick kilns that continue to use old and traditional methods. The order directs the need for a cumulative impact assessment from CPCB and MPCB,” said Zaman Ali, the legal counsel for Vanashakti.According to MPCB’s submissions before the NGT, a site inspection of brick kilns was undertaken between August 21 and 24, 2018, in Thane and Palghar districts, along with members of Vanashakti and the state revenue department. The team had identified around 150 brick kilns in Vasai, Wada and Bhiwandi talukas. Each kiln had around 20,000 to 40,000 bricks and most of them were traditional brick kilns. Some of them had coal stored on the premises or were spotted transporting coal through trucks. The report requested NGT to direct CPCB to formulate and notify emission standards for traditional brick kilns. However, NGT struck down the report, as it did not show the total number brick kilns in the two districts and also failed to highlight whether they were complying with air quality norms.Maharashtra has over 15,000 brick kilns, producing around 17 billion bricks annually. They are located in rural areas in and around Thane, Palghar, Pune, Karad, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Nashik, Kolhapur, and Sangli districts. According to the state environment department, these brick kilns are classified as orange category industries. The brick kiln units that produce more than 50,000 bricks a year require consent under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, but there are no guidelines on emission reduction or fuel technology use. MPCB records show the Thane district alone had 996 brick manufacturers since 1991 of which 33 were using fly ash during manufacturing. The district collector had recommended the cancellation of lease for the rest 963 brick kilns. However, MPCB could not verify how many of these brick kilns had been shut down over the past 29 years..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-pollution-control-bodies-to-study-impact-of-brick-kilns-on-mmr-air-quality/story-UA7FzYFzISHgoAVOuQDmVL.html
30-08-2020||India||ISIS suspect Mustakim Khan used to train youth near his village, wanted to carry out suicide attack: Report||Mohd Mustakim Khan, the terror suspect who was arrested by the Delhi Police earlier this month, used to train the youth near his village in Uttar Pradesh, police officials said.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, Khan used to visit a local mosque in Siddharthnagar district where he would lure the youth towards his cause. He wanted to establish the rule of terror outfit Islamic State in India, officials told Hindustan.He was busy in these activities for- the past two years, Hindustan further quoted officials as saying. Khan wanted to carry out a suicide attack, the officials said. When he got no help, Khan started building the suicide vest by himself, they added.Talking about the methods adopted by Khan, top police officials told Hindustan that around a dozen youth were indoctrinated by Khan but all his efforts were brought to nought by the Delhi Police.Khan, a former cosmetics shop owner, who goes by his alias Abu Yusuf Khan according to police, was allegedly riding a motorcycle from Dhaula Kuan towards Karol Bagh on Friday night, when he was arrested from the Ridge area in New Delhi on August 21.Police said two “pressure cooker-based improvised explosive devices (IEDs)” were seized from him. The IEDs were loaded with around 12 kg of explosives. A pistol and a few bullets were also recovered from Khan.Pramod Kushwah, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police, had said on August 22 that Khan was acting at the behest of his ISIS handlers, who are based abroad, to carry out “lone wolf attacks” at places with a high footfall in the national capital.On Sunday, the DCP said that a host of explosives and devices meant to be used for detonation have been recovered from Khan’s home in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isis-suspect-mustakim-khan-used-to-train-youth-near-his-village-wanted-to-carry-out-suicide-attack-report/story-tniSvFBNggc6cXZScwkAlN.html
30-08-2020||India||Extreme rain, flooding rivers in central India, more rain likely says IMD||New Delhi: Parts of central India recorded exceptional rain in the past two days leading to overflowing reservoirs that are at “extreme flood situation”.Extremely heavy rain was recorded at Chhindwara, Seoni, Hoshangabad and Harda districts of Madhya Pradesh (MP). Chaurai in MP recorded 41 centimetres (cm) of rainfall. The threshold for extremely heavy rain is 20 cm.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), eight dams have breached 100% capacity. Extreme flood situation is declared, when the highest flood level is breached.CWC on Saturday said the Mahanadi river at Kalma in Janjgir Champa and Surajgarh in Raigarh districts, respectively, in Chhattisgarh are flowing in extreme flood situation with a rising trend. Also read: Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today - IMDThe water level of Hirakud dam on river Mahanadi in Odisha is also rising because of the high precipitation in Chhattisgarh. The Wainganga river in MP’s Seoni district continues to flow in extreme flood situation due to which very heavy inflows are coming into the Sanjay Sarovar dam. River Narmada at Gadarwara in Jabalpur, MP, is also flowing in extreme flood situation. Narmada is in flood in its upper and middle reaches up to the Sardar Sarovar dam because of extremely heavy rainfall in its catchment area, CWC’s Saturday report said.There is a well-marked low-pressure area lying over western MP and adjoining eastern Rajasthan. It is likely to move west and north-westwards during the next two days and weaken gradually, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Sunday bulletin. The monsoon trough -- the line of low pressure --- is active and is lying south to its normal position -- from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal.Widespread and very heavy rain is very likely over eastern Rajasthan and Gujarat on Sunday and over west Rajasthan on Sunday and Monday.Widespread and heavy rain; thunderstorms are lightning are very likely over north-west India and the western Himalayan region on Tuesday and Wednesday, the bulletin said.The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) had released a report called “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, earlier this year. The report had stated that from 1950 onwards there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme heavy rain events over central India along with a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events.A study published in the Nature journal in 2017 by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) had concluded that there was a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India between 1950 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-rain-flooding-rivers-in-central-india-more-rain-likely-says-imd/story-OJ937h15d9zGNRuZXgfB7J.html
30-08-2020||India||With nearly 79,000 new cases of Covid-19, India sets grim world record||India on Sunday recorded 78,761 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data. This pushed the nationwide tally to 3,542,733.The number of active cases in the country stand at 7,65,302, while the death toll has reached 63,498. The health ministry update on Sunday said that 948 people died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.The ministry, meanwhile, said on Saturday that the country’s recovery rate has reached 76.47 per cent which it said has been made possible by the strategic policy of “testing aggressively, tracking comprehensively and treating efficiently” in supervised home-isolation, facility-isolation and hospitals.The case fatality rate (CFR) has also been low when compared to the global average. It is on a continuous decline and currently stands at 1.81 per cent, the health ministry said.A significant feature of India’s management of Covid-19 cases is the growing rate of recovered patients. A higher number of patients are recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation, it highlighted.Health minister Harsh Vardhan chaired a meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 on Saturday where he said that India has one of the lowest cases per million and deaths per million compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively.The meeting was informed that as of Saturday, eight states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana - contribute to around 73% of the active caseload of the country.Seven states - Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal - account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.On the Covid-19 vaccine front, Dr Vinod K Paul, chairperson of the empowered group-1 on medical emergency management plan, said that India was progressing satisfactorily. He further apprised the group of ministers of the process of Covid vaccine development in India and around the world.As of now, 29 vaccine candidates, including two Indian ones, are in clinical trials; out of which six are in Phase 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-79-000-new-cases-of-covid-19-india-sets-grim-world-record/story-JBYibFMqdCPdL2omb0587O.html
30-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Some educational institutes allowed to open, states can call 50% of staff||The Union home ministry on Saturday announced the guidelines for the fourth phase of relaxations in the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In the latest round of relaxation, called Unlock 4, metro train services have been allowed to resume from September 7, but in a graded manner.Schools and colleges will, however, still remain closed and the government will hold sepatate discussion before opening up these educational institutions.However, resumption of some educational activities has been allowed by the government. Here is a look at them:The guideline issued by Union home ministry says that students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians, adds the guideline.It also says that from September 21, states and union territories may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be issued by the Union health ministry separately, the guideline says.Skill or entrepreneurship training will be permitted in National Skill Training Institutes, Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), short-term training centres registered with National Skill Development Corporation or State Skill Development Missions or other ministries of government of India or state governments from September 21.National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers will also be permitted.Higher education institutions only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental works will be permitted. But the Department of Higher Education will discuss the situation with the home ministry before giving the orders, according to the guideline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-some-educational-institutes-allowed-to-open-states-can-call-50-of-staff/story-hZ2KjWCwlb0SYnvbvhqZ1N.html
30-08-2020||India||BJP to observe ‘Seva Saptah’ to mark PM Modi’s 70th birthday on September 17||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will observe ‘Seva Saptah’ from September 14 to September 20 to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17. Party leaders will take various social initiatives across the country to mark the week. All state unit chiefs have been sent circulars with a list of programmes to be carried out during ‘Seva Saptah’.Also read: PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am todayThe theme of the programmes will be ‘seventy’ as the Prime Minister turns 70 this year.Presentation of artificial limbs and other equipment to 70 differently-abled people in every Mandal of the country, presentation of spectacles to 70 blind people, cleanliness drives in 70 villages of every district and distribution of fruits in 70 hospitals and poor colonies are some of the activities that will be carried out by BJP leaders, the circular said.The party has also asked leaders to make arrangement for donation of plasma to 70 Covid-19 patients on this occasion. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha led by Poonam Mahajan has been asked to organise at least 70 blood donation camps in big states and at least one donation camp in every district of small states, the circular added.Also read: In self-reliance push, PM Modi says govt aims to increase defence manufacturingOn the occasion, 70 virtual conferences on ‘Life and Mission of the Prime Minister’ will be organised through webinars.Seventy slides on aspects of his personal life and work done for the development of the nation will be displayed on social media, as an exhibition to display these cannot be organised amid Covid-19 crisis.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-observe-seva-saptah-to-mark-pm-modi-70th-birthday-on-september-17/story-pfJH1A7ODABd7MjS7AeuvJ.html
30-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD says Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rainfall today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi likely to receive light to moderate rain today: IMDAfter a hot and humid day, Delhi is likely to get relief from the heat with light to moderate rain and thundershowers expected on Sunday. Also, gusty winds are likely to keep the weather pleasant throughout the day, said officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreJammu-Srinagar national highway to be thrown open for fresh trafficFollowing an improvement in weather conditions and progress in restoration works, the 270 km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway is likely to be thrown open to fresh traffic on Sunday enabling supply of essentials to the valley. Read moreTop union ministry officials review management of Covid-19 in UTsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla and secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday jointly reviewed the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the country’s union territories (UTs). Read moreDonald Trump’s intel chief ends election security briefings on Capitol HillThe nation’s top intelligence official has informed Congress that his office will no longer give in-person election security briefings on Capitol Hill, a move that raised concern among lawmakers Saturday about the public’s right to know about foreign interference in the upcoming presidential election. Read more‘MS Dhoni was not able to finish off games the way he used to earlier’: RP Singh on what led to MSD’s retirementFormer India fast bowler RP Singh, one of MS Dhoni’s closest friends in the cricketing circuit believes the postponement of the T20 World Cup to 2022 has played a role in the former India captain’s decision to retire from international cricket. Read moreKangana Ranaut says top actor tried to silence her because she knows ‘secrets’ about his drug overdoseActor Kangana Ranaut has alleged that a ‘top star’ had a drug overdose and tried to get her jailed because she knows secrets about him. In an interview to Republic TV, Kangana said that she was witness to drug consumption on the sets of the star’s film. Read moreLove the highly relatable ‘mother with sign’ Instagram page? Here’s how it all startedIf you are a regular user of the Internet, then you may have seen a post or two by Poonam Sapra, who is more popularly known by her Instagram alias ‘mother with sign’. Read moreThe lessons learnt while suiting up for Zoom“There are days when I change from one set of PJs to another, and then there are days when I put on jeans because I’ve missed being in them,” laughs celebrity stylist Saanchi Gilani when asked about her preferred attire to wear months after being in lockdown. Read moreWatch| CU Soon: Director Mahesh Narayanan on the new wave of Malayalam cinemaCU Soon director Mahesh Narayanan talks to Hindustan Times about coming up with innovative techniques to shoot his lockdown thriller on phone and computer screens, and why Kerala is the hotspot for the best Indian films being made right now. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-says-delhi-likely-to-receive-light-to-moderate-rainfall-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-76pifSEBN7coJ8r1O0exqI.html
30-08-2020||India||Unlock 4 from September 1: What changes, what remains the same||The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.With these guidelines, the government has allowed more activities outside the containment zones, but has kept some things unchanged.What is new in Unlock 4 guidelines?• The metro trains, which has been shut since March, when the first phase of the lockdown came into effect, have been allowed to resume services from September 7. The resumption, however, will be gradual, the Centre said in its guidelines. In this regard, standard operating procedure will be issued by the Centre later.• Bars, which have been shut since March, will be allowed to open from September 1.• In a significant directive, the home ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.• Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 people, with effect from September 21 but the organisers have to ensure social distancing norms and wearing of masks is followed.• Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.• Open-air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21.What remains unchanged?• Apart from some relaxations for students of Class 9 to 12, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30.• Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain shut.• International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by the home ministry, will not be allowed.• There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission, approval, e-permit will be required for such movements.• Vulnerable persons - those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years - have been advised to stay at home.• The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged, according to the guidelines.The coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31.The Unlock process had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities.Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-from-september-1-what-changes-what-remains-the-same/story-d5x9u21h05Cfnc44c49WWN.html
30-08-2020||India||Metro travel during Covid-19 pandemic: 10 things you should know||New Delhi: After five months, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will finally resume its service in the national capital from September 7. As per the Union ministry of home affairs in its guidelines for Unlock 4.0 issued on Saturday, the service will resume in a “graded manner” and standard operating procedures will be issued by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry.Metro services in Delhi were shut on March 22.While the decision is a big relief for commuters in the city, travelling in Metro trains is no longer going to be the same. The DMRC has prepared SOPs for Metro operations, which will be modified as per the HUA ministry’s guidelines.Here are 10 things you should know:1. No tokens, only smart cards: The DMRC plans to do away with the token system to bring down the infection risk. To ensure contactless and cashless travel in Metro, the DMRC recently launched a smart card with automatic top-up facility. Commuters can avail the facility by downloading Autope, a mobile application specially developed for this purpose. The card will be automatically recharged with Rs 200 at the automatic fare collection (AFC) gates whenever the value goes below Rs 100. Commuters can upgrade their old mobility cards to the new one.2. Social distancing in trains: Commuters can sit on alternate seats. DMRC has put posters to mark seats where commuters can’t sit. This has been done to ensure social distancing in trains. Standing inside trains is likely to be allowed, but commuters will have to maintain a gap of six-foot between each other.Also read: After spike in cases, Delhi amps up Covid-19 norms enforcement3. Social distancing at stations: DMRC has put markers on the floors of the stations and platforms indicating space where commuters can stand while waiting for the train or at the customer service counter. This has been done to ensure social distancing norms are followed.4. Frisking and thermal checking: The moment a person will arrive at a metro station a CISF personnel will check their temperature using thermal scanners. Only those with normal temperature and face mask will be allowed entry. The passengers will be frisked just the way it used to happen earlier.5. Precautionary measures: Wearing masks will be mandatory inside the stations and during the journey. Hand sanitisers will be placed on stations. Trains will be sanitised after regular intervals. Also read: India’s Saturday Covid-19 count more than worst-hit US’ July 25 spike6. Using lifts and escalators: Only three people will be allowed at one time in a lift and commuters will have to maintain a one step gap on escalators.7. Train stoppage time: The stoppage time of trains on each station will increase to ensure social distancing between commuters while boarding/de-boarding trains. The current stoppage time is 10-20 seconds.8. Limited entry gates to open: In order to ensure there is no crowding at the stations, DMRC has decided to limit the entry/exit points at each station. There are some stations such as Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat, etc .,which have more than two entry and exit points. DMRC is planning to open “a specified number of gates” to manage the crowd at stations. 9.Temperature control: It is no longer going to be cold inside the trains. The DMRC will maintain a temperature of 26 degree Celsius in the trains.10. Fine for flouting norms: Travelling without a face mask, sitting on seats that are meant to be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing, spitting, and littering in trains or platforms, may attract hefty fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-travel-during-covid-19-pandemic-10-things-you-should-know/story-C3rL2OcH2XLwRfUzNYHlzI.html
30-08-2020||India||Jammu-Srinagar national highway to be thrown open for fresh traffic||Following an improvement in weather conditions and progress in restoration works, the 270 km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway is likely to be thrown open to fresh traffic on Sunday, enabling supply of essentials to the valley. In the morning, stranded vehicles from the Srinagar side were being allowed to pass through the highway, which became incommutable on Wednesday due to damage caused by incidents of landslide and incessant rains. SSP National Highway, JS Johar, said stranded traffic from Srinagar was being allowed to come down to Jammu. Thereafter, up traffic carrying essentials to Kashmir shall be allowed. On Saturday, the administration was only allowing vehicles stranded for 4 days to pass through towards Srinagar after a partial restoration of the highway. Also Read: Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Srinagar“Priority will be accorded to trucks carrying essential supplies to Valley,” Johar said indicating that the movement of fresh traffic towards Srinagar will be allowed soon on the highway. A portion of road had been washed away in a mudslide at Dalwas on Wednesday in Ramban district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-to-be-thrown-open-for-fresh-traffic/story-Zjrpn2eJl3ADHSkEf3liGO.html
30-08-2020||India||Top union ministry officials review management of Covid-19 in UTs||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday jointly reviewed the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the country’s union territories (UTs). The review by the top union ministry officials to check the measures adopted was done for UTs namely Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu through video conferencing on Saturday. During the virtual meeting, senior officials from these union territories briefed the two secretaries about several steps taken by them to combat the spread of Covid-19 such as isolation of infected patients, availability of doctors, para-medical staff and testing management of positive cases. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe secretaries advised the officials to ramp up testing facilities, ensure proper surveillance for early detection of cases along with other measures such as social distancing, regular sanitization, wearing of masks etc. Meanwhile, the Centre issued guidelines for Unlock 4 which will come into effect from September 1 with an aim to open more economic activities outside the containment zones. A home ministry release stated that the fresh guidelines are based on feedback received from states and UTs along with consultations held with several central ministries and departments. As per the guidelines, metro rail services are allowed to resume in a graded manner from September 7 and all public gatherings- political, social, religious - will be allowed with crowds of not more than 100 people. Also read| Unlock 4 from September 1: What changes, what remains the sameHowever, educational institutions and coaching centres along with movie halls, swimming pools and similar places will continue to remain closed till September 30. Earlier, Union home secretary Bhalla wrote to chief secretaries of states and UTs asking them to not impose any local lockdown outside containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre.According to the union health ministry’s dashboard, India’s Covid-19 tally on Friday went over 3.4 million after 76,472 cases and 1,021 deaths were registered in the last 24 hours. The total cases include 752,424 active cases, nearly 2.7 million recoveries and 62,550 deaths. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-union-ministry-officials-review-management-of-covid-19-in-uts/story-DmNq3idDif0085fP38K5FM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s count of nearly 79,000 Covid-19 cases on Saturday more than worst-hit US’ July 25 spike||India on Saturday recorded its highest-ever single-day spike of the number of coronavirus disease cases, even higher than the worst-affected United States.Data on new Covid-19 cases from various states and union territories shows that the country recorded 78,751 new cases of the coronavirus disease pushing tally to 34,63,972, according to news agency PTI. The death toll stands at 62,550, PTI reported quoting the data of the Union health ministry.The number of cases is higher that the worst day of United States which recorded 78,427 new cases of the disease on July 25, the country was recording a surge in the daily cases. The number of cases has fallen since in the US.The ministry said that 26,48,998 people have so far recovered from the infection.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that eight states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana - contribute to around 73 per cent of the active caseload of the country.Seven states - Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal - account for 81 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.He also said that India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively.At a meeting conducted to review the current status of the coronavirus outbreak in India, the health minister said: “...despite being resource constrained and densely populated, timely lockdown and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have enabled to keep the case per million and deaths per million considerably lower compared to other countries.”Among the key challenges that the government was currently facing in stopping disease transmission was to ensure people strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-count-of-nearly-79-000-covid-19-cases-on-saturday-more-than-worst-hit-us-july-25-spike/story-LuGMWnrBYp7ju8o2vgmaWJ.html
30-08-2020||India||Book on Lalit Bhasin’s life released||A pictorial biography on senior lawyer and chairperson of the Society of Indian Law Firms (SILF), Lalit Bhasin, was released on Saturday by eminent jurist Fali S Nariman.The coffee table book titled ‘Lalit Bhasin – A Lifetime Dedicated to Law’ was released at a function organised at Nariman’s residence in south Delhi. Bhasin, who has been at the forefront of promoting interests of law firms in India through SILF, which was founded in 2000, said that the book is dedicated to the legal profession and lawyers of the country.Bhasin, 81, was born in Rawalpindi, which is now in Pakistan. His father TR Bhasin was a well-known senior lawyer whose last assignment was as counsel for the Khosla Commission, constituted in 1970 to probe into the disappearance of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. Bhasin pursued law from Faculty of Law, Delhi University and started his law practice in 1962. The book, published by Matrix Publishing Group, captures Bhasin’s life from his pre-Partition days as a child in Rawalpindi to his shift to Delhi and rise in Delhi legal circles.“Life was not a bed of roses after Partition when we were uprooted from Rawalpindi. It was a period of struggle. What I have tried to convey in this book about me is that one can start from scratch and yet achieve one’s goals if one has the mission in mind and work towards it,” Bhasin told HT.Bhasin said that Sanjay Sethi, who is the CEO of the Matrix Group, contacted him a couple of years ago, saying he wanted to bring out a coffee table book about Bhasin’s life as a lawyer. “He really prevailed upon me to bring out this book. Thereafter, I devoted a lot of time with him since we had to capture about 81 years of my life out of which 58 years were (in) the (legal) profession,” Bhasin said. “This is an excellent book and makes for a very interesting read,” Fali Nariman said at the launch.Bhasin has previously served as chairperson of the Bar Council of Delhi and is also the current president of the Bar Association of India, which is a federation of various lawyers’ bodies.“My mission has been to give back to the society and to help legal professionals, particularly the junior members of the bar who might not have libraries or resources. I also wanted to make Indian legal profession known throughout the world. We have been able to do that through the Bar Association of India and through Society of Indian Law Firms which have placed India on the world map of the legal profession. Now, Indian lawyers are considered as second to none. I am very happy to see India’s legal profession emerge as a force to reckon with,” Bhasin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-on-lalit-bhasin-s-life-released/story-w6ZtTfp0eJjM6FcmZFWmdP.html
30-08-2020||India||Police personnel killed, 3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Srinagar||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of police lost his life and three terrorists were killed by security forces in an encounter that broke out at Pantha Chowk in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Saturday night. The encounter ensued after terrorists fired upon a checkpoint manned by Police and CRPF at Pantha Chowk, a police official said.The joint parties of the forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation there. During the search, terrorists fired upon search parties again, who retaliated, leading to an encounter, said the official.The operation is underway and more details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-1-security-personnel-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar/story-tdIzl4KdEu1PKMA34As30J.html
30-08-2020||India||Assam minister, three more BJP MLAs test positive for Covid-19||Assam hill areas development minister Sum Ronghang became the first minister of the BJP-led state government to contract Covid-19, even as three more saffron party MLAs tested positive, officials said on Saturday.A total of 20 legislators have so far tested positive for coronavirus in the state, they said.Ronghang, also the mines and minerals minister, has received flak for getting admitted to a private hospital here without informing anyone in his office, after testing positive on August 25.“His action has evoked sharp reactions as these things should not be hidden. Unfortunately, his driver and a PSO have also tested positive,” an official said.Apart from Ronghang, Ganesh Kumar Limbo (Barchalla), Sibu Misra (Lumding) and Bir Bhadra Hagjer (Haflong) also tested positive and are being treated at different hospitals, officials said.While Limbo and Misra’s test results came out on Friday, Hagjer was diagnosed with Covid-19 through a rapid antigen test (RAT) inside the assembly premises.The assembly is conducting RAT for all its employees, officials, MLAs and media persons ahead of the four-day Autumn Session from Monday.During the two-day testing in the assembly, the reports of 14 persons, including a journalist and an MLA, have come out positive, another official said.Out of the 20 legislators who have contracted the virus, 12 are from the BJP and four from its allies, including two from the AGP.Former chief minister Tarun Gogoi had tested positive on August 25 and was admitted to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kamakhya Prasad Tasa, too, tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-minister-three-more-bjp-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-38Ta1CF3AShUFGmpj296WM.html
30-08-2020||India||PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 68th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday.“Tune in at 11 AM on 30th August,” the PM tweeted on Saturday.Earlier this month, he had sought suggestions from people on Twitter on topics to discuss in this edition of the programme. “What do you think should be discussed during this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 30th?” he asked on Twitter.He had tweeted to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. Phone lines have been opened from August 10.Every month in his address to the nation, the PM discusses a range of issues the country faces, talks about what the upcoming month is going to bring for the county and comment on the previous month’s achievements and developments. In the 67th edition of Mann Ki Baat on July 26, also Kargil Vijay Diwas, PM Modi paid tributes to the soldiers who fought valiantly against Pakistan’s forces during the Kargil War. He also reiterated that people need to follow all precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease. Sunday’s programme will be streamed live on the following websites, the official Twitter account of the Bharatiya Janata Party tweeted:• http://facebook.com/BJP4India• http://pscp.tv/BJP4India• http://youtube.com/BJP4India• http://bjplive.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today/story-5ThiU3O7kyQIZLLzKExocL.html
30-08-2020||India||A balance between societal dynamics, policy-making must||It may be hard for diplomats to digest, but the Indian Street has often displayed better instincts than Lutyens’ Delhi when it comes to assessing opportunities and risks abroad. Their geopolitical understanding may not be formal. But they intuitively know with whom to trade and where to travel. Their choices in emigration and education were made well ahead of policy shifts by Indian diplomacy. A game-changing event like 9/11 was seen for what it was. The sharp popular imagery of nations has also captured the complexity of diplomacy. Say what you will, but the Street has a well-developed instinct, whether it is about Russia or America, China or Pakistan.Now, this is not to suggest that the measured deliberations of statecraft are less important than the passions of society. But it is also a fact that we have entered a different era where the availability of information, tools of technology and cultural identities drive contemporary nationalism. The democratization of societies that bring to the fore more grounded politics also contributes to this process. Therefore, convolutions of policy and the accumulated weight of experiences sometimes struggle to meet the demands of society, particularly on issues where public opinion is exercised. The challenge today is to strike the right balance between societal dynamics and the mechanics of policy making. Mandarins can no longer be impervious to the masses.An inability to reconcile the two can only come at the cost of political credibility, a phenomenon that we have seen in so many other countries. India is obviously not immune to this paradigm shift and the changed discourse reflects a newer era with its own driving forces. How to capture Indian nationalism in policy terms is a complex task that must simultaneously address issues of history, identity, interests and politics.Among the more arrogant assertions of an era of hubris was that of the ‘end of history’. The complacency of this pronouncement is only matched by its limitation as a Eurocentric analysis that disregarded what was happening in Asia at the same time. But nevertheless, we were supposedly staring at a universal and invincible globalized order led by the US. However, what appeared then as permanent was a transient moment of American unipolarity, as it was with other powers in history before. Larger competitiveness and political contestation proceeded to return the world to a more natural diversity. The real truth about this revival of nationalism is that it has actually been a very durable basis for organizing societies. At various times, it has defeated conflicting ideologies that appealed to both larger and narrower loyalties. Multinational empires struggled with nationalist sentiment and by and large, lost out. But national entities that encountered sub-national dissensions have usually won. Western imperialism was eventually undone by nationalist sentiments awakening in their former colonies.Communism was the next of the transnational ideologies on a global scale. This too eventually foundered when socialism acquired national characteristics.Faith-based movements have also attempted to cut across national divides. Being outcomes of high emotion and exceptional circumstances, nationalism eventually returns them to business as usual. The globalization of our era represents yet another effort at transcending an entrenched organizational principle of modern politics. But because it rests on a deeper technology basis and stronger economic interests, its tension with nationalism will continue for the foreseeable future.Contestation between two such powerful rationalizations is not unnatural. So, rather than visualize either of them as an event, we should see them as currents of history. Coming in different sizes and shapes, nationalism can be assertive, reactive or just expressive. The confident category reflects the real and psychological outcome of shifts in the world power hierarchy. It is represented by the rise of nations like China and India, of a continent like Asia and the consequent rebalancing of the global order. A second driver of greater nationalism is its very opposite: the reaction in more privileged societies to this rebalancing. The offshoring of manufacturing and creation of extensive global supply chains has inevitably had an impact on the West. A third category is the accumulated impact of how sharper cultural identities across the world have played on each other. The epicenter for that has been West Asia; and other regions have reacted to it over time. We should expect uneasy coexistence and shifting equations between globalist and nationalist forces as neither can prevail. And the world it will produce will be very contentious.India is no exception to the larger trends that have strengthened nationalism. In emotional terms, nationalism obviously contributes to a stronger sense of unity. In political terms, it signifies a greater determination to combat both sub-national and supra-national challenges to it. In policy terms, it focuses on how to maximize national capabilities and influence.In India’s current situation, that has a particular relevance to security. Overall, a nationalistic foreign policy outlook is likely to approach the world with more confidence and greater realism. What may be different about India is that unlike in many other powers, that sense of nationalism does not translate into an ‘us versus the world’ mentality. For reasons that derive from our innate pluralism, there is a tradition of reconciling the nationalism with global engagement. Not driven by victimhood, it has the potential to serve as a bridge between the established and emerging orders.At a time when most are pursuing interests narrowly, it is to India’s benefit that it takes a more expansive view of the world. By stepping forward in difficult situations, it can not only underline its greater capabilities and confidence but also build its unique brand as a generous power. This imagery fits in well with the embrace of the world that is inherent in Indian thinking and reinforces its positioning as a power that can bridge divides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-balance-between-societal-dynamics-policy-making-must/story-2BLrix8VPqwQkkuZ0Hv9cM.html
30-08-2020||India||GST: States will get waiver if they opt to borrow Rs 97,000 crore||States will not have to pay either the principal or interest if they opt to borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation arising from GST implementation issues, but they will have to bear significant interest costs if they choose to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which includes revenue losses arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union finance ministry said in a statement released Saturday. In the case of option 1, the interest and the principal will both come from the compensation cess levied on luxury products and sin goods, and in option 2, only the principal will come from this, finance ministry officials said on condition of anonymity. They added that the cess on such products will continue beyond the current deadline of June 30, 2022. The compensation cess was originally levied only for a five-year period to bridge shortfalls in the guaranteed payments to states with 14% growth in revenue. As the proposed debt options will be serviced from the compensation cess fund, the levy will continue for longer, the officials said.The government has sought to distinguish between the shortfall arising from GST implementation — by the letter of the law, it is liable to pay only this to the states — and that from an “Act of God”, in this case, Covid-19. It is a nuance that isn’t lost on the states, with those ruled by non-BJP parties outraged by the idea. At the 41st GST Council meet held on Thursday, the Centre offered the two options to the states and promised to share details by Saturday.The Union finance ministry said in its Saturday statement: “The two borrowing options to meet the GST Compensation requirement for 2020-21 consequent to the discussions in the 41st meeting of the GST Council held on 27th August, 2020 has been communicated to States.” States have been given seven working days to communicate their preference, it added.“A meeting of State Finance Secretaries with the Union Finance Secretary and Secretary (Expenditure) is scheduled to be held on 1st September, 2020 for clarifying issues, if any,” it said.Opinion | Why the GST framework is in troubleExplaining details of the two options proposed to the states, the Centre’s communiqué to the states said, in case they opt for the second option to borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore, they will have to pay interest from their own resources. One of the officials mentioned above said the GST Act provides for compensation to the states for the loss of revenue arising “on account of implementation” of GST. “In essence, the compensation payable is the projected revenue (at a compound growth rate of 14% from the base figure of 2015-16) minus the actual revenue in each period,” he said, citing from the Act.“Therefore, the Rs 97,000 crore is fully covered by GST compensation cess as per the law, and interest on borrowings over and above that amount will be borne by the states. In any case, the principal will be eventually paid from the cess fund,” he added.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017 and also guarantees that their revenue shortfall, if any, would be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and tobacco products.An indirect tax expert said on condition of anonymity that the Centre’s letter issued on Saturday could split the council. “This could polarise the GST Council. It appears that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states will go for the first option and the Opposition-ruled states may go for the second option as they would like to borrow more to tide over the current crisis,” he said.Also read | After 5-hr meet on GST compensation, states get 7 days to choose from 2 optionsWest Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra will hold a press conference at 2pm on Sunday to explain why the centre’s proposal on GST is totally unacceptable, said a Trinamool Congress leader who didn’t wish to be named.MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India, said: “It will not be an easy choice for the cash-strapped states. The communiqué, however, makes it clear that neither Centre nor states are willing to include more items under the ambit of cess or raise its rates at least for a year because of the prevailing economic condition. But, it fails to address the larger issue of raising GST collection at a time when overall tax revenue, for both Centre and the states, is falling.”“Unfortunately, businesses and consumers have no respite. Cess on luxury items and sin goods will continue, but certain items such as passenger vehicles, two-wheelers are neither luxury items nor sin goods. It will adversely impact the business sentiment, particularly in the automobile sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-states-will-get-waiver-if-they-opt-to-borrow-97-000-cr/story-XUSIz00cLIxJ93oYxP0bsO.html
30-08-2020||India||EAM S Jaishankar says strain on LAC peace to impact ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the importance of China adhering to agreements struck over the years with India on how the two countries will approach border issues and said that there will be issues if “peace and tranquillity is put under stress”. His comments are significant, coming as they do amidst differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process at the Line of Actual Control between the two nations.Jaishankar said that the relationship between the two countries moved forward on various other dimensions, including the economic one, because of these agreements and the fact that both countries followed them. “Clearly, if we want peace and tranquillity on the border, we need to adhere to those (previous) agreements… There will naturally be issues if the peace and tranquillity is put under stress,” Jaishankar told Hindustan Times in an interview.Also Read:India withdraws from multi-nation war games involving ChinaIndia has stressed on the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the border standoff along the LAC amid differences despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks.The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key areas.Also Read: New satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku LaSpeaking about which American President will be better from India’s perspective, the minister said: “If you look at the last four American presidents, two Republicans and two Democrats — each very different from the other. Yet, each raised the level of relationship with India further… Different sets of politicians who disagree on many things agree on India. And I think that is a very good place to be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-says-strain-on-lac-peace-to-impact-ties/story-dlglIlpxvl3z8rerYkuI4H.html
30-08-2020||India||RIL to acquire Future’s key businesses for Rs 24,713 crore||Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL), a subsidiary of the Mukesh Ambani-promoted Reliance Industries Limited, on Saturday announced it is the acquiring the Kishore Biyani-founded Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing businesses for Rs 24,713 crore.Mint reported on June 11 that Reliance Retail was in advanced discussions to acquire these businesses from the debt-laden Future Group.The all-cash deal -- it got a go-ahead on Saturday following a board meeting of Future Enterprises Limited (FEL) -- has been carried out on a “slump sale” basis, according to a media statement by RIL. It is subject to adjustments as set out in the composite scheme of arrangement, the release added. A “slump sale” is the transfer of undertakings through the sale for a lump sum amount without values being assigned to individual assets and liabilities.As a part of the acquisition, Future Group will merge companies involved in some of the businesses listed above into FEL. The retail and wholesale undertaking of Future Group will be transferred to Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited (RRFLL), a wholly owned subsidiary of RRVL. The logistics and warehousing undertaking will be transferred to RRVL directly. The deal will boost Reliance’s retail presence and further its e-commerce ambitions to leverage the Jio mobile phone service’s subscriber base to compete with existing market leaders Amazon and Flipkart. Reliance Retail already runs several retail formats in grocery, electronics and apparel. Some of the big Future Group retail brands that it will now control include Big Bazaar, Fashion at Big Bazaar, Easy Day, Foodhall, and Brand Factory.“As a result of this reorganisation and transaction, Future Group will achieve a holistic solution to the challenges that have been caused by Covid and the macro economic environment. This transaction takes into account the interest of all its stakeholders including lenders, shareholders, creditors, suppliers and employees giving continuity to all its businesses”, said Kishore Biyani, the group CEO of Future Group. Isha Ambani, director, RRVL, said in a statement issued by the company: “With this transaction, we are pleased to provide a home to the renowned formats and brands of Future Group as well as preserve its business ecosystem, which have played an important role in the evolution of modern retail in India. We hope to continue the growth momentum of the retail industry with our unique model of active collaboration with small merchants and kiranas as well as large consumer brands. We are committed to continue providing value to our consumers across the country.” RRFLL has also proposed to invest ~1,200 crore in the preferential issue of equity shares of FEL to acquire 6.09% of post-merger equity holding; and ~400 crore in a preferential issue of equity warrants which, upon conversion and payment of balance 75% of the issue price, will result in RRFLL acquiring a further 7.05% of FEL. FEL will, however, retain the manufacturing and distribution of FMCG goods, integrated fashion sourcing and manufacturing business, its insurance joint ventures with Generali, and joint ventures with NTC Mills. This is not the first time that Biyani has been forced to sell off his companies to escape the debt burden. As on September 30, 2019, debt at Future Group’s listed companies increased to Rs 12,778 crore from Rs 10,951 crore as on March 31, 2019. In the 2012 fiscal, Biyani was grappling with an equally heavy debt of Rs 12,000 crore, which forced him to sell Pantaloons Retail to the Aditya Birla Group for Rs 1,600 crore. It also sold Future Capital to Warburg Pincus for Rs 4,250 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ril-to-acquire-future-s-key-businesses-for-rs-24-713-crore/story-qRYiZT8o3HbKxb3gmRGtEI.html
30-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Metro to open on Sept 7, schools to remain closed||The Centre on Saturday issued guidelines for the fourth phase of an exercise to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that metro rail services can resume in a graded manner from September 7, and political, social, religious and sporting activities with crowds limited to 100 people will be allowed along with limited academic activities.While issuing “Unlock 4” guidelines, which will come into effect from Tuesday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the latest plan was aimed at reopening more economic activities outside containment zones and that it was issued after receiving feedback from states and Union Territories, and extensive consultations with the central ministries and departments.The latest guidelines said that from September 1, states and UTs won’t be able to impose any local lockdowns at the state/district/sub-division/city level or on weekends outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre.Also Watch | Unlock 4: States’ lockdown power curbed; 1st step to school reopeningRead Unlock 4.0 Guidelines here“States/UTs will have to take permission from the Centre now before imposing any lockdowns of their own as these localised restrictions were disrupting economic activities without any logic,” a home ministry official said on condition of anonymity.The guidelines said that metro rail services will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner and the standard operating procedure (SOP) for this will be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.Shortly after the announcement, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I am glad that metro has been permitted to start its operations from 7 Sep in a phased manner”. The Delhi CM has previously demanded the reopening of metro services in the national capital. The transport service, which ferries hundreds of thousands of passengers every day, has been shut since March 22.Also Read: Coronavirus infection unlikely to strike twiceReferring to the resumption of the metro services, ministry of housing and urban affairs spokesperson Rajiv Jain said: “Metro Rail operations have been allowed w.e.f. 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated will be discussed on 1st Sep 2020 through video conferencing by MOHUA with all metro companies and finalised.” “All MDs have been asked to look into SOP prepared by MOHUA earlier in view of the current realities. All suggestions will be considered in the VC meeting and accordingly SOP will be finalised,” he added.The new norms on resumption of metro rail are likely to include contact-less ticketing through metro cards, increase in the average stoppage time at each station, markings for queues across all stations to control crowds and maintaining social distancing and an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air, Hindustan Times reported on August 24.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to Metros, have chalked out protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel in the time of the pandemic. CISF has already conducted drills on how passengers will queue up at entry points and platforms, an official in the paramilitary force previously told HT.The fresh development came at a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Delhi. On Saturday, Delhi reported 1,954 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours.The government imposed strict curbs on activities and travel across the country on March 25. After 68 days of a hard lockdown, the government began implementing a graded plan to reopen businesses and bring economic activities, hit hard by the pandemic and the restrictions that followed, back on track in June. It was then that the “Unlock 1” phase guidelines came into place. Shops, malls, hotels and restaurants, offices and religious places have been allowed to open in a phased manner over the past few months. Restrictions on interstate and intrastate travel too have been lifted. Train services and flight operations, including limited flights to and from abroad, have resumed.In the latest reopening exercise, the government has also allowed gatherings with a ceiling of 100 people for social, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and academic functions from September 21, but with strict conditions that everyone present will have to mandatorily wear face masks, follow social distancing norms and go through thermal scanning.For marriages and funeral ceremonies, the current cap of 50 and 20 people respectively will continue till September 20 but after that, the limit will be raised to 100 people for both, the guidelines said. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will continue to remain closed till September 30. However, open air theatres will be permitted to open from September 21. The “Unlock 4” guidelines did not mention that bars will remain prohibited. HT previously reported that bars could be allowed to operate but restricted to running takeaway services and over-the-counter sale of alcohol.Schools, colleges and educational institutions will also remain closed with some relaxations for the students of classes 9-12 and higher education institutions. The guidelines said that from September 21, states and UTs may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work. Students of classes 9-12 may be permitted to visit their schools on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers but only outside containment zones. For doing so, students will have to give written consent of their parents/guardians. The SOPs for the same will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. The MHA recommended that online learning should be encouraged as far as possible.In higher education institutions, only research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory and experimental works will be allowed to visit the institute depending on the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-to-open-on-sept-7-schools-to-remain-closed/story-z0hb3U5gCKfxJyQFPstD9O.html
30-08-2020||India||Cong again writes to FB on JPC probe||New Delhi: The Congress on Saturday reiterated its demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the alleged links of Facebook employees and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and once again wrote to the global social media giant’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg, asking him to specify the steps being taken to investigate the charges against its India unit.The opposition party also threatened to pursue legislative and judicial actions to ensure that a foreign company does not create social disharmony in India.This is for the second time in a month that Congress general secretary incharge of organisation KC Venugopal has written to Zuckerberg on the allegations of Facebook being biased towards the ruling party.Venugopal’s letter to Zuckerberg came in the wake of an article in Time magazine, which the Congress said “revealed more information and evidence of biases and a quid pro quo relationship” of Facebook India with the BJP. A report in The Wall Street Journal earlier this month had mentioned similar allegations, which were strongly rejected by both Facebook and the BJP.Tagging the Time magazine report, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that it exposes the “WhatsApp-BJP nexus”. WhatsApp is also owned by Facebook.“Used by 40 Cr Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi Government’s approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp,” he alleged. In his letter, Venugopal, referred to his earlier letter dated August 17 in which the party had requested the US-based company to investigate the allegations made in The Wall Street Journal article that the social media platform refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians.“We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27 that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling BJP,” he wrote in the fresh letter. “We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for their pursuit of private profits,” Venugopal warned.At the party’s press conference, spokesperson Pawan Khera and data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty called for an “exhaustive and unbiased investigation by a JPC between the unending links” of Facebook employees and the ruling establishment.“The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their own regulations,” they said. “In the last 10 days, BJP and Facebook’s close relationship have been disclosed. In a new revelation, an international magazine has disclosed a relationship between WhatsApp and the BJP,” Khera told reporters.“Beyond just Ankhi Das, what has now been revealed exposes that another senior executive, Shivnath Thukral of WhatsApp is an unabashed devotee of the ruling establishment and was partisan in his professional conduct,” he alleged. “The expose’ reveals Thukral was hired by Facebook in 2017 only because he was ‘extremely close’ to the ruling establishment. It elaborates that Mr Thukral’s relationship with the ruling party goes as far back as 2013 when he operated websites and Facebook pages for the 2014 election campaign in conjunction with other BJP affiliates who continue to hold senior positions in the current government,” Khera further alleged. “Can 40 crore (400 million) Indians trust WhatsApp, which is indirectly controlled by one political party? What is the assurance that bank details, transaction details and private data of Indian users using WhatsApp is not being shared with the BJP and misused?” asked Khera. “WhatsApp cannot be granted approvals for its payment operations until the inquiry is complete and the recommended actions are taken by the company,” the Congress leaders said. They also demanded that the report of the investigation ordered by Facebook into the conduct of its Indian unit be made public. “The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news, even when they were in clear violation of their regulations,” Khera said. Earlier on August 16, Gandhi had alleged that the BJP and the RSS control Facebook and WhatsApp in the country. He also alleged that they spread fake news and hatred through these social media platforms to influence the electorate. “BJP & RSS control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-again-writes-to-fb-on-jpc-probe/story-cAHWqz0kNVJOB46nsIMGRM.html
30-08-2020||India||Criticism easy, let’s underline positives: Justice Chandrachud||Criticising the courts and judges is easy, but positive aspects of judicial system should also be highlighted, justice DY Chandrachud said on Saturday.The Supreme Court judge, who is the chairperson of the apex court e-committee, was speaking at the launch of the panel’s dedicated website. “Very often we hear criticism. For a change let us talk about the positives of the judicial system. It is very easy to criticize because criticism has that element of curiosity. But let us also talk about the positives of the judicial system,” he said. Justice Chandrachud further revealed some figures relating to the functioning of the Indian judiciary during the Covid-19 pandemic. Between March 24 and August 28, a total of 28.6 lakh cases were registered in district courts across the country and 12.6 lakh cases were disposed of by the district courts. The Supreme Court heard 15,000 cases and interacted with over 50,000 lawyers during that period, he said.“Let us remind ourselves that when international courts have been talking in single digit figures, we are talking in hundreds and thousands. This, I believe, is a unique achievement of our judicial system,” justice Chandrachud said while thanking the chief justices of high courts for keeping the flag flying by working through the pandemic.About the e-committee’s official website, justice Chandrachud said it will be a storehouse for data and information, and will give details about the initiatives of the committee. The website, he added, is responsive and provides good navigational experience. It will also be accessible to those who have limitations of physical nature, he pointed out.He ended his speech by giving details about the upcoming initiative of the e-committee regarding development of an inter-operable criminal justice system.“As part of this project, we are integrating every element of the criminal justice administration – the prisons, police, courts and forensic laboratories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criticism-easy-let-s-underline-positives-justice-chandrachud/story-3Yck7ZjInQKGKm4wwzBAhO.html
30-08-2020||India||Images show China facilities for missiles||New Delhi Open source satellite imagery suggests China is developing two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors, including an area where Indian and Chinese troops clashed in May. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, shows what appear to be two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities. Both these sites are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim. Experts said the location of missile air defence facilities close to radar installations would help the Chinese side to pick out possible targets with greater accuracy. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the new missile facilities were apparently part of China’s “ongoing upgrades and expansion of air defence assets along its border with India”. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50 km away from Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017, and Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in this clash, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. The two surface-to-air missile sites would “close the existing air defence gap around the earlier clash zones” for the Chinese, @detresfa said. The Indian side has been “noted running regular intelligence and reconnaissance missions in this sector” during the current standoff with various platforms such as the Boeing P-8 Poseidon surveillance aircraft, @detresfa added. According to the graphic posted on Twitter, one missile site is located at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, while the other is located in Chinese territory opposite Sikkim. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of missile sites by the Chinese. Even after the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 after several rounds of negotiations, there were reports that the Chinese side had not fully pulled back its troops in the area. There have also been several reports of Chinese troops building trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operation by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Since this year’s standoff emerged in the open, there have been several reports of PLA beefing up its deployment all along the LAC, including in areas opposite India’s northeastern states. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. The mobilisation of a battalion by PLA near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. India has emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after being unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC in several round of diplomatic and military talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/images-show-china-facilities-for-missiles/story-MySpgNFGoFUoqK7r7ljzQL.html
30-08-2020||India||For peace along border, one must adhere to agreements: S Jaishankar||Covid-19 has affected foreign affairs and the world order much like it has everything else — external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke about this, and other pressing issues in an interview with Shishir Gupta and R Sukumar on his forthcoming book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. That comes against the backdrop of an ongoing border stand-off between India and China, and continuing reluctance by Pakistan to act against the perpetrators of terror. Edited excerpts:Let us start with China. Where does the situation stand now in the context of the transgressions of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in East Ladakh? We are engaging China through diplomatic and military channels. There are essentially two elements in our approach. One is starting 1993 and then every few years, we have had a series of agreements (with China). Their import is that both sides will keep minimum force on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). But that is not the case now. We have very large number of Chinese forces and frankly, we are at a loss to know why. There are also certain norms of behaviour that were prescribed. Clearly, if we want peace and tranquillity on the border, we need to adhere to those agreements. Second, I accept there are some differences in perceptions in the LAC. But there is again a clear understanding that neither side will attempt to unilaterally change the status quo. It was because of these agreements and the adherence to them that the bilateral relationship moved forward in other, different spheres, including the economic one. And this must continue if the relationship has to grow. But there will naturally be issues if the peace and tranquillity is put under stress.China says that India needs to see the big picture. Who isn’t seeing it right, India or China?(Laughs) The answer I can give. Just read my book. I wrote it over a two-year period before the present set of incidents happened. It is this very issue that I have tried to address in the book. What is the big picture in the world? How have the Chinese risen and how do they see the world? How has India risen and where do we stand? (How the) repositioning of the United States has consequences for the entire world, including India and China.No question, the rise of China is the most remarkable event of our times. It is transformational. In more or less the same time frame but perhaps not to the same degree, India has also risen. The rest of the world recognises the rise of India and also gives it weightage. Just as China is entitled to its ambitions and aspirations, so is India. So how do we find an equilibrium? We are both billion-plus (population) civilisational states who once had an important place in the world. Today again, on the ascendance. So how do we accommodate each other? That willingness to accommodate is at the heart of the relationship. And it is not going to be easy as we have a complicated history.One can understand historical baggage with India, but China has also had issues with the US and ASEAN over the South China Sea and Taiwan; with Japan over Senkaku Islands; with Australia, etc. And that too at a time when the world is facing the coronavirus pandemic. Why open so many fronts?I have joined many dots in my book to present the rise of a potential global power and that too at India’s doorstep. This rise will be reflected in various ways, whether you like it or not. But we need to wake up to the implications of the rise of that potential global power. We need to fashion our path and look at our strategy, keeping that in mind.The world order post 1945 is coming to a state where it cannot be repaired by patchwork. We are clearly at a point where there are fundamental changes. The last time a global power rose was in the middle of the World War — the Soviet Union — but it was masked by the conflict. This time, it is not only (about) the rise of a potential global power, but repositioning of another global power, which was fulcrum of the world order. And the two are linked. You have to look at the effectiveness of the US and its alliances. We have grown up to a concept of united and cohesive West. But today, there are legitimate questions on that. An example is Iran, where the US and Europe are not on the same page. What you have now is a repositioning or retrenching of the US, rise of China, a changing Europe and a more vigorous Russia. In all this, you also have middle powers like Japan, Australia, Turkey, Saudi Arabia or Indonesia trying to look for a bigger role.In this changing world, the concepts and doctrines of the past, which were relevant at some point, may not be so relevant any more. It is a multipolar world, with much of the G-20 being non-Western countries. Contrast this over the last 70 years with G-7, which was completely a Western group. There has been economic, political and military rebalancing and I have also made a case for a cultural rebalancing in my book. There are now more players, less or weaker rules, and fewer areas of agreements. It is going to be a very much tougher world.Is that not a recipe for chaos?It could appear to be disorder. But then disorder is order waiting to happen. Just think back over the last 40 years. In 2020, we have coronavirus; a decade before, the global financial crisis; one before, we had 9/11; and then before the Soviet Union broke up. If four such big changes happened, how can we assume that the world is still the same? How has the pandemic impacted foreign relations in general?I believe major shifts will come in the aftermath of the coronavirus. Countries were already behaving more nationalistically (before it) — be it in Brexit, American nationalism under President Trump, the China Dream under Xi Jinping. But all nationalisms are not the same and in this, Indian nationalism is very unique. As opposed to some societies who have turned insular, in India, be it young or old, there is a greater interest in and willingness to do more with the world. In the past five years, India has stepped out to contribute — after the Nepal earthquake; Yemen civil war; we sent relief material to Beirut after the explosion; gave medical supplies to 150 countries in the world to fight the coronavirus pandemic. In this country, we feel that doing good for the world is part of what the rise of India is all about. In the post-corona world, we should promote Indian technology and talent, looking at a global workplace.The US presidential elections are round the corner. Is Donald Trump better for India or Joe Biden?If you look at the last four American presidents, two Republicans and two Democrats — each very different from the other. Yet, each raised the level of relationship with India further. Each President has developed on the legacy of the previous one when it comes to India. And if you follow the debates in the US now, you will find many differences between the competing candidates, but India is a common point. There are many other policies in which the candidates criticise each other. But that is not happening when it comes to India. I actually believe that India has bipartisan, or in a sense non-partisan, support in American politics. Our footprint is very wide and so is our acceptability. Different sets of politicians who disagree on many things agree on India. And I think that is a very good place to be.Pakistan has already rejected the NIA charge sheet in Pulwana attack, where both the country and the perpetrator from that country has been named. This has happened before in Pathankot attack and in 26/11. With Pakistan living in absolute denial over in-house terrorism targeting India, is there any way forward in this relationship?Many countries have disputes with their neighbours and it is not that unusual. But can you show me where in the world you have a neighbour who openly practises cross-border terrorism? And not just today, but for some years now and does not even bother to hide it? A neighbour who will not do normal trade with you even though you are offering a most favoured nation status. Who will not do normal people-to-people contact. And who will not allow connectivity at a time when the world is becoming more connected. If the fundamentals of international relations are not working with one particular neighbour, the question that I ask myself is should you or should you not be calling that out.To me, the issue is not under what mechanism or instrument should the engagement take place. That is what has preoccupied political and media debates in our country. My point is that the very basis of international relations between neighbours need to be addressed. This is a very, very unique situation. There is no country that uses cross border terrorism in such a prolific and open way. And not just against India. We must have the self-confidence to tell that country that this cannot be the basis for conduct of relations.QUAD is the new acronym that everyone, particularly China, is looking at. Can you explain what QUAD means and where does it go from here?When the world changes, you will not only have new acronyms but new concepts. QUAD is one of the plurilaterals, a working arrangement, a convergence. The Cold War was a world of agreements, a Western Bloc which like the opposing Soviet Bloc agreed amongst themselves. Today, your interests will coincide with others on certain issues. So, the overlaps are issue based and therefore, you would have convergences with different powers. QUAD reflects the convergence of participating countries in areas like maritime security, connectivity and counterterrorism. It is part of a future world. Even though people are attributing a novelty to this, there is another acronym called RIC (Russia, India and China) going on for 20 years. BRICS is yet another one. They too are plurilateral and issue based.China sees QUAD as an alliance against itself and this has led to people like Imran Khan saying that US is using India as a frontline state in the context of current Ladakh stand-off?Think about it: India is a civilisational state of very unique nature. Look at our history. Because we went through two very difficult centuries, we particularly prize our independence. Some people feel that because they did something, we will also do the same. India has a certain self-perception of itself. India has a personality of its own. India has interests of its own. India has a character of its own. It cannot be defined negatively as being against somebody. Those who say all this — they are perhaps reflecting their own history and their own self-worth. This is certainly not India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-peace-along-border-one-must-adhere-to-agreements-s-jaishankar/story-4KVo5SRRVr5GR5PUKn6zkM.html
30-08-2020||India||Defence ministry sets up 3-member panel for better functioning of Army HQs||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved the setting up of a three-man committee to identify posts in the service headquarters that are currently held by civilian officers but need to be manned by military officers with necessary domain expertise for effective functioning, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. The new committee has been constituted as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar committee in its report on enhancing the military’s combat potential and rebalancing defence expenditure. A key recommendation in that comprehensive report dealt with aspects related to the effective utilisation of the armed forces headquarters civil service (AFHQ-CS). Shekatkar will chair the new three-man panel consisting of R Chandrashekhar who retired from the AFHQ-CS and AN Das who is from the defence ministry’s finance wing. While identifying posts that need to be manned by military officers due to their expertise is a key task assigned to the panel, it will also conduct a study and identify appointments in service headquarters that may fall within the domain of AFHQ-CS officers due to their longer tenures and expertise, according to the terms of reference in the government order reviewed by Hindustan Times. Shekatkar told HT that the setting up of the panel was a step in the right direction as it would improve the overall functioning of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations. He said the committee was likely to submit its report in November. Military and civilian officers hold posts in different wings of the service headquarters and inter-services organisations including administration, finance, policy formulation and coordination, personnel management, training, vigilance and legal matters The Shekatkar panel made 188 suggestions in its report submitted in December 2016 of which around 100 have been accepted by the ministry and others are under consideration. The defence ministry is working towards implementing more recommendations made by the panel. In May, the ministry announced that more than 9,300 posts in the Military Engineer Services (MES) would be abolished as a follow-up to the recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee. The MES is a construction and maintenance agency of the armed forces and has an annual budget of around Rs 13,000 crore. The ministry said the recommendation to cut the posts (9,304 out of total 13,157 vacancies) was aimed at making the MES an effective organisation, with a leaner workforce well equipped to handle complex issues in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The recommendations made by the Shekatkar committee relate to several organisations including the MES, Defence Research and Development Organisation, Directorate General of Quality Assurance, Directorate General of Defence Estates, the Ordnance Factory Board and defence accounts.The panel’s recommendations also covered optimisation of signals establishments, restructuring of the army’s base workshops, revamp of ordnance depots, better utilisation of supply and transport units, closure of military farms and army postal establishments in peace locations and improving the efficiency of the National Cadet Corps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-sets-up-3-member-panel-for-better-functioning-of-army-hqs/story-jSPkrqa7jw2CnSplgAH9AK.html
30-08-2020||India||Three Hizbul terrorists, army jawan killed in J&K gunfight||Three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were gunned down in an encounter, in which an Indian Army soldier also lost his life, during a security operation in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said the terrorists were killed in a joint operation in Zadoora village of the district where 40 CRPF troopers were killed in a suicide attack last year. “The operation was launched on a specific input and in the ensuing encounter, three terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. They have been identified as Adil Hafiz, Arshid Ahmad Dar and Rouf Ahmad Mir -- all residents of Pulwama,” he said. Police said that during Saturday’s encounter one army jawan received critical injuries and was shifted to an army hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.Police said the terrorists killed in Saturday’s encounter had been involved in planning and carrying out previous records in the Valley. “They were part of groups involved in planning and executing several terror attacks in the area including attacks on police and security establishments. As per police records, Adil Hafiz was involved in case FIR No. 112/2020 pertaining to attack on naka [patrol] party at Prichoo Bridge in which one police personnel was killed and another was injured, an official aware of the matter said.The bodies of the terrorists have been be sent to Baramulla in the Valley, where family members can carry out the last rites, a police spokesperson said.This was the second such encounter in 24 hours. On Friday, security forces killed four terrorists and captured another in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.On Friday forces in an encounter had killed four militants, including a top commander of Al-Badr, and captured one in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. One of the four terrorists was identified as a key commander or Al-Badr , Shakoor Parray, a former police constable who was involved in recruiting youths into militant ranks in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-hizbul-terrorists-army-jawan-killed-in-j-k-gunfight/story-06O8bsEojpAYNAufeldacM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s cases, deaths per mn lowest globally, says Centre||India has one of the lowest cases per million (2,424) and deaths per million (44) compared to the global average of 3,161 cases and 107.2 deaths, respectively, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday while chairing the 20th meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19.At the meeting conducted to review the current status of the coronavirus outbreak in India, the health minister said: “…despite being resource constrained and densely populated, timely lockdown and rapid augmentation of infrastructure by India have enabled to keep the case per million and deaths per million considerably lower compared to other countries.”The meeting was informed that as of Saturday, eight states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana -- contribute to around 73% of the active caseload of the country.Seven states -- Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- account for 81% of total Covid-19 deaths, the health ministry data revealed.The group of ministers was also briefed on the recent health ministry directives on the bi-directional tuberculosis (TB) and Covid-19 screening and diabetes management in Covid-19 facilities, etc., and also on efforts being made to ramp up testing and reduce Covid-19 related deaths to below 1% of the total positive cases.Among the key challenges that the government was currently facing in stopping disease transmission was to ensure people strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.According to Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) who was present at the meeting presented a detailed report on surveillance efforts undertaken in India during the pandemic. “…there needs to be continued attention on promotion of wearing masks, physical distancing and respiratory etiquettes. Behaviour changes communication, therefore, assumes a priority role in covid-19 management,” he said.On the Covid-19 vaccine front, Dr Vinod K Paul, chairperson of the empowered group-1 on medical emergency management plan, said that India was progressing satisfactorily. He further apprised the GoM of the process of Covid vaccine development in India and around the world.As of now, 29 vaccine candidates, including two Indian ones, are in clinical trials; out of which six are in Phase III.“In India, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate based on inactivated virus procured by ICMR is in Phase II trial along with Zydus Cadila’s candidate which is based on viral DNA. The Oxford vaccine candidate developed by Serum Institute of India is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other States,” Paul informed the group.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has also met thrice during this month.The group is tasked with facilitation of vaccine development including issues of trial and stockpiling, sorting out issues of financing, risk-management, selection of potential beneficiaries and their order of reference, envisioning logistics, scale up of procurement and distribution, digital system, defining principles for selecting beneficiary categories, and defining scientific basis for selecting vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-cases-deaths-per-mn-lowest-globally-says-centre/story-o8O0ePs5nQukMARTt9OWVK.html
30-08-2020||India||Q1 growth of FY21 likely to be worst: EY report||: India’s growth in the first quarter of the current financial year is likely to be “the worst” among the four quarters of FY-21 because of economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, an EY India’s report said, indicating improved economic performance from the second quarter.“High frequency indicators for India are giving positive signals after the first two months of the pandemic,” the consultancy firm said in its latest edition of Economy Watch before the scheduled release of official gross domestic product (GDP) data on Monday.The optimism of the report is based on indicators such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), sales of passenger vehicles, power consumption and the rise in the foreign exchange reserve.“In June and July 2020, PMI manufacturing was close to the benchmark level of 50 at 47.2 and 46.0 respectively. Although IIP has continued to contract in June 2020, its rate of contraction has come down to -16.6% from its May 2020 level of -33.9%. In June 2020, passenger vehicle sales picked up sharply with sales of 1,20,188 units as compared to sales of 33,546 units in April and May 2020 considered together,” it said.Although power consumption shows a continued contraction, the rate of contraction has been coming down over successive months since April 2020 when it was at -25%. This fell to -0.4% in the first 20 days of August, it added. It also pointed out that foreign exchange reserves continued to rise steadily reaching $538 billion by August 7.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India, however, said one adverse development is the slowing down of bank credit growth to 5.8% in the fortnight ending July 17. “Due to subdued demand, average credit growth fell to 6.4% in the first quarter of FY21 as compared to 7.1% in the fourth quarter of FY20,” he said.He said the Center’s capital expenditure grew by 40.1% in the first quarter of FY-21 as compared to a contraction of -27.6% in the corresponding period the previous year, indicating frontloading of capital expenditure. Srivastava said it is welcome as it signals investment in infrastructure” in line with the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) objectives.In his Independence Day address on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled over Rs 110 lakh crore infrastructure projects to boost the economy and create jobs. “In order to rapidly modernise India, there is a need to give a new direction to overall infrastructure development,” he said, adding that over 7,000 projects under NIP have been identified.EY India’s report, however, pointed at a rising fiscal deficit. The Controller General of Accounts data released for June shows that the Center’s fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is 83.2% of the annual budgeted target. “In terms of magnitude, the fiscal deficit in 1Q FY21 is 53.3% larger than the corresponding magnitude in 1Q FY20. The Center’s revenue deficit during 1Q FY21 stood at 94.8% of the annual budgeted target as compared to 77.1% in the corresponding period of FY20,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/q1-growth-of-fy21-likely-to-be-worst-ey-report/story-r0GUFYeMhkifpLS3cFO3NL.html
30-08-2020||India||UP Congress leaders slam Azad over letter||After venting their ire against senior party leader Jitin Prasada, Congress leaders in the state are now targeting senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and questioning his actions during his role as the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh.Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who signed the controversial letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking for a full-time party president, and also several reforms to strengthen the party. The letter outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation, called for an introspection of the reasons behind the party’s “steady decline”, and appealed to the Congress to take the initiative for the formation of a “national coalition of democratic and secular forces” against the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Now, former Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Nirmal Khatri has accused Azad of forcing the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance on the party in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“As far as I know, Rahul Gandhi too was opposed to the alliance, but probably kept quiet due to Azad’s recalcitrance and defeatist political thinking….His principles of political science focused on politics of alliance,” said Khatri in a post on the social media, directly targeting Azad.In an interview to news agency ANI, Azad, who is leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, the letter, saying “Any Congress worker having a genuine interest in the party will welcome the letter.” He added in that interview that if the party didn’t change, it would continue to be in opposition for the next 50 years. “Azad forgot to mention his role as in charge of Uttar Pradesh where he destroyed the Congress. In 1996, the Congress alliance with the BSP failed to work. He (Azad) entered into an alliance with the SP in 2017 and the Congress won the lowest number of seven seats in the state assembly,” Khatri said.He questioned Azad for pointing out that no election had been held in CWC for the past 23 years and asked whyhe chose to remain silent all these years. He also targeted Azad for raising issues on a public platform, saying “The CWC resolved that no leader will ever speak about internal issues. Azad’s interview (to a news agency) is a violation of the spirit of the resolution.”There have also been demands for his removal from the post of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Veteran Congress leader KK Sharma questioned Azad’s loyalty to the party and demanded his removal from the LoP post. Another UP Congress leader, Naseeb Pathan, said he was pained to hear Azad’s interview and claimed that he had reached this position only through nominations. “As he has broken the party’s discipline, Ghulam should be made ‘azad’ (free) and expelled from the party,” he said. The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress Committee has already passed a resolution, demanding action against all the 23 senior leaders including Jitin Prasada. Khatri’s comments, shared by many other partymen on the social media, have become a point of discussion in the party circles.After the Lakhimpur Kheri resolution, a local Congress functionary, DCC president Prahalad Patel claimed that it had been passed under pressure from an office bearer of the state level Congress leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-leaders-slam-azad-over-letter/story-pJjdzVM9f22WzFlExuzApK.html
30-08-2020||India||India pulls out of multilateral exercise amid China tensions||NEW DELHI: India has withdrawn from a multi-nation army exercise being hosted by Russia in which around 20 countries including China are expected to take part next month at a time when talks with China to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh are stuck in a stalemate, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. Exercise Kavkaz-2020 will be held in southern Russia’s Astrakhan region from September 15 to 27. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the joint drills that are part of a four-year exercise cycle of the Russian army.The decision not to go ahead with participating in the Kavkaz-2020 multilateral exercise was made following consultations between the defence ministry and the external affairs ministry that took into consideration several factors, the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity. “There is a decision not to take part in contact exercises in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to ensure the safety of our troops,” the officials said. The expected presence in the exercise of troops from South Ossetia and Abkhazia, both states that aren’t recognised by India, in Kavkaz-2020 was also a factor in the decision, said one of the officials.Most UN member states see Abkhazia and South Ossetia as part of Georgia, though both are recognised by Russia. India doesn’t recognise both as independent states as they are not members of the UN. India’s presence at such as an exercise could have given rise to delicate diplomatic issues, a second official said. Criticism of India’s possible presence at Kavkaz-2020 alongside Chinese and Pakistani troops has been growing ever since reports first emerged that New Delhi was extended an invitation to send a tri-services contingent to the exercise.India was earlier planning to send around 180 troops from an infantry battalion along with elements of the air force and observers from the Indian Navy for the exercise. A total of 13,000 troops from different countries are expected to take part in the drills.Questions have also been raised about India participating in an exercise featuring Chinese troops amid the months-long standoff along the LAC and the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15.The Russian exercise has also sparked tensions with Ukraine, which is organising its own command-staff exercise United Efforts-2020, for which it plans to involve NATO countries. This exercise, too, will be held at around the same time.While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), India’s participation in Kavkaz-2020 had assumed importance because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector.India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during recent diplomatic talks, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pulls-out-of-multilateral-exercise-amid-china-tensions/story-yZUvfQHIT7dyiWLxFldLhP.html
30-08-2020||India||Influence of dictatorship on democracy is rising: Sonia||Raipur Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said alleged that the influence of dictatorship on the country’s democracy has increased in the recent past with “gareeb virodhi (anti-poor)” and “desh virodhi (anti-nation)” forces are spreading hatred.“Bad thinking is dominating good thinking, freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. The influence of ‘tanashahi’ (dictatorship) has been increasing on ‘lokshahi’ (democracy),” she said, , during the ground breaking ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building.“We have come a long way since Independence, we have faced many problems and also managed to solve them but we are way behind the dreams of our forefathers. In the last few years, there have been attempts to derail our country. There are new challenges in front of our democracy,” she said.“Today the country is at a crossroads. Gareeb virodhi (anti-poor) and desh-virodhi (anti-nation) forces and those who rule by making people fight each other and have been spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country,” she said.The senior party leader underscored that freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. “What do they want? They want that the people of India, tribal, youths, women, farmers and small businessmen should not speak. They want to suppress the country’s voice.”“After two years, we will complete 75 years of our Independence, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, JV Mavalankar and Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, along with our forefathers, would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence we would face such a difficult time,” Sonia Gandhi said.Praising the government of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Sonia Gandhi said that the state government is taking care of its poorest people. “After 15 years, the Congress formed a government in Chhattisgarh ….Many of our leaders were martyred. The 15 years of the BJP government is an example that a visionless government can never think about peoples’ benefit. Chhattisgarh is a resourceful state but the misgovernance has made this state the most undeveloped state...I am happy that the Congress government has made several steps in a positive direction for the people of the state,” she said.However, leader of opposition in the assembly, Dharmlal Kaushik, said that the Congress leader was misleading the people. “The party which imposed an Emergency and thousands of people were booked just for speaking has no right to talk about dictatorship. ...hence the party should not mislead people,” said Kaushik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/influence-of-dictatorship-on-democracy-is-rising-sonia/story-42B5wG6zizNCb9Y9Tlbk8H.html
30-08-2020||India||Congress likely to set up panel for internal polls||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will soon announce the creation and composition of a new panel tasked to conduct organisational polls to pick a new chief of the party and the members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), three people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.The composition of the new central election authority (CEA) that conducts the organisational polls is currently being discussed and the Congress president is expected to announce the names soon, one of the people, a senior party functionary said. “Experienced leaders will be part of this election authority,” he added. “It (the creation of the body) is also as per the requirement under the Congress constitution.”This person’s reference to experienced leaders is significant. Earlier this week, a letter signed by 23 Congress members, including many senior leaders, seeking change in the way the party works so as to strengthen it created a stir in the party. A hurriedly-called CWC meeting discussed the timing of the letter but not its contents. Soon after, organisational announcements by the party, including for parliamentary roles, saw preference being given to younger leaders perceived to be closer to former party president Rahul Gandhi. The previous CEA, headed by present Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran, was dissolved soon after the election of Rahul Gandhi as the party chief in December 2017. Madhusudan Mistry and Bhubaneswar Kalita, who is now in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were its other two members. Rahul Gandhi resigned from the post in May last year following the party’s rout in the general elections and Sonia Gandhi took over as its interim president in August last year.At Monday’s CWC meeting, Sonia Gandhi agreed to continue on the post till a new president is elected and an All India Congress Committee (AICC) session is convened. The CWC also authorised her to carry out organisational changes.The letter, written by leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, sought, among other things, complete reorganisation of the party, a full-time president and internal polls from block level to CWC.Four of the 23 dissenters who are members of the CWC – Azad, Wasnik, Sharma and Jitin Prasada – came under attack at the stormy meeting for allegedly questioning the leadership of the Gandhi family.In their letter, the dissenters outlined an 11-point agenda to usher in reforms in the 134-year-old organisation. One of the points was constitution of an independent election authority.According to the Congress constitution, the CEA chairman is the ex-officio returning officer for the election of party president. At Monday’s meeting, both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi asked the CWC to hold the organisational elections within one month but some members, including Azad, maintained that it was not feasible because of Covid-19. Finally, an upper limit of six months was fixed for completing the internal elections.The last time an election was held to the president’s post was in 2000 when Sonia Gandhi comprehensively defeated Jitendra Prasada, father of Jitin Prasada. That was the only time Sonia Gandhi faced a contest during her over 20 years as Congress chief.As per the Congress constitution, 12 of the 25 CWC members have to be elected by AICC delegates and the rest are appointed by the Congress president.The CWC has not seen an election in over two decades now. The last time there were elections to the CWC was in 1997 during the Kolkata plenary. Prior to that, the CWC polls took place in 1992 at the Tirupati session.Meanwhile, Jitin Prasada, one of the 23 signatories, said that contents of the letter were being misconstrued and insisted he has full faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. He said the letter was not to undermine their leadership but to suggest ways to rejuvenate the party.Two other signatories Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Kaul Singh Thakur also expressed their full faith in the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Tharoor, too, has called for an end to the ongoing debate over the letter. Still, the appointments made on Thursday are seen as an attempt to sideline the dissenters.Gandhi named Gaurav Gogoi as the party’s deputy leader in the Lok Sabha, overlooking Tewari and Tharoor. She also formed a panel each for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha for formulating the party’s strategy in Parliament, effective coordination and better floor management. Azad, Sharma, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh are in the group for the Rajya Sabha while Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu are in the panel for the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-likely-to-set-up-panel-for-internal-polls/story-ECczd7cauPitUnrxwQMHEL.html
30-08-2020||India||6 arrested for raping 14-year-old in Odisha||The Odisha police have arrested six persons on charges of raping a minor tribal girl several times over the last seven months. The victim is now pregnant.Police officials in southern Odisha district of Rayagada said the 14-year-old girl from Gunupur sub-division area was six months pregnant when her mother found out about the incident.“A few days ago, the girl’s mother found her daughter’s condition had deteriorated and called a local ASHA worker to take her for check-up. During a medical test at a government hospital, she was found to be six months pregnant. The girl then revealed to her mother how six persons had been sexually assaulting her on different occasions,” said Rayagada SP Dr Vivek Saravana.The accused, five from the same village as that of the victim, have been arrested. All of them will be tested for Covid. “The accused first assaulted the girl seven months ago when she was bathing alone at a nullah near her village. The six allegedly sexually assaulted her and then threatened her against revealing the incident to anyone,” said an official of Gunupur police station.Though the victim, one of the four daughters of a daily wage labourer and tribal from Sabar community, was pregnant, the accused allegedly kept sexually assaulting her. “There was not much change in the victim’s physical appearance despite her being six months pregnant. It was only when the girl started vomiting frequently that her mother sensed something amiss and got her tested. The girl then revealed the name of the accused,” said Ramesh Nayak, district child protection officer of Rayagada. The girl is now stable.However, the people in the victim’s village wanted to hush up the matter and had called a meeting. But when the DCPO visited the girl’s father, he agreed to lodge an FIR against the accused, all in the age group of 22-45 years.According to the 2018 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, 1427 cases of rape of minors were registered in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-in-odisha-she-is-6-months-pregnant/story-xfig5g5QlJHI9BDappAiSK.html
30-08-2020||India||India withdraws from multi-nation war games involving China||India has withdrawn from a multi-nation army exercise being hosted by Russia in which around 20 countries including China are expected to take part next month at a time when talks with China to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh are stuck in a stalemate, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday. Exercise Kavkaz-2020 will be held in southern Russia’s Astrakhan region from September 15 to 27. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the joint drills that are part of a four-year exercise cycle of the Russian army. “Russia and India are close and privileged strategic partners. At Russia’s invitation India has been participating in many international events. However, in view of the pandemic and consequent difficulties in exercise, including arrangements of logistics, India has decided not to send a contingent this year to Kavkaz-2020. The same has been informed to the Russian side,” said a defence ministry spokesperson.The decision not to go ahead with participating in the Kavkaz-2020 multilateral exercise was made following consultations between the defence ministry and the external affairs ministry that took into consideration several factors, the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity. “There is a decision not to take part in contact exercises in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to ensure the safety of our troops,” the officials said. The expected presence in the exercise of troops from South Ossetia and Abkhazia, both states that aren’t recognised by India, in Kavkaz-2020 was also a factor in the decision, said one of the officials. Most UN member states see Abkhazia and South Ossetia as part of Georgia, though both are recognised by Russia. India doesn’t recognise both as independent states as they are not members of the UN. India’s presence at such an exercise could have given rise to delicate diplomatic issues, a second official said. Criticism of India’s possible presence at Kavkaz-2020 alongside Chinese and Pakistani troops has been growing ever since reports first emerged that New Delhi was extended an invitation to send a tri-services contingent to the exercise. India was earlier planning to send around 180 troops from an infantry battalion, along with elements of the air force and observers from the Indian Navy for the exercise. A total of 13,000 troops from different countries are expected to take part in the drills. Questions have also been raised about India participating in an exercise featuring Chinese troops amid the months-long standoff along the LAC and the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Russian exercise has also sparked tensions with Ukraine, which is organising its own command-staff exercise United Efforts-2020, for which it plans to involve NATO countries. This exercise too will be held at around the same time. While it is not uncommon for the armies of India, China and Pakistan to be part of multi-nation exercises on neutral territories (they even deploy alongside in United Nations peace missions), India’s participation in Kavkaz-2020 had assumed importance because of the ongoing border row in the Ladakh sector. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC during recent diplomatic talks, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. The military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-withdraws-from-multi-nation-war-games-involving-china/story-jMc6qqM0Sv1pKanxTkGatO.html
30-08-2020||India||Youth Congress launches ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign||The Youth Congress on Saturday launched a ‘Rozgar Do’ (Give Jobs) campaign in a bid to reach out to the unemployed youth. As part of the nationwide campaign, Youth Congress president Srinivas B V said the activists will hold protests in front of residences and offices of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarians and ministers across the country and also launch signature and letter campaigns to demand jobs for the unemployed youth. He said the Youth Congress will also stage a ‘Parliament Gherao” to press for their demands. “Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman says that the impact on the economy is due to coronavirus pandemic, but it’s actually lack of vision which has led to unemployment due to wrong policies of the Modi government,” Srinivas said, launching the campaign at the Congress headquarters in Delhi. Gopal Agarwal, BJP spokesperson said “Prime minister is working day and night for fast tracking economic recovery post covid. Those efforts are showing results, starting with uptick in rural and agriculture sector which employs about 60 % of our population. There are green shoots of early recovery sign in many industries also. Further focused reforms on Industrial policy, retail trade and logistics policies are underway. Till they bear results employment benefits are being extended through DBT of MNREGS and 50% salary cover through ESI.“A song for the ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign was also released in different Indian languages. The Youth Congress activists will also organise wall writing and poster making on the unemployment issue, Srinivas added. All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge Krishna Allaveru accused the ruling BJP government of “destroying” the economy even before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Demonetisation, flawed GST and an unplanned lockdown in March, despite warnings of an ‘economic tsunami’ by Rahul Gandhi were not act of God but the policies and decisions of the Modi government that have led to unemployment among the youth,” he said. Party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera said the unemployment had assumed “fearsome” proportions before the Covid-19 and claimed that around 135 million youth are likely to lose their jobs due to the pandemic. “A record of 45 years of unemployment has been broken,” he added. “We keep warning the government but they are not bothered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-launches-rozgar-do-campaign/story-rK1O7F0a1ty77PGTL55VeP.html
30-08-2020||India||Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg in Delhi caves in, area barricaded||A portion of Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg in Central Delhi caved-in on Saturday. Delhi Police has put barricades around the spot in a bid to avoid any mishap.  Delhi: A portion of Shrimant Madhav Rao Scindia Marg caves in. Police put barricades around the spot. pic.twitter.com/8gJILDe1SNDelhi traffic police said that around 5 pm a section of the road, under New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) jurisdiction, caved-in and barricades were placed around the affected portion. However, police said that since this was not an arterial road and being a weekend traffic movement was not affected much. “The cave-in happened on one carriageway, so the traffic movement on the other carriageway was not affected at all. For the safety of passersby we have cordoned off the area,” a senior traffic official said. The official added that the cave-in could have been caused by Friday’s rain, but NDMC is yet to confirm this reason. An NDMC spokesperson said that the reason for the road slumping is being ascertained by its teams and appropriate action will be taken to fix the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrimant-madhav-rao-scindia-marg-in-delhi-caves-in-area-barricaded/story-LgGzilnha09F31aqRP5W1H.html
30-08-2020||India||New satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku La||Open source satellite imagery suggests China is developing two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors, including an area where Indian and Chinese troops had clashed in May. The satellite imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, show what appear to be two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities. Both these sites are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. Experts said the location of missile air defence facilities close to radar installations would help the Chinese side to pick out possible targets with greater accuracy. ALSO READ | New satellite imagery suggests China is building military infrastructure opposite LipulekhIn a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the new missile facilities were apparently part of China’s “ongoing upgrades and expansion of air defence assets along its border with India”. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50 km away from Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017, and Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in this clash, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. The two surface-to-air missile sites would “close the existing air defence gap around the earlier clash zones” for the Chinese, @detresfa said. The Indian side has been “noted running regular intelligence and reconnaissance missions in this sector” during the current standoff with various platforms such as the Boeing P-8 Poseidon surveillance aircraft, @detresfa added.  Investigations with @SimTack of the #Doklam region in the #China, #Bhutan, #India tri junction area present new evidence of PLA air defense infrastructure being constructed roughly 50 Kms from known clash points of the #IndiaChinaStandoff of 2017 & 2020 pic.twitter.com/5JWFZaoXrXAccording to the graphic posted on Twitter, one missile site is located at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, while the other is located in Chinese territory opposite Sikkim. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of missile sites by the Chinese. Even after the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 after several rounds of negotiations, there were reports that the Chinese side had not fully pulled back its troops in the area. There have also been several reports of Chinese troops building trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operation by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Since this year’s standoff emerged in the open, there have been several reports of PLA beefing up its deployment all along the LAC, including in areas opposite India’s northeastern states. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. The mobilisation of a battalion by PLA near Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations outside of the Ladakh sector that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops in recent weeks, was first reported by Hindustan Times on August 2. India has emphasised the need to speedily resolve “outstanding issues” related to the standoff after being unable to bridge differences with China on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the LAC in several round of diplomatic and military talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-satellite-imagery-suggests-china-developing-missile-bases-to-cover-doklam-naku-la/story-RbrowNVSdOqn8DT5Ri09kL.html
30-08-2020||India||Anti-poor, anti-nation forces spreading hatred and violence: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said “gareeb virodhi ( anti-poor)” and “desh virodhi (anti-nation)” forces are spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country, adding that the influence of dictatorship on democracy has increased in recent past . “Since Independence, we have come a long way, we have faced many problems and also managed to solve them but we are way behind the dreams of our forefathers. In the last few years, there have been attempts to derail our country. There are new challenges in front of our democracy. “Today the country is at a crossroads. Gareeb virodhi (anti-poor) and desh-virodhi ( anti-nation) forces and those who rule by making people fight each other and have been spreading hatred and venom of violence in the country,” Sonia said during bhumipujan ceremony of the new Chhattisgarh Assembly building.Gandhi underscored that the freedom of expression is in danger and democratic institutions are being ruined. “What do they want? They want that the people of India, tribal, youths, women, farmers and small businessmen should not speak. They want to suppress the country’s voice,” she said. Claiming that the makers of constitution would have never imagined such a crisis, Gandhi said, “ After two years, we will complete 75 years of our Independence, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, JV Mavalankar and Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, along with our forefathers, would have never imagined that after 75 years of Independence we would face such a difficult time,” Gandhi said. Praising Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Sonia Gandhi said that the state government is taking care of its poorest people. “After 15 years, the Congress formed a government in Chhattisgarh ….Many of our leaders were martyred. The 15 years of the BJP government is an example that a visionless government can never think about peoples’ benefit. Chhattisgarh is a resourceful state but the misgovernance has made this state the most undeveloped state...I am happy that the Congress government has made several steps in a positive direction for the people of the state,” Gandhi said. Dharmlal Kaushik, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly, said that the Congress president is misleading the people. “The party which imposed an Emergency and thousands of people were booked just for speaking has no right to talk about dictatorship. Everyone knows about Sikh riots and who spread venom hence the party should not mislead people,” said Kaushik, who was also present at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-nation-forces-are-spreading-hatred-violence-sonia-gandhi/story-xnKeDKtOS89thIjEfyPMMM.html
30-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tests cross 40 million, nearly 9 lakh conducted on Friday alone||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing has crossed the 40 million mark with about 9 lakh tests done on Friday alone.“…9 lakh Covid-19 samples each day for the second consecutive day, keeping a sharp focus on test, track and treat strategy of the Union government. India has already created a capacity of doing 10 lakh tests per day…,” said Union health ministry in a statement.According to the government data, at least 10 million tests have been conducted in the past 2 weeks, which is a feat in itself.The tests per million have also seen a sharp surge to 28,607. It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified at an early stage, their close contacts promptly tracked and isolated as well as timely and effective treatment can be ensured, say experts.“The graded and evolving response has resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing net in the country. To keep up with this strategy, the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened, which as of today, consists of 1,564 labs in the country; 998 labs in the government sector and 566 private labs,” said the health ministry in its statement.Also read: Flouting Covid-19 norms in metro may attract heavy fines once it reopensIndia is also registering continuous progress on the recovery front and a reduction in the fatality rate. In the past five months, more than 3/4th of Covid-19 cases have recovered and less than 1/4th are active cases now.With more patients recovering and being discharged from home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases) and hospitals (severe and critical cases), India’s number of Covid-19 recoveries nears 26 lakh. At least 60,000 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the country’s recovery rate to 76.28 percent.The number of recoveries is nearly 3.5 times the active cases, which comprise 21.90 percent of the total cases. Higher number of recoveries has led to a constantly growing difference between recoveries and active cases. Crossing 18 lakhs, the difference stands at 18,41,925.“The government has adopted a graded and evolving strategic response to Covid-19 management in India within the larger evolving global context. The early focus on surveillance and contact tracing through house-to-house survey was continuously strengthened with an increase in testing for ensuring early identification of positive cases. This has ensured prompt isolation of the confirmed positive cases either in supervised home care for the mild and moderate cases, and hospitalisation in case of those who are exhibiting critical symptoms,” said health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tests-cross-4-million-nearly-9-lakh-conducted-on-friday-alone/story-d3DWu3f3uimSCa4WkpJfHO.html
30-08-2020||India||Coronavirus: Delhi’s hotels check in to new normal||Handshakes these days at city hotels are a thing of the past, having been replaced with the traditional namaste offered by mask-wearing staff — their usual smile, ubiquitous in the hospitality sector, now hidden. Welcome drinks have made way for a quick pump or two of hand sanitising liquid into the hands of the guests.As city hotels reopen for business, with cautious optimism, after five months of lull owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, guests are being subjected to experiences that were previously unheard of in the hospitality industry.Each guest is made to sign a form, declaring that they do not suffer from Covid-19 at the time of check-in. Any accessories/stationery being carried by them are also being collected and put inside UV sanitiser boxes. The UV sanitiser boxes have also made their way to the front desk of most hotels, besides being used for ensuring that kitchen knives and cutlery used are virus/bacteria-free. The Centre’s rules mandate hotels follow standard operating procedures that demand regular sanitisation, disinfection and ensure minimum touch. Hotels have come up with other safety measures to beat the coronavirus — special floor mats that squeeze out fluids to disinfect footwear, disposable fruit forks to press elevator buttons, and security gates with ionisers on top to ensure that the hair of those entering the premises are disinfected. Gaurav Pokhariyal, senior vice-president (operations) in the Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), said: “Five of our hotels — Taj Palace, Ambassador; IHCL SeleQtions; Vivanta Dwarka; Ginger Delhi Rail Yatri Niwas; and Ginger East Delhi —have now opened. Taj Mahal, New Delhi, is expected to reopen in mid-September after ongoing refurbishments .” HT visited several prominent hotels in the city on Thursday . Thermal guns to check body temperatures and automated hand sanitisers seem to be the most common features in all hotel lobbies. Also, paper menus in restaurants have made way for QR codes accessible on phones . Portable fogging machines — for disinfecting all sorts of surfaces ranging from furniture to luggage — housekeeping staff dressed in protective gear were also some common sights at most hotels across the city. Nakul Anand, executive director ITC limited – which owns the Maurya hotel — said they are working to address the important needs of well being and safety through responsible practices that are immensely relevant in the unprecedented circumstances that we face today.” Rohit Arora, area general manager of The Park hotel in New Delhi, said: “People are not planning much in advance and currently there are no major corporate or leisure movements. Individual movements are rather planned on shorter notice. Hence, we need to keep a constant tap on booking trends. The current nature of bookings is largely corporate individual travellers, people seeking work vacations for a change and few social events with limited guest capacity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-guns-uv-sanitising-boxes-how-hotels-in-delhi-are-adjusting-to-new-normal/story-YeJtVTngQEx54COYM5ZvcM.html
