31-08-2020||India||States prepare for the JEE (Main) exam today||New Delhi: States such as Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan will offer free travel to students appearing in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE (Main), this week. Others such as Bihar and Odisha will deploy additional security forces outside examination centres to enforce social distancing norms.JEE (Main), for admission to engineering colleges including the elite Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), is to be held over September 1-6. It’s the first major nationwide entrance test being held since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started spreading wider in early March. Although several opposition-ruled states have opposed the conduct of the exam at a time when the pandemic is still raging, all have made elaborate arrangements for the test.Around a million students have enrolled for appearing in the exam across the country. The National Testing Agency (NTA), overseeing the test, has issued detailed guidelines for conducting the exam including sanitization of examination rooms, maintaining a minimum distance of two metres between two tables and mandatory temperature checks on each student.Students, who for the first time they will give an examination with gloves on, should not panic; they need to be careful and read the guidelines in detail, said Ashish Arora, head of academics at Jaipur-based Allen Career Institute. All students have been asked to come to the examination centre at least an hour before scheduled start of the exam. “The children need to be calm at the centres as the movement inside the centres would be slow,” Arora said.Ajay Singh, manager of the Uniconcept examination centre in Patna, said the students should take care to maintain social distancing.A Patna official said an adequate number of district magistrates and police personnel would be deployed to prevent gatherings outside exam halls. In Odisha, too, police reinforcements have been deployed at examination centres to help students and to prevent overcrowding.“Traffic police personnel would be posted at crucial places for smooth flow of traffic so that students reach on time,” said Bhubaneswar municipal commissioner PC Chaudhry, adding that there would be no restrictions on inter-state traffic to help students reach their examination centres.The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation released a list of hotels and lodges in the city to help students and their parents to find accommodation; in Ganjam district, buses have been provided to carry students to their examination centres. On Saturday, the state government announced a relaxation of weekend lockdowns until September 13.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said the state government has arranged free transport for students taking JEE (Main) and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical and dental courses, due on September 13 .“The arrangement has been made to ensure that the students don’t face any problem due to Covid situation. However, for this, they will have to contact the authorities on phone number 181 or get themselves registered on mapit.gov.in/covid-19,” Chouhan said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday directed district collectors to ensure arrangements related to health protocols are in place at the examination centres; he also asked them to arrange transport and accommodation for students and their parents. The governments of West Bengal, Kerala and Punjab, which had opposed holding the JEE and other Central entrance examinations, directed their transport departments to arrange buses for students to reach examination centres.“Private bus operators and taxi associations have been asked to operate all vehicles. State government buses will also be on the streets,” a senior state West Bengal government official said on condition of anonymity.He said at least 3,000 buses will run in and around Kolkata and auto-rickshaw unions have been asked to operate on routes on which examination centres are located.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-prepare-for-the-jee-main-exam-today/story-x7FUOvltV4TWZD293xEmGM.html
31-08-2020||India||Important to find some equilibrium: Jaishankar||New Delhi Against the backdrop of fresh tensions between India and China following a face-off between border troops over the weekend, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday it is important for the two sides to reach “some kind of equilibrium”. “Like every other country in the world, we are very cognisant of the rise of China. We are an immediate neighbour of China...so obviously...you are very directly impacted by the rise of China,” he said during an online interaction at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum’s (USISPF) annual leadership summit. Given the long history and culture of the two countries and their population of more than a billion people each, he said: “It’s very important that they reach some kind of understanding or equilibrium between them.” The “modus vivendi between India and China” is consequential for both countries and the world, he added, while responding to a question on China’s aggressive actions around the world and its ties with Pakistan. The Pakistan-China ties go back to the early 1960s and “aspects of it have been of concern to India”, Jaishankar said. “Obviously, that is something which we factor in in our relationship with both countries,” he said. Jaishankar participated in the online event hours after the Indian Army said it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements” to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake. However, he didn’t directly refer to the fresh tensions. During the event, Jaishankar also said India’s growth “has to be a lifting tide for the entire region”, and there is a need to invest in the country’s neighbourhood and build more connectivity projects. India is making a lot of regional investment for a “better integrated and connected region”, he said. India also has an ambitious policy for Africa, where it is opening more missions, expanding projects and doing more business, he said. “We need not just a diplomatic footprint, but an economic, technology and security footprint [in Africa],” he added. With the US, India sees a “much stronger convergence of interests” and much greater ability to work together in the realm of defence, Jaishankar said. This has progressed from joint military exercises to defence trade and procuring US military hardware for India’s armed forces, he said. This cooperation is “not tailored to a particular situation” or “focused on some country”, and is more about the two countries working together to secure the world, he added. India also sees the path to economic recovery in the post-Covid-19 era “as very much focused on ease of doing business”, Jaishankar said. The pandemic has also “made everyone more digital and brought out importance of resilient and trusted supply chains”, he added. “We need in the world today partners who can be depended on even in difficulties. Those are very important drivers of future business between us,” he said. The goal of India’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” programme is to increase national capacities, including in manufacturing, and this will lead to new business opportunities for the US as global value chains can use the country’s trusted and resilient production capacities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-find-some-equilibrium-jaishankar/story-RVsPDpRirSIX0LfNBgPzFI.html
31-08-2020||India||China building airbases near LAC: Experts||Open source satellite imagery and intelligence suggest that China is upgrading or developing at least 10 airbases, about a dozen air defence facilities and associated radar sites along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), according to experts in the field. On Monday, the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter shared an image of a heliport China is building in proximity to two new air defence positions that can cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in Doklam and Sikkim sectors. The imagery shows the suspected heliport under construction at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, and at a distance of about 100 km from Doka La (Doka pass) and Naku La (Naku pass). Earlier this month, @detresfa used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand, including a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of the Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. “The big thing that stands out [in the open source satellite imagery] is how vast and widespread this is. In the past, the Chinese side would add additional runways or aircraft shelters to some airbases,” said Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security and military analyst with Stratfor, which calls itself a geopolitical intelligence platform.“Now, China is upgrading or rebuilding facilities or creating new facilities, including 10 airbases, a dozen air defence facilities and other associated radar sites,” said Tack, who works with @detresfa. “The efforts appear to be significant and very directed,” Tack said, adding that one recent image had captured hundreds of trucks carrying concrete for upgrading the tarmac at just one site. Much of the work, he said, had begun either late last year or early this year, well before the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May after two clashes, one at Pangong lake in the Ladakh sector and another at Naku La in the Sikkim sector. “In the context of how this sort of development work usually takes places, the pace has been rapid,” Tack said, with much of the activity focused on building or upgrading facilities that will allow the Chinese side to control the airspace and provide additional mobility and support to ground forces. Besides the heliport in the Doklam sector, the Chinese side is also working on two more heliports in the Ladakh sector, one in Rutog county near the northern bank of Pangong Lake and another at Tianshuihai near Galwan Valley and Aksai Chin, according to the experts. The open source intelligence and satellite imagery, the experts said, pointed to long-term planning for the positioning of forces and assets. The suspected heliport near Doklam “could sustain all weather & rapid troop deployments in the sector along with improving surveillance operations”, @detresfa tweeted. The heliport is located almost equidistant from two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities, according to imagery tweeted earlier by @detresfa. Both missile facilities are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the “steady build-up of support infrastructure” by PLA near “areas with a history of clashes [and] disputed territorial claims demonstrates the long-term Chinese ambitions in these sectors”. “With the addition of a heliport along with area denial systems within 100 km from Doka La [and] Naku La, China would be able to sustain all weather operations in the disputed areas regardless of the harsh terrain [and] conditions,” according to the graphic. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of the heliport and the missile sites by the Chinese.These developments come against the backdrop of the Indian Army’s acknowledgement on Monday that its troops had pre-empted efforts by the PLA to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong lake....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-building-airbases-near-lac-experts/story-7kHcQYG60gRk1gLHgX2AUO.html
31-08-2020||India||Images show heliport infra near Doklam||New Delhi Open source satellite imagery has captured what appears to be a heliport China is building in close proximity to two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in Doklam and Sikkim sectors. The imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, shows the suspected heliport under construction at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, and at a distance of about 100km from Doka La (Doka pass) and Naku La (Naku pass). “Suspected PLA heliport infrastructure spotted [as] part of an ongoing investigation near the #Doklam region of the #India #China #Bhutan tri junction, this support unit could sustain all weather & rapid troop deployments in the sector along with improving surveillance operations,” the analyst tweeted. The suspected heliport is located almost equidistant from the two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities, according to imagery tweeted earlier by @detresfa. Both the missile facilities are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the “steady build-up of support infrastructure by the People’s Liberation Army of China [near] areas with a history of clashes [and] disputed territorial claims demonstrates the long-term Chinese ambitions in these sectors”. “With the addition of a heliport along with area denial systems within 100km from Doka La [and] Naku La, China would be able to sustain all weather operations in the disputed areas regardless of the harsh terrain [and] conditions,” according to the graphic. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50km from Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9, and Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the clash at Naku La, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of the heliport and the missile sites by the Chinese. After the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 following several rounds of negotiations, there were reports the Chinese side hadn’t fully pulled back its troops from the area. There were also reports that Chinese troops had built trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operations by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. These developments come against the backdrop of the Indian Army’s acknowledgement on Monday that its troops had pre-empted efforts by PLA to unilaterally change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong lake in the Ladakh sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/images-show-heliport-infra-near-doklam/story-9pp63I3n7VPCrwH2bX8MaI.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Important for India and China to reach some kind of equilibrium’: Jaishankar||Against the backdrop of fresh tensions between India and China following a faceoff between border troops over the weekend, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday it is important for the two sides to reach “some kind of equilibrium”. “Like every other country in the world, we are very cognisant of the rise of China. We are an immediate neighbour of China...so obviously...you are very directly impacted by the rise of China,” he said during an online interaction at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum’s (USISPF) annual leadership summit. Given the long history and culture of the two countries and their population of more than a billion people each, he said: “It’s very important that they reach some kind of understanding or equilibrium between them.” The “modus vivendi between India and China” is consequential for both countries and the world, he added while responding to a question on China’s aggressive actions around the world and its ties with Pakistan. The Pakistan-China ties go back to the early 1960s and “aspects of it have been of concern to India”, Jaishankar said. “Obviously, that is something which we factor in our relationship with both countries,” he said. Jaishankar participated in the online event hours after the Indian Army said it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements” to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake. However, he didn’t directly refer to the fresh tensions. During the event, Jaishankar also said India’s growth “has to be a lifting tide for the entire region”, and there is a need to invest in the country’s neighbourhood and build more connectivity projects. India is making a lot of regional investment for a “better integrated and connected region,” he said. India also has an ambitious policy for Africa, where it is opening more missions, expanding projects and doing more business, he said. “We need not just a diplomatic footprint, but an economic, technology and security footprint [in Africa],” he added. With the US, India sees a “much stronger convergence of interests” and much greater ability to work together” in the realm of defence, Jaishankar said. This has progressed from joint military exercises to defence trade and procuring US military hardware for India’s armed forces, he said. This cooperation is “not tailored to a particular situation” or “focussed on some country”, and is more about the two countries working together to secure the world, he added. India also sees the path to economic recovery in the post-Covid-19 year “as very much focussed on ease of doing business”, Jaishankar said. The pandemic has also “made everyone more digital and brought out the importance of resilient and trusted supply chains,” he added. “We need in the world today partners who can be depended on even in difficulties. Those are very important drivers of future business between us,” he said. The goal of India’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” programme is to increase national capacities, including in manufacturing, and this will lead to new business opportunities for the US as global value chains can use the country’s trusted and resilient production capacities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-for-india-and-china-to-reach-some-kind-of-equilibrium-jaishankar/story-axwjrf8Ci5VfzinWKRf1LO.html
31-08-2020||India||Japan announces emergency loan for India to fight Covid-19 pandemic||Japan announced on Monday it will extend a emergency support loan of up to 50 billion yen (almost Rs 3,500 crore) to back India’s response to the Covid-19 crisis, including implementation of health and medical policies and development of hospitals equipped with ICUs. Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki, and CS Mohapatra, additional secretary in India’s department of economic affairs exchanged notes regarding the provision of the yen loan for the response to the Covid-19 emergency. A statement issued by the Japanese embassy noted that the Indian government has taken several measures, including health sector reforms, in response to the spread of Covid-19. “This loan provides the necessary funds for emergency response in the fight against Covid-19 in India,” it said. This is the largest amount of financial assistance announced by any country so far to support India’s response to the Covid-19 crisis, which has had widespread impacts on the economy and health sector. The “Covid-19 crisis response emergency support loan” will back the “implementation of health and medical policy by the government of India, and will lead to the development of hospitals equipped with ICUs and infection prevention and management facilities, which are undersupplied in India”, the statement said. “It is also expected to lead to the enhancement of telemedicine using digital technology in numerous villages across India. It is expected that these measures, in addition to controlling the spread of infection in the country, will also contribute to the recovery and stability of the country’s society and economy, as well as to sustainable development,” the statement added. The terms and conditions of the loan include an interest rate of 0.01% per annum and a redemption period of 15 years, including a four-year grace period. Suzuki and Mohapatra also exchanged notes for the provision of grant aid worth 1 billion yen under Japan’s Official Development Assistance scheme for India’s Economic and Social Development Programme, which is being implemented by the health ministry. “This programme will provide oxygen generators to government of India. Oxygen generators can be employed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients under critical conditions. This programme will lead to the strengthening of India’s infectious disease countermeasures, as well as her health and medical systems,” the Japanese embassy said. In a separate development, the Japanese embassy and consulates and Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO) updated the list of Japanese businesses in India with the cooperation of Japanese chambers of commerce and industries in India. As of October 2019, the total number of Japanese companies registered in India is 1,454. The number has increased by 13 (0.9% growth), compared to 1,441 in 2018. The total number of Japanese business establishments in India, as of October 2019, is 5,022, a decrease by 80 (1.6% decline) as compared to 5,102 in 2018. West Bengal and Haryana showed the largest increase in the number of Japanese companies. There was a significant increase in the number of companies in such sectors as information and communications as well as services. The manufacturing sector accounted for half of the total Japanese companies and more than a third of Japanese business establishments in India. “The total number of establishments decreased while the number of companies increased, because some companies became non-Japanese due to the closure of office, corporate restructuring, change of ownership etc,” said a statement from the Japanese embassy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-announces-emergency-loan-for-india-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic/story-EU1w4uYbMMipMFPdS2KaQP.html
31-08-2020||India||SC fines Bhushan ₹1 for contempt of court||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday ordered advocate Prashant Bhushan to pay a fine of one rupee for criminal contempt of court, observing that his refusal to express remorse reflected his ego and obstinacy, and his offensive tweets should not go unpunished because that would send a wrong message to lawyers and litigants. Bhushan agreed to pay the fine.While the Bhushan camp considered the nominal fine a victory in the perception battle, the order passed by the three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra reflected a different tenor as it reiterated its judgment of August 14 by which it had found Bhushan guilty.“We are not afraid of sentencing the contemnor (Bhushan) either with imprisonment or from debarring him from practice. His conduct reflects adamance and ego, which has no place to exist in the system of administration of justice and in a noble profession, and no remorse is shown for the harm done to the institution to which he belongs. At the same time, we cannot retaliate merely because the contemnor has made a statement that he is neither invoking the magnanimity or the mercy of this Court,” the court said.It ordered Bhushan to deposit the fine of Re. 1 with the registry of the court before September 15. In the event of his failure to comply with the order, Bhushan will have to undergo imprisonment of three months and will also be debarred from practising before the Supreme Court for three years.In a statement issued to the press at 4pm on Monday, Bhushan said that while he will pay the fine imposed by the court, he will explore other legal remedies available to him.“While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment,” the statement read.Bhushan said it was heartening for him that the case became a watershed moment for freedom of speech and encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society, and maintained that his tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary.“Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen. I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail,” he said.The bench, however, said that, in it its view, “the act committed by the contemnor is a very serious one.”“He has attempted to denigrate the reputation of the institution of administration of justice of which he himself is a part. At the cost of repetition, we have to state that the faith of the citizens of the country in the institution of justice is the foundation for rule of law which is an essential factor in the democratic set up,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, said. Bhushan’s two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and other against Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on June 29, had led to suo motu (on its own motion) contempt of court action against him. The court found Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt on August 14 and held a separate hearing on August 20 and 25 to determine the sentence to be awarded to him. It then reserved its verdict on sentencing. The court maintained in the verdict that while free speech under Article 19 of the Constitution allows fair criticism of courts and judges, it cannot be stretched beyond a limit to allow malicious and scandalous statements.“The allegations made are scandalous and are capable of shaking the very edifice of the judicial administration and also shaking the faith of common man in the administration of justice. Though a fair criticism of judgment is permissible in law, a person cannot exceed the right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution to scandalize the institution,” the court said.According to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence of criminal contempt carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both.Interestingly, Attorney General KK Venugopal, who appeared in the case in his personal capacity at the court’s request, had asked the court on August 20 not to punish Bhushan and instead let him off with a reprimand.The court afforded Bhushan the opportunity to apologise to the court on at least three occasions but he turned it down saying his tweets reflected his bona fide beliefs and any apology for expressing views which he considered to be correct will not be sincere.“The punishment of Rs.1 could have been imposed at the sentencing hearing itself. The long argument, the filing of statements, oral admonitions and insistence on an apology which never came, do not make for a convincing case of magnanimity on the part of the court. It now looks like much ado about nothing,” senior counsel Sanjay Hegde told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-fines-bhushan-1-for-contempt-of-court/story-LeidGz1XeRkiBMHmz4yFNP.html
31-08-2020||India||China upgrading airbases and air defence facilities along LAC, say experts||Open source satellite imagery and intelligence suggest China is upgrading or developing at least 10 airbases, about a dozen air defence facilities and associated radar sites along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), according to experts in the field. On Monday, the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter shared an image of a heliport China is building in proximity to two new air defence positions that can cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in Doklam and Sikkim sectors. The imagery shows the suspected heliport under construction at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, and at a distance of about 100 km from Doka La (Doka pass) and Naku La (Naku pass). Earlier this month, @detresfa used open source satellite imagery to report China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand, including a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. “The big thing that stands out [in the open source satellite imagery] is how vast and widespread this is. In the past, the Chinese side would add additional runways or aircraft shelters to some airbases,” said Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security and military analyst with Stratfor who works with @detresfa. “Now, China is upgrading or rebuilding facilities or creating new facilities, including 10 airbases, a dozen air defence facilities and other associated radar sites,” he said. “The efforts appear to be significant and very directed,” Tack said, adding one recent image had captured hundreds of trucks carrying concrete for upgrading the tarmac at just one site. Much of the work, he said, had begun either late last year or early this year, well before the India-China border standoff emerged in the open in May after two clashes, one at Pangong lake in Ladakh sector and another at Naku La in Sikkim sector. “In the context of how this sort of development work usually takes places, the pace has been rapid,” Tack said, with much of the activity focused on building or upgrading facilities that will allow the Chinese side to control the airspace and provide additional mobility and support to ground forces. Besides the heliport in Doklam sector, the Chinese side is also working on two more heliports in Ladakh sector, one in Rutog county near the northern bank of Pangong Lake and another at Tianshuihai near Galwan Valley and Aksai Chin, according to the experts. The open source intelligence and satellite imagery, the experts said, pointed to long-term planning for the positioning of forces and assets. The suspected heliport near Doklam “could sustain all weather & rapid troop deployments in the sector along with improving surveillance operations”, @detresfa tweeted. The heliport is located almost equidistant from two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities, according to imagery tweeted earlier by @detresfa. Both missile facilities are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the “steady build-up of support infrastructure” by PLA near “areas with a history of clashes [and] disputed territorial claims demonstrates the long-term Chinese ambitions in these sectors”. “With the addition of a heliport along with area denial systems within 100 km from Doka La [and] Naku La, China would be able to sustain all weather operations in the disputed areas regardless of the harsh terrain [and] conditions,” according to the graphic. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of the heliport and the missile sites by the Chinese.These developments come against the backdrop of the Indian Army’s acknowledgement on Monday that its troops had pre-empted efforts by PLA to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-upgrading-airbases-and-air-defence-facilities-along-lac-say-experts/story-c2QMScJVns5PbeyGgGeq5J.html
31-08-2020||India||‘True friend’: Sheikh Hasina condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death in letter to PM Modi||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina condoled the death of India’s former president Pranab Mukherjee on Monday. In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sheikh Hasina called the Congress veteran “a highly esteemed leader of South Asia” who “commanded the respect and admiration of all”.“As a renowned scholar and statesman of India, and a highly esteemed leader of South Asia, Pranab Mukherjee commanded the respect and admiration of all. The tireless work of ‘Bharat Ratna’ Pranab Mukherjee for the welfare of the people of India will inspire the future generation of leaders not only in India but across the countries in the region,” the Bangladesh prime minister wrote in the letter. Also read | Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political careerShe called Mukherjee a “true friend” and said that “he was always been highly revered and loved by the people of Bangladesh.” In the letter, she also wrote about Mukherjee’s support and contribution in strengthening relations between the two countries and said that he will always be “remembered with the deepest respect” in Bangladesh.Also read | The other side of Pranab babu“In 2013, in recognition of this luminary, the government of Bangladesh conferred on him ‘Bangladesh Muktijuddho Sommanona’ (Liberation War Honour) for his valuable contribution to Bangladesh’s Liberation War of 1971,” she said.“On behalf of the government and the people of Bangladesh, I express our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the government and the people of India on the irreparable loss of this veteran leader,” she also said in the letter.Mukherjee, a veteran politician, died on Monday evening following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84 and was survived by his two sons and a daughter.On August 10, he was admitted to the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital and was operated for a removal of a clot in the brain the same day.The long-time Congress leader and seven-time parliamentarian had tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission and was being treated for a lung infection. He had suffered a septic shock on Sunday due to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/true-friend-sheikh-hasina-condoles-pranab-mukherjee-s-death-in-letter-to-pm-modi/story-kJd4T2MnQWJjyvovBfYNUN.html
31-08-2020||India||32 Babri case accused submit reply in court||LUCKNOW: Written arguments were filed on behalf of all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case on Monday before a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Lucknow. Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav had set an August 31 deadline for all the accused to submit their written arguments in the case related to the December 1992 razing of the 16th century mosque. “All 32 accused submitted their replies today. With this, the ‘legal fight’ in the case comes to an end. Only the last arguments will take place on Tuesday,” said lawyer KK Mishra, who is representing 25 out of 32 accused, including senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh. “Tuesday’s arguments will be just a formality. Counsel of all accused will argue to assert only those points which they have submitted in writing in court today,” said Mishra. The Supreme Court’s original deadline for the delivery of judgment in the case was to expire on August 31. Earlier this month, it extended the deadline for the special CBI court till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-babri-case-accused-submit-reply-in-court/story-tfAY8iV0ERR9C2fuucCn5M.html
31-08-2020||India||SC issues rules on physical hearings||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Monday notified a standard operating procedure (SOP) to govern physical court hearings, which are expected to commence in the top court soon. As a pilot scheme, physical hearings of matters will initially commence only in three courtrooms, the SOP said.Wearing of masks, frequent use of hand sanitizers, and maintaining physical distancing norms will be mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises. The court will take a call on how many lawyers and litigants will be permitted inside the courtroom depending on its capacity and physical distancing norms. If there are multiple parties in a case, then only one advocate-on-record (filing counsel) and one arguing counsel per party will be allowed entry. Besides, one registered clerk per party will also be allowed to carry paperbooks, journals, etc, of lawyers into courtrooms.Entry into the high-security zone of the Supreme Court will be through daily “special hearing passes” that will be issued by the registry. Proximity cards, which are normally used by lawyers to gain access to the high-security zone, will continue to remain suspended.Physical hearings of cases at the Supreme Court were suspended on March 23 after the Covid-19 outbreak. The apex court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since then. The top court issued a circular on March 23 suspending the entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video-conferencing.Video-conferencing is conducted by the court through the Vidyo app, which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-rules-on-physical-hearings/story-fYit4NLGOlJLWS8ooOA88H.html
31-08-2020||India||Fresh row as BJP attacks Cong over RGF donations||New Delhi The BJP on Monday launched a fresh attack on the Congress alleging that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust received donations from organisations linked to Mehul Choksi, Rana Kapoor, Jignesh Shah and Zakir Naik, all of whom are being probed under various charges.Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said all these donations were part of a “conspiracy”, and alleged that trails of all “scams” lead to the Gandhi family.Hitting back at the BJP, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted that a “scared” central government will not answer questions about China’s transgressions into Indian territory, “sinking” GDP numbers and job losses but will instead blame the Congress, its president Sonia Gandhi, RGF (Rajiv Gandhi Foundation), the weather and God.Targeting the Congress, Patra said Choksi, an accused in the PNB fraud case who has fled the country, donated Rs 10 lakh to the foundation in August 2014 through a company owned by his family while Kapoor, the arrested founder of Yes Bank, donated Rs 9.45 lakh to the foundation in September 2016.Shah-owned Financial Technologies India Limited donated Rs 50 lakh to the trust in 2011, he alleged.Naik, a hardline Islamic preacher, had donated Rs 50 lakh in 2011 to the trust, Patra noted and added that the money was returned by the trust to a different account after a controversy broke out.“Since the main account was under probe, so the Congress returned the money to another account,” he claimed.Patra alleged that the GVK group had also supplied 47 vehicles to the foundation for its use between 2011-12 and 2016-17.Meanwhile, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asked as to how these accused managed to flee the country under the BJP dispensation. “BJP is at the helm of affairs. If the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation has committed any wrong or any legal infirmities are found, then the government is at liberty to do anything,” he said.He then asked as to how many Chinese companies have donated to the PM Cares Fund, and said this also should be investigated.Patra cited the Supreme Court judgment, which had refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), and asked Chowdhury to trust the court.Congress secretary Pranab Jha dismissed the allegations as “plants” and said these are rehashed, old charges. “We reject them with the contempt they deserve,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-row-as-bjp-attacks-cong-over-rgf-donations/story-ZpyAKMVvkHDhzI7l7EDd3M.html
31-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM tells Centre to borrow to pay GST compensation||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday asked the Union Government to borrow and pay off GST compensation to states, according to an official statement of the state government.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Baghel has also demanded that the Central Government should provide Rs 2,828 crore to Chhattisgarh as GST compensation amount for the year 2020-21. On the option of the State Government taking loan to deal with the shortage in GST compensation Baghel, said that the Central Government had assured the states in GST council in year 2017 that any shortage in state’s revenue after implementation of GST will be compensated till 2022. Hence, under the current circumstances, a more practical and logical step for the Central government would be to take a loan and provide GST compensation amounts to the states, the statement said.Baghel in his letter to Sitaraman said that every year the states generally get an increased amount of revenue, and any shortage in this protected revenue should be compensated by the Central Government. For this, the Central government should be directly taking loan to provide GST compensation amount to the states, instead of advising the states to take loan. He also said that since the Reserve Bank of India provides loans to each state on different interest rates, it would be more practical if the Central Government takes loan and provides it to the states. The chief minister further stated in the letter that as per the constitutional provisions, it is the responsibility of the Central government to provide GST compensation amount. If states take the loan to meet the shortage of GST collection, then the financial burden would fall on the states, and as the Central government is responsible for payment of GST compensation amount, the loan repayment situation would become uncertain and complicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-tells-centre-to-borrow-to-pay-gst-compensation/story-6BOC1WLho31vvX4tWKdwtK.html
31-08-2020||India||Unlock-4: Kolkata Metro may resume services from Sept 8||The Kolkata Metro, the city’s lifeline, may resume services from September 8, according to a notification issued by the Mamata Banerjee-led administration on Monday. The West Bengal government has also decided to go ahead with a complete state-wide lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12. This comes just two days after the Union government, in its Unlock 4 guidelines said that states shall not impose any lockdown (outside containment zones) without prior consultation of the Centre. “The state government’s notification declaring lockdown days was issued following proper protocols,” said a top official of the state government. The West Bengal government had earlier written to the Railway Board that it has no issues if local trains and Kolkata Metro resume services. On Monday, the notification issued by the state government said that Metro may resume services from September 8 in a graded manner. “We are waiting for the SOP from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Once we receive the SOP, we would discuss with the state government and then work oyt a plan,” said a spokesperson of the Kolkata Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-kolkata-metro-may-resume-services-from-sept-8/story-2LGnX0vsabFAuBGgep44GL.html
31-08-2020||India||PIL in Jharkhand high court seeks to move Lalu Prasad back to jail||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in the Jharkhand high court seeking judicial order to the state government to immediately shift Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and fodder scam convict Lalu Prasad to the Ranchi jail.Prasad began his latest jail term on December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession.But the former Bihar chief minister has been undergoing treatment in custody at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for the last two years. He was shifted from the hospital’s paying ward to the director’s bungalow early this month due to the Covid-19 pandemic. One Manish Kumar has filed the PIL highlighting how Prasad, unlike any ordinary convict, is availing VIP facilities at RIMS’ director’s bungalow in flagrant violation of jail manual.The petitioner alleged that Prasad was allowed to meet his acquaintances regularly without having any regard to the jail manual.“This all is happening under the garb of treatment right under the nose of the state government and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the prosecuting agency, which remain a mute spectator,” said the petitioner’s lawyer Manoj Tondon.He added that all convicted persons should be treated at par. “When an ordinary convicted person is compelled to remain behind bars, why Prasad, being a political leader, should be given extra favour and why he should be allowed to enjoy the facilities at the director’s bungalow,” Tondon argued, saying, “This is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.”Earlier, when Prasad was arrested in Bihar as an accused in the fodder scam, he was put in a guest house. After the Supreme Court’s intervention, he was finally sent to Beur Jail, Patna, Tondon said.He added that the said apex court’s order was annexed with the PIL. Prasad had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was given bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.The former Bihar chief minister’s trouble renewed again after December 23, 2017, when he had been convicted in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession and awarded different terms of imprisonment. After spending initial two months from December, 2017, to February, 2018, in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Prasad had developed health complications in the middle of March, 2018, and he was shifted to hospital. Since then, he has not returned to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-jharkhand-high-court-seeks-to-move-lalu-prasad-back-to-jail/story-yjjDRS4xMnOXKyXWQAt3WP.html
31-08-2020||India||Darkness descends on Miriti, Pranab Mukherjee’s village in Bengal||At Miriti, a small village at Kirnahar in Bengal’s Birbhum district, Durga Puja at the Mukherjee family’s ancestral home was never complete without a priest whose visit every October lighted up the festivities and hundreds of faces. A devout Hindu, Pranab Mukherjee never missed his priest’s role except only in 2015, when his wife, Suvra, passed away just a few days before the annual festival. Although other priests performed the routine rituals, it was Mukherjee’s job to chant scriptures from the 13 chapters of Chandi. The puja was started by Mukherjee’s ancestor Jangaleswar Mukherjee 126 years ago. To the villagers, who gathered in mourning on Monday evening, Mukherjee was always Poltu, the nickname his parents gave him. His elder sister Annapurna Devi, the only member of the family who lived in the house, died in January this year. “We lost our guardian as Bengal lost a glorious son. An era has ended and this void will remain forever,” said Rabi Chattaraj, 71, the former Congress leader’s follower in politics and a resident of Miriti. The village is located around 230 km to the South-West of Kolkata. “I became his disciple ever since I joined the Youth Congress as a young man. Dada was affectionate to me. Last year, when he came to attend the puja, he asked me to look after the guests and ensure that everyone gets the prasad,” Chattaraj told HT as his voice choked. “The puja at Dada’s home has always been devoid of any kind of luxury despite his stature. Thousands of people, including VIPs, have attended the puja. Dada used to request everybody not to leave without taking the prasad,” said Chattaraj. During his stay in the village, Mukherjee used to spend time with family and old friends, some of whom went to the Shib Chandra High School at Kirnahar which is more commonly referred to as ‘Pranab’s school.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darkness-descends-on-miriti-pranab-mukherjee-s-village-in-bengal/story-iF6kjdRbpmE2VGIbzmSYjN.html
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court issues SOP for physical hearings likely to begin soon||The Supreme Court has notified a standard operating procedure (SOP) to govern physical court hearings which are expected to commence soon in the top court.As a pilot scheme, the physical hearing of matters will initially begin only in 3 court rooms, the SOP said.The court will take a call on how many lawyers and litigants will be permitted inside the court room, depending on the capacity of the court room and physical distancing norms.If there are multiple parties in a case, then only one advocate-on-record (filing counsel) and one arguing counsel per party will be allowed entry. Besides, one registered clerk per party will also be allowed to carry paper-books/journals etc. of lawyers into the court rooms.The entry into the high security zone of the Supreme Court will be through daily “special hearing passes” which will be issued by the Registry. Proximity cards, which are normally used by lawyers to gain access to the high security zone, will continue to remain suspended.Wearing of masks, frequent use of hand sanitizer and maintaining physical distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises.Physical hearing of cases at the Supreme Court was suspended on March 23, after the outbreak of Covid-19. The apex court has been hearing cases via video conferencing since then. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through ‘Vidyo app’ which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-sop-for-physical-hearings-likely-to-begin-soon/story-u32nhuIQbQ7TedT3KgdXJN.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee passes away: Manmohan Singh condoles demise, says lost one of greatest leaders of Independent India||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condoled the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday and said the country has lost one of its greatest leaders of independent India. “I have learnt with profound sorrow about the passing away of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Former President of India,” Singh said in a statement. “In his death, our country has  lost one of its  greatest leaders of Independent India.  He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs,” the former PM said. Also read | Pranab Mukherjee: The vice-captain who went on to be refereePranab Mukherjee and Singh’s political careers overlapped briefly from 2012 to 2014 as the former served as the country’s President from 2012 to 2017, and the latter served as Indian PM from 2004 to 2014. The former Indian President passed away on Monday evening after he had suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg house and had been operated to remove a blood clot in his brain on August 10. Doctors on Monday morning warned that there was a decline in his condition and he was in septic shock due to infection in his lung.Also read | ‘A scholar par excellence’: PM Modi condoles demise of Pranab MukherjeeAs news of Pranab Mukherjee’s death emerged, Prime Minister Modi paid tributes to the veteran politician who had guided him when he first came to Delhi from Gujarat in 2014, ready to take charge as prime minister. “He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-manmohan-singh-condoles-demise-says-lost-one-of-greatest-leaders-of-independent-india/story-m5J5Q9bob0qZteJktjHr4O.html
31-08-2020||India||Assam police arrest 5 from UP for siphoning money from CM’s relief fund||An Assam Police team arrested five persons from Uttar Pradesh on charges of siphoning funds from the Chief Minister’s relief fund by forging cheques and signatures of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. According to a police press statement on Monday, the five accused were arrested by a team of seven officers from CM’s special vigilance cell on August 27 following raids at some remote areas of Gorakhpur and Basti districts of Uttar Pradesh. The accused, identified as Mohammad Arif, Mohammad Asif, Lalji, Sarvesh Rao and Ravindra Kumar, have been brought to Assam on remand of 10 days have reportedly admitted to their crime. They said they had withdrawn funds fraudulently from relief funds of CMs from other states as well. “During interrogation, they admitted to have committed the offence and also said that they had committed the same from other states but only recently they tried to withdraw sum from Assam CM’s relief fund starting with withdrawal of very little amounts,” the statement said. The matter first came to light on August 10 when the Assam CM’s office detected some unusual transactions from the relief fund. The matter was immediately informed to the vigilance cell and a case registered. During investigation it was found that some amounts were fraudulently withdrawn using cheques in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh by forging the cheques and signatures of Sonowal. Details of the total sum withdrawn from the fund have not been disclosed yet. “The government money fraudulently withdrawn was refunded by State Bank of India as there were faults on their part,” the statement said. The covert operation to nab the culprits was successful due to close coordination between the offices of CMs of Assam and Uttar Pradesh as well as police departments of both states. “Chief Minister of Assam has warned that he will not allow a single penny meant for the poor people of Assam to go to the hands of criminals,” the statement stated. The scam revealed that criminals can withdraw sums from such government funds where there is less auditing and monitoring. “This is a wake up call for all the state governments of India to secure government funds as there are huge credit balances in the accounts and very less monitoring and auditing of the funds, and this is taken as an advantage by criminals who have been involved in fraudulent withdrawal of money from government funds across the country,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-5-from-up-for-siphoning-money-from-cm-s-relief-fund/story-qLfK7e2ki5XvSXg7rFNnyN.html
31-08-2020||India||CBDT chairman Pramod Mody gets extension, will be involved in Budget preparation||The government has extended Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman Pramod Chandra Mody’s tenure for a second time to ensure continuity in the leadership on income-tax matters during the next budget expected on February 1, 2021.He was due to relinquish office on Monday after ending the first one-year extension period. “The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved extension in the re-appointment of Shri Pramod Chandra Mody as Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for a period of six months with effect from 01.09.2020 to 28.02.2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” an official order said. Mody, a 1982-batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, had taken over as the new chairman of CBDT on February 15, 2019. Before being elevated, Mody was the member-administration of CBDT, the apex policy making body of the income-tax department. He had succeeded Sushil Chandra, who was appointed as an Election Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-chairman-pramod-mody-gets-extension-will-be-involved-in-budget-preparation/story-yR8SUwW0ClLHrptGEZzA6N.html
31-08-2020||India||Unlock 4: Maharashtra relaxes travel curbs, govt office attendance||The Maharashtra government on Monday lifted restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods, and raised attendance in its offices as it announced a slew of relaxations while extending the general Covid-19-enforced lockdown in the state till September 30.It said hotels and lodges will be allowed to operate at 100 per cent capacity from September 2, but schools, colleges, cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain closed till September 30.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEasing of restrictions came even as Maharashtra continues to register a record number of new coronavirus cases with no flattening of curve in sight in the state.The government announced that there shall be no restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries from September 2.No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for the vehicles and persons travelling therein for such movements, the government said in its Mission Begin Again order that encapsulated “Unlock” norms.The government also allowed passenger movement by private bus/mini bus and other operators. The states Transport Commissioner will issue the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same, the order said.The government said that outdoor physical activities with no restrictions will be allowed, but made no mention of reopening of gyms and temples.The Maharashtra governments Group A and Group B officers can attend offices to 100 per cent of their strength across the state from September 2.Other government staffers can attend offices with 30 per cent of their strength or minimum 30 employees, whichever is more, in areas under municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and others -- all Covid-19 hotspots.In the rest of Maharashtra, the non-Group A and Group B staffers can attend office to the extent of their 50 per cent strength or minimum 50 employees whichever is more, the order said.The government said private offices may operate up to 30 per cent of their strength as per requirement.The government also called for appointing a vigilance officer in every office to ensure social distancing norms are observed to contain the spread of Covid-19.All essential shops which were allowed to remain open till the latest order will continue to do so, the government said.All non-essential shops will be allowed to continue as per relaxations issued from time to time and liquor shops will continue to operate, it added.The Uddhav Thackeray government made it clear that the schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed till September 30 and reiterated online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (including those in malls and market complexes), bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain closed, it said.International travel of passengers, except as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and metro rail services will be disallowed, it said.Social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/ cultural/religious functions and other large congregations will continue to be prohibited in the state, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-maharashtra-relaxes-travel-curbs-govt-office-attendance/story-8HwzA7jX2EDO67EkOiT7dM.html
31-08-2020||India||‘An integral and prominent part of national life, Congress’: Sonia Gandhi writes to Pranab Mukherjee’s daughter||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee in a letter addressed to his daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee. Gandhi, in the letter said, that the former President played a crucial role both in shaping the course of events as well as actively participating in them, whether as a cabinet minister, parliamentarian or President of India. “Pranabda had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government for over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects,” Gandhi wrote in the letter. Gandhi said Mukherjee brought distinction to every post he held, he established a genuine rapport with colleagues across the political spectrum, and he served our country with the utmost dedication. “His life over the past 50 years mirrored 50 years of the history of India, for he played a crucial role both in shaping the course of events as well as actively participating in them, whether as a cabinet minister, parliamentarian or President of India,” she said, condoling his demise. “I personally have so many warm memories of my working with him, and I learnt so much from him,” Gandhi said. The former Indian President passed away on Monday evening after he had suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg house and had been operated to remove a blood clot in his brain on August 10. Doctors on Monday morning warned that there was a decline in his condition and he was in septic shock due to infection in his lung. As news of Pranab Mukherjee’s death emerged, Prime Minister Modi paid tributes to the veteran politician who had guided him when he first came to Delhi from Gujarat in 2014, ready to take charge as prime minister. “He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pranab-mukherjee-s-daughter-an-integral-and-prominent-part-of-national-life-congress/story-qfp6TeqU0ovze84N8amTIP.html
31-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar’s call to Sharad Yadav sparks speculation of his return to JD(U)||A courtesy call by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to the family of former JD (U) president Sharad Yadav to enquire about his health, has sparked off speculation in the political circle about his possible return to the party.Yadav, who was undergoing treatment at New Delhi’s AIIMS, was discharged from hospital on Sunday. “Yes, this is true that Nitish Kumar ji called Sharad Yadav but it was just a courtesy call to enquire about his health,” said general secretary of Yadav’s Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Arun Srivastava. He, however, was quick to add, “Anything is possible in politics which is full of probabilities. Nitishji has been our leader and we have worked together.” Yadav formed LJD after he was expelled from the JD (U) for his anti-party activities in August 2017. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Madhepura as a Grand Alliance candidate and lost the elections. What has sparked the rumours about his return to JD (U) is that during the course of his illness, several JD (U) leaders contacted him and enquired about his health. According to Yadav’s party sources, the LJD leader, like other Grand Alliance partners, was feeling neglected in the alliance. Only recently, HAM-S, one of the GA partners, exited from the alliance. “If he joins it will definitely be a good move,” said JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan. “He is a tall leader. It will strengthen the NDA,” said BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav. However, a section of the JD (U) doesn’t see this happening. “He doesn’t have a base. Moreover, if he joins, it will be difficult to adjust his candidates in the coming Assembly polls,” said a senior JD (U) leader, wishing anonymity. The RJD also sees this as propaganda. “The JD (U) has become desperate. They are moving from the doors of one leader to another and extending them invites to join their party,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. The JD (U) had removed Yadav as the party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha in 2017 after he publicly disapproved of Nitish Kumar’s decision to re-join the NDA in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-s-call-to-sharad-yadav-sparks-speculation-of-his-return-to-jd-u/story-Esl0fVoR6z0In9mf8AnnEM.html
31-08-2020||India||Defence ministry inks contract worth Rs 2,580 crore with Indian firms to boost army’s firepower||The defence ministry on Monday signed a Rs 2,580-crore contract with Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), Tata Power Company Ltd (TPCL) and Larsen & Toubro to equip the army with six Pinaka rocket regiments, a spokesperson said. He said the order to the Indian firms would boost the Make in India initiative at a time when self-reliance in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. The six Pinaka Regiments will consist of 114 launchers with automated gun aiming and positioning systems and 45 command posts to be bought from TPCL and L&T, and 330 vehicles to be procured from BEML, the ministry said in a statement. The Defence Research and Development Organisation has locally designed and developed the Pinaka multiple launch rocket system. It will now be produced by the firms to whom the contract has been awarded. “These six Pinaka regiments will be operationalised along the northern and eastern borders of our country further enhancing the operation preparedness of the armed forces,” the ministry said. The new regiments will be operational by 2024. Last week, PM Narendra Modi said India has the potential to become a reliable weapons supplier to friendly foreign countries and strengthen its strategic partnerships as it takes strides towards self-reliance in the defence sector. Earlier this month, the government announced a separate budgetary outlay of Rs 52,000 crore for domestic capital procurement and came out with a negative import list. India on August 9 announced it will ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years --- from artillery guns to light military transport aircraft and conventional submarines to long-range land attack cruise missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-inks-contract-worth-rs-2-580-crore-with-indian-firms-to-boost-army-s-firepower/story-OZdkSlk9ALcVeIJMU7h7JI.html
31-08-2020||India||JP Nadda, BJP leaders pay tributes to Pranab Mukherjee||BJP president J P Nadda expressed grief at the death of former president Pranab Mukkherjee who was also a Congress heavyweight and an outstanding parliamentarian.“Saddened by the demise of former President and statesman Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has served the Country in many roles with diligence and determination. He is widely admired across the parties for his intellect and perseverance. My condolences to his family and followers,” Nadda said in a tweet Monday evening.Several other top BJP leaders also expressed their condolences over Mukherjee’s demise.Senior leader Bhupender Yadav said Mukherjee was a formidable debater and a thorough parliamentarian.“Deeply pained to hear of the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Will always remember him as a thorough parliamentarian and a formidable debater. May his soul rest in eternal peace. Om Shanti!” Yadav tweeted.BJP general secretary B L Santhosh said Mukherjee brought dignity to all posts he held.“Nation has lost a great human being, a statesman, a person who brought dignity to all the posts he held. Pranab da, the country will ever remember you for your grace, conduct & integrity,” Santhosh tweeted . BJP vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe remembered Mukherjee for, among other things, visiting the RSS headquarters.“With the passing away of Shri #PranabMukherjee we have lost a distinguished Ex-President, who rose above partisan considerations! His visit to RSS HQ underscored his commitment to high democratic values while rejecting ideological untouchability! Homage to the departed leader!” Sahasrabuddhe said.BJP leader Jay Panda said Advani was a “titan of his era, he was continually at the epicentre of power for decades, in various roles. Erudite, scholarly, also pragmatic & approachable, with friends across the spectrum”Mukherjee who had suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg house and had been operated to remove a blood clot in his brain on August 10 at the Army Hospital Research And Referral , passed away in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-bjp-leaders-pay-tributes-to-pranab-mukherjee/story-CPDcs75E2mWJRKpx1u8JwI.html
31-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 7-day state mourning announced for former president Pranab Mukherjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.7-day state mourning announced for former president Pranab MukherjeeA seven-day state mourning was announced by the Centre after former president Pranab Mukherjee died at a Delhi hospital on Monday. He was 84-years-old. Read moreIndia’s economy contracts by 23.9%, worst in decadesIndia’s gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 23.9% in April-June period quarter, official data released by the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation (Mospi) showed on Monday, amid coronavirus pandemic-induced which hit businesses and livelihoods across the country. Read moreMan tweets about Chadwick Boseman’s kindness towards a stranger, tale moves tweepleChadwick Boseman’s sudden death left people all over the world heartbroken. Ever since the announcement, fans have flooded social media platforms with moving tributes for the actor. Read moreAsus to launch ‘Expert’ commercial laptops, PCs and AiOs in India, launch to take place in SeptemberWhile Asus is already grabbing headlines for its smartphones in India, it has also been aggressive in the PC and laptop space. Read moreSummer Travel: From road trips to beaches, here’s how to make the most of your vacation daysA global pandemic may be upon us, stranding us all within the confines of our own homes for the fear of getting infected, but that is not enough to completely quell our desire to travel and explore. Read moreWith Suresh Raina not around, MS Dhoni should bat at No. 3 for CSK: Gautam GambhirFormer India batsman Gautam Gambhir feels the 2020 edition of the IPL will be a wonderful opportunity for MS Dhoni to bat up the order, most likely at No. 3. Read moreWatch: Trump son-in-law on historic Israel-UAE flight after peace dealIn a historic first, a commercial flight flew from Israel to the United Arab Emirates, weeks after the two nations inked a peace agreement, brokered by the United States of America. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-7-day-state-mourning-announced-for-former-president-pranab-mukherjee-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CoTN8JBztzN0ss97oLXnuJ.html
31-08-2020||India||8 feared dead as van plunges into Chenab river in J-K’s Ramban||At least eight people including the driver were feared dead when a van plunged into the swollen Chenab river, one km short of Ramban town on Jammu-Srinagar national highway late Monday afternoon, police said. The driver was trying to overtake another vehicle when he lost control and plunged into the icy Chenab river which is in spate due to recent rain. “We have not been able to retrieve travellers. The Chenab is in full spate and nothing has been found so far,” Ramban district commissioner Nazim Zai Khan said. The accident occurred around 4.30 pm. “There were nine on board the ill-fated vehicle, out of whom one, a police constable Mehraj Din, was thrown out of it when the vehicle was rolling down into the river,” said Khan. “He is being treated at district hospital in Ramban. Prima facie it appeared to be a case of negligent driving,” said the DC. Ramban’s senior superintendent of police Haseeb-ur-Rehman said, “the vehicle was on its way to Ramban from Udhampur. We tried to trace the vehicle with the help of hooks but there is no clue so far. The river is in spate.” “We have requisitioned army divers on Tuesday morning to trace the passengers. However, we have recovered some bags from the slope,” he added The vehicle skidded off the road at Mehar on the outskirts of Ramban town. According to the lone survivor Mehraj Din, two other policemen - head constable Ajay Kumar and constable Hafiz Hussain of Akhnoor - were also in the vehicle when it fell into the river. Two women had de-boarded at Karol, just two kms short of the mishap site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-feared-dead-as-van-plunges-into-chenab-river-in-j-k-s-ramban/story-AU8FlCdj75AxNajT5oxlyN.html
31-08-2020||India||‘For decades he was father figure’: West Bengal CM Mamata remembers Pranab Mukherjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday expressed deep sorrow over the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and said with his demise “an era has come to an end”.She recollected her long association with Mukherjee and extended her condolence to his son and daughter.“It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM,” Banerjee said in a statement released from the state secretariat.“So many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable. He is a legend in all subjects from politics to economics. Will be forever grateful. Shall miss him immensely. My condolences to Abhijit & Sharmistha,” she added.84-year-old Mukherjee passed away at the Army RR Hospital in Delhi this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-decades-he-was-father-figure-west-bengal-cm-mamata-remembers-pranab-mukherjee/story-wXPtWg4E2DUECmXVvtTGhK.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee, India’s former president who never became PM||During five decades in Indian politics, Pranab Mukherjee, who died on Monday after a lung infection, led some of the nation’s most powerful ministries and eventually became its president, but the ultimate prize still eluded him: the prime ministership.Mukherjee tested positive for Covid-19 on August 10 and had been in hospital since. He was 84.Valued for his ability to build consensus by exerting his charm to bring together disparate groups, Mukherjee never won the top job, despite decades of loyalty to the Congress party.The former college teacher and journalist lacked a grassroots political base, but held more than a dozen federal portfolios between 1973 and 2012, ranging from commerce and finance to defence and foreign affairs.But he could also raise hackles, as when finance minister in 2012, he demanded a $2-billion payment from Vodafone, then India’s largest overseas corporate investor, as part of a retrospective tax on long-concluded corporate deals.Mukherjee entered parliament in 1969, following his father into the Congress party led by Indira Gandhi, just as she steered the country on a sharp turn towards socialism.He rose under Gandhi’s mentorship, only to be sidelined by her son, Rajiv, after elections in 1984.But Mukherjee managed to regain his proximity to the Congress leadership and the Gandhi family, becoming one of India’s most influential politicians during the 1990s and 2000s, by building a deep network of inter-party relationships.“Everybody realised he was so clever that they would rather have him as a number two than a number one,” said Sanjaya Baru, a former adviser to Manmohan Singh, the architect of India’s financial reforms who beat Mukherjee to the top job in 2004.“He had a tremendous role on policies, right from the 1980s.” Mukherjee’s reward then should have been a stint as prime minister, by his own estimation as well as that of some others, but he was passed over by Rajiv’s Italian-born widow, Sonia, who gave it instead to Singh, an Oxbridge-trained economist. In 2012, Mukherjee resigned from parliament to take the largely figurehead role of head of state. He was sworn in as India’s 13th president, with cross-party support that underlined his wide acceptability, an attribute rare in Indian politics.A corruption scandal two years into his presidency led to a defeat in general elections for Congress, which has ruled India for most of its independent history, and Mukherjee had to swear in BJP’s Narendra Modi as prime minister.Born on Dec. 11, 1935 in the village of Mirati, in the eastern state of West Bengal, Mukherjee studied history, political science and law.“My passion has been the service of the people of India,” Mukherjee said in a speech summing up 50 years in public life when he left the office of president in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-india-s-former-president-who-never-became-pm/story-usguDDNqcwNmFdj7q6eHkJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Mumbai Police to deploy 35,000 cops to ensure peaceful Ganesh immersion||Amid the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mumbai police have put in place a high security arrangement for Anant Chaturthi (the last day of Ganeshotsav) on Tuesday for the immersion of Ganesh idols.Over 35,000 police personnel will be on the streets to ensure that no untoward incident takes place during the immersion of the idols.A general high alert has been sound across the city and all officers have been asked to be vigilant. The police have appealed to citizens to not to unnecessarily go to immersion points.A senior police officer said that the staff of all the 94 police stations will be deployed from Monday midnight. Nearly 1,500 men from the special units and side branches such as crime branches, local arms police, Economic Offenses Wing, special branch and protection and security branch will be helping local police stations maintain law and order in the respective areas.“CCTV network of over 5,000 cameras would be used to monitor people’s movement on the street leading to Chowpatties for Ganesh idols immersions. The police have also roped in additional troops of State Reserve Police Force, Riot Control Force and Rapid Action Force, Quick Response Teams (QRTs), Bomb Detection Disposal Squads and homeguards for the bandobast,” a statement from police stated.“Policemen in plain clothes would be deployed at the places which witness big crowds to keep a check on the eve teasers and molesters,” said Mumbai police spokesperson N Ambika, deputy commissioner of police (Headquarters-1).Mounted police will be deployed to ensure that people do not gather in large numbers on the Chowpatties. Drone cameras may be used at the major Chowpatties such as Girgaon and Juhu.The police have also said that since there would not be any big procession this year as all the Sarvajanik Ganesh Mandals following government’s order of maintaining the 10-day festival at very low scale, and also with lockdown is in effect, the city traffic police has not made any special arrangements for the vehicular movements for Tuesday. But traffic cops and wardens in big numbers would be seen managing traffic on the streets, a senior traffic police officer said.The city police will be deploying sea divers, and would also make arrangements of boats and launches in coordination with the Coast Guard and Navy at the immersion points.The police requested citizens to avoid performing aartis at the immersion points and instead perform them at home. “The citizens shall not come out and crowd the street unnecessarily amid the pandemic,” DCP Ambika said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-to-deploy-35-000-cops-to-ensure-peaceful-ganesh-immersion/story-UQZVW7phoyLrj9fdxKRDUM.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee had special affinity with Telangana issue: CM Rao||Expressing deep shock over the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said the political stalwart had a special affinity with the Telangana issue. He said that Pranab Mukherjee, who headed the Committee on the separate Telangana State issue, formed by the then UPA government, had the distinction of signing the formation of Telangana State Bill.Pranab Mukherjee, 84, died at an army hospital in New Delhi on Monday.He was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in his brain.He later developed lung infection and was on ventilator support.Rao said it was unfortunate that the best efforts put in by doctors for the past several weeks to save the life of the ailing former President did not succeed, according to a release from the Chief Minister’s Office .Expressing his grief and also of the people of Telangana, KCR, as Rao is also referred to, said Pranab Mukherjee’s death has left a void in the countrys political arena, which cannot be filled.The Chief Minister also conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family.“The former President used to say that there was justice in demand for a separate Telangana statehood and he used to offer several useful suggestions to me.Pranab Mukherjee bestowed special praise on me, saying that very few leaders have the rare opportunity of seeing the movement launched by them reaching its goal and he said I am privileged to have that rare opportunity and greatness,” the release quoted Rao as saying. Referring to the book ‘The Coalition Years’, written by Pranab Mukherjee, the Chief Minister recalled that the Telangana statehood issue was also mentioned in the book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-had-special-affinity-with-telangana-issue-cm-rao/story-c15Y4r51w2WohozFBDaBVI.html
31-08-2020||India||7-day state mourning announced for former president Pranab Mukherjee||A seven-day state mourning was announced by the Centre after former president Pranab Mukherjee died at a Delhi hospital on Monday. He was 84-years-old.“As a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, seven days State Mourning will be observed throughout India from 31.08.2020 to 06.09.2020, both days inclusive,” the government said in a statement. During the period of state mourning, the national flag will fly at half-mast at all buildings throughout the country wherever it is flown regularly and there will be no official entertainment, it added.Also read| Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political careerMukherjee had developed a lung infection and renal dysfunction after he underwent surgery to remove a clot in his brain as he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence in Delhi. He was since then admitted to the Army Hospital (R&R) where he was put on ventilator support after the surgery. He had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease prior to the surgery on August 10. Hospital authorities had earlier in the day said that the Congress veteran’s medical condition had declined. Later, his son Abhijit Mukherjee announced on Twitter that the senior leader died at the hospital.The government has not yet announced the date, time and venue of the state funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-day-state-mourning-to-be-observed-for-former-president-pranab-mukherjee/story-LWsyHEfrLmO2VvZ01Kg4lK.html
31-08-2020||India||Central experts to help four states with recent surge in Covid-19 cases||The Union health ministry has deployed high-level central teams to four states – Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha -- that have seen a sudden surge in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Each of the multi-sectoral teams will consist of an epidemiologist and a public health expert. The teams will support the state in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, and effective clinical management of positive cases to prevent deaths. Of the four states, with 54,666 patients Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of active cases or those still living with the infection. This is followed by Odisha with 27,219 active cases, Chhattisgarh with 13,520 cases, and Jharkhand with 11,577 cases. On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha were among the seven states that contributed 70% of the new cases to the country’s tally. Among the four states, the highest number of deaths are being reported from Uttar Pradesh where 3,423 people have died, followed by Odisha with 482 deaths, Jharkhand with 410 deaths and Chhattisgarh with 269 deaths. The Central government has been deputing central teams from time to time to visit various states to interact with the authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and gaps in stopping the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-experts-to-help-four-states-with-recent-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-YggRGgnt7gRzAlOZHvb4UK.html
31-08-2020||India||Telangana Congress chief writes to PM Modi for CBI probe into Srisailam power station mishap||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president A Revanth Reddy on Monday demanded that the Centre order a thorough investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the accident in Srisailam Left Bank Hydro-electric Project (SLBHP) on August 20 that claimed nine lives. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the PCC leader, who also represents Malkajgiri constituency in the Lok Sabha, said the accident in the underground hydro-electric project was totally avoidable and was the result of the negligence of the state government. He said the Srisailam plant, which was the most essential source of power generation, lacked basic safety provisions including fire alarm alert, fire suppression system, fire hazard risk assessment and emergency action plan. “It lacks training of the employees for emergency situations as per the ‘Recommended Practice for Fire Protection for Hydroelectric Generating Power’ mentioned in the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code,” the MP said. “Had the officials responded to the periodical warnings on time, this loss of life and public property could have been avoided,” Reddy said. He urged the Prime Minister to order an impartial inquiry by the CBI into the incident. Similarly, an independent body constituted by the Central Electricity Authority, a team of experts in fire safety, fire hazard assessment, power generation and related disciplines, with no conflicts of interest must investigate the technical lapse which leads to this tragic incident, the Congress leader said. “It is also necessary to investigate the alleged corruption in the power purchases by the Telangana energy department and Telangana power distribution companies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-congress-chief-writes-to-pm-modi-for-cbi-probe-into-srisailam-power-station-mishap/story-8UBtqFv2zLrdB5JuBFqraO.html
31-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and paid homage to him.“With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee,” Gandhi said on Twitter.   “I join the country in paying homage to him. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends,” he said. Mukherjee, 84, died on Monday in the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital here, his son Abhijit Mukherjee said. He was admitted to the hospital on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-condoles-pranab-mukherjee-s-death/story-tV7yL9A6ICTpnwuXeOC8pK.html
31-08-2020||India||Twin murders rock Kerala on Onam, CPM and Congress trade charges||The murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DFYI) activists allegedly by a group of Youth Congress workers late Sunday night on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram rocked Kerala on the harvest festival of Onam.Police said Midhilaj (30) and Mohammad Haq (28) were waylaid and attacked with sharp-edged weapons when they were returning home on Sunday night. One person died on the spot and the other succumbed to injuries at the hospital, they said. The DFYI, which is the youth wing of the ruling CPI (M), alleged that the Youth Congress workers were behind the attack but the latter distanced itself from the twin murder.State Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran also said a tiff between two gangs led to the murder and the CPI(M) was busy blaming the Congress to divert attention from the sensational gold smuggling case which has cast its shadow on the government. On Monday, angry DFYI activists clashed with Youth Congress workers at several places and the Kollam office of the district Congress committee was stoned. Five Youth Congress activists suffered injuries after their dharna site was attacked by DFYI workers in the state capital. “It was a well planned murder. The Congress leadership will have to explain a lot why they carried out such brutal murders on Onam,” said CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. But the police said the area had witnessed minor clashes between two groups in the last two weeks and they suspect the latest incident was a sequel to this. The deceased were block-level leaders of the DYFI. The CPI (M) observed Monday as a black day in protest.The Youth Congress said its workers had no role in it and a turf war between two gangs led to killings. “We condemn the murder in strongest terms. If anyone is involved, we will take strong action. We will not shield murderers like the CPI(M),” said Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambhil. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also condemned the killings. According to the police, the attack took place around 11.30 pm when the deceased were returning home on their motorcycle. They were waylaid and attacked by a group of five people. The victims received more than 25 stab wounds. CCTV visuals from the area showed the deceased also resisted the attack and it continued for 15 minutes. Thiruvananthapuram rural police superintendent B Ashokan said four people have been detained in connection with the murder. Deputy Inspector General of Police Sanjay Kumar Gurudin said the real motive behind the murder can be established only after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twin-murders-rock-kerala-on-onam-cpm-and-congress-trade-charges/story-kgtTX8KyAnCnkEZogmMFqM.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Country lost one of its finest sons’: Pranab Mukherjee dies at 84||India’s former president and Congress veteran Pranab Mukherjee died on Monday at a Delhi hospital. He was 84.Various senior leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind, remembered Mukherjee and expressed their condolences to his family.Here is who said what on the passing:‘Was blessed to have his guidance,’ says PM Modi“India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society.”“During his political career that spanned decades, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made long-lasting contributions in key economic and strategic ministries. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian, always well-prepared, extremely articulate as well as witty.”“As India’s President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan even more accessible to common citizens. He made the President’s house a centre of learning, innovation, culture, science and literature. His wise counsel on key policy matters will never be forgotten by me.”“I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I will always cherish my interactions with him. Condolences to his family, friends, admirers and supporters across India. Om Shanti.”‘His demise is passing of an era,’ says President Ram Nath Kovind“Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends and all citizens.”“Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Shri Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity. In his 5 decade long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted offices he held. He endeared himself to people across political spectrum.”“As the First Citizen, he continued to connect with everyone, bringing Rashtrapati Bhavan closer to the people. He opened its gates for public visit. His decision to discontinue the use of the honorific ‘His Excellency’ was historic.”‘His demise left a huge void in Indian polity,’ says union home minister Amit shah“Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji. He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da’s distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country.”“Pranab Da’s life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti.”‘My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends,’ says Rahul Gandhi“With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I join the country in paying homage to him. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends.”‘God give courage to his family and loved ones to bear this sorrow,’ tweets Delhi CM Kejriwal“Sad news of former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s death was received. God place the departed soul at your feet and give courage to his family and loved ones to bear this sorrow.”‘Deeply mourn the sad demise of Bharat Ratna Pranab Babu,’ says Ravi Shankar Prasad“Deeply mourn the sad demise of Bharat Ratna Pranab Babu- former President of India and a true statesman. Left his imprint on governance, polity and Parliament. I was fortunate to get his guidance and also affection. May his soul Rest In Peace.”‘Country lost one of its finest sons,’ says environment minister Prakash JavadekarToday the country has lost one of its finest sons Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee.On one of the occasions when Pranab Da was the Chief Guest for the Teachers Day ceremony in Vigyan Bhawan, I gave him a slate as a gift and he liked it very much.‘A writer and a man loved by all,’ says Sri Lanka’s Mahinda Rajapaksa“I am saddened to hear of the passing of the Fmr. Indian President, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He was a statesmen par excellence, a writer and a man loved by all. The passion with which he served his nation is unparalleled. My deepest condolences to his family and friends.”‘Visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable,’ says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee“It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM, so many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable. He is a legend in all subjects from politics to economics. Will be forever grateful. Shall miss him immensely. My condolences to Abhijit and Sharmistha.”‘Our country has  lost one of its  greatest leaders,’ says former prime minister Manmohan Singh“I have learnt with profound sorrow about the passing away of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Former President of India.  In his death, our country has  lost one of its  greatest leaders of Independent India.  He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs. I wish to convey to all members of his family, my deepest condolences on this sad occasion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-at-84-who-said-what/story-49Mtx3c04IMxMAFp9DyZdM.html
31-08-2020||India||Jobless migrant workers in Bengal become cross-border smugglers||On the night of August 23, the Border Security Force nabbed a 25-year-old youth Ahsan Ali from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district when he was allegedly trying to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh across the border. During interrogation, Ali told the officials that he used to work as a labourer in Kerala and had returned to his native village in Murshidabad because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But as he was jobless, he was lured to smuggling by another villager. Ali, however, is not the only one. When BSF apprehended 42-year-old Nitai Mondol on August 27 from Nadia district, while allegedly trying to smuggle Phensedyl cough syrup to Bangladesh, he told the officers during interrogation that he took to smuggling after losing his job because of the lockdown. He used to work as a vendor in Howrah and earn around Rs 8,000 per month. For every smuggling consignment he was promised Rs 300. Over the past few months, BSF officials have intercepted quite a few cases in which jobless migrant workers who returned from other states are being lured to smuggling and trafficking with the promise of easy money. Even women are being lured to join the trade to smuggle Phensedyl, yaba tablets and jewelry. More than 100 people have been arrested in the past one month. While migrant workers started arriving in the state from the end of May, BSF have apprehended 104 people allegedly involved in smuggling cases in June and July. In 2019, 80 people were nabbed and in 2018, 39 people were nabbed in these two months. This year between June and August, 21 human traffickers were apprehended. In 2018 BSF apprehended only two traffickers in these three months. In 2019 none were arrested.“Some jobless migrant workers are being targeted and lured into criminal activities including cross-border smuggling of cattle and narcotics with the promise of easy money. Some have already been apprehended and have spilled the names of those involved. The BSF is alert and keeping a close watch,” said SS Guleria, deputy inspector general (South Bengal Frontier) of BSF. While the BSF has managed to bring down cattle smuggling and infiltration, smuggling of smaller items such as yaba tablets, ganja, Phensedyl and jewelry still continues. The smugglers just throw the items in pouches over the boundary fence. Innovative ways like hiding smuggled items inside cattle carcasses floating down the river are also used. According to data from the 2011 census, Bengal ranks fourth among the states from where people migrate. Between 2001 and 2011, 5.8 lakh people had migrated from Bengal. Murshidabad, a border district accounts for the most migration among all districts. “More than 10 lakh migrant workers have returned to the state during the pandemic. The state government has already engaged nearly six lakhs in 100-day work programme under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act,” said a senior official of the state government. The Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal is the longest international border in any state in the country. Out of the 4,096 km long Indo-Bangla border, West Bengal alone shares 2,216 km with the neighbouring country. In south Bengal, the border is more than 900 km long out which nearly 60% is riverine. The Indo-Bangladesh border, particularly in West Bengal, is also one of the most porous. Data placed by the Union ministry of home affairs in the Parliament in March 2020 shows that in 2017, 2018 and 2019 security agencies arrested 1,175, 1,118 and 1,351 people along the entire stretch of the Indo-Bangla border in India. Migrant workers started returning to the state when Shramik Special trains were allowed in mid-May. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that the government would create a database of migrant workers on the basis of their skills so that a bank of manpower could be created and the migrant workers could be provided with livelihood opportunities. “Several migrant workers have already started returning to their place of work in other states as they could not find any job in Bengal,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jobless-migrant-workers-in-bengal-become-cross-border-smugglers/story-SDPjsiQyQXfNDkNBb8KEON.html
31-08-2020||India||The other side of Pranab babu||Chowdhury Charan Singh brandished sheets of paper in the Lok Sabha, read out what he termed as the forthcoming union budget and accused then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of leaking the sovereign document to the International Monetary Fund (a three-letter abbreviation but a four-letter word back at the time).Gandhi panicked momentarily and summoned her finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, who was in the other House of Parliament. Mukherjee came, heard Singh for a few seconds and turned to Gandhi to reassure her that things were under control.After Singh’s tirade ended, Pranab spoke briefly: “What you read is correct, but you didn’t see the date of the speech. It is my last year’s speech,” the young finance minister quipped and the Congress benches erupted into laughter.Also read | ‘A scholar par excellence’: PM Modi condoles demise of Pranab MukherjeeMukherjee, India’s politician for all seasons was close to Gandhi, but his decision to contest the 1980 Lok Sabha polls irked her. After the results came out (and Mukherjee lost miserably) a furious Indira Gandhi dialled him at Kolkata to say, “Everyone knew that you will lose. Even Geeta (as friends called Mukherjee’s wife) knew it. But still you went ahead and created trouble for me.”Two days later, another call came. This time, Sanjay Gandhi spoke: “Mummy is very angry with you. But she also said, ‘There can’t be any cabinet without Pranab’. Take a flight for Delhi tomorrow.”In later years, when the rest of Lutyens’ Delhi was asleep, Mukherjee would narrate these stories -- immaculate portraits of his past with minute details (he even remembered what Gandhi ate when she met Margaret Thatcher for the first time).Gandhi, Mukherjee’s political mentor, also told him to appoint a teacher to improve his English accent. He refused saying, “Madam, what is done cannot be undone. Don’t try to make a square out of a circle.”His Hindi was worse, even after spending five decades in Delhi. Mukherjee’s adversaries in Congress once approached then PM Narsimha Rao to shunt him to a gubernatorial role in UP. Rao told them, “As it is half of our vote base has gone to Mulayam Singh Yadav. If Pranab goes to UP, the remaining voters will also run away when they hear his Hindi.”FROM THE ARCHIVES | ‘Pranab, I know of the consequences’: Indira on storming Golden TempleAn avid reader, and history lover (World War 2 was his favourite part of history), Mukherjee was a foodie till he turned 40 and resorted to a diet -- chapatis that were only slightly larger than drink coasters.But when then railway minister Lalu Prasad boasted about the mangoes and lychees of Muzaffarpur at a UPA cabinet meeting, Mukherjee couldn’t remain silent. “You are wrong. The best mango and lychee are found in my electoral district of Murshidabad,” he announced. And as proof of the pudding, he started gifting specially packed mangoes and lychees to all his ministerial colleagues, allies— even key opposition leaders—every year to build a consensus on Murshidabad mangos.In the Congress, his favourite juniors were Shashi Tharoor, Kapil Sibal, Jairam Ramesh, Kamal Nath and Ghulam Nabi Azad. When Tharoor landed in trouble over his “holy cow” tweet, Mukherjee came to his rescue but also cautioned him : “This is the Congress party not circus party”. He disliked socializing in the Delhi circuit and listed that he had attended just one personal dinner in Delhi -- hosted by Sibal. He backed Kamal Nath on several key issues but when Nath argued for almost 15 minutes at a cabinet meeting for adding Chhindwara to Aspirational Districts’s list, an exasperated Mukherjee stopped him, “Kamal, this is the union cabinet, not your gram panchayat meeting.” He called Ramesh “Joyram” and Pawan Bansal, his junior minister in finance, as “a boy”.For the chief trouble-shooter of the party, number 13 was, surprisingly, a lucky number. He got married on July 13; both his residence at Talkatora Road and parliament office were number 13; and he was the 13th person to become the President of India.Mukherjee’s wife put her foot down to proposals to shift home after he became defence minister. But the small bungalow at 13, Talkatora Road was the big world of strategies and policies. Left-UPA meetings on the Indo-US Nuclear Deal, phone calls with world leaders, interacting with top industrialists and even drafting key party documents like amendments of the Congress’ Constitution—all happened in that bungalow. Mukherjee was famous for working till late at night but once told Montek Singh Ahluwalia, “I can read files till 2 am but as soon as I start reading Planning Commission reports, I fall asleep.”FROM THE ARCHIVES | Pranab Mukherjee recalls how Rajiv Gandhi became PM after Indira’s deathPrime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was once his next-door neighbour when they both lived near Safdarjung road. In an interview to HT after Vajpayee’s death, Mukherjee described how Vajpayee asked his late wife, Suvra Mukherjee, to oversee all preparations for Vajpayee’s foster daughter Namita’s marriage. The late Biju Patnaik would at times drop in to relish Hilsa fish at the Mukherjee household and even offered a recipe for Hilsa.Pranabda couldn’t use a computer. His pastime revolved around books. And Aamir Khan’s Rang de Basanti was the first Hindi film he watched. Then censor board chief Sharmila Tagore was hesitant as the film involves revenge on India’s defence minister. She wanted Mukherjee to watch it first.Mukherjee, then defence minister, watched the first half and left the Mahadev Road theatre, telling a bewildered Khan and Tagore: “My job is to protect the country, not give censor certificate to films.”The next, and possibly his last, Hindi film was Piku. He invited Lal Krishna Advani, a film buff, to Rashtrapati Bhavan to watch the film that revolved around the relationship between an aged father and his daughter—a theme that played out in both the leaders’ daily lives too.Over 18 years since this writer’s first meeting with Pranab babu, he has been the source of many everlasting memories, some avuncular raps on the knuckles, and a witnes to a deeply embarrassing moment -- the rendition of a lesser-known Rabindrasangeet mid-air in the Presidential flight. It didn’t go wellAlways eager to pursue knowledge, Pranab Mukherjee called this writer to his suite on the return flight and announced that he had got someone to download the song so that he could memorize its lyrics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-passes-away-the-other-side-of-pranab-babu/story-EewFN8vDDGmiJiTWH9avSJ.html
31-08-2020||India||PM Modi condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death, remembers him as ‘a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman’||Pranab Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan accessible to common citizens, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday as he paid his tribute to the former president--the “scholar par excellence and a towering statesman”.Mukherjee died at 84 in a Delhi hospital.“India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” the Prime Minister said in a series of tweets.Also read| Pranab Mukherjee: The Vice-Captain who went on to be RefereeModi offered condolences to the late Congress veteran’s family, friends, admirers and supporters across India and said he will always cherish his interactions with Mukherjee.“I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I will always cherish my interactions with him. Condolences to his family, friends, admirers and supporters across India. Om Shanti,” he tweeted.The Prime Minister hailed Mukherjee’s role as the president of the country from 2012 until 2017 and said he ensured that the common masses had more access to Rashtrapati Bhavan.“As India’s President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee made Rashtrapati Bhavan even more accessible to common citizens. He made the President’s house a centre of learning, innovation, culture, science and literature. His wise counsel on key policy matters will never be forgotten by me,” Modi tweeted.Also read| Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political careerPranab Mukherjee underwent brain surgery on August 10 and had since been in a coma. He was admitted to the Army Hospital (R&R) in the Delhi Cantonment area where he was put on ventilator support after the surgery.Earlier in the day, the hospital had issued a statement saying there was a decline in the condition of the former president’s health. He died in the evening at the hospital. The news was shared on Twitter by his son Abhijit Mukherjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-demise-of-pranab-mukherjee-remembers-him-as-a-scholar-par-excellence-and-a-towering-statesman/story-5bDIwNF3dwhjNXgNfKSMqI.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s death: ‘Pranab Da’s demise has left a huge void in Indian polity’, tweets Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee on Monday.The 84-year-old had been in a coma and was on ventilator support since August 10 after he underwent surgery to remove a clot in his brain.“Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji. He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da’s distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country,” the home minister tweeted.In a second tweet, Shah said, “Pranab Da’s life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti.”The Congress veteran’s health had declined in the morning, the Army Hospital (R&R) had said. He was in septic shock due to the lung infection and was being treated by a team of specialists, the hospital added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-death-pranab-da-s-demise-has-left-a-huge-void-in-indian-polity-tweets-amit-shah/story-zuOQM5kaDjHW9EIXiptiQP.html
31-08-2020||India||1,700 Uttarakhand govt doctors threaten mass resignation over pay hike delay||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand that has taken the tally past 19,000, around 1,700 government doctors have threatened to resign en masse on September 8 if their demands for better pay and proper treatment are not met.The doctors will also start a black band protest from Tuesday to press for their demands.The Provincial Medical Association leaders have said that they will work wearing a black band for a week till September 7 and resign en masse on September 8 if their demands are not met. Dr Naresh Napalchyal, president of Provincial Medical Association, the body of doctors associated with the state government said, “We have been working continuously for months now, without caring about our families or personal lives and still, we are not treated with the respect we deserve. Doctors in all other states are being given incentives or pay hikes for working extra hours and here the state government deducts a day’s salary.” The salary deduction was a reference to the government’s step to deduct a day’s salary from its employees for the chief minister’s relief fund. The step was announced when the Covid-pandemic hit the state but the monthly deductions are still continuing. Dr Napalchyal added that in January, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced that doctors doing their post-graduation and working will be given full salary, but that has not been implemented till now. “The chief minister had himself announced that doctors who are doing their post-graduation and working will get a full salary, but even after so many months, no government order has been issued in this regard. Despite shift duties, we work 24x7 but we are not treated properly. Regular inspections are conducted by tehsildars or revenue officials on instructions of district magistrates, which give out a message to the public that the doctors are not working properly,” he said.The doctors said that they are giving a week’s time to the state government to hold talks with them, after which they will either opt for taking voluntary retirement (only those doctors who have already worked for almost 20 years) or go for mass resignation. Dr. SK Gupta, director of the state medical and health department said that the doctors gave a memorandum with their demands to the director general of health in the state on Monday. “We will be talking to the doctors and come to a solution. All our staff are responsible and will not take any step which will cause inconvenience to the people of the state during an epidemic,” said Dr. Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-700-uttarakhand-govt-doctors-threaten-mass-resignation-over-pay-hike-delay/story-IuvJbtbAZl53YQO9kTAH9N.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Passing of an era’: President Kovind condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday extended his condolences after Congress veteran and India’s former president Pranab Mukherjee died at a Delhi hospital. His passing comes at the age of 84.“Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends and all citizens,” President Kovind tweeted.Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens.“Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Shri Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity. In his 5 decade long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted offices he held. He endeared himself to people across political spectrum,” President Kovind also said in the following tweets.Also read | Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political career“As the First Citizen, he continued to connect with everyone, bringing Rashtrapati Bhavan closer to the people. He opened its gates for public visit. His decision to discontinue the use of the honorific ‘His Excellency’ was historic,” President also said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his grief over the tragedy as he said, Mukherjee “left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation.”“India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” tweeted PM Modi.A quintessential Congressman for five decades, the seven-time parliamentarian had worked as a teacher and journalist before taking his first steps in politics. His first stop in Delhi was the Rajya Sabha in 1969, the House that re-elected him four more times before he won his first Lok Sabha election from Bengal’s Jangipur in 2004. He was re-elected in 2009.Mukherjee had suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg house and had been operated to remove a blood clot in his brain on August 10. Doctors on Monday morning warned that there was a decline in his condition and he was in septic shock due to infection in his lung.Later in the afternoon, his son Abhijit Mukherjee made the announcement of his passing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passing-of-an-era-president-kovind-condoles-pranab-mukherjee-s-death/story-GKX5B7NURFpEuSCFqUdCEM.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee dies: A look at his illustrious political career||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on Monday, has left his mark in India’s political space. Mukherjee passed away at the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital where he was admitted after a fall at his home. At the hospital, he also tested positive for Covid-19. He was operated upon for removing a blood clot in his brain.Here’s a look at the Pranab Mukherjee’s illustrious career, or Pranab da as one of India’s most-respected politicians, was affectionately called.Also read | ‘A scholar par excellence’: PM Modi condoles demise of Pranab Mukherjee* Mukherjee’s death marks the end of an era in the Congress; he was among the last of the Congress leaders to have worked closely with Indira Gandhi. Mukherjee’s political journey started in West Bengal when he was the election agent for VK Krishna Menon, who won the Midnapore by-election as an independent candidate.* Indira Gandhi brought in the ‘little master’ to the Rajya Sabha as a member of the Bangla Congress, a breakaway Congress group formed in the state back in 1966. It merged with the Congress in 1970.* Mukherjee received his first ministerial assignment in the Indira Gandhi in 1973, first as junior minister of industrial development. Within two years, he was elevated as a deputy minister with independent charge of revenue and banking departments. Mukherjee quickly made headlines with a crackdown on the then Bombay smuggling underworld don Haji Mastan.* In 1982, shortly after Gandhi returned to power from the post-Emergency oblivion, she appointed Mukherjee as India’s finance minister, replacing R Venkataraman.Also read | ‘Passing of an era’: President Kovind condoles Pranab Mukherjee’s death* As finance minister, Mukherjee had fiery innings. He surprised the world by sending back a $1.1 billion instalment of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) loan. A cautious reformer, he was nevertheless the first to stoke up expenditure without letting inflation get out of hand. He also opened the NRI investment window, which pioneered sweeping changes in India’s image as a destination of foreign funds.* Mukherjee also played a pivotal role in helping the India-US civil nuclear agreement sail through despite threat of the government being toppled.* He was instrumental in spearheading critical decisions on a range of issues such as administrative reforms, Right to Information, Right to Employment, Food Security, energy security, Information Technology and telecommunication, setting up of UIDAI and Metro Rail through chairmanship of over 95 Groups of Ministers constituted for the purpose.* Among some of his crucial decisions were setting up regional rural banks (1975) and the EXIM Bank of India as well as National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (1981-82).* Mukherjee also served for 23 years as a member of the Congress Working Committee, the highest policy-making body of the party.* He served five times as a member of Rajya Sabha and twice as a member of the Lok Sabha. He was conferred Padma Vibhusan, India’s second-highest civilian award, in 2008.From the archives | Pranab Mukherjee recalls how Rajiv Gandhi became PM after Indira’s death* Known for his sharp memory, clarity of thought and grasp over issues, Mukherjee has the rare distinction of serving as foreign, defence, commerce and finance minister. He was also a Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission.* Mukherjee served the country as its 13th President for five years from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-dies-a-look-at-his-illustrious-political-career/story-86iCjQEB6QpXBJzC5GdIkJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee, ex-president and Congress veteran, dies in Delhi hospital||Pranab Mukherjee, India’s former president and one of the country’s most admired political leaders, died on Monday. He was 84.Mukherjee had suffered a fall at his Rajaji Marg house and had been operated to remove a blood clot in his brain on August 10. Doctors on Monday morning warned that there was a decline in his condition and he was in septic shock due to infection in his lung. Soon after, his son Abhijit Mukherjee also tweeted a request to people, asking them to pray for his father. “He is a fighter & with all your good wishes & prayers , He will surely recover !” Abhijit tweeted.Three hours later, Abhijit made the announcement on social media.“With a Heavy Heart , this is to inform you that my father Shri #PranabMukherjee has just passed away in spite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital & prayers ,duas & prarthanas from people throughout India !,” Abhijit tweeted about the veteran politician who would often speak of his humble beginnings and his amazing journey from the flickers of a lamp in a small Bengal village to the chandeliers of Delhi. With a Heavy Heart , this is to inform you that my father Shri #PranabMukherjee has just passed away inspite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital & prayers ,duas & prarthanas from people throughout India ! I thank all of You 🙏A quintessential Congressman for five decades, the seven-time parliamentarian had worked as a teacher and journalist before taking his first steps in politics. His first stop in Delhi was the Rajya Sabha in 1969, the House that re-elected him four more times before he won his first Lok Sabha election from Bengal’s Jangipur in 2004. He was re-elected in 2009.Also Read: Pranab Mukherjee: The vice-captain who went on to be refereeMukherjee, who was seen as a formidable political strategist, draftsman and parliamentarian with an astute legal mind, prospered in Delhi. He first made it to Indira Gandhi’s council of ministers in 1972 and never looked back, going on to hold some of the most powerful portfolios - finance, commerce, external affairs and defence - in Congress governments. Pranab Mukherjee was considered the sharpest mind and the prime troubleshooter in the government led by Manmohan Singh, who he had appointed as RBI governor in the 1980s.His last stop in public life was Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mukherjee, a nominee of the Congress-led UPA coalition, was elected India’s President in 2012. By the time he exited Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2017, he left the legacy of a president who spoke his mind to the government and yet, kept the bridges and friendships intact.Also Read: The other side of Pranab babuLike when President Mukherjee, six months before his term was to end in 2017, accepted the mercy petitions of four death-row convicts for the 1992 Bara massacre against the advice of the home ministry, the Centre honoured his decision. In January 2019, Mukherjee was also named for the country’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who described him as the “outstanding statesman of our times”.As news of Pranab Mukherjee’s death emerged, Prime Minister Modi paid tributes to the veteran politician who had guided him when he first came to Delhi from Gujarat in 2014, ready to take charge as prime minister. “He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society,” PM Modi tweeted.President Ram Nath Kovind described Mukherjee’s demise as “passing of an era”.“A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons… Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Shri Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity. In his 5 decade long illustrious public life, he remained rooted to the ground irrespective of the exalted offices he held. He endeared himself to people across political spectrum,” President Kovind said.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also condoled his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-ex-president-and-congress-veteran-dies-in-delhi-hospital/story-sKOIeIEmCyY9OcGziScT9I.html
31-08-2020||India||India’s economy contracts by 23.9%, worst in decades||India’s gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 23.9% in April-June period quarter, official data released by the Union ministry of statistics and programme implementation (Mospi) showed on Monday, amid coronavirus pandemic-induced which hit businesses and livelihoods across the country.India’s economy had grown at 3.1% in the January-March quarter, its slowest pace in at least eight years. The GDP data had shown that consumer spending slowing, private investments and exports contracting in the March quarter.Experts had said the country’s economy was expected to contract mainly because this quarter had seen more of the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced by the government from March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Data showed earlier that India’s GDP growth had slowed even before the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions. The growth rate in Q4 FY20 at 3.1% was the weakest point in the new data series that had started in 2012-2013. The FY20 real GDP growth is 4.2%, which is also the weakest in the series.India’s economy grew at its weakest pace since 2013 between April and June period last year as consumer demand and government spending slowed amid global trade frictions, raising chances of the central bank cutting interest rates further at its next meeting. Asia’s third-largest economy expanded just 5.0% year on year, it grew 8% in the same quarter of 2018, and 5.8% in the previous quarter.Global economies are experiencing contraction due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has estimated a global contraction of 4.9% in 2020. The United Kingdom’s (UK) economy has reported a 21.7% year-on-year plunge in the June quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-gdp-growth-rises-falls-by-23-9-per-cent-in-april-june-quarter/story-Yj1GGTR7fuHAQ6QNL0jpBL.html
31-08-2020||India||Cyber criminals in Bihar dupe ex-DRDO officer of Rs 14.5 lakh||A Chhattisgarh police team from Bilaspur arrested five men from Warishliganj area in Bihar’s Nawada district Monday morning for allegedly duping a former scientific officer of DRDO of Rs 14.5 lakh through a cyber fraud.Police said the gang duped people by telling them they had won a lottery and needed to make a payment to claim the prize.The conmen have been identified as Gautam Kumar, Sanjay Kumar Mahto, Birju Kumar Ram, Sudhansu Kumar (all from Nawada) and Niraj Kumar (Nalanda). The police seized Rs 5.23 lakh cash besides two laptop computers, 20 ATM cards, bank pass books, two memory cards, 30 SIM cards and three motorcycles from their possession.During initial scanning of bank passbooks, the police found transactions of over Rs 1 crore between July 7 and July 30. Bilaspur’s superintendent of police Prashant Agrawal said over phone that two of the five men are the main culprits and others were probably relatives of the accused.“During the investigation, the Cyber Crime team analysed the call data records (CDR), obtained bank account statements and account holder details. The team located the offenders at Nawada and apprehended them,” Agarwal added.According to a police report, the victim identified as C L Patel, 80, was lured into depositing a huge sum of money with a call saying “Congratulations, you have won a luxury car.”According to police officials, such victims are generally told to keep the winning secret. “No lottery can be won unless a ticket is purchased and normally the processing fees are deducted from the prize money,” officials warn.Patel, currently residing in Sakra police station area of Bilaspur, has lodged a complaint with concerned police station on July 30 that he had received a call from a noted automobile company informing him that he had been selected for a prize in a lucky draw due to a purchase from online marketplace Flipkart. Patel said he was contacted by a person and asked to deposit processing fee, taxes and other charges in an account number to release the luxury car.He deposited Rs 14.5 lakh in a bank account provided by the accused. The money was transferred through the branch of a nationalized bank based in Sakra. But after the money was deposited, they did not respond to his calls. When he did not receive the car, he visited the showroom only to realise that he had been cheated.Meanwhile, Pakribarama (in Nawada district) sub divisional police officer Mukesh Kumar Saha said following a tip-off provided by Chhattisgarh police, a joint team carried out a raid at Warshaliganj area and arrested five suspects involved in the fraud. Ahead of their arrest, the accused had been under mobile surveillance. They were taken to Chhattisgarh on a transit remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-criminals-in-bihar-dupe-ex-drdo-officer-of-rs-14-5-lakh/story-oEQQVyQTfs7R3jCjiTQeTO.html
31-08-2020||India||Treat doctors losing lives in Covid fight at par with martyrs of armed forces: IMA to PM||The Indian Medical Association has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking that all doctors who have died of Covid-19 be treated at par with martyrs of the armed forces, and their dependents be provided government jobs in accordance with their qualifications. In a letter to the prime minister, the country’s largest body of doctors said only an “inclusive national solatium” for all doctors who have lost their lives fighting the pandemic would render justice to the sacrifice of their families. The IMA cited government data and said 87,000 healthcare workers had been infected and 573 of them had lost their lives due to Covid-19. However, the Centre has not officially released these figures. Noting that the data has raised concerns all across the country, the IMA said its data for doctors alone has registered 307 deaths and a total 2,006 infected. It said 188 of those died are general practitioners who are the first point of contact for people. “Doctors suffer a higher viral load and a higher CFR (Case Fatality Rate) as a community. IMA is constrained to point out that they could have stayed back at home during the epidemic safely. They chose to serve the nation in the best traditions of the medical profession,” said the letter dated August 30. The solatium approved by the government for their colleagues in government services in all fairness is deserved by the children of these martyrs as well, the association said. “All doctors who have laid down their lives in fighting this epidemic should be treated at par with the martyrs of Indian Armed Forces and acknowledged appropriately. The surviving spouse or dependent should be provided a government job as per their qualifications,” the IMA said. It also raised the issue that whatever solatium that is in place had failed to reach the beneficiaries due to the inadequacy of the chosen instrument and the “indifference”. “The scheme is reported to have been lapsed as well. There is a pressing need to reconsider the same on merit and create a dedicated system to administer,” the IMA said. A national scheme to support the “soldiers fighting a pandemic” cannot be allowed to degenerate into just another pecuniary benefit for government servants, it said. “We once again appeal to your goodself that such a sacrifice by doctors needs to be acknowledged by the highest office of the nation irrespective of the sectors,” the IMA said in the letter to Modi. “We are also writing to you at this juncture since it has been predicted that India will top the world in number of cases in a few weeks. Healthcare manpower is precious. Uniform practices have to be put in place throughout the country,” it said. The IMA said substantial differences were noticed from district to district in how doctors and healthcare workers were deployed. It asserted that districts were not sensitive to the safety angle, and the concerns of stress and fatigue of the medical manpower. Noting that the nation deserves a radical approach to the situation, the IMA appealed to the prime minister for the government to bring in appropriate reforms, which it said were long overdue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-doctors-losing-lives-in-covid-fight-at-par-with-martyrs-of-armed-forces-ima-to-pm/story-sVJEPiY6wO1qG1WDzwcTZM.html
31-08-2020||India||After PM’s pitch, Kashi artisans hope to add golden chapter to their ‘toy story’||Kashi-based craftsman Rameshwar Singh, and those from his fraternity, have found new hope amid the pandemic after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for increasing the share of Indian toys in the global industry.Rameshwar, a skilful maker of wooden toys and a national merit award winner, feels the golden days will be back for the Rs 30-crore wooden toy industry in Varanasi and its adjoining districts. Varanasi, the PM Modi’s parliamentary constituency, is a hub of wooden toys which are made in the city’s Kashmiriganj Khojwan area.“We are very happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the toy industry and also pitched for its promotion. I am sure the golden days of the wooden toy industry will be back soon,” he said.The artisans would strive to make Varanasi’s toy industry worth Rs 70 crore in the next one year, he added.In his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, PM Modi on Sunday appealed to start-up entrepreneurs to “team up for toys”, saying it was the time to get “vocal” for local toys.Also read: Toy cluster at Koppala can generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years - Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa“Around 3,000 artisans, including craftsmen and craftswomen, earn their livelihood by making toys out of wood (in Varanasi),” said Dr Rajnikant, a Padma Shri awardee who works for the conservation and promotion of traditional crafts.The wooden toys are exported to the United States, Russia, Latin American countries, European countries, including Germany and Spain, several South-East Asian countries and the Gulf, Dr Rajnikant stated. These are also in demand in different states of the country.Lacquerware and wooden toys made in Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Chandauli and Mirzapur got the Geographical Indication (GI) tag in 2015 following his efforts, he added.GI is a name or sign used on certain products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin (a town, region or country). The GI tag ensures that none other than those registered as authorised users, or at least those residing inside the geographic territory, are allowed to use the popular product name.Dr Rajnikant also said he was instrumental in getting the GI tag for a total of 12 products in Varanasi and the adjoining areas.About 15 years ago, the Varanasi wooden toy cottage industry suffered a jolt due to a flood of Chinese plastic toys in the market. But the local industry’s condition started improving in 2015 after it got the GI tag.“We make traditional wooden toys, including wooden utensils, lattoo (spinning top), small wooden birds and animals. We also carve many decorative items out of wood. These are especially used on the occasions of Shri Krishna Janmashtami and Deepawali,” said Rameshwar Singh, adding that he learned the craft from his father Ramkhelawan Singh at the age of ten. Rameshwar has been engaged in making wooden toys for over three decades now.Sunita Devi, Pushpa and Geeta, who also give shape to wooden toys, echoed the same sentiments.Shivanand Maurya, a master artisan, said the wooden toys made in Varanasi were unique, beautiful and sustainable. They were made of mango, mahua and eucalyptus wood, he added.“We are preserving the traditional art of making wooden toys. With the PM pitching for increasing the share of Indian toys in the global industry, we hope that the wooden toys made in Varanasi and adjoining pockets would further strengthen and expand their presence in the global market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-s-pitch-kashi-artisans-hope-to-add-golden-chapter-to-their-toy-story/story-uqfmROWhT7KAG1fgI65eKM.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Dragon has many heads’: Court orders Covid-19 tests for migrants returning to Delhi||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the state government to set up Covid-19 testing centres at inter-state bus terminals in the capital within seven days for migrants returning to the city from different states. The court said that since the Centre had issued new guidelines under Unlock 4, more people would come to Delhi and that it was important to check the spread of the virus.The high court also asked the state government to re-strategise its policy for testing Covid-19 patients in the national capital to accommodate asymptomatic patients in the wake of the increasing number of cases. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad was hearing a plea filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra on ramping up the number of tests in the city.“You ( Delhi government ) thought that you had slayed the dragon (Covid-19). However, this dragon has several heads which is making life miserable for people. Cases are rising in the city every day,” the court said while expressing concern on the increasing number of cases in the city.Expressing dissatisfaction on the number of tests conducted, the court sought to know from Dr Nivedita Gupta from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), whether the strategy with respect to testing in Delhi can be changed. To this, Gupta said that ICMR is only an advisory body and is going to come out with fresh guidelines.She, however, stated, that its guidelines do not stop any state government from coming out with their own rules. Citing the example of Punjab, Gupta said that the state government had done away with the need for prescription for getting tests conducted. She said that Maharashtra has also tweaked its (ICMR) rules according to its own needs.To this, the court asked the Delhi government about the possibility of opening private labs for RT-PCR tests of asymptomatic patients, so much so that it does not affect the current functioning of the labs.Dr Nutan Mundeja, DGHS, Delhi government, told the court that it would re-strategise the policy/plan for testing. “We expect the Delhi government to come up with an advisory for private persons..,” the bench said.During the hearing, the court was given a comparative study of the two Sero Survelliance that has been conducted in the city. The bench observed that the data showed a steep rise in Covid-19 cases in three districts—south east, south and West Delhi—while stating that the result was alarming.It observed that the report pointed out that a significant number of the population was asymptomatic which acted as “silent spreaders” and caused damage to the city. It said that there is an urgent need for testing such persons to curb the further spread more so because everything has been thrown open in Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-asks-govt-to-set-up-testing-centres-at-bus-stops-for-migrants/story-ijHHnWvpWV0b6BJ9DNKcHP.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Watershed moment for freedom of speech’: Prashant Bhushan on SC verdict. Read full statement here||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who was found guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court, said that he will happily accept the judgement, but would file a review.“I propose to submit myself to this order and respectful pay the fine. But I reserve the right to seek the review of the conviction and sentencing,” Bhushan said while reading from a statement at a press conference in New Delhi.Bhushan was held guilty by the apex court for criminal contempt of court on August 14 over his tweets against the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. Here is the full statement by Prashant Bhushan on SC’s verdict:The Supreme Court of India has announced its verdict on the contempt case against me. It holds me guilty of contempt of court and has decided to impose a fine of Re 1, and failing that imprisonment of three months and debarring me from practicing for three years. I had already said in my first statement to the Court: “I am here to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the Court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen”. Therefore, while I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment. I have had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court. I have always believed it to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive. My tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary as a whole, but were merely meant to express my anguish, at what I felt, was a deviation from its sterling past record. This issue was never about me versus the Hon’ble Judges, much less about me vs the Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen. I am extremely grateful and humbled by the solidarity and support expressed by countless persons, ex-judges, lawyers, activists and fellow citizens who encouraged me to remain firm and true to my beliefs and conscience. They strengthen my hope that this trial may draw the country’s attention to the cause of freedom of speech and judicial accountability and reform. What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society. I would be failing in my duty if I do not thank my legal team, especially senior Advocates Dr Rajeev Dhawan and Shri Dushyant Dave. I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail. Long live democracy! Satyameva Jayate!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watershed-moment-for-freedom-of-speech-prashant-bhushan-on-sc-verdict-read-full-statement-here/story-0d5l0wvefmBhkmhaoqdwvL.html
31-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand Cong to hold state-wide protests demanding FIR case against rape-accused BJP MLA||In an attempt to rake up the issue involving rape-accused BJP MLA Mahesh Negi, Uttarakhand Congress would hold state-wide protests demanding registration of a case against him. Negi, on the other hand, has accused the Congress of hatching a conspiracy against him. A few days ago, he had asked the police for a Narco test to prove his innocence in the case. He also demanded that the woman, whose rape he is allegedly accused of, should also take the test. The woman has accused the BJP MLA of raping and says she has a daughter with him. She also demanded that a DNA test be conducted on Negi and her daughter to ‘reveal the truth’. “We will hold a protest at our state headquarters and district offices demanding a case against Negi as, despite a complaint by a woman with serious accusations of rape, no case has been registered against him yet,” said Pritam Singh, Congress state president. Also read: First cases of Covid-19 deaths emerge in Uttarakhand PoliceAlleging the administration of working under the pressure of the ruling BJP, he said, “We are not involved in the case in any way but have come forward in the matter after seeing that no action has been taken against Negi, but the woman was booked for extortion and blackmailing Negi’s wife on the same day.” Singh said that the allegations against an MLA are serious on which a DNA test should be done to reveal the truth. “The CM and MLA Negi have both said that they have no problem with the DNA test then why is the government not initiating any legal process for it? It should be done to reveal the truth. If Negi is found guilty, strict action should be taken against him and if the accusations are found to be false then the woman should be punished as per the law,” said Singh. The BJP, meanwhile, said that the Congress’ move to hold protests proves that Negi’s allegations of the party’s involvement in a conspiracy against him are true. Devendra Bhasin, party state vice-president said, “With the way Congress is moving in this matter, it is just proving Negi’s allegations of a conspiracy by it to be right.” “Secondly, it seems that they are not aware of the law which says that if a complaint is lodged by anyone which is related to an existing case, then it is clubbed in the probe of that case. The police are probing the case as per law and we are waiting for the results to be out,” said Bhasin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-congress-to-hold-state-wide-protests-demanding-fir-case-against-rape-accused-bjp-mla/story-oxeF4VtfuV1qO4RZrkttoI.html
31-08-2020||India||Sambit Patra hits outs at Congress on China issue, contributions to RGF||Hitting back at the Congress after it targeted the Central government over the Chinese aggression in the intervening night of August 29 and 30 along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday asked why the opposition party was “crying” when the Indian Army has kept the nation’s territorial integrity intact by thwarting the neighbouring country’s designs.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said at a press conference that India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had shown the proverbial laal aankh (red eyes that imply danger) to China and questioned as to why the Congress is showing its “moist eyes”.Also Read: PLA building heliport at tri-junction of India, Bhutan and China, shows satellite imageryHe was responding to Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala’s jibe at the government earlier in the day.Surjewala had tweeted, “Another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso lake. Everyday there is a Chinese intrusion ... Pangong Tso lake area, Gogra and Galwan valley, Depsang plains, Lipulekh pass, Doka La and Naku La. Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But when will Modiji show his red eyes?”Patra said the issue pertaining to China is not about a single party but about the country. He said the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has issued a statement in which it said that China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops tried to violate Indian sovereignty, but its attempts were thwarted.“The BJP and the people of India salute the Indian Army. The bravery with which they have discharged their duty and protected India’s sovereignty deserves our salute,” he said.Also Read: Chinese troops ‘strictly’ abide by the LAC, never cross the line: BeijingAttacking the Congress, he said, “India and Modi ji have shown their red eyes (laal aankh). Indian Army has shown its red eyes (anger). That is why India’s sovereignty is intact. Nobody can challenge it. Everyone has trust in the Indian Army and Modiji, and stands by them.”Patra said nobody played with the country’s sovereignty.“I want to ask Randeep Singh Surjewala and Rahul Gandhi that we have red eyes, but why do you have moist eyes? Whenever we are attacked or we carry out a surgical strike to destroy terrorist camps, then why do you start crying? You should be happy,” he said.Our army has valour, and our government and the PM have self-confidence, he added. In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA had carried out “provocative military movements” to “unilaterally” change the status quo ante on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by Indian troops, the Army had said in a statement earlier in the day.Patra also levelled a series of allegations at the Congress. He alleged that there were contributions made by Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapur, fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi and absconding Islamic cleric Zakir Naik or companies linked to them to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sambit-patra-hits-outs-at-congress-on-china-issue-contributions-to-rgf/story-sqAf5MkAGddDoYDqCXCATO.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Deeply touched by your warm words’: Shinzo Abe tweets after PM Modi’s recovery wishes||Former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe thanked India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi for wishing him a speedy recovery, saying that he is “deeply touched” with his “warm words”.“I am deeply touched by your warm words, Prime Minister @narendramodi. I wish you all the best and hope our partnership will be further enhanced,” said Abe on Twitter. I am deeply touched by your warm words, Prime Minister @narendramodi. I wish you all the best and hope our Partnership will be further enhanced. https://t.co/h4CHcZcCwjThe longest-serving prime minister of Japan, Abe announced his decision to resign from the post of the premier on August 28. Abe cited health issues as reason for his resignation and had said that he could not be the prime minister if he could not make the best decisions for the people.Following his resignation, PM Modi had wished Abe a speedy recovery and said that he was “pained” to hear about the Japanese leader’s ill health and credited him for cementing relations between the two countries.PM Modi also credited Abe with playing a lead role in strengthening relations between India and Japan. “In recent years, with your wise leadership and personal commitment, the India-Japan partnership has become deeper and stronger than ever before. I wish and pray for your speedy recovery,” PM Modi had said on Twitter.Abe has battled the disease ulcerative colitis for years and two recent hospital visits within a week had fanned questions on whether he could stay in the job until the end of his term as ruling party leader, and hence, premier, in September 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-touched-by-your-warm-words-shinzo-abe-tweets-after-pm-modi-s-recovery-wishes/story-2ckBvcAISpNnJX56jgY5VO.html
31-08-2020||India||Maharashtra allows Prakash Ambedkar to visit temple in Pandharpur after protest by VBA||The administration in Pandharpur town of Maharashtra’s Solapur district on Monday allowed members of the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and warkaris (pilgrims) to enter the Lord Vitthal temple after he led a protest demanding opening of temples in the state. Ambedkar, grandson of B R Ambedkar, later claimed that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has assured him of reopening all religious places in the next eight days.Earlier in the day, the VBA leader was stopped by police when he arrived at Pandharpur where as a large number of supporters gathered. After two hours, the district administration allowed Ambedkar along with a select number of warkaris to visit the temple.“I along with 15 others went inside Lord Vitthal temple. The CM has now assured me that the government will issue Standard Operating procedures for devotees and open temples in next eight days. I welcome his decision,” Ambedkar told reporters.When Ambedkar arrived at the Shivaji square, a massive crowd accompanied him to enter the temple. As he began marching towards the temple with a select number of followers, police stopped him and asked him to wait for administration’s response to a letter Ambedkar had handed over to the District Collector.“I had given a letter to Solapur district collector for allowing us to enter the temple. The collector responded after talking to the government and allowed 15 people to enter the temple,” Ambedkar said.To prevent protesters from entering the temple, the local administration at Pandharpur had put up checkpoints at entry and exit points to the temple town while barricading the roads leading to Lord Vitthal temple.Several pilgrim organisations have extended their support to VBA agitation seeking the opening of religious places across Maharashtra.According to Solapur Superintendent of Police, Manoj Patil, notices have been issued to VBA workers. “We have served them notices under section 149 of CrPC. We have also barricaded streets leading to the temple in order to prevent anyone visiting the religious place,” Patil said. The notices asked protesters not to break the law.To prevent anyone from entering the temple town, authorities had suspended the state transport bus service to Pandharpur for a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-allows-prakash-ambedkar-to-visit-temple-in-pandharpur-after-protest-by-vba/story-IcK14HYjaJrita8iXJuRXM.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Tweets not intended to disrespect Supreme Court, judiciary’: Prashant Bhushan after verdict||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who was found guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court, said that he will happily accept the judgement, but would file a review.“I propose to submit myself to this order and respectful pay the fine. But I reserve the right to seek the review of the conviction and sentencing,” Bhushan said while reading from a statement at a press conference in New Delhi. My lawyer & senior colleague Rajiv Dhavan contributed 1 Re immediately after the contempt judgement today which I gratefully accepted pic.twitter.com/vVXmzPe4ssHe was found guilty of the contempt by the Supreme Court for his two tweets which the court said were against the judiciary and maintained they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in public interest.The lawyer said that he always had highest respect for the Supreme Court. “My tweets were not intended to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary as a whole, but were merely meant to express my anguish, at what I felt, was a deviation from its sterling past record,” said Bhushan.“This issue was never about me versus the Hon’ble Judges, much less about me vs the Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court wins, every Indian wins; every Indian wants a strong judiciary,” Bhushan added.He ended the short statement with “long live democracy, Satyamev Jayate” cry.Also Read: How Prashant Bhushan criminal contempt case progressed in Supreme CourtA bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra has asked Bhushan to deposit the fine by September 15, failing which he will attract a jail term of three months and debarment from law practice for three years.Freedom of speech cannot be curtailed but rights of others need to be respected, said the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari.Bhushan in his statement had refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for the tweets, saying what he had expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold. On August 25, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan had urged the top court to show “judicial statesmanship” and not make Bhushan a “martyr” by punishing him for contempt over the tweets, after the activist-lawyer rejected fresh suggestions from the court for an apology.Dhavan, representing Bhushan, had suggested that the top court recall the August 14 verdict convicting the activist lawyer and not to impose any sentence. He urged it to not only close the case but also to bring an end to the controversy.Justice Mishra is demitting office on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweets-not-intended-to-disrespect-supreme-court-judiciary-prashant-bhushan-after-verdict/story-aOqwpGyQTm23459qrR6ucL.html
31-08-2020||India||Half of all Covid-19 deaths in India come from 3 states||Half of India’s Covid-19 death load till Sunday was reported from three states, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, according to the union health ministry. There were 971 deaths reported across the country on Sunday of which 30.48 percent were reported in Maharashtra alone.So far, 64,469 people have died of the viral infection across the country. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those who test positive for the infection – stands at 1.78 percent, much lower than the global average of 3.34 percent.The highest CFR has been recorded by countries like the United Kingdom where 12.4 percent of those diagnosed with the infection have died and Mexico where 10.7 percent have died.Also read: West Bengal extends lockdown till Sept 30 amid Covid-19 outbreakIn India, the three states also account for the highest number of new cases. Of the 78,512 new cases recorded on Sunday, 21 percent came from Maharashtra, followed by 13.5 percent from Andhra Pradesh, and 11.27 percent from Karnataka.Nearly 70 percent of all new cases were reported from just seven states with other states reporting the rest. Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh each accounted for 8.27 percent of the cases, West Bengal was at 3.85 percent while Odisha reported 3.84 percent of the total new Covid-19 cases in the country.States that have been reporting the highest number of cases and deaths have been asked by the health ministry to undertake aggressive measures and ensure higher testing, effective clinical management to save lives, and efficient monitoring at various levels.Also read: First cases of Covid-19 deaths emerge in Uttarakhand PoliceTo effectively control the spread of Covid-19, the government has focused on ramping up the testing capacity to over one million a day. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the target in July end, India has breached the mark twice – on August 21 with 1.02 million tests and on August 30 with 1.05 million tests.In the last 24 hours, however, only 846,278 tests were conducted taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to over 42 million till Sunday midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-all-covid-19-deaths-in-india-come-from-3-states/story-gfFkYNoV7FPhbrXZE0d82M.html
31-08-2020||India||West Bengal government extends lockdown till September 30 amid coronavirus pandemic||The West Bengal government on Monday extended the lockdown till September 30 in the wake of coronavirus disease outbreak, officials said.Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said there will be a complete lockdown in West Bengal on September 7, 11 and 12.Complying with Centre’s ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, Metro rail service in the state will resume in graded manner from September 8.As of Monday, West Bengal has recorded total 1,59,785 Covid-19 positive cases, so far of which 3,176 people succumbed to the viral contagion, according to the health ministry’s tally. The state has 25,657 active cases and total 1,30,952 people have recovered from the disease. Due to continued lockdown since March, all government and private establishments, banks, shops and marketplaces remained closed. Essential services, such as medicine shops and milk supply were kept out of the purview of the shutdown. Petrol pumps also remained operational during the day.Flight services at Kolkata international airport remained suspended, while long-distance trains were rescheduled at Howrah and Sealdah termini.Ferry services through inland waterways also did not operate on Monday.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-government-extends-lockdown-till-september-30-amid-coronavirus-pandemic/story-8XAboQU9H5xkMz2khFutmK.html
31-08-2020||India||Now, Uttar Pradesh set to launch 594-km Ganga Expressway||After giving momentum to the construction of three expressways -- Purvanchal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur-Link amid the fight against Covid pandemic -- the Uttar Pradesh government is geared up to launch construction of the 594-km Ganga Expressway. The Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has planned to construct the expressway, said to be the dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in 12 packages. “We have decided to invite international open bids for construction of the expressway. The state government is working to start the construction of the expressway in the current financial year and to open it for public by 2023,” said UPEIDA, CEO, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. Yogi had announced construction of Ganga expressway -- connecting Meerut with Prayagraj -- during Kumbh-2019. The project was pending for the last 15 years. Immediately, after the CM’s announcement, the government started work on the state’s longest, six-lane (expandable to eight lanes) expressway connecting west UP with east UP immediately, Awasthi said. The expressway will start from NH-235, near Shankarpur village in Meerut and will end at NH 330 near Soraon in Prayagraj district. The government has sanctioned Rs 37,350 crore for the project of which Rs 9,500 crore will be spent on acquisition of land and Rs 24,091 on the construction works. The unique aspect of Ganga Expressway is that it will link other expressways in the state through Lucknow-Agra Expressway, Purvanchal Expressway and Ballia Link Expressway. Once completed, the total network of expressways in Uttar Pradesh will be 1,900 km and provide pace to industrial, agriculture development and draw investments in various sectors, Awasthi said. The state government has planned to launch a massive plantation drive along the Ganga expressway. “UP is one of the major importers of paper. In the coming years, it will turn into a major supplier of paper and other products,” he said. The expressway will pass through 12 districts -- Meerut, Bulandshahar, Hapur, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjhanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. Yogi has asked UPEIDA to consider linking the proposed expressway with Varanasi and facilitate movement of traffic from Haridwar to the expressway. The expressway will give fillip to the tourism and pilgrimage and UPEIDA plans to connect all important tourist and religious spots with the high speed corridor for fast movement of traffic,” Awasthi said. The chief minister has told UPEIDA that design of the expressway should minimise road accidents. To check road accidents, the expressway will have a 15-metre wide depressed median and raised profile edge lines will be provided on both sides on the main carriageway, which will alert road users and reduce road accidents. Advanced traffic management system will be provided all along the expressway, Awasthi said. The design speed of the expressway will be 120 kmph whereas travelling speed will be 100 kmph. To check movement of stray cattle and locals, a precast concrete boundary wall will be constructed along the expressway. For public convenience, way-side amenities will be provided, Awasthi said. All cities, towns, highways and roads on the expressway will be connected with the 19 inter-changes. The agency hired by UPEIDA -- M/s LN Malviya Infra Projects Private Limited and Infratech Civil Solutions, Bhopal -- is likely to complete the final detailed project report (DPR) by August 31. Details of the land acquisition plan have also been finalised. Once it gets approval by the state cabinet and financial approval, work on the project will commence, he said. “Along with fighting the Covid pandemic, the state government is pushing the expressway project fast. We have been able to control the spread of the coronavirus infection and maintain the morale of personnel engaged in development projects,” Awasthi said. A consortium of banks has been formed for construction of Purvnachal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur Link expressways. UPEIDA will complete all the projects in scheduled time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-uttar-pradesh-set-to-launch-594-km-ganga-expressway/story-YmpyrzdfmBCB0Ab1lpkC8L.html
31-08-2020||India||When will PM show his ‘red eyes’ to China, asks Congress||The Congress on Monday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Chinese aggression in the Ladakh sector along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) and asked when he would show his “red eyes” to Beijing. Randeep Singh Surjewala, chief spokesperson, Congress, said the PM and defence minister Rajnath Singh should inform the nation about the situation on the borders with China. “There has been another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso lake. Everyday there is a Chinese intrusion ... Pangong Tso lake area, Gogra and Galwan Valley, Depsang plains, Lipulekh pass, Doka La and Naku La,” he said. “Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But, when will Modiji show his red eyes to China?” he asked. In a fresh incident in Ladakh, China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had carried out “provocative military movements to unilaterally change the status quo” on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake in the intervening night of August 29 and 30, but the attempt was thwarted by Indian troops, army spokesperson Col Aman Anand said. He said Chinese troops “violated” the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements in the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh. Also Read: Chinese troops ‘strictly’ abide by the LAC, never cross the line: BeijingSurjewala claimed that the sovereignty of India is being attacked. “Our land is being captured. But where is the Modi government? The defence ministry’s press release is shocking. Now, it’s no longer restricted to Ladakh, but has reached Lipulekh pass in Uttarakhand,” he said.Also Read: PLA building heliport at tri-junction of India, Bhutan and China, shows satellite imagery Surjewala claimed that Chinese missiles have been installed in Doka La and Naku La. “It is a threat to India. Forces are protecting the border. But where is the PM? When will he give a befitting reply to China? Where is the defence minister? We demand that the PM and the defence minister should come forward and inform us about the situation. When will they remove Chinese transgression from our territory?” he asked. Also Read: Experts say fresh face-off reflects grim reality of LAC situationAnother Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said China remains consistent and persistent in indulging in misadventures along the LAC altering the status quo ante, but the “BJP government remains hesitant in admitting the reality”. Also Read: Forget disengagement, China opens new front along LAC“Aatmanirbhar, toys and love for indigenous breed of dogs can divert attention, but should not be confused with strategy and scheme to evict China,” he said while referring to the topic of PM’s monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/when-will-pm-show-his-red-eyes-to-china-asks-congress/story-mHeqviNt5ILIjqSFMxJwSM.html
31-08-2020||India||Satellite imagery shows PLA building heliport at tri-junction of India, Bhutan,China||Open source satellite imagery has captured what appears to be a heliport China is building in close proximity to two new air defence positions that cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in Doklam and Sikkim sectors. The imagery, shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter, shows the suspected heliport under construction at the tri-junction of the borders of India, Bhutan and China, and at a distance of about 100 km from Doka La (Doka pass) and Naku La (Naku pass). “Suspected PLA heliport infrastructure spotted [as] part of an ongoing investigation near the #Doklam region of the #India #China #Bhutan tri junction, this support unit could sustain all weather & rapid troop deployments in the sector along with improving surveillance operations,” the analyst tweeted.  Suspected PLA heliport infrastructure spotted part of an ongoing investigation near the #Doklam region of the #India #China #Bhutan tri junction, this support unit could sustain all weather & rapid troop deployments in the sector along with improving surveillance operations https://t.co/aOeZ3deGzI pic.twitter.com/ycS32tFxJeThe suspected heliport is located almost equidistant from the two sites at which the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is developing surface-to-air missile facilities, according to imagery tweeted earlier by @detresfa. Both the missile facilities are near what have been described as “suspected early warning radar sites” opposite Sikkim state. In a graphic posted on Twitter, @detresfa said the “steady build-up of support infrastructure by the People’s Liberation Army of China [near] areas with a history of clashes [and] disputed territorial claims demonstrates the long-term Chinese ambitions in these sectors”. ALSO READ | New satellite imagery suggests China developing missile bases to cover Doklam, Naku La“With the addition of a heliport along with area denial systems within 100 km from Doka La [and] Naku La, China would be able to sustain all weather operations in the disputed areas regardless of the harsh terrain [and] conditions,” according to the graphic. The new missile facilities are located roughly 50 km from Naku La (Naku pass), where troops from the two countries had clashed on May 9, and Doka La (Doka pass), close to the Doklam plateau that was the scene of a 73-day military standoff between India and China in 2017. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the clash at Naku La, the second such reported incident since the current standoff began in early May. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the reported development of the heliport and the missile sites by the Chinese. After the end of the Doklam standoff in 2017 following several rounds of negotiations, there were reports the Chinese side hadn’t fully pulled back its troops from the area. There were also reports that Chinese troops had built trenches, fortified positions and infrastructure to support operations by helicopters and aircraft in the area. Last month, Hindustan Times had first reported that China had officially stated for the first time that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh state, which is also claimed by Beijing. Earlier this month, @detresfa had used open source satellite imagery to report that China had stepped up work on military infrastructure opposite Lipulekh region in Uttarakhand. The infrastructure included a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet. The imagery showed what appeared to be two sites at which PLA is creating new infrastructure and accommodation. Both are not far from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region that is at the heart of a new border row between India and Nepal. These developments come against the backdrop of the Indian Army’s acknowledgement on Monday that its troops had pre-empted efforts by PLA to unilaterally change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong lake in the Ladakh sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-imagery-shows-pla-building-heliport-at-tri-junction-of-india-bhutan-and-china/story-a7d3LPqoHGo3JS8oQXx9xI.html
31-08-2020||India||5 injured as terrorist hurl grenade on army vehicle in J-K’s Baramulla||At least five people were injured on Monday after terrorists lobbed a grenade at a vehicle of the Indian Army in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla, officials said.According to a senior police official, five people were injured after an unidentified person hurled a grenade from the old building hospital on an army convoy at Azadganj bridge, which missed the target and instead exploded on the road.“Out of the five, two are seriously injured and have been shifted to Srinagar hospital. The other injured are being treated at a local hospital,” the official said.Soon after the grenade explosion, police cordoned off the area. The Baramulla market where the explosion took place, had opened after a six-day local lockdown which ended on Sunday night.This is the second such incident in 24 hours as terrorists had on Sunday hurled a grenade towards the Warpora police post in Sopore area of Baramulla district in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-injured-as-terrorist-hurl-grenade-on-army-vehicle-in-j-k-s-baramulla/story-iaUr7hkqCbSSmbpx3IicrI.html
31-08-2020||India||Congress slams govt over Chinese aggression at border||The Congress on Monday attacked the government over the Chinese aggression at the border and asked when will Prime Minister Narendra Modi show his “red eyes” to China.“Another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso Lake. Everyday there is a Chinese intrusion...Pangong Tso Lake area, Gogra and Galwan valley, Depsang plains, Lipu Lake, Doka La and Naku La pass.“Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But, when will Modi ji show his red eyes,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi.Also read: Experts say fresh face-off reflects grim reality of LAC situationAnother Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said China remains consistent and persistent in indulging in LAC misadventures altering status quo, but alleged that “the BJP Government remains hesitant in even admitting the reality”. “Aatmanirbhar, Toys and Love for Indian Dogs can divert attention but should not be confused with strategy and scheme to evict China,” he said in a series of tweets.In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out “provocative military movements” to “unilaterally” change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops, the Army said here.Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China’s People’s Liberation Army(PLA) “violated” the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-govt-over-chinese-aggression-at-border/story-yaERVrYwT4MYI1RBmIEJNJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Assistant sub-inspector of Chhattisgarh Police killed by Maoist in Bijapur district||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Chhattisgarh Police was allegedly killed by Maoists in Bijapur district of Bastar division, police said on Monday. ASI Nagaiya Kosa went missing on Sunday evening from Kutru area of the district.“ASI Nagaiya Korsa was abducted and killed by sharp-edged weapons. As per the primary investigations, we think that he was killed by Maoists. His body found along Kutru-Naimed roadside in Bijapur district on Monday,” said director-general of police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi.The DGP further said that on Sunday evening, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Kutru, received a tip that militia cadres of CPI (Maoist) were spotted between Kutru-Naimed road. Also read: Man in MP’s Betul kills wife, covers body with cow dung to revive her“The SDOP, along with his team, rushed to the spot and spotted the ASI’s motorcycle lying along the roadside. Korsa had left for his native village in Awapalli from the police station on Sunday,” said the DGP.The DGP further said that it primarily appears that the ASI was first abducted by the local militia cadres of CPI (Maoist) and later killed by them. “The investigation in the case is going on,” said the DGP.Meanwhile, district police have launched a hunt for the Maoists and combing operation in the area is going on.In March 2020, a District Reserve Guard (DRG) jawan was kidnapped by Maoists and was found dead in a village last night in Sukma district. His body was found in Dornapal police station limits of Arghatta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assistant-sub-inspector-of-chhattisgarh-police-killed-by-maoist-in-bijapur-district/story-ghovjoOQ1eWJDmvfGMVLaN.html
31-08-2020||India||Man in MP’s Betul kills wife, covers body with cow dung to revive her||A 46-year-old man who allegedly killed his wife last week and later covered her body with cow dung to revive her with help of a sorcerer in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh was arrested on Sunday, police said.The accused Bhaiyalal Evne, is a resident of Chicholi village in the district.Chicholi police station in-charge Deepak Parashar said, “Police recovered the semi-decomposed body of Sunita Evne covered with cow dung from her house in Chicholi village on August 28 after some villagers complained of foul smell coming from the accused’s house. During the investigation, Bhaiyalal said he had gone out of town and did not know who had killed his wife.” Parashar said that during the investigation, police found that Bhaiyalal was an alcoholic because of which his three children had left their house and started living somewhere else. “He also used to fight with his wife. When police detained and interrogated him he confessed to have committed the crime,” he said. “Bhaiyalal said his wife quarrelled with him on the night of August 26. He hit her in her head with a wooden stick and she died on spot. A sorcerer told him that he could revive anybody. On his advice he covered the body with cow dung. But before he could have called sorcerer for his practice, police recovered the body,” said Parashar. Police are trying to nab the sorcerer and further investigation are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-mp-s-betul-kills-wife-covers-body-with-cow-dung-to-revive-her/story-kMRs8CCV9bRa3HOy2pU6UO.html
31-08-2020||India||Mega land allotment could turn Agra into a garment hub||The Taj city’s dreams of turning itself into a garment hub hinges on the allotment of approximately 45-acre of unutilized land for an integrated textile and apparel industrial park, say experts dealing with the issue. The land in question is owned by the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA). It is part of the 1,000-acre land parcel that was originally earmarked for a theme park project visualised by a prominent actor-cum-film-maker.While the textile park is expected to give employment to at least 25,000 workers, the theme park project is dying a slow death in files, those in the know of things have said.So far, two private developers have come forward to submit e-tenders of their expression of interest (EOI) to the state textile department for setting up of the integrated textile and apparel industrial park in Agra. “They submitted their EOIs on 20.08.2020 (August 8, 2020) pursuant to the policy of the department of textile. These EOIs are particularly important for Agra, which is an ecologically sensitive area, being part of the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ). In TTZ, no polluting industries are permitted,” said KC Jain, chairman of the legal cell of the National Chamber of Industries and Commerce (NCIC), Agra chapter. Also read: India’s GDP numbers could be worst in decades. What experts sayThese EOIs were invited for seven tentative locations - Meerut, Agra, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Lucknow and Kanpur.“Since garment manufacturing is classified as a white category industry by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), there are no environmental hassles in setting them up. Recently, a virtual meeting was also held on 26.08.2020 (August 26, 2020) by Rama Raman, additional chief secretary, textiles, to have a dialogue with these private developers who have been asked to submit their detailed project reports (DPRs) in 45 days,” Jain said. “One of these private developers, headed by Ashok Goyal of Surat, has asked for the allotment of 45 acres of land out of the 1,000 acres reserved for the ‘theme park’ in Agra. Owned by the UPSIDA, this land is located on Inner Ring Road with connectivity to the Yamuna Expressway and the Lucknow Expressway,” Jain added.Jain further said that the land for the theme park project should be utilised for the apparel park and industrial cluster. “The very purpose of the acquisition of the land for the theme park has become non-existent with the actor having given up on this project. This land for the theme park is lying unutilised since 2014 and the UPSIDA is incurring heavy liability on the payment of interest,” he said. Jain further said NCIC had recently conducted a demand survey of industrial plots in Agra. In the survey, 291 entrepreneurs responded and 206 favoured garment and accessories manufacturing units, reflecting the market demand. Once the apparel and textile park comes up, these entrepreneurs can begin to set up their units there.Ashok Goyal has also said the allotment is important as a government scheme envisages a subsidy of 50 percent on the purchase of land from a government agency. Without subsidy, it would not be possible to provide developed plots at an affordable price, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mega-land-allotment-could-turn-agra-into-a-garment-hub/story-SuEcHBFIo7o6acYIhOcLkI.html
31-08-2020||India||First cases of Covid-19 deaths emerge in Uttarakhand Police||Uttarakhand Police has reported first Covid-19 deaths of its personnel in the last week. The two fatalities include a platoon commander and a constable. Following the deaths, the police personnel have been asked to be extra cautious to prevent getting infected by the virus. Nearly 500 personnel of state police have contracted the virus till date.The first death was reported on Tuesday. A platoon commander in state police’s 46th battalion of provincial armed constabulary, Shivraj Singh Rana, died during treatment in US Naga district on Tuesday. The second Covid-19 fatality was reported on Sunday evening. Constable Narendra Tomar died of the virus during treatment in Dehradun, said the police. In the recent Covid-19 death, constable Tomar was admitted to a private hospital in Dehradun on Friday after testing positive for the virus. He was later moved to Government Doon Hospital for treatment on Saturday where he died during treatment on Sunday. Also read: 47-year-old man trampled to death by elephant in Uttarakhand“We had already issued alert to all our personnel regarding the pandemic but after the two deaths, we have reissued it. We have asked all to take necessary precautions as per the health department including wearing masks and sanitising hands regularly while on duty,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order). He, however, said that “it is also difficult for the personnel on duty in this pandemic as they have to be in public for maintaining law and order and for Covid-19 duty”.“Of about 500 personnel who have tested positive in the state, 300 have been treated and about 150 have rejoined duty. The numbers are only increasing in the department as in the state,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-cases-of-covid-19-deaths-emerge-in-uttarakhand-police/story-ELG43Y8fvKIWyQNUx4B2zH.html
31-08-2020||India||47-year-old man trampled to death by elephant in Uttarakhand||A 47-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Sunday evening, informed officials. Chandrashekhar Joshi, divisional forest officer (DFO) Ramnagar, where the incident happened, informed that the man was trampled to death when he took his cattle for grazing in the forest. “A 47-year-old man was trampled by an elephant in Devchauri range of Ramnagar forest division on Sunday evening around 6:45 pm. The man was grazing his cattle when he by mistake entered the reserve forest area and was attacked by the elephant,” said Joshi. He added that the man was injured and was rushed to a hospital by forest officials but was declared dead at the hospital. The deceased’s family is being given due compensation of Rs 3 lakh by the forest department. Aggression of some elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett and Rajaji National Park landscape, two bastions of wild elephants in the state, is a major concern for wildlife officials. Earlier, Bhuwan Ram, 51, a forest watcher was killed by an elephant in Karakot in the Haldwani forest division in the month of June. In July Parvati Devi, 60, a forest watcher’s wife, was attacked and killed in Kishanpur range of Terai east forest division. Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of the western division in Kumaon, said that man-animal conflict has increased because of several reasons, including humans coming close to the forests for habitation. “The natural corridors have been encroached by humans and people go inside the forests and it’s a huge risk as forests are the territory of the wild animals. There is a need to sensitise people about man-animal conflict and how to avoid it.” In November last, a wild elephant killed two people in Haridwar when it went on a rampage in two villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-year-old-man-trampled-to-death-by-elephant-in-uttarakhand/story-zgtXAglLc4Lz0aqmFJkWbM.html
31-08-2020||India||Prakash Ambedkar arrives in Pandharpur, leads march to reopen temples||Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi president Prakash Ambedkar arrived at Pandharpur on Monday to visit the famous Lord Vitthal temple as part of agitation to open religious places in Maharashtra. Ambedkar, who is grandson of BR Ambedkar, arrived at the Shivaji square where a large number of followers accompanied him to enter the temple. He later marched towards the temple with a select number of followers. “We have submitted a letter to Solapur district collector for allowing us to enter the temple. I am waiting for the administration’s response. I am appealing to all not to cross barricades put up by administration,” Ambedkar told reporters at Pandharpur. The local administration at Pandharpur has put up checkpoints at entry and exit points to the temple town while barricading the roads leading to Lord Vitthal temple in view of Monday’s agitation by the Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA).Several varkari organisations (pilgrims) have extended their support to VBA agitation that demands opening of religious places across Maharashtra.According to Solapur Superintendent of Police, Manoj Patil, notices have been issued to VBA workers. “We have served them notices under section 149 of CrPC. We have also barricaded streets leading to the temple in order to prevent anyone visiting the religious place,” Patil said. The notices asked protesters not to break the law.To prevent anyone from entering into the temple town, the state transport bus service has been suspended in Pandharpur for a day.Since March 25, all the places of worship across the state have been closed for devotees in view of Covid pandemic. However, there is a growing chorus from various sectors for opening temples and other religious places. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday staged ghatna-nad (bell ringing) agitation across the state pressing for its demand to open temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-ambedkar-arrives-in-pandharpur-leads-march-to-reopen-temples/story-XEQe1Cxy9TSU8c8qJIZ4XM.html
31-08-2020||India||Covid-19 surge not so worrying if serious cases, deaths are low: Experts||The rise in number of Covid-19 cases should not be a cause of concern as long as the number of serious patients and deaths due to the disease remain low, say public health experts in Gujarat.They are also of the view that the new cases being reported daily should be categorised as mild, moderate or severe to better understand the pandemic.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “We are finding new cases everyday, but the first thing we need to know is how many of them are serious,” said Dileep Mavalankar, Director of the Gandhinagar-based Indian Institute of Public Health.“The government should report how many new patients have been put on oxygen or ventilator support...we are reporting low mortality,” he said.The new cases should be divided into three categories- mild, moderate, if a patient needs oxygen, and severe, if he/she needs ventilator support, he said.In a recent study, Mavalankar found that between March and July, the percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 compared to other diseases in India was 1.3, as against 13 per cent in the US and 17.6 per cent in the UK.He said the government should not neglect fatalities due to other reasons just to control the over one per cent Covid-19 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage At the same time, the government should provide more data in the public domain for experts to understand the pandemic situation better, he said.The data should include the nature of new daily cases, as to how many of them are mild, moderate or severe. The government should also provide data separately on the number of suspected Covid-19 cases and the cases being reported in urban and rural areas, Mavalankar said.“The disease will, of course, spread. Even high profile people are getting the disease. We need to focus on reducing the number of deaths. In terms of data, we need to ask the government to separate mild cases from moderate and severe,” he said.In Gujarat, Surat city has reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases in recent times.“But, that alone should not concern us as only about 400 patients are hospitalised, and the rest, around 500, are in home isolation, taken care of by a dedicated team of doctors,” Surat Municipal Commissioner B N Pani said.There is a perception that the situation is quite bad because of the number of cases being very high. But a look at the bed occupancy shows the number of people in hospitals is very low, he said.“There are currently 872 active COVID-19 cases in Surat, out of whom 400 patients are hospitalised. Plasma therapy and medicines like Ramdesivir have helped treat severe cases and reduce the number of deaths. Early detection is also reducing the mortality,” he said.Pani said the Covid-19 death rate has come down in Surat and the severity of cases has also considerably decreased.He claimed Surat has achieved the highest number of plasma donations and use of plasma therapy in the entire country. So far, around 994 patients here have been given the plasma therapy, he added.Also, the civic body has formed a task force for the diamond and textiles industries and issued standard operating procedures for them.Till Sunday, Surat reported 20,855 Covid-19 cases and 809 deaths due to the disease. The state has so far reported 95,155 cases and 3,008 deaths, as per the health department. Gujarat Covid-19 task force member Dr Tushar Patel said though more new cases of the disease are being reported every day, a large number of patients are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.“Hence, the situation is not worrying as such patients get treated with home isolation,” he said.“There are active cases, but the number of critically ill patients has gone down, as we can see empty beds in ICUs of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. Active cases will remain, but at the same time the positivity rate has come down,” he said.Three months ago, reports of eight out of 10 people tested used to come out positive for Covid-19. Now only about two out of 10 come out positive, said Dr Patel, who is a pulmonologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-surge-not-so-worrying-if-serious-cases-deaths-are-low-experts/story-sfCc8Foscj17k3nN2k5TqM.html
31-08-2020||India||‘I gratefully accept Supreme Court verdict’, says Prashant Bhushan||Senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday said that he “gracefully” accepted the Supreme Court verdict in the contempt case and added that the Re 1 fine levied on him was contributed by lawyer and colleague Rajiv Dhavan. Bhushan was found guilty of criminal contempt of court on August 14 over his tweets against the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India SA Bobde.“My lawyer & senior colleague Rajiv Dhavan contributed 1 Re immediately after the contempt judgement today which I gratefully accepted,” Bhushan tweeted.My lawyer & senior colleague Rajiv Dhavan contributed 1 Re immediately after the contempt judgement today which I gratefully accepted pic.twitter.com/vVXmzPe4ssAlso read: How Prashant Bhushan criminal contempt case progressed in Supreme CourtEarlier on Monday, the apex court imposed a fine of Re 1 on the activist-lawyer in the contempt case.Also Watch | Vikram Chandra on Prashant Bhushan contempt case in SC, other top stories A three-judge bench had said in the order that if Bhushan fails to deposit the amount by September 15, he will have to undergo simple imprisonment for three months and will be barred from practising for three years. While finding him guilty in a strongly-worded judgment, the court had said that Bhushan’s tweets were based on distorted facts and have the effect of destabilising the foundation of the judiciary. It added that such conduct was not expected from Bhushan, who is a lawyer of 20 years standing at the Bar. The first tweet for which Bhushan was held guilty, criticised the functioning of the SC in the past six years. He alleged that the historians would mark the role of the apex court in contributing to what Bhushan said will be considered as destruction of democracy.Bhushan, in his second tweet, where Chief Justice of India SA Bobde is seen sitting on a stationary Harley Davidson motorcycle, had said, “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”The case against Bhushan was registered on July 9 and the first hearing in the matter was held on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-gratefully-accept-supreme-court-verdict-says-prashant-bhushan-adds-re-1-fine-paid/story-KQLwwp8XnNLY7knUfzaSMK.html
31-08-2020||India||States can allow reservations for in-service candidates in PG medical courses: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the Medical Council of India (MCI) is not empowered to make regulations providing for reservation in favour of in-service candidates for admission to post-graduate medical courses.The five-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra held MCI is a body constituted for the regulation of medical education and profession but the right to provide reservation lies with the respective states. States, the bench held, can frame regulations for separate entry for such in-service candidates. Such doctors, who are already working, should, however, be mandated to serve in rural and tribal areas for five years.It held that MCI regulation that barred such reservation was unconstitutional and arbitrary. It has asked the states to formulate a scheme for rural and remote service by in-service doctors after completing their postgraduate degree.The ruling came on a plea by doctors from Kerala, Maharashtra and Haryana who said granting reservation benefits would encourage those working in government hospitals and in rural areas. The doctors had challenged the validity of the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, framed by MCI.At present, 50% seats in PG diploma courses are reserved for medical officers in the government service but MCI regulations barred it in PG degree courses. All admissions to PG degree courses are conducted through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exams and 50% seats are filled through all-India quota while the remaining 50% are from state quota.The in-service candidates had submitted that they work round the clock and hardly find any time to update their knowledge and compete with the general category merit candidates.The Centre and MCI had opposed the plea saying granting reservations or a separate source of entry for in-service candidates would directly impinge on the authority of MCI to coordinate and determine standards of medical education.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-allow-reservations-for-in-service-candidates-in-pg-medical-courses-supreme-court/story-cxFtp6c6Y8TPbMaHlQVbSJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Ola, Uber drivers across NCR threaten strike from September 1: All you need to know||Drivers working with mobility platforms Ola and Uber have threatened to go on strike in Delhi-NCR from September 1 in support of their various demands like fare hike and extension of moratorium on repayment of loans. With government buses accommodating fewer passengers and the Delhi Metro services yet to resume, the strike could affect travel for thousands of citizens across the NCR.Around 2 lakh drivers working with cab aggregators will take part in the strike if the government fails to solve our problems, said Kamaljeet Singh Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi.The strike by drivers of cab aggregators may cause hardships to a large number of commuters as Metro train services are yet to resume and buses are running at reduced capacity amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Know about the various demands of the drivers:•The cab drivers have demanded extension of moratorium on loan payments till December 31, fare hike, increase in commission by cab aggregators, and withdrawal of e-challans issued against their vehicles for speeding, according to a pamphlet circulated by the drivers.•The drivers have also demanded that cab aggregators raise their fare and commission and share taxes paid by them while travelling between Delhi and National Capital (Region) destinations like Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon.•Gill said the road tax payment relaxation should also be extended till December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ola-uber-drivers-across-ncr-threaten-strike-from-september-1-all-you-need-to-know/story-O4EzE9NSiEF8DJvHII3XXK.html
31-08-2020||India||Samajwadi Party launches ‘Bicycle TV’ to expand reach||The Samajwadi Party has launched ‘BicycleTV’ to extend its electronic reach to the public amid a challenging coronavirus pandemic. The move is in step with the increasing culture among political parties to adopt remote audio-visual means to inform and influence people. Bicycle is the election symbol of the SP.The SP soft-launched the Bicycle TV (on YouTube) on August 15 - with the Independence Day message by party president Akhilesh Yadav. Since then, in a fortnight, the media team of the party handling the channel has uploaded a dozen curated short video documentaries. Some of them are a scathing attack on the ruling BJP and its government on various issues while others are publicising the party and its previous government’s achievements.“The channel will be used to beam campaign, propagation of the party’s ideas and ideologies, previous SP government’s achievements, party’s future programmes, announcements, expose the ruling party and their lies, live press conferences and live party events,” said Abhishek Mishra, SP national secretary and former UP minister.If ‘Mission 2022: Baaees Main Bicycle (bicycle in 2022)’ nudges people to vote for the party in 2022 UP assembly elections, then ‘Save UP, the heart of India’ targets the UP government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. One short film is focused on Agra-Lucknow Expressway and another one on 108 ambulances, while ‘Samajwadi Hausala (socialist grit) highlights the lathicharge on SP youth volunteers’ incident of August 28. Some other BicycleTV video stories are: Bhagwan sabke hai (God belong to all), mismanagement of government hospitals in Covid-19 and Dharti-putra Mulayam Singh Yadav--the political journey of the party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav.The party has a team of media experts, researchers, curators, photographers and videographers that is creating content for the Bicycle TV. The SP is the only regional party in UP to have an active channel, though it is not the first one to venture into it. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) had launched a channel three years ago, but the channel has been dormant for two years. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) does not have one yet. Both Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress have their active YouTube channels with a large subscription base, but they are of the national outfit and not of UP counterparts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-launches-bicycle-tv-to-expand-reach/story-1JpJbKeQZlp5PXiMefaD1M.html
31-08-2020||India||Traffic resumes on Jammu-Srinagar highway after rains disrupt movement||After remaining suspended for nearly two hours, vehicular traffic on the 270 kilometre-long Jammu-Srinagar National Highway (NH44) resumed on Monday at around 9 am. The traffic movement got affected at around 7 am today following rains that triggered shooting stones in Panthial stretch of Ramban district. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), traffic wing, JS Johar confirmed the same.“The movement of traffic was disrupted at 7 am following moderate rains that triggered shooting stones from hills that fell on to the road. The movement, however, resumed at around 9 am,” said a traffic police official. Parts of Jammu region received light to moderate rains during the wee hours on Monday.Also read: In Kashmir, different political ideologies have been set aside for a larger goal, says Omar AbdullahFollowing an improvement in weather conditions and restoration works, the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was thrown open to traffic on Sunday morning after it remained blocked for four straight days.India Meteorological Department director, J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said for the next week, the weather will mainly remain dry in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh.Also read: Heavy rain likely to lash parts of Chhattisgarh again from Monday“However, a spell of light to moderate rain, especially in Jammu region, is likely during September 3 and 4,” he said.“There’s no forecast of any significant weather for the next one week,” Lotus added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-parts-of-j-k-traffic-on-jammu-srinagar-disrupted/story-RB6NQftBEZlNBI4fq6CGeI.html
31-08-2020||India||Tharoor responds to Speaker’s advisory, says J&K 4G curbs no longer sub judice||Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology (IT), has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, saying the issue of Internet shutdowns in Jammu & Kashmir is no longer sub judice and thus taking up the matter is not in contravention of rules, HT has learnt. He cited the need to prevent misuse of social and online news media platforms and added summoning Facebook’s representatives in this regard is within his mandate. Also read: Kerala Congress chief steps in after party leader attacks Shashi TharoorThe panel has summoned the social media company’s representatives over a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report this month that said Facebook’s India policy head, Ankhi Das, opposed applying hate-speech rules to a BJP politician whose posts targeted Muslims. According to a new WSJ report on Sunday, Das also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “strongman” who had broken the Congress’ socialist hold. The comments were made in a Facebook group designed for employees in India, but it was open to a global audience. The panel has been split over asking Facebook executives to explain the report. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Nishikant Dubey, who is a member of the panel, has maintained Tharoor cannot call Facebook to seek an explanation because the House rules do not allow it. He cited Rule 269 and added the secretary-general has the power to summon.Parties like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have supported Tharoor’s decision to call Facebook for an explanation and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded a criminal investigation into the matter.Birla had written to the chairpersons of all parliamentary panels and asked them to select subjects in line with Parliamentary rules and conventions, which include not taking up subjects pending before courts.In a letter to Birla last week, a copy of which HT has seen, Tharoor addressed various points the speaker has highlighted. He cited the Internet shutdowns in Jammu & Kashmir and referred to the May 11 Supreme Court judgment related to it and the dismissal of a subsequent contempt petition that followed to make his point. The Centre on August 11 told the Supreme Court that restrictions on 4G mobile internet will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of the Union Territory after August 15 on a trial basis. The decision was arrived at on the recommendations made of a special committee constituted on the top court’s May 11 directive to the Centre to review restrictions on high-speed mobile internet.The Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed in June by the Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and Jammu & Kashmir administration for failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speeds in the Union Territory, where people are only able to access 2G services.The top court appreciated the stand taken by the Centre and closed the contempt case on August 11.Tharoor added that since the matter has been addressed, it should no longer be considered sub judice and the panel would proceed on considering it. The panel was slated to hear from the Union home ministry, department of telecommunications and representatives from the states and Union territories on the issue on September 1. HT on August 25 reported Birla had written to the chairpersons of all parliamentary panels on the selection of subjects based on rules and conventions.In a ‘partially modified agenda’ circulated among members on August 29, there was no mention of Jammu & Kashmir, even though the panel was still slated to hear from Delhi and Bihar on internet curbs. The modified agenda came after Dubey said since the issue was sub judice, it should not be discussed.A member of the panel told HT that they would still like to hear from the government about the facts of the case. “We should still like to hear the facts from the government, even if we do not have a discussion on J&K [Jammu & Kashmir],” said the member on the condition of anonymity. “A statement has been allowed in the past. It should not be against the rules.”According to experts, there is no rule that the panel cannot take up subjects pending before courts and a topic already bulletinised can be discussed.Former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary said a chairperson has additional powers, including a second casting vote. “There is no particular rule that prohibits the panel from taking up matters that are pending before courts.” With reference to the Facebook issue that the panel is slated to hear, Tharoor, in his letter, said that under the topic of “Safeguarding citizens’ rights & prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms” summoning the social media company representatives is within his mandate. The agenda of a panel is pre-approved by and bulletenised by the Speaker before it meets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoor-responds-to-speaker-s-advisory-says-j-k-4g-curbs-no-longer-sub-judice/story-mRVpKU4wOZuEk7zW1jNeMI.html
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court fines Prashant Bhushan Re 1. Here’s what it said||The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a fine of Re 1 on lawyer Prashant Bhushan for the offence of criminal contempt of court for his tweets criticising the top court and Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra ruled Bhushan will have to deposit the fine with the court’s registry by September 15. If Bhushan does not pay the fine, he will have to undergo a jail term of three months and will also be debarred from legal practice for three years, it said. The top court had on August 14 found Bhushan guilty for putting out the two tweets.The case took 40 days to reach a conclusion from the date of its first hearing. It was registered on July 9 and the first hearing in the matter was held on July 22. Here is what the top court said on Monday:* “We gave him several opportunities to express regret. The Attorney General also asked the court to close the case once he tenders an apology,” the bench observed.* The bench also state no such apology was offered by Bhushan.* The court also took exception to the fact that Bhushan frequently went to the press even when the case was pending and gave wide publicity to his statements and gave interviews to the media about the case.* Bhushan’s past conduct was also taken into account with the court observing that it had initiated contempt cases against Bhushan on previous occasions too for his statements.* “Publication of statements in the press by the contemnor before they were submitted before this court was done to interfere with judicial functioning,” the bench which also comprised justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari said.* Bhushan had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.* Bhushan’s first tweet said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”* The second tweet referred to CJI Bobde. “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-fines-prashant-bhushan-re-1-here-s-what-it-said/story-yMXIaDO874VW1IP5PSMpkJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi lashes out at Centre, says Modi govt has no interest in seeking truth||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday released the first part of his video series attacking the Modi government for the “economic tragedy that the country is facing for the first time in 40 years.”He launched an attack on the Centre saying “asatyagrahi” (someone who doesn’t have interest in seeking truth) are blaming God for the fallout. His tweet was an apparent counter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement last week where she referred to the coronavirus pandemic as an ‘Act of God’ that may result in contraction of the economy this fiscal.In a video series titled ‘Arthavyavastha ki baat Rahul Gandhi ke saath’ or ‘State of the Economy with Rahul Gandhi’, the Congress leader claimed that the BJP government has attacked the informal structure of the economy and has attempted to turn people into slaves. “In 2008, the world was hit by an economic storm. It affected the entire world including the United States, China, Europe and Japan. Many banks and firms in the US and Europe shut down but India remained unaffected under the leadership of the UPA government,” Gandhi claimed.He said he asked former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh as to how India did not suffer losses like the rest of the world due to the recession and was told that there were two types of economies within the country: organised and unorganised. Gandhi says Singh explained to him that as long as the nation’s unorganised sector, which includes farmers, small and medium size businesses and labourers, stands strong no economic storm can take down India. “For the past six years, the BJP government has been attacking the informal sector,” he said and stated that demonetisation, “wrong” Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the Covid-19 lockdown were the biggest examples of the same. “The lockdown wasn’t planned last minute, instead the aim of these three moves (demonetisation, GST, and lockdown) was to destroy the informal sector. As many as 40 crore people working in the informal sector may face extreme poverty, he said citing an International Labour Organization report. At least two crore people have lost their jobs in the last four months, he added. He claimed that the informal sector has a lot of money that the government can’t touch and so they’re trying to break the sector to extort the money. “The result will be that India will not be able to produce jobs as the informal sector generates over 90% of the jobs. Unemployment will be the highest in 45 years,” he said.He asserted that the government is cheating people and so the country needs to stand united to fight this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-nirmala-sitharaman-s-act-of-god-comment-rahul-gandhi-s-asatyagrahi-comeback/story-0LSiamu3HI1254MXZGGqAI.html
31-08-2020||India||Dalit, 19, dies in Uttar Pradesh police custody; family alleges torture||A 19-year-old Dalit man, who was illegally detained at a police station in Lalganj area of Uttar Pradesh’s Raebareli district, died in police custody on Sunday. The family members of the deceased have accused police of “torture” and, along with some locals, staged a protest against the police and blocked a road.The district administration has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. The station house officer (SHO) of Lalganj police station has been suspended for unlawful detention. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered by the Superintendent of Police (SP), Raebareli, Swapnil Mamgain, into the incident.Mohit and his brother Sonu, residents of Behta Kalan village, were detained by the police on suspicion of vehicle theft on Friday and taken to Lalganj police station. While Sonu was released after a few hours, Mohit, according to family members, was tortured by the police personnel at the station.He was rushed to the District hospital on Sunday where he died at around 11 am. The body was sent for postmortem investigation.“We have received a complaint from the family members of the deceased in which they have alleged torture and accused two Sub Inspectors(SI). The complaint is being investigated on the basis of which we will also lodge an FIR,” said the SP.One of the accused SI has been involved in accused of misconduct in the past and has at least two departmental inquiries ordered against him.“Prima facie, SHO Lalganj, Harishankar Prajapati, was found accused of unlawful detention beyond 24 hours at police station. For this he has been suspended,” added the SP.Meanwhile the angry family members of the deceased and at least 50 local residents staged a protest against the police on Sunday evening. The protesters also tried to block the state highway passing through the area. The police resorted to use of force to disperse the protesters.Senior officials also met the family members and assured them of swift investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-19-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-police-custody-family-alleges-torture/story-BHjaMUObVTs6tLi852UuML.html
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court imposes Re 1 fine on Prashant Bhushan for contempt||The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a Re 1 fine on activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan days after holding him guilty of criminal contempt of court for two tweets against the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. It said if he fails to pay the fine by September 15, Bhushan will have to undergo three-month simple imprisonment and be barred from practising for three years.Bhushan said he gratefully accepted the judgement and his lawyer, Rajiv Dhavan, immediately paid the fine. “My lawyer & senior colleague Rajiv Dhavan contributed 1 Re immediately after the contempt judgement today which I gratefully accepted,” he tweetedAccording to the Contempt of Courts Act, the offence of criminal contempt carries a punishment of up to six months in prison or a fine up to Rs 2,000 or both. The court has also barred lawyers found guilty of contempt from practising before it for a limited period while refraining from imposing any jail sentence.The verdict was reserved on Tuesday last after the court gave Bhushan a fresh opportunity to apologise, withdraw his comments, or express regret.Also Read: How Prashant Bhushan criminal contempt case progressed in Supreme CourtDhawan and Attorney General of India KK Venugopal, the Centre’s top law officer who appeared in his personal capacity, last week urged the court to not punish the activist-lawyer and let him off with a reprimand. Dhavan said the effect of punishment will make Bhushan a martyr and urged the court not to do so. The court considered these requests and wanted Bhushan to apologise before taking a lenient view. The bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, suggested that Bhushan must “express regret” for his tweets, and subsequent statements defending them.At one point last week, the court gave Bhushan time to think over his responses and consider retracting his statements. But no apology or retraction was offered as Bhushan maintained that it would be ingenuous and a “contempt of his conscience”. He argued that his criticism came with the best interests of the court in mind.The bench said the court welcomes fair criticism, but critics should not attribute motives to judges. Justice Mishra, who will retire on Wednesday, last week said lawyers and judges are part of the same institution and should work together to ensure that the dignity of the institution is not compromised. Several eminent jurists have said that the court was being overly harsh in initiating criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan.The bench last week said Bhushan has declined to apologise and has also filed statements sticking to his stance. Bhushan had posted two tweets, one against the Supreme Court on June 27 and another against CJI Bobde on June 29.Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association secretary Rohit Sud called the apex court’s order harsh while underlining the need for the Bar and bench try to maintain cordial relations. DPS Randhawa, the association’s president, said there should not be a hitch in dialogue between the two. “The court should have referred the matter to the Bar Council [of India] so that relations between the two remain cordial.”Mandeep Bedi, the president of the Senior Advocates’ Association of Punjab and Haryana High Court, said Bhushan should not have been fined. “A fine, whether of Re 1 or Rs 10,000, is a fine. He should have been let off with a warning because it was just a tweet.”Former Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana chairman Lekh Raj Sharma called the decision a balanced one. “The rule of law should prevail and I think it has been upheld in this case to save the institution. In the name of fair criticism and freedom of expression, no one should be allowed to scandalise the courts,” he said. Mehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before the Supreme Court on July 9 seeking contempt of court proceedings against Bhushan for the tweets. Based on his petition, the court took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the matter and listed it for the first time on July 22 and issued notice to Bhushan the same day.The court then heard the matter on August 5 and held Bhushan guilty of contempt of court on August 14. It then posted the case for hearing on August 20 to decide the sentence.When the matter was heard on August 20, Bhushan read out a statement expressing dismay over his conviction. He said that he was standing by his tweets, which he described as an attempt to discharge his duty towards the country.The three-judge bench said it could show leniency only if Bhushan expressed regret and reconsidered his statement declining to apologise. It gave Bhushan time to submit an unconditional apology by August 24 failing which it would proceed against him.Bhushan submitted a supplementary statement before the court on August 24 persisting with his stance and refusing to offer an apology. He submitted his views represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, offering an apology for expressing them would be insincere.His tweets were not intended to malign the apex court or the CJI but only offered constructive criticism “so that the court could arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution”, Bhushan said.Dhavan suggested on Tuesday last that the court should close the case after issuing a general direction that the Bar should exercise restraint while criticising the court. He also pointed out instances when lawyers and judges have criticised the court and its judgments. One of Bhushan’s main arguments was that criticising courts is protected by free speech and will not amount to contempt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-imposes-re-1-fine-on-prashant-bhushan-for-contempt/story-dHCjR9OQfiXmjG0G5JSXfL.html
31-08-2020||India||In Kashmir, different political ideologies have been set aside for a larger goal: Omar Abdullah||Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has said six regional parties, which signed the Gupkar declaration last year pledging to fight unitedly against the constitutional changes to Jammu & Kashmir’s status, may have different political ideologies but plan to present a united front for the time being.“...different political ideologies... have been set aside for a larger goal. We wanted to send a wider message to New Delhi that, on this question of what happened on August 5 [when the process for the nullification of Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir special status began], liked-minded parties will come together,” said Omar Abdullah in a joint interview to HT with his father, Farooq Abdullah.The political environment in Jammu & Kashmir is in flux again a year after the nullification and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two federally-run territories. Omar Abdullah and his father, Farooq Abdullah, are at the heart of the churning following their release from detention.Read the full interview here.Farooq Abdullah last week emerged as the pivot in the formation of a conglomerate of the six parties that has posed the first challenge to the Centre by reaffirming commitment to the declaration pegged to the demand for restoration of the special status and semi-autonomous status.Farooq Abdullah dismissed the newly-formed Jammu & Kashmir Apni Party, which is not a part of the conglomerate, as the “formation of IB (Intelligence Bureau)”. Omar Abdullah said the party was welcome to try its luck in the political arena. “Political space is open to everybody. Come, try your luck. Who stops anybody from trying?”Also Read: BJP wants a Hindu majority to emerge in J&K: Farooq AbdullahMost Unionist parties in Jammu & Kashmir, particularly the Nation Conference (NC) of the Abdullahs that played a key role in the region’s accession to India in 1947, have traditionally been seen as a bridge between New Delhi and Srinagar.Farooq Abdullah said he did not want to be the bridge anymore. “They have deceived my people,” he said.Omar Abdullah added the “bridge” would only work if New Delhi allowed them to propagate the voices of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. “If by the bridge, you mean that we will allow them to bring their voices and propagate it here, that is not a bridge. If by the bridge you mean that you will allow us to take the voices of J&K and Ladakh and propagate it there, it is fine. Enforced communication will not work.”Also Read: Our Supreme Court petition makes an incredibly strong case: Omar Abdullah on legal fight against nullification of Article 370Omar Abdullah dismissed the idea of elections before 2021 and the said the formation of the conglomerate did not necessarily signal a “pre-electoral understanding.”“There is no possibility of an election in J&K [Jammu & Kashmir] before 2021. Thankfully, the Government of India has willy-nilly given us this breathing space to work together on the Gupkar Declaration which is not an announcement of pre-electoral understanding,” he said.Also Read: ‘Will contest Article 370 move legally, democratically’: Farooq and Omar AbdullahPrime Minister Narendra Modi referred to delimitation exercise in his Independence Day speech and said it is underway and assembly elections would follow in Jammu & Kashmir.NC has opted out of a Delimitation Commission set up in March to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies based on the recent census, saying the Bharatiya Janata Party was allegedly seeking to create Hindu dominance in the Muslim majority region and to divide the Union Territory along religious lines through the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kashmir-different-political-ideologies-have-been-set-aside-for-a-larger-goal-omar-abdullah/story-wWlNwMr9WvRgF3lRN3fdqJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan should pay Re 1 or go to jail for 3 months: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday imposed a fine of Re 1 on activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court for his tweets against the apex court and Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.A three-judge bench said that if Bhushan fails to deposit the amount by September 15, he will have to undergo simple imprisonment for three months and will be barred from practising for three years.The court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt of court and stated that the allegations levelled in the tweets against the court and CJI are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalise the court. Bhushan’s tweets were based on distorted facts and have the effect of destabilising the foundation of the judiciary, the court had added.Also read: How Prashant Bhushan criminal contempt case progressed in Supreme CourtThough the court gave him time to “think over”, Bhushan maintained that he will not apologise and in a statement on August 24 said that the views expressed by him through his tweets represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, therefore, an apology for expressing such beliefs would be insincere.“An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to be sincerely made. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution (Supreme Court ) that I hold in highest esteem,” he said.However, Attorney General KK Venugopal had urged the court to not punish Bhushan and let him off with a warning but the court refused to do so unless he tendered an apology. Bhushan had on June 27 tweeted that historians will mark the role of the Supreme Court in contributing to what he considered as destruction of democracy. “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs”, he wrote on Twitter. In another tweet on June 29, the lawyer had posted a photo of CJI Bobde sitting on a Harley Davidson motorcycle with the text alongside reading: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-re-1-fine-in-contempt-case-supreme-court-to-prashant-bhushan-failure-will-result-in-jail-for-3-months/story-Cyy267W2UW8A6H53kcl5IL.html
31-08-2020||India||Heavy rain likely to lash parts of Chhattisgarh again from Monday||After brief relief of two days, heavy rainfall is likely to batter several parts of Chhattisgarh on Monday starting from Bastar division.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday issued directives to all district collectors and superintendent of police (SPs) to remain alert and ensure every help to rain-affected people.“There is break in rains in Chhattisgarh since Saturday but isolated rainfall has been recorded in some parts of the state. The low-pressure system will again develop on Monday, subsequently; heavy rainfall will start from Bastar and reach the northern part of the state,” meteorologist HP Chandra from Raipur MeT centre told Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh witnessed incessant rainfall since August 20 in several parts, leading to a flood-like situation in some areas of Bastar division and plains of the state.Also read: Why is it flooding in Central India?Collectors were instructed to deploy a joint team of staff of revenue department, district panchayat, janpad panchayat and forest department to provide relief to the affected people, the official said. As per the government estimate, nearly 12,000 houses across various districts were partially or completely damaged due to the incessant rainfall and thousands of people were moved to relief camps. “One died due to rainfall in Bijapur district,” an official said.In Janjgir-Champa district, around 4,000 houses were damaged due to rainfall and flood, 2,091 affected people have been moved to 45 relief camps, he said. Similarly, in Raigarh district, 27 villages in Baramkela and Pusaur areas were affected due to the floods, wherein 2,389 people were moved to 21 relief camps.In Balodabazar district, 26 villages bore the brunt of the flood and 1,393 people were moved to 24 relief camps there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-to-lash-parts-of-chhattisgarh-again-from-monday/story-vmdRQLLu1i0P4uif3vLVtM.html
31-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena hits out at BJP over demand to reopen temples||The ruling Shiv Sena took on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its Ghantanaad protest, which has demanded reopening of temples in Maharashtra, and asked if the opposition party would take the blame for a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state following the relaxation. The Maharashtra unit of the BJP on Saturday had warned the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government that it would forcibly reopen all the temples in the state if the government did not give permission for it. Also read: States to resume buses, trainsThe BJP’s threat came after a day-long ghantanad andolan held across Maharashtra. As part of the protest, party workers had assembled outside temples ringing brass bells, blowing conches and chanting hymns across various cities and towns in Maharashtra, demanding their reopening. “People would get mental peace through the reopening of temples, but if there is again an explosion in Covid-19 cases, will the opposition take responsibility of it? Devendra Fadnavis said that people understand how to maintain physical distancing after religious places are reopened. But it was visible how the physical distancing was maintained in the ghantanaad andolan held by the BJP the other day. The opposition should understand the situation rather than making such unrealistic demands,” said an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Monday.It questioned if the demand to allow reopening of religious places had anything to do with faith or it was only a political ploy. Prakash Ambedkar, the president of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi, has also demanded the reopening of the Vitthal-Rukmai temple at Pandharpur in Solapur district. The editorial cited that All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) Member of Parliament (MP) Imtiaz Jaleel had also threatened that he would “break the locks” of mosques in Aurangabad on September 2, if the state government did not allow them to reopen.The demand for reopening of religious places has been going on for around a month, but the Uddhav Thackeray government is treading cautiously to avoid crowding because Covid-19 cases have been steadily climbing in Maharashtra.Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra legislative assembly, had questioned the rationale behind keeping temples shut while allowing shopping malls, liqour stores etc to remain open.“There are many aspects, including livelihood of the poor, interlinked to pilgrimage centres to social aspects, which cannot be overlooked. It’s a matter of an individual’s faith and belief, which the government should respect and open temples,” Fadnavis had said on Saturday. In an apparent response to Fadnavis, the editorial said, “... Besides peace of the mind, temples should be reopened, as they are a source of livelihood for lakhs of families. The locks on temples should be opened for peace of mind, but not for political reasons. First, let people live, the rest will be dealt with later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-hits-out-at-bjp-over-demand-to-reopen-temples/story-4qJNFOjqdxdTGlxfVWH5kI.html
31-08-2020||India||Our Supreme Court petition makes an incredibly strong case: Omar Abdullah on legal fight against nullification of Article 370||Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC) has vowed to fight the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status last year legally, politically and peacefully.Constitution’s Article 35A, which empowered the state legislature to define permanent residents for government jobs and property ownership, was also removed last year when the state was split into two federally-run territories.“Our petition [before the Supreme Court] makes an incredibly strong case on a simple point: a governor cannot assume the powers of an assembly, and an assembly cannot assume the powers of a constituent assembly. Because if an assembly can assume the power of a constituent assembly, tomorrow what stops a state in the North-east that has a simmering discontent from converting their assembly into a constituent assembly and then saying, ‘I have the constituent assembly’s powers as demonstrated by J&K [Jammu & Kashmir] and therefore I am redrawing our relationship with the rest of India’,” said NC leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah in a joint interview to HT with Farooq Abdullah.Read the full interview here.Jammu & Kashmir’s special status allowed it to have a separate constitution and flag. A constituent assembly drafted the erstwhile state’s constitution in the 1950s. Omar Abdullah argued there is a fundamental flaw in what New Delhi did on August 5, 2019, when the process for the constitutional changes to Jammu & Kashmir’s status began. “You can wish away the merit of our case politically, but not legally. The government’s case is all political and emotional. If J&K has suffered, it is not because of its special status but because of militancy. Either militancy is the product of Pakistan or it is the product of Article 370. How can it be both? When we talk to people on the Gupkar Declaration, we will make an emotional argument. Let us see where it takes us.”The declaration of major regional parties last year pledged to fight against the constitutional changes together.Omar Abdullah underlined they are a mainstream political party and will fight using legal means at their disposal. “...one is the power that the Constitution gives us to challenge the decisions in the court; and the second is forums available, including Parliament, media, social media, and public meetings.”Omar Abdullah said NC’s three Parliament members will take the voices of region’s people to the highest platform of democracy. “We are not a party that has ever subscribed to violence as a means of achieving our ends. In fact, if anything, the NC has always been the victim of violence.”Also Read: BJP wants a Hindu majority to emerge in J&K: Farooq AbdullahFarooq Abdullah cited his government’s dismissal in 1984 when Jagmohan was sent as governor to remove him. “He [Jagmohan] told Indira Gandhi [the then prime minister] that Farooq Abdullah would put the state to fire. I said I do not want the blood of people on my hands. I believe that today also. I will fight for their rights even if it takes my life but I am not going to take their lives.”The political environment in Jammu & Kashmir is in flux again a year after the nullification and bifurcation of the erstwhile state. Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah are at the heart of the churning following their release from detention.Farooq Abdullah last week emerged as the pivot in the formation of a conglomerate of the Valley’s six parties that has posed the first challenge to the Centre by reaffirming commitment to the Gupkar Declaration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-supreme-court-petition-makes-an-incredibly-strong-case-omar-abdullah-on-legal-fight-against-nullification-of-article-370/story-0mQXYyNwDJnZg9ZNpnK1BM.html
31-08-2020||India||2 workers of CPI (M) youth wing hacked to death in Kerala||Two workers of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DFYI), the CPI (M) youth wing, were hacked to death by a group of assailants in Venjarammoodu in Thiruvananthapuram district on Sunday night, police said.The police said the incident took place late Sunday night while both, Mithilaj (32) and Mohammad Haq (28), were returning home. The DFYI alleged that the Youth Congress workers were behind the attack, but the latter has distanced itself from the murder.The area had witnessed minor clashes between the two in the last two weeks, said the police, adding they suspect the latest incident was a sequel to this. The deceased are block-level leaders of the DYFI. “It was a well planned murder. The Congress leadership will have to explain why they took out such a brutal murder on Onam day,” said CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.On its part, the Youth Congress said its workers have no role in it. “We condemn the murder in strongest terms. If anyone is involved, we will take strong action. Like CPI(M), we will not shield murderers,” said Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambhil. The DYFI has asked party workers to observe Monday a black day to protest against the murder. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also condemned the killings. According to the police, the attack took place around 11.30 pm when the deceased were returning home on their motorcycle. They were waylaid and attacked by a group of five persons. The victims received more than 25 stab wounds. One died on the spot and the other succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Thiruvananthapuram rural police superintendent B Ashokan said three persons have been detained in connection with the murder. The police are keeping a strict vigil in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-workers-of-cpi-m-youth-wing-hacked-to-death-in-kerala/story-7iAtARLMx3ilYHxRxmBCXI.html
31-08-2020||India||India pre-empts China’s aggressive move near Pangong Lake||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) carried out “provocative military movements” on the southern bank of Pangong Tso on the night of August 29/30 to change the status quo in the area, the Indian Army said in a statement on Monday. The army said it pre-empted the Chinese move. So far Chinese aggression was confined to the lake’s northern bank—the Finger Area. The statement said the army took measures to strengthen its positions and thwart the PLA’s intention to unilaterally change facts on the ground on the lake’s southern bank. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity,” the statement said. A brigade commander-level flag meeting is in progress at Chushul to resolve the issues. Also Read: ‘Situation in Ladakh as severe as it was during India-China war in 1962’: Shiv SenaThe army said the PLA violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh. The development comes at a time when talks with China to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh are at a stalemate. India and China were unable to bridge their differences on the disengagement and de-escalation process along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) during recent diplomatic talks, with New Delhi emphasising the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily, as reported by Hindustan Times on August 20. People familiar with developments during the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs dismissed an assertion in a readout from the Chinese foreign ministry that the two sides had “positively evaluated the progress” in the disengagement process. Also Read: Ahead of PM Modi’s visit, strategic Atal Rohtang Tunnel ready for inaugurationThe military dialogue between senior commanders from the two sides has hit a roadblock due to Chinese reluctance to restore status quo ante in some key friction areas along the LAC. The commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process. No dates have yet been fixed for the next round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers who have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area—a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake—has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in Gogra area. There is growing consensus among Indian officials and China experts that military talks are unlikely to deliver further results, and the resolution of the issue will require political and diplomatic intervention. De-escalation along the disputed border can only begin after complete disengagement between the two armies on the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Last week, India pulled out of a multi-nation army exercise being hosted by Russia in which around 20 countries including China are expected to take part next month. Exercise Kavkaz-2020 will be held in southern Russia’s Astrakhan region from September 15 to 27. The Pakistan army is also likely to take part in the joint drills that are part of a four-year exercise cycle of the Russian army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pre-empts-china-s-aggressive-move-near-pangong-lake/story-eTQdwP10sb4Q1hfdHN2xqI.html
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses Vijay Mallya’s review plea against 2017 contempt verdict||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed review petition filed by former liquor baron Vijay Mallya challenging the order holding him guilty of contempt. A bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ashok Bhushan said, “We find no merits in review petitions. Review petitions dismissed.”He was found guilty by the apex court on May 9, 2017 for transferring USD 40 million received from Diageo into the accounts of his children. Mallya owes over Rs 9,000 crore in form of unpaid loans towards consortium of banks led by SBI. The SBI had filed contempt petition against Mallya for not disclosing the bank accounts into which USD 40 million was transferred. Further, the Court found him guilty of siphoning off this amount which otherwise had to be deposited with the banks. Mallya had filed review to consider an affidavit claiming this amount was not part of his assets. Further he claimed that he will lose his valuable right of appeal if held guilty by the Supreme Court.When the case came up for hearing in June 2020, the top court had sought an explanation from its registry officials regarding the undue delay in listing the review petition.When the matter was taken up on August 6, it was adjourned again since some crucial records pertaining to the case could not be located. Eventually the case was heard on August 27 and reserved for verdict.At least 14 banks had moved the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Bengaluru, against Mallya seeking recovery of over Rs 6,300 crore owed to them in 2016 by Mallya’s companies. The banks had also prayed that Mallya’s passport should be frozen and he should be arrested.However, the DRT failed to hear those prayers, prompting the banks to approach the Karnataka high court seeking appropriate directions to DRT for speedy disposal of the applications they moved.The high court had declined to grant such a prayer and the banks then moved the Supreme Court.Mallya had fled the country by then. The Supreme Court in its May 2017 order had asked the Centre to produce Mallya before the court to decide on the punishment to be handed down to him for contempt of court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-vijay-mallya-s-review-plea-against-2017-contempt-verdict/story-ADDIZRCRRI3whdDhOuFmyI.html
31-08-2020||India||BJP govt attacking informal sector: Rahul Gandhi||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday launched a scathing attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government, alleging that it has destroyed the economy by repeatedly assaulting the informal sector. “There is an attempt to turn you into a slave,” he said in a 3.38-minute video on the present state of economy. In 2008, Gandhi said the world was hit by an economic storm, affecting the entire world, including the United States, Japan, Europe, China, everywhere. In the US and Europe, banks collapsed, corporations companies shut down their businesses, but India remained unaffected, he added. “India had a UPA government at that time. I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason that when the entire world has suffered an economic crisis India has remained unaffected?” the former Congress chief said. “Manmohan Singh ji replied, Rahul if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy,” he added. The video is a part of Gandhi’s fresh series on economy. He had earlier released a five part series on Chinese incursions in Ladakh. “You know the big companies which constitute the formal sector. The informal sector comprises of farmers, labourers and MSMEs. Till the time India’s informal sector is strong, no economic storm can touch India,” he said. “But in the last six years, the BJP government has been attacking the informal sector. I am giving you three massive examples right now- demonetisation, wrong Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the lockdown enforced to contain the coronavirus pandemic,” Gandhi alleged. “Don’t think the lockdown was unplanned. Don’t think it was done at the last minute. The aim of these three decisions was to destroy our informal sector,” he alleged. From March 25, India witnessed phases of nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and criticised the move, saying it will have disastrous consequences on the economy. In the fresh video, Gandhi again took on Modi, saying he “needs the media and marketing” to run the government. “This media management and marketing is done by 15-20 people.” Gandhi said the informal sector has a lot of money which the government cannot touch. “They want to break this sector and extort this money from them,” he added. Gandhi said the effects of this attack on informal sector will be seen soon. “The results will be that India won’t be able to produce jobs because the informal sector produces 90% of the jobs. Once the informal sector is destroyed India won’t be able to produce jobs,” he claimed. The Congress has been attacking the government over unemployment, saying it had assumed “fearsome” proportions. It also claimed that a record of 45 years of unemployment has been broken as around 135 million youth are likely to lose their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “You are the ones who run this country. You take us forward and there is a conspiracy against you. You are being cheated and there is an attempt to turn you into slaves. We have to understand this attack and the entire country has to unite to fight against this,” Gandhi said in his message to those involved in the informal sector. The BJP, however, took a jibe at Gandhi, saying he should release a video about the “G-23”, a reference to 23 dissenters who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking complete overhaul of the party organisation. “People are trying to seize his house. There are talks of election, selection, inability to have a president... He (Rahul) should worry about it. The country is very much in safe hands. He should worry about his party,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-attacking-informal-sector-rahul-gandhi/story-cWeFltcoxNkrdQIcqlMhZK.html
31-08-2020||India||BJP alleges Cong-Facebook nexus, new report says Das took credit for ‘Modi’s campaign’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress got into a fresh war of words and accused each other of alleged nexus with Facebook hours after a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report on Sunday cited messages of the social media company’s India public policy head, Ankhi Das, in which she claimed to have “lit a fire to his [Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s] social media campaign” before he swept to power in 2014.Also read: Facebook row intensifies as Tharoor, BJP’s Dubey move breach of privilege notice against each otherAnother WSJ report earlier this month said Das opposed applying hate-speech rules to a BJP politician whose posts targeted Muslims. The report prompted Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor-led Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology (IT) to summon Facebook’s representatives for an explanation.The Congress again attacked the BJP over its alleged nexus with Facebook and for undermining the country’s democratic ethos after WSJ’s Sunday report. “Facebook was subverting India’s Democracy & Electoral Process. Shocking & gory details revealed by @wsj_com. If this is not ‘Criminality’, what is? Nothing short of a ‘full independent investigation’ will unravel all the layers of BJP-Facebook nexus,” Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted on Monday.BJP’s national Information and technology in charge, Amit Malviya, earlier tweeted: “Meet Vijaya Moorthy. Supposedly, heads government outreach at Facebook. Worked with Rahul Gandhi’s team for nearly a decade (love for his former boss still going strong)... Talk about Congress-Facebook nexus? Well, it seems Congress is running Facebook!” he tweeted.Malviya questioned how come the “mandarins at WSJ keep missing Ankhi Das’ posts sympathetic” to the Aam Aadmi Party or the Trinamool Congress. He added the paper keeps harping on her perceived bias for the BJP. “Is it because they want people who are uncompromisingly Left.”Facebook referred to Das’s messages cited in the fresh report and insisted they have been taken out of context and do not represent the full scope of the company’s efforts to support the use of the platform by parties across the Indian political spectrum in 2014. “Facebook’s public policy team operates with integrity and any suggestion that their efforts are motivated by partisanship discounts their hard work every day,” it said in response to HT’s request for comments on the WSJ report.According to the fresh report, Das praised Modi as the “strongman” who had broken the Congress’ socialist hold on the state. The posts were made in a Facebook group designed for employees in India but was open to a global audience. The report also mentioned a photograph of Das with her “longest fellow traveller”, top global elections official Katie Harbath, and Modi. Das, according to the report, arrived at Facebook in 2011, at a time “when the social media giant was eager to demonstrate its utility in politics”. “It rolled out training for several Indian political parties on how best to use the platform to mobilize supporters. One was Mr. Modi’s 2012 campaign for re-election as chief minister of the western Indian state of Gujarat,” the report said. It added Das in 2012 wrote about Modi’s victory of the “success of our Gujarat campaign”, which was close to reaching a million fans on Facebook.“Mr. Modi soon launched his campaign for national office, with Facebook again offering training and assistance… Ms. Das made her sentiments on the race clear. When a fellow staffer noted in response to one of her internal posts that the BJP’s primary opponent, the Indian National Congress, had a larger following on Facebook than Mr. Modi’s individual page, Ms. Das responded: ‘Don’t diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well—let my bias not show’,” the report said.The report alleged the company has acted in a biased manner when taking down fake pages and accounts during India’s 2019 national elections. “In another incident, which hasn’t been previously reported, Facebook declined to act after discovering that the BJP was circumventing its political ad transparency requirements...”It added Facebook neither took down the pages nor flagged the ads. “Instead, it privately raised the matter with the BJP...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-alleges-cong-facebook-nexus-new-report-says-das-took-credit-for-modi-s-campaign/story-ihowF372Hzebj9R39A8LvI.html
31-08-2020||India||3.84 lakh Mid Day Meal cooks in Uttar Pradesh to be trained in food safety, nutrition||To ensure hygienic nutritious food to children under the government’s Mid Day Meal (MDM) scheme, about 3.84 lakh cooks, engaged in preparing meals for over 18 million (1.8 crore) students across 1.60 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools in Uttar Pradesh, will be trained by experts, officials said. The Mid Day Meal is a school food programme of the central government aimed at improving nutrition level among students. The training will be imparted to cooks in preparing nourishing and tasty food in a hygienic manner. This comes as many of such cooks have little or no understanding about the nutritional value of foodstuff or food safety aspects. The training also comes at a time amid the global pandemic. Also read: Uttar Pradesh’s ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines - What’s new and what remains unchangedA proper training module has already been prepared by the state education department and Mid Day Meal Authority for this mission. The training would start as soon as the pandemic is eased, said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general (school education) and the state project director of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. The cooks would receive lessons in food hygiene and food safety aspects along with personal hygiene requirements commensurate with their work, besides the nature of food, its handling, preparation and distribution, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-84-lakh-mid-day-meal-cooks-in-uttar-pradesh-to-be-trained-in-food-safety-nutrition/story-91DoZ0DewJbeOUXpiWs2eL.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Provocative’: India lashes out at new Chinese attempt to alter status quo near Pangong Tso||China’s People’s Liberation Army soldiers made ‘provocative military movements’ on the southern bank of Pangong Tso on the night intervening 29 and 30 August, the Indian army said in a statement on Monday, accusing soldiers across the Line of Actual Control of trying to alter the status quo. The statement said Indian troops had been able to pre-empt the PLA from trying to change the facts on the ground.A Brigade Commander level Flag Meeting is in progress at Chushul to resolve the issues.The movement of Chinese troops in the East Ladakh sector is seen as an effort by the Chinese side to expand the border row to the southern bank of the lake. So far, much of the Chinese deployment around the lake has been concentrated around its southern bank. The two armies have been locked in a stand-off at multiple points in the East Ladakh sector for nearly four months. Also Watch | Indian Army thwarts fresh Chinese attempt to change status quo in LadakhThere have been several agreements between the two sides to disengage, particularly after scores of soldiers clashed in Galwan Valley on June 15 that led to casualties on both sides. But Chinese troops have been slow to step back, particularly around Pangong Tso, the saltwater glacial lake spread across 700 sq km.Also Read: For peace along border, one must adhere to agreements, says S JaishankarIn Monday’s statement, the Indian army called the movement of troops a violation of “previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh”.“Indian troops preempted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground. The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity,” army spokesman Colonel Aman Anand said in the statement.The army statement did not spell out the nature of the Chinese provocation and how soldiers of the Indian army blocked the effort.The Chinese effort to enlarge the border row came just two days after the defence ministry in Beijing told India that it should look at the “big picture” of bilateral ties and work with it and take concrete steps to bring the relationship back on the “right track of normal development.”India has made it clear that China should work on complete disengagement, and then de-escalation of troops in eastern Ladakh, underlining that this can be achieved only through mutually agreed reciprocal actions. The message from New Delhi has been that the Indian army will stay firm on Chinese efforts to alter the status quo and has stressed that the PLA will have to return to their April 20 position.Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava last week said complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and this can be done only through mutually agreed actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-troops-carry-out-provocative-military-movements-near-pangong-tso-to-change-status-quo-says-army/story-603TodUqMIEFpQKrMlHi7I.html
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition declines, still in deep coma: Hospital||Former president Pranab Mukherjee’s medical condition has declined since Sunday, hospital authorities said on Monday. The 84-year-old is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists, according to a bulletin issued by the Army Hospital (R&R), Delhi Cantt, where he is admitted. The veteran Congress leader continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support, the hospital said.Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital on August 10 for a surgery to remove a clot in his brain as he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence in Delhi. Following the surgery, he developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction, doctors said. The senior leader, who served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017, had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease on being admitted to the hospital.Leaders have since been wishing him a speedy recovery. So many good wishes and calls of concern for Baba pouring in from across the world have touched my core. A call today from Bharat Ratna @mangeshkarlata ji enquiring and praying for him was truly heart-warming. She knew my Ma well. May God bless her,” his daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee had tweeted a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-medical-condition-declines-still-in-deep-coma-hospital/story-opUQVkr32lI2ZMXo2ToMbL.html
31-08-2020||India||Gujarat man arrested by NIA, agency says was working as ISI agent||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested a person in Gujarat after he was found to be working as an agent of Pakistan’s Inter-Sevices Intelligence (ISI).Rajakbhai Kumbhar was arrested from the West Kutch region in connection with the Defence/ISI case originally reported in Uttar Pradesh.The case pertains to an FIR registered on January 19 at Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar police station on the arrest of Mohammad Rashid of Chandoli district’s Mughalsarai.The NIA again registered the case in April this year. During investigation, it was revealed that Rashid was in contact with Defence/ISI handlers of Pakistan and had visited Pakistan twice.According to NIA, he had transmitted photographs of some sensitive and strategically important installations in India and also shared information about the movement of the armed forces with ISI handlers in Pakistan.The agency had conducted a search at the house of Kumbhar on Friday in connection with the case and found out that he had transferred Rs 5,000 through Paytm to the account of one Rizwan, which was further handed over Rashid.The amount was remitted to Rashid by Kumbhar on the directions of ISI agents in lieu of the information supplied to them by the former.During the search at Kumbhar’s house, incriminating documents were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-man-arrested-by-nia-agency-says-was-working-as-isi-agent/story-LySuLY61T6HfOj0wq7dbZN.html
31-08-2020||India||Preparations on for second phase of human clinical trial of Covaxin vaccine||Preparations are underway at a hospital here for the commencement of the second phase of human clinical trial of ‘Covaxin’, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, officials said.“The Phase I of the trial is still continuing as we are planning for the start of the Phase II trial shortly,” Dr E Venkata Rao, Principal Investigator of the trial at Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, faculty of medical sciences, said.The blood samples collected from the volunteers who received the vaccine were to ascertain how effective the vaccine was in terms of the level of antibodies developed, Dr Rao said, adding that there had been ‘no side effects’ in the first phase trial of the vaccine. The IMS and SUM Hospital is one of the 12 medical centres in the country chosen by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting the human trial of the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “Two doses of the vaccine were administered to each volunteer after they were selected through a screening process conducted over a period of three to seven days prior to vaccination. The first dose was administered on Day Zero while the blood sample was collected. The second dose was given on Day 14 and the blood sample was also collected,” Dr Rao said.Blood samples of the volunteers will also be collected on different days (28, 42, 104, 194 day) for estimating the duration of protection subsequently, he added. Dr Rao said there was a lot of enthusiasm among people to be part of the second phase of the human trial.Those who wish to be part of this trial could contact the centre at http://ptctu.soa.ac.in, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparations-on-for-second-phase-of-human-clinical-trial-of-covaxin-vaccine/story-obDz1kSTRaXYjoiplEO4wO.html
31-08-2020||India||Centre wants us to accept nullification of Article 370, I am not going to do that: Farooq||Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah has rejected the idea of accepting the Constitution’s Article 370 as history a year after it was nullified to strip Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and semi-autonomous status. “They want us to accept that through the gun. I am not going to do that,” said Farooq Abdullah in a joint interview to HT with his son and another former chief minister, Omar Abdullah.Also read: Centre notifies distribution of power between L-G, govt in Jammu and KashmirFarooq Abdullah rejected as lies the reasons cited for the nullification that it was discriminatory, impeded development, promoted corruption and dynastic rule, separatism, and obstructed the state’s integration with the country. “I am living in this house [in Srinagar] since 1974 when my father was not Prime Minister or chief minister of J&K [Jammu & Kashmir]. We sold our ancestral property and with that money my father was able to buy this house for me when I was in England. Eighteen members of our family own that [the ancestral properties]. Are we that corrupt? And they said Farooq Abdullah has homes in Dubai, Paris, London, and America,” he said.Farooq Abdullah challenged his detractors to show him where all these houses are so that he can go and occupy them. “My wife [Mollie Abdullah] is an Englishwoman. She has a home there [England]. She is entitled to her home.”He referred to the argument that development suffered because of Article 370 and added thank God Congress leader and former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister, Ghulam Nabi Azad, was able to prove in Rajya Sabha that the region is far better than Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state. “What we are suffering from is their [the Centre’s] lack of support. To this date, rail has not arrived from Katra to Banihal. There is more separatism now than before August 5 last year [when the process for the nullification and Jammu & Kashmir’s division began].”He said guns were booming daily and people are giving up their lives. “It is not the Pakistanis who are dying today; it is the Kashmiris. Who has created them [militants]? Not Farooq Abdullah. I was in jail. They [the government] created them. The hatred they have created between Hindus and Muslims in the rest of the nation… do you think it will not have an effect here? It will.”Farooq Abdullah was among three former chief ministers detained as part of sweeping measures to prevent protests against the constitutional changes to Jammu & Kashmir’s status last year. He along with Omar Abdullah was released in March while another former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, continues to be under detention under the draconian Public Safety Act that allows incarceration for up to two years without trial.The father-son duo has lately been galvanising dormant cadres of their party, the region’s biggest and the oldest.Omar Abdullah said the new reality does not mean they cannot argue against what has been done. “If dissent is the essence of democracy, then what we are doing is strengthening democracy. We are dissenting against a government decision,” he said.He underlined the need for an understanding of how difficult it is for them. “We get fixed from both sides. The ultra-nationalists in the rest of the country treat us as separatists. But here in Kashmir, we are treated as nationalists. Please tell me what we are.”The political environment in Jammu & Kashmir is in flux again a year after the nullification and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah are at the heart of the churning following their release from detention.Farooq Abdullah last week emerged as the pivot in the formation of a conglomerate of the Valley’s six parties that has posed the first challenge to the Centre by reaffirming commitment to the Gupkar Declaration pegged to the demand for restoration of the special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-wants-us-to-accept-nullification-of-article-370-i-am-not-going-to-do-that-farooq/story-EgnkBrMhyncYakZ9OsFvsJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines: What’s new and what remains unchanged||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday night announced the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner. Social and religious congregations of up to 100 people are also permissible from September 21. However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12 (September 21 onwards).“Now, a district magistrate cannot impose any lockdown outside containment zones in the respective districts. However, the weekend statewide restrictions introduced by the state government, as they were announced on July 14, will continue till further orders,” said Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari in the guidelines that he issued on Sunday night.Also read: Yet another spike of over 78,000 Covid-19 cases, all-India tally above 3.62 millionWith these guidelines, the Yogi Adityanath government, in sync with the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, has allowed more activities outside the containment zones but has kept some things unchanged. The Centre’s guidelines were announced on Saturday.What’s new?The metro trains, which have not run since March when the first phase of the lockdown came into effect, have been allowed to resume services from September 7. The resumption, however, will be gradual and graded. Standard operating procedure (SOPs) for metro operations will be issued later.Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones voluntarily for taking guidance from their teachers. Students who volunteer to go to school will have to furnish prior written permission from their parents or guardians.Now, 50 percent of teaching/non-teaching staff could be called to the schools for online education/consultation from September 21. The government would issue SOPs for it at a later date.Also read: Third sero survey to start from Sept 1 in DelhiSocial, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a cap of 100 people with effect from September 21. The organisers have to ensure social distancing norms and the wearing of masks.Till September 20, a wedding can have not more than 30 guests while last-rites/funerals cannot have more than 20 people. However, after September 20, the new limit of ‘not more than 100 persons’ would be introduced.Open-air theatres will be permitted to function with effect from September 21.What remains unchangedApart from some relaxations for students of Class 9 to 12, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain shut. International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by the home ministry, will not be allowed. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. No separate permission, approval, e-permit will be required for such movement.Vulnerable people, those above 65 years of age, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years have been advised to stay at home. The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged.The coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25 and was extended in phases till May 31. The Unlock process had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-unlock-4-guidelines-what-s-new-and-what-remains-unchanged/story-X8elgiwwvkyNZHUJYebidM.html
31-08-2020||India||With 1,873 new cases, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally stands at 1,24,963||With 1,873 new Covid-19 cases, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,24,963, while nine more deaths pushed the toll to 827.As many as 37,791 samples were tested on August 30. Cumulatively, 13,65,582 samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population was 36,782, a government bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.66%, while it was 1.78% at the national level.The total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 so far stood at 92,837 while 31,299 are under treatment. The recovery rate in Telangana was 73.3%, while it was 76.55% in the country.The government requested people in the 20-50 age group, among whom there is a high incidence of coronavirus, not to go out unless absolutely necessary, like for work or to buy essential items.While doing so, they should strictly observe safety measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-873-new-cases-telangana-s-covid-19-tally-stands-at-1-24-963/story-64bMK8iNggDzszLyZ0zccP.html
31-08-2020||India||Union home minister Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS||Union home minister Amit Shah was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, on Monday morning, two days after the hospital authorities had said that he had recovered from the post-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care. “Sh Amit Shah, Hon’ble Home Minister, was admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post Covid Care. He was discharged today at 7am. He has fully recovered and is fit to resume his routine activities,” said a statement from Dr Aarti Vij, chairperson, media and protocol division, AIIMS.Also read: India reports 500k recoveries in 8 daysThe minister had been complaining of fatigue and body aches after testing negative for the infection, according to the hospital. Shah had tested Covid-19 positive on August 2 and tested negative for the viral disease 12 days later. However, he was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 for post-Covid-19 care.On August 2, he had tweeted, “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors.” The minister also requested those who had come in his contact to isolate themselves and get tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-home-minister-amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims/story-Kr7CKUqjcCB1sknEcy5ukM.html
31-08-2020||India||Yet another spike of over 78,000 Covid-19 cases, all-India tally above 3.62 million||India once again recorded over 78,000 (78,512 to be exact) new cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,621,245, according to Union health ministry data.This is for the second day in a row that the number of Covid-19 cases has stayed above the 78,000-mark. On Sunday, India had made a world record after recording 78,761 cases of the infection.The number of active cases in the country has reached 7,81,975 whereas 27,74,801 patients have been discharged from hospitals. The death toll reached 64,469 after 971 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according health ministry.This comes a day before the fourth phase of relaxation, called Unlock 4, kicks in. The central government has announced resumption of metro train services and some other relaxation, which a few experts say will lead to surge in Covid-19 infections.Dr Samiran Panda, the head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said on Sunday that this increase in cases was expected but pointed out that it is not a homogenous phenomenon across the states.“It is happening in some pockets and among groups where there is an intermixing of the susceptible population and asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases which is leading to a transmission of the disease. So, efforts have to be made to interrupt this transmission in these pockets,” Dr Panda said.Also, testing has been ramped up exponentially which is leading to more number of cases getting detected, he said.Leading virologist Shahid Jameel said that people are not following advisories on wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing which is driving up the number of cases.India conducted more than 10.5 lakh tests on Saturday, which took the total number of tests to 4.14 crore, the health ministry said on Sunday.The Centre, keeping in view the evolving global context of Covid-19, conceptualised and implemented the continuum of care strategy of “test, track and treat” in close coordination with the states and union territories, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-another-spike-of-over-78-000-covid-19-cases-all-india-tally-above-3-62-million/story-rAFaYmsVslkOH0jrexwbPN.html
31-08-2020||India||Babri Masjid case: Legal proceedings likely to end today, accused to reply in CBI court||All legal proceedings in the Babri Masjid demolition case will end on Monday after all 32 accused submit their written replies in the decades-old case. Surendra Kumar Yadav, judge, special CBI court, has set a deadline of August 31 for all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case to submit their written replies in the case. The court has already given two extensions to all accused for submitting their replies. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has already submitted its written reply (argument) in the CBI court. “The CBI court had issued a deadline of August 31 for filing reply in the Babri Masjid demolition case. On Monday, I will file the replies,” said lawyer KK Mishra, who is representing 25 out of 32 accused in the case. Mishra is representing senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh among others in the Ayodhya case. The apex court’s deadline for pronouncement of the judgment in the Ayodhya case was to expire on August 31.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had extended the deadline for the special CBI court hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case in Lucknow by a month, till September 30. Now, the CBI court will have to pronounce judgment in the case before or on September 30. “The Supreme Court has extended the deadline of the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) till September 30 for pronouncing judgment in the Babri Masjid demolition case,” said lawyer KK Mishra. On November 9 last, the constitution bench of the Supreme Court, led by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, had ruled in favour of Ram Mandir in the decades-old Ram Janmabhoomi–Babri Masjid dispute. On apex court’s directive, the Centre has also constituted the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the Ram temple, in the historic bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-case-legal-proceedings-likely-to-end-today-accused-to-reply-in-cbi-court/story-r8plCB4RQLaonZztL0ppgK.html
31-08-2020||India||India reports 500k recoveries in eight days: Health ministry||A day after breaching the 1-million mark, just over 846,000 samples were tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, according to the data released by the Indian Council of Medical Research. This is the least number of tests performed in five days. Also read: Covid vaccine diplomacy in India’s outreach planHowever, many states report a decrease in the number of tests on weekends. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India was working to increase its Covid-19 testing capacity to a million a day in July-end, the number of tests has breached the mark twice. The first time was on August 21 when 1.02 million samples were tested. Following the test-trace-treat strategy, the number of recoveries in the country is also on the rise. Around three in four people who have been diagnosed with the infection have recovered, according to the data released by the ministry. The last 500,000 recoveries in India had been recorded in eight days, which came down from nine days for the previous 500,000 recoveries, and 10 days before that. “Responsive, collaborative and effective measures right from early identification through aggressive TESTING to efficient TRACKING and comprehensive TREATMENT have collectively led to these outcomes,” the union health ministry said. The increased testing has also meant higher number of new cases being reported every day. On Sunday, India became the first country in the world to report 80,000 cases in a day. A total of 80,097 new infections were reported across the country on Sunday, taking the nationwide tally to 3,616,747, according to HT’s dashboard. In comparison, China, where the virus originated, has a total 85,031 confirmed infections to date. The proportion of deaths, however, has remained low. Only 1.82% of the people who have been diagnosed with the infection in the country have died of it. In comparison, over 12% of those who were diagnosed with the infection in the UK died of it and almost 11% in Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-500k-recoveries-in-eight-days-health-ministry/story-iDrXOCwC1DVYLfhGUHyL7J.html
31-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh trader’s tobacco-free organic beedi in great demand overseas||An Uttar Pradesh entrepreneur is manufacturing and marketing tobacco-free organic bidi, which is now in high demand overseas, taking his family’s decades-old bidi business upmarket. With no advertisements and solely banking on trust built over years and bonding of his foreign customers, Adil Masood, a middle-aged entrepreneur, decided to exclusively market this unique organic bidi with the brand name ‘Favourite Leaf’ almost two years ago.The idea was liked by the foreign smokers and within a short span of two years, his organic bidi export to the USA and European countries, including Poland and Switzerland, started fetching a revenue of over Rs 1.5 crore annually. The product, claims Adil, received an overwhelming response from foreign customers. “Now we are planning to extend its export to the entire Europe and a few other countries,” he said.These organic bidis, says Adil, are free of tobacco and nicotine with no additives and are sometimes stuffed with an Ayurvedic mixture which is also 100 per cent tobacco-free, with some medicinal values to clear the throat and relieve cough symptoms.Adill’s family has been in the trade of manufacturing bidi for over five decades. His father late Masood Ali and uncle Islam Ahmad started it and ran it as a traditional trade. Adil took over the business almost six years ago after the death of his uncle. “I didn’t dare to bring changes in the traditional trading of my uncle and father. But after their death I made up my mind to try something new and innovative to give the trade a new dimension and the idea of organic bidi came up. I launched it in the overseas markets after carrying out research on its demand and requirement for over three years,” he said. Traditionally in India, says Adil, tendu leaves were used to roll bidis but he searched for a leaf with a more cosmetic look, greenish, thin and durable, to replace the rough and rustic look of the tendu leaf. After a hunt of over two years, he finally found the leaf he was looking for and started using it. “For these leaves, we cultivate the plants in Tamil Nadu and other southern states. Bidis rolled out with these leaves attract overseas smokers because of their slick looks,” he said. His research team also decided to replace synthetic filters with organic ones made of leaves of a plant found in abundance in northern states (he requested to not disclose the names of the plants). A thin thread is used for fixing filters instead of using gum.“All these initiatives were taken to make the product more authentic,” he said.Some brands of organic bidi are also being sold in India by online shopping companies, but Adil claims all these brands came after the launch of his brand overseas two years ago.Because of duplicacy issues he had avoided launching his brand in the domestic market yet, he added. Those who were in the bidi trade or smoked bidi, he continued, could easily differentiate between his product and copied brands. “They are still using traditional tendu leaves, which we replaced with new and more authentic leaves. So the difference between the finishing of our original product and its copy is easily discernible.“Our research team is still working to bring more changes in the product as per the requirement of the customers and our efforts to give them the best would continue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-trader-s-tobacco-free-organic-beedi-in-great-demand-overseas/story-7yExZCcp2YxZhJi4fTLUiP.html
31-08-2020||India||BJP wants a Hindu majority to emerge in J&K: Farooq Abdullah||Former chief minister Farooq Abdullah has said his National Conference (NC) opted out of the Delimitation Commission in May as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was allegedly seeking to create Hindu dominance in the Muslim majority region and to divide the Union Territory on religious lines through the process.The Centre in March set up the commission to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies based on the recent census in Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. NC opted out of it in May. “That is because we told them on their face that we do not believe in your delimitation. The BJP has a certain purpose. It wants that in J&K [Jammu & Kashmir], a Hindu majority emerges, and the Muslim majority goes down,” he told HT in a joint interview with his son, another former chief minister, Omar Abdullah. “Can you beat what the government of India is trying to do here?”Farooq Abdullah said when he was the chief minister, the assembly of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir decided to go for the delimitation exercise along with the rest of the country in 2026. “Then, why has the Centre suddenly brought it forward? They want to divide us on the Hindu-Muslim lines and create Hindu dominance. That will never happen,” he said.Farooq Abdullah was among three NC Parliamentarians named as the members of the commission.Omar Abdullah called the commission a product of the constitutional changes brought in August last year to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and to divide it into two Union territories. “When we do not recognise those changes, how can we recognise this panel? By participating in its proceedings, we will essentially be lending credence to the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. When we are fighting this Act, there is no question of participation.”Omar Abdullah said the commission’s membership does not grant one the veto power. “Our three MPs [members of Parliament] may have been able to share their views, but that would not have been binding on the commission. Our participation would have been used as a rubber stamp.”The political environment in Jammu & Kashmir is in flux again a year after the constitutional changes that prompted sweeping measures, including the incarceration of hundreds of people, to prevent protests against them. Farooq Abdullah, who was among the three former chief ministers also detained, has emerged as the prime mover and pivot in the formation of a conglomerate of the six regional parties – some of them sworn rivals – that has posed the first challenge to the Centre by reaffirming commitment to the Gupkar Declaration pegged to the demand for restoration of the special status.Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to delimitation exercise in his Independence Day speech and said it is underway and assembly elections would follow in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah meets more National Conference leadersWhen asked if he would contest the elections, Farooq Abdullah said: “Any decision [on contesting] will depend first on my party and we will take a call subject to the situation. We will talk to other stakeholders in the Gupkar Declaration. If we are united in this exercise, we will take them on board and decide.” Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March while another former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, continues to be under detention under draconian Public Safety Act that allows incarceration for up to two years without trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wants-a-hindu-majority-to-emerge-in-j-k-farooq-abdullah/story-gev4j1qk4Pgbv7KWbpttsK.html
31-08-2020||India||GDP numbers to be out today; Q1 growth likely to be worst||The gross domestic product (GDP) numbers for the first quarter (April-June 2020) of current financial year (FY 2020-21) is expected to be released by the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (Mospi) later on Monday.According to experts, the country’s economy is expected to contract mainly because this quarter had seen more of the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced by the government from March 25 to check contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.This quarter is expected to see the worst performance of the economy since the publication of quarterly data in 1996.According to the Economy Watch, the monthly report published by consultancy firm EY India, the GDP growth in the first quarter (Q1) is also likely to be the worst among the four quarters of FY21. This implies that the economy may perform better in the successive three quarters of the current fiscal year.The economic crisis is not unique to India. Global economies are experiencing contraction due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has estimated a global contraction of 4.9% in 2020. The United Kingdom’s (UK) economy has reported a 21.7% year-on-year plunge in the June quarter.Data showed that India’s GDP growth had slowed even before the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions. The growth rate in Q4 FY20 was 3.1%, the weakest point in the new data series that had started in 2012-2013. The FY20 real GDP growth is 4.2%, which is also the weakest in the series.Ecowrap, a research report published by State Bank of India (SBI) on August 17, estimates Q1 FY21 GDP degrowth will be around -16.5%, though with the relevant caveats in the current uncertain scenario due to the pandemic. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gdp-numbers-to-be-out-today-q1-growth-likely-to-be-worst/story-ytITJo7xg0rREscDHBqFZM.html
31-08-2020||India||SC order today on Vijay Mallya’s review plea against 2017 contempt verdict||The Supreme Court will pronounce its order Monday in a review petition filed by fugitive Indian businessman and former Member of Parliament Vijay Mallya against a May 2017 judgment of the top court. The court had pronounced him guilty of contempt of court for violating its orders and those of the Karnataka high court.The judgment will be pronounced by a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ashok Bhushan.“He is guilty of disobeying the orders passed by this court (Supreme Court) in not disclosing full particulars of the assets as was directed by this Court. He is guilty of violating the express orders of restraint passed by the high court of Karnataka in the same cause from which the present proceedings have arisen,” the Supreme Court had said in its order passed on May 9, 2017.When the case came up for hearing in June 2020, the top court had sought an explanation from its registry officials regarding the undue delay in listing the review petition.When the matter was taken up on August 6, it was adjourned again since some crucial records pertaining to the case could not be located. Eventually the case was heard on August 27 and reserved for verdict.At least 14 banks had moved the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Bengaluru, against Mallya seeking recovery of over Rs 6,300 crore owed to them in 2016 by Mallya’s companies. The banks had also prayed that Mallya’s passport should be frozen and he should be arrested.However, the DRT failed to hear those prayers, prompting the banks to approach the Karnataka high court seeking appropriate directions to DRT for speedy disposal of the applications they moved.The high court had declined to grant such a prayer and the banks then moved the Supreme Court.Mallya had fled the country by then. The Supreme Court in its May 2017 order had asked the Centre to produce Mallya before the court to decide on the punishment to be handed down to him for contempt of court.“We direct the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi to secure and ensure presence of Respondent No.3 before this Court on 10.07.2017,” the order read..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-order-today-on-vijay-mallya-s-review-plea-against-2017-contempt-verdict/story-AmPi5OlkPFFut4uGYHGUeI.html
31-08-2020||India||Amit Shah recovers after post-Covid care, discharged from AIIMS Delhi||Union Home minister Amit Shah has recovered from post coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care and was discharged from the All India Medical Sciences (AIIMS) hospital in New Delhi on Monday morning.Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and later tested negative for the viral disease on August 14. However, he was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 again for medical care after recovering from the viral infection.“Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid -19.He has been admitted to AIIMS for post Covid care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital,” the hospital had said.A team of multidisciplinary specialists led by AIIMS director, Dr Randeep Guleria, was monitoring Shah’s health.Shah, 55, was earlier discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing negative for the coronavirus disease.He had announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had posted on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-recovers-after-post-covid-care-discharged-from-aiims-delhi/story-AZGIpk0IRLrdUhE5KFNm6L.html
31-08-2020||India||DU registrations for merit-based admissions to close today||Registration for merit-based admission to Delhi University’s (DU) various undergraduate, postgraduate, Masters of Philosophy (M Phil) / Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) courses will close at 5 pm on Monday. Also read: DUET 2020 admit card released at du.ac.in, here’s direct linkThe online registration process stretched to around 10 weeks following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The Central university is set to look at the highest-ever applications for these courses in recent times.The applicants will be allowed to upload their documents later. DU has received 349,357 paid applications – over a lakh more than last year – until Monday morning. In 2019, 258,388 applicants had registered during the three-week registration period. In 2018, the corresponding figure was 278, 544.Though there are over 550,000 registrations on the admissions portal so far, the number of paid applicants is much less because of various factors, including duplicity and multiple registrations per candidate.“Applicants, whose qualifying examination is yet to be held, or applicants who are required to upload their marksheet/certificates are informed that the university will give them sufficient time to do so even after the registration is closed. This is likely to happen sometime in the second/third week of September,” DU’s admission branch had said in a statement on Saturday.A member of the admission branch, requesting anonymity, said that the cut-offs for undergraduate courses might be released in the first week of October. In July, HT had reported that the university might set higher cut-offs this year, as more number of students had scored above 90% in their class 12 Central Board of Secondary Examinations (CBSE) this year. The number of students who scored 95% and above increased by 118.6% and those who secured 90% and above rose 67.48% this year, as compared to 2019.The registration portal was opened on June 20 and the deadline for registration was extended thrice because of the pandemic. Registrations for entrance-based courses had closed on July 31. However, DU had extended the deadline for admissions to merit-based courses to August 31.DU had introduced several changes in the admission process this year because of the viral outbreak, including 100% online. The varsity scrapped the trials for admissions under sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) category. Students seeking admissions under these categories will be required to submit eligibility certificates on the admissions portal..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-registrations-for-merit-based-admissions-to-close-today/story-8OEeR5Zdtha1kqHQT64huJ.html
31-08-2020||India||A louder first voice and a more accessible last word||Nothing can be better than to engage in transformation when an organisation comes from a distinguished history. Such is the case for the Hindustan Times, the newspaper title you have trusted for almost a century. History alone does not sustain an institution, but it fosters it, reinforces it, and, in the case of a newspaper it gives it a sense of stability, authority and credibility.The Hindustan Times has a glorious history that begins with the words and inspiration of Mahatma Gandhi on September 15, 1924.“Every word and sentence published in the paper should be wrighed. There should not only be no untrue statements, but no suggestio falsi or suppressio veri.”The Mahatma’s message represents the first voice and the last word and it is as inspirational today as it was then. So, what a responsibility it is for those involved with the transformation of this iconic Indian news title. I am honoured to be involved with this transformation, as I have been withpreviousengagementswith the Hindustan Times as well as its sister newspaper, Mint. What is different is that this transformation in 2020 — one in which the world wakes up each day to the surreal times of a pandemic — comes at a time when the media landscape is in the midst of an unrivaled revolution. So much has happened in the past 10 years to change the way we consume information. We live in a multimedia world. The days of a person reading the newspaper in the morning with that first cup of coffee, and then not getting any more news till the next day are finished. Today, we are bombarded by news and information 24/7. Many turn to their mobile devices as many as 114 times or more a day. Headlines are there to be consumed, tempting us to read stories constantly. We lean forward to read those headlines, and lean back to read the stories beyond the headline.In a multiplatform world, an average news consumer may journey through three of those platforms in the course of a day. Perhaps starting a story in the printed edition of the newspaper, only to continue reading on the phone but finishing the story at the larger screen of a desktop computer at the office. It is in the midst of this amazing revolution in the way we consume news that the Hindustan Times has undertaken this ultimate transformation.I have accompanied the team of the Hindustan Times through this careful planning and detailed analysis of the existing product and how to improve it for the needs of news consumers today.Here are some key centerpieces of our work:1. The brand: A return to a nameplate (logo) that shakes hands with the rich past of the journalistic institution that is the Hindustan Times. 2. Multiplatform approach: The Hindustan Times as a true multiplatform title for our times: The new Hindustan Times offers the information when you want it, how you want it.3. Linear/mobile storytelling: Stories must be told with narratives and visuals. This is real transformation at work in the craft of journalism in your new Hindustan Times.4. Easier to navigate content: We value your time with our news brand. We want to make it easier for you to navigate from section to section, regardless of platform.5. The special characteristics of print: You will see the care and attention to detail that has gone in our rethink of the print edition: larger photos and graphics, more modular layout that is more visually appealing and easier to consume.6. Visuals at a glance: Through a system of “social cards”, you will see highlights of stories — the best quotes, the story in numbers, the key points of longer stories.If times were different, I would be present to witness the birth of this new Hindustan Times, my project #729 in 121 countries. I am there in spirit — and working closely with creative director Anup Gupta and his talented team via Zoom.This new Hindustan Times would make the Mahatma proud. It will now be a louder first voice, a more accessible last word.CEO/Founder, García Media Senior Adviser on News Design/Adjunct Professor Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism Hearst Digital Media Professor in Residence (2013) garciamedia.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-louder-first-voice-and-a-more-accessible-last-word/story-2PmGbOTZ3DiscrhNzXLZML.html
31-08-2020||India||How Prashant Bhushan criminal contempt case progressed in Supreme Court||The Supreme Court (SC) will pronounce its judgment on Monday on the sentence to be awarded to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan for the offence of criminal contempt of court.On August 14, the SC had found Bhushan guilty for putting out two tweets criticising the apex court and the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The case was registered on July 9 and the first hearing in the matter was held on July 22. The case took 40 days to reach a conclusion from the date of its first hearing.Here is a timeline of how the case progressed and a conclusion was reached in little over a month: June 27: First TweetThe first of the two tweets criticised the functioning of the SC in the past six years. The tweet alleged that the historians would mark the role of the apex court in contributing to what Bhushan considered as destruction of democracy.“When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs”, the tweet had alleged.June 29: Second tweet“The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!” Bhushan had alleged in his second tweet that had accompanied a picture of CJI Bobde, sitting on a stationary Harley Davidson motorcycle. July 9: Petition against BhushanMehek Maheshwari, an advocate, filed a petition before the SC seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his tweets. As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of SC, the consent of the Attorney- General (A-G) or the Solicitor-General (S-G) is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by an individual.Maheswari’s petition did not have such consent, but the court still decided to proceed suo motu (on its own motion) based on Maheshwari’s petition.July 22: First hearing in Supreme Court, notice to BhushanThe SC listed the case suo motu based on Maheshwari’s petition and issued notice to Bhushan seeking his response. The court also issued notice to A-G KK Venugopal seeking the assistance of the veteran lawyer in his personal capacity.August 2: Bhushan refuses to apologiseBhushan filed his response before the SC in which he refused to apologise for his tweets stating that it fell within the domain of free speech. This would be the first time in this case that Bhushan would refuse to apologise. Bhushan in his defence cited similar criticism of the SC made by its sitting and retired judges.“So serious were the misgivings of the senior sitting judges that they (the four judges) felt compelled to disregard the code of judicial conduct to call a press conference and warn citizens of danger to democracy because of danger to a free judiciary,” Bhushan submitted before the apex court.August 5: HearingA three-judge bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra and also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, heard the case for a day and reserved its verdict.August 14: Bhushan pronounced guilty, sentence hearing deferredIn a strongly-worded judgment, the three-judge bench held that the allegations levelled in the tweets against the apex court and CJI are malicious in nature and have the tendency to scandalise the SC and such conduct was not expected from Bhushan, who is a lawyer of 30 years standing at the Bar.The tweets, the apex court held, were based on the distorted facts and have the effect of destabilising the foundation of the Indian judiciary, the court said holding him guilty of criminal contempt of court.The court then posted the case for August 20 to hold a separate hearing to decide on the punishment to be given to Bhushan.August 20: AG KK Venugopal urges court not to punish BhushanWhen the case came up for hearing on sentencing, Bhushan found an unlikely ally in A-G Venugopal who prayed before the SC to take a lenient view and not to punish him taking into account his contributions in the fight against corruption and for the poor.Bhushan maintained that he would not apologise and quoted the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi:“I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.”The court gave Bhushan time to “think over” and concluded the hearing.Read More: ‘History will judge the court’: Kapil Sibal on Prashant Bhushan contempt caseAugust 24: Bhushan stands his groundBhushan submitted another statement before the apex court maintaining that he would not apologise. He said that the views expressed by him through his tweets represented his bona fide (good faith) beliefs and, as a result, an apology for expressing such beliefs would be insincere.“An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to be sincerely made. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution (SC) that I hold in highest esteem,” read the supplementary statement.August 25: Verdict on sentencing reservedThe court heard Bhushan on the statement submitted by him the day before. While the A-G urged the SC to let Bhushan off with a warning, the apex court said that it cannot do so unless Bhushan expresses regret for his tweets.Since no such regret was forthcoming, the SC said that it would not close the case and proceeded to reserve its judgment on the sentence to be awarded to Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-criminal-contempt-case-how-the-case-progressed-in-sc/story-Cn7mKnM3gP8IBa8MxiIcxN.html
31-08-2020||India||The new, new Hindustan Times||This redesigned newspaper that you hold in your hands has been in the works for at least eight months, or BC, as some people have started referring to events of that vintage (Before Corona, if you must know). Even then, the idea was not so much to redesign the newspaper, but to use the redesign to effect a change in the newsroom’s approach to content across platforms (print and digital). For readers (and listeners and viewers), that means a few things. One, this change will be dynamic and ongoing. What you see today in the newspaper and the website is, to use a cliche, just the tip of the iceberg. Over the next few months (and perhaps even beyond that), you will continue to see changes, new features, and new utilities (especially on the website). All of them began from the exercise we kicked off in January - the first result of which you hold in your hands. Two, this change is more than skin deep. It will be reflected in how we treat stories and themes across print and digital. It will affect the choice of stories. And it will be showcased in how we display our work. This is best not spoken of, but experienced over time. Three, even as we have embarked on these changes, we have retained all that is good - the constancy, the reliability, the credibility, the respectability, the authoritativeness, and, above all, the rich legacy of Hindustan Times, which was founded in 1924. The new masthead is a direct result and also a manifestation of this- as is our new tagline, FirstVoice, Last Word (but more on this in a bit).The design of the paper itself has been driven by the most important drivers of how all of us have begun to interact with any content, including news, over the past decade (but more so in the past five years). Two words best encapsulate this approach - share and save. Everyone is starved for time (and also low on attention), so the immediate tendency when we come across something that requires more than a few minutes (sometimes more than a few seconds) is to save it. And often, when we encounter something we like, we like to share it, preferably through social networks. The print media does not encourage or facilitate sharing and saving. The design of the new HT seeks to address that inadequacy by using QR codes for most important articles (scanning them on a mobile phone will take readers to a web version of the article; a larger version; or a video, podcast, or interactive related to it) and by visualising important articles differently and through the filter of visual social media platforms. The social media cards that you will see across the print edition of the new HT are also influenced by this, as is the packaging of important must-reads as readily Instagrammable stories. This is also an area on which the HT newsroom will continue to work in the months to come millennial reader. Bookended by ‘aides and multimedia stories from ) the Einstein riddle and news-youen mental health. It’s *the* paper to with one purpose - deepening audience engagement.The coronavirus disease hit India in early March. The lock-down imposed to slow its spread (in late March) disrupted most activities, including the circulation of newspapers. At least some readers whose newspaper-reading moved online in this period may not return to the print paper. While the objectives of the HT redesign, when we started in January, did not visualise this short-term eventuality (of newspaper vendors not being allowed in some neighbourhoods on account of the pandemic, or, in a more extreme manifestation, of people entertaining baseless fears about the newspaper carrying the infection), it did recognise that ultimately, many readers would do their newspaper-reading online. The redesigned print paper was always going to be a tasting menu of sorts for the website www.hindustantimes. cornNow, it will be even more so - doing more than just its traditional role in the continuum of news that most readers dip into at various times of the day. At the same time, the clean design, with a clear hierarchy of headlines, and smart navigational nudges, is aimed at making the paper itself easy to read, or browse. For we must not forget that, even in this connected world, the daily newspaper serves as a record of history in a manner that no other medium or platform does.Now for the tagline. Traditionally, websites (even websites of newspapers) correspond to speed and print to credibility and authoritativeness. HT’s redesign exercise seeks to combine and balance the two -providing readers with news, information and knowledge fast (and sometimes, first), but while ensuring that this is done without compromising on clarity, credibility, depth and perspective Being both the first voice and the last word has required the redefinition of roles and processes within the larger HT newsroom and a change in how we work.We’d like to be the first voice, but we definitely want to be the last word.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-new-new-hindustan-times/story-iVySupLF0faX7wgo4fcq8I.html
31-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: India’s GDP set for record contraction in Q1, may be among lowest in G20 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s Q1 numbers may be among lowest in G20India’s gross domestic product (GDP) is set to report a record contraction in the fiscal first quarter, more severe than most G20 nations, as the strict lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 weighed heavily on the economy. Read moreDelhi: Very light rainfall likely in next 2 days, says IMDThe national capital’s weather would remain pleasant on Monday because of very light rain, or drizzle, with gusty winds blowing at a speed of up to 25 kilometres per hour (kmph), said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. Read moreHappy Onam 2020: Celebrate the harvest festival by making these traditional recipesOnam festivities are not complete without the traditional feast or Onam Sadhya being made in every household. This 10-day festival is a time of celebration and feasting. Malayalis all over the country celebrate the harvest season and the returning of King Mahabali, in the month of Chingam, according to the Malayalam calendar. This year the festivities will take place from August 22 to September 2, with Onam falling on August 31. Read moreHappy birthday Rajkummar Rao: 5 must-watch films of the actor that prove he is one of the finest of his generationRajkummar Rao has emerged as one of the finest actors in the young generation of actors, who not only has a National Film Award in his kitty but has also proved his worth at the ticket windows.  Read moreWoman dancing to Diljit Dosanjh’s G.O.A.T to Hasan Minhaj hanging out with son: 5 viral videos of the week which may make you smileThanks to the Internet, every now and then, we witness wholesome content which leaves us with a smile on our face and fills our heart with happiness. Just like these videos which went viral last week. Though shared a few days ago, they still continue to bring joy to many. Read moreIPL 2020: Raina leaves CSK core shaken, Virat Kohli all smilesWith Suresh Raina leaving the Chennai Super Kings camp in Dubai to be back with his young family, the team is likely to get a similar replacement batsman. The management has been supportive of the player’s decision though it knows chances in the tournament have taken a massive hit. Everything in the team revolves around captain MS Dhoni, and his batting plans revolve around Raina. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-india-s-gdp-set-for-record-contraction-in-q1-lowest-among-g20-nations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aCevi03CN3ki4SMiOIfZJI.html
31-08-2020||India||Why is it flooding in Central India?||An overflowing Narmada threw life out of gear in parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and water released from the Hirakud dam flooded several districts of Odisha on the weekend. At least 24 people were killed in flooding in MP and Odisha and thousands were displaced as heavy rainfall lashed other parts of India, causing reservoirs to overflow. Rainfall has been 25% more than normal in August, which India Meteorological Department (IMD) says is the highest for the month in 44 years. The previous highest in August was recorded in 1983, when rain was 23.8% more than the normal. Here’s a quick look at reasons for flooding in central India:• Persistent very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), was recorded in two-three days between August 25 and 27 in Odisha and from August 27 to 30 over Madhya Pradesh (MP). MP’s Chhindwara district’s 12 weather stations recorded between 20 and 41 cm of rainfall on August 28 to 29. Chaurai recorded 41 cm in a day. India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities are still assessing the data to come to the conclusion whether this is the highest-ever precipitation recorded on a day. Gujarat region continues to record very heavy rain. • A well-marked low-pressure area had formed over the Bay of Bengal, which moved very slowly from August 24 to 31 up to western Rajasthan bringing extremely heavy rainfall in its path. “Our analysis shows extremely heavy spells over MP were recorded only during one day between August 28 and 29 that triggered flooding. There is no likelihood of another low-pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal immediately,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre (NWFC), IMD. • Now, rain will gradually reduce over central India and will begin over the northern plains, according to scientists. “Extremely heavy rain in MP and other parts of central India is mainly because of the formation of strong low-pressure area over western MP and eastern Rajasthan. We are expecting rain to decrease gradually over central India but Gujarat may experience very heavy rains for one more day. Rains will increase over the northern plains, when the monsoon trough shifts northwards around Wednesday (September 2),” said Dr Mrutyunja Mohapatra, director-general, IMD. • Such unusually heavy rains led to rivers flowing at extreme flood situations. It signifies that the highest flood level is breached. Stretches of Mahanadi, Wainganaga and Narmada rivers are still flowing in extreme flood situations. Eight dams in Odisha, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and MP are at 100% capacity and will have to release water to accommodate more rainfall. • While the floods have disrupted lives in these states, the excess rainfall can improve soil moisture and help with a good crop during the upcoming rabi season. “There are different ways of harvesting water. But the most important source of water for agriculture is groundwater. The focus should be on local storage and recharge systems. We have to store rainwater and avoid its run-off,” said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator, South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People. • The country has recorded 26.3% excess rains in August –-- the highest in 44 years with 61.5% excess over central India, 36.7% excess over the southern peninsula, 19.1% deficient over east and the north-east and 1.9% excess over the north-west parts of the country. Scientists have not linked the current spell with climate change, but central India has been recording a rising trend in extreme heavy rain events. According to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, a report of the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) released earlier this year, showed that from 1950 onwards there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme heavy rainfall events over central India, along with a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events. A study published in the Nature journal in 2017 by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) had concluded that there was a three-fold rise in extreme rainfall along the west coast and central India between 1950 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-it-flooding-in-central-india/story-KpsDiw5nbu5OaAYdcckaLL.html
31-08-2020||India||Arrested members of banned Khalistani outfit were planning to go to Pakistan for terror training: Report||Two people, who were arrested in Punjab for putting up a Khalistani flag on a building, were planning to go to Pakistan with the help of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) to receive terror training, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.The two prime accused, Jaspal Singh (24) and Inderjeet Singh Gill (23), of Moga’s Rauli village, were arrested by special cell of Delhi Police on Sunday. Jaspal Singh’s father is a police inspector and is posted in Muktsar.Quoting police, Hindustan reported that these two men were planning to go to Nepal from Delhi. From there, the ISI sleuths would have taken them to Pakistan for terror training.The plot involved luring more youth from Punjab to join them in Pakistan, according to Hindustan.According to the police, both Singh and Gill used to watch YouTube channels supported by pro-Khalistani outfits and had become members of ‘Sikh for Justice’ group through WhatsApp.Hindustan reported that they put up the Khalistani flag on the terrace of district administrative complex on August 14, while one of their aides video-taped the act. The video immediately went viral on social media. The police arrested the person who had shot the video, but Singh and Gill fled.According to Delhi Police, they received information on Saturday that two members of the banned terror outfit Khalistan Zindabad Force would be coming to Delhi to commit some anti-national activities on the directions of their foreign-based commanders. Accordingly, a trap was laid near Shani Mandir on the GT Karnal road and these men were arrested.On Sunday, the Moga Police got the information from their Delhi counterparts that the two accused have been arrested. “A team was sent to Delhi to bring them to Moga,” Moga superintendent of police (SP) Jagatpreet Singh said.The accused have been booked under Sections 115, 121, 121A, 124A, 153A, 153B, 506 and 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act; Section 66-F of the IT Act and Sections 10, 11, 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the Moga Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-members-of-banned-khalistani-outfit-were-planning-to-go-to-pakistan-for-terror-training-report/story-XI6uzMcnnHkJ8oNMypEZiM.html
31-08-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi, Delhi CM Kejriwal extend Onam greetings||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday extended greetings on the occasion of Onam calling it a ‘symbol of our rich cultural heritage and an expression of our gratitude to Mother Nature at the arrival of the new crop’.President Kovind urged everyone to take care of people belonging to the weaker sections of society and follow guidelines to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Onam greetings to everyone! The festival of Onam is a symbol of our rich cultural heritage and an expression of our gratitude to Mother Nature at the arrival of the new crop. Let us take care of people from the weaker sections of the society and follow guidelines to contain COVID-19,” the President tweeted. Onam greetings to everyone! The festival of Onam is a symbol of our rich cultural heritage and an expression of our gratitude to Mother Nature at the arrival of new crop. Let us take care of people from the weaker sections of the society and follow guidelines to contain COVID-19.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also greeted people on Onam, hoping that the festival brings peace, prosperity and happiness to everyone.“On this Onam, let us remind ourselves of the values of honesty, integrity, compassion, selflessness & sacrifice which the great king Mahabali espoused,” the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.“May this joyous festival bring peace, prosperity and happiness to everyone,” he said.Greeting the nation on Onam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said this is a unique festival, which celebrates harmony.“Greetings on Onam. This is a unique festival, which celebrates harmony. It is also an occasion to express gratitude to our hardworking farmers. May everyone be blessed with joy and best health,” PM Modi tweeted. Greetings on Onam. This is a unique festival, which celebrates harmony. It is also an occasion to express gratitude to our hardworking farmers. May everyone be blessed with joy and best health. pic.twitter.com/4pjpGRKk6QTaking to Twitter, Union Home minister Amit Shah said, “Warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of Onam. May this festival bring joy, harmony, good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. Happy Onam!”Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said, “ May the spirit of Onam - the harvest, regeneration & purity of Sadhya inspire to overcome the challenges of Covid19. Let the spirit of inclusiveness & sharing transcend all barriers & add colors of health, happiness & prosperity to all. #HappyOnam!”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also took to Twitter and wished everyone on the occasion of Onam.“Happy Onam to all my Malayalee sisters and brothers. May you have an abundance of joy in your life, good health and prosperity,” Kejriwal tweeted. Happy Onam to all my Malayalee sisters and brothers. May you have an abundance of joy in your life, good health and prosperity.Onam festivities, which started on August 22, will continue till September 2.Onam falls in the month of Chingam, which is the first month according to the Malayalam calendar. The celebrations spread over 10 days mark the Malayalam New Year and conclude with Thiruvonam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-extend-onam-greetings/story-Y5yd1jdGOLdEIzcmTDiI0I.html
31-08-2020||India||SC verdict on Vijay Mallya’s review plea on transfer of $40 mn to his children today||The Supreme Court will on Monday pronounce its verdict on a review petition filed by businessman Vijay Mallya on the court’s 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring $40 million to his children.The apex court had on May 9, 2017 held Mallya guilty of contempt for transferring $40 million to his son Siddharth Mallya and daughters Leanna Mallya and Tanya Mallya in violation of the court’s order. The order had come on a plea filed by a consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) alleging that the liquor baron had received the money from British firm Diageo. They had accused him of concealing the facts and diverting money to his children in “flagrant violation” of various judicial orders.The top court had on August 27 reserved the order that will be delivered today by a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ashok Bhushan. The court had earlier asked Mallya about the “truthfulness” of his disclosure of assets and the transfer of money to his children.In June, the apex court had directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya’s review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years and asked it to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years.Mallya, who is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is presently in the United Kingdom.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-vijay-mallya-s-review-plea-on-transfer-of-40-mn-to-his-children-today/story-aGOoJVmKhkrDHXaxsJmGZN.html
31-08-2020||India||Yogi govt issues Unlock 4 guidelines; educational institutions to remain closed till September 30||Going as per Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Central government, all schools, colleges and educational institutes in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed till September 30, the state government has said. Chief Secretary RK Tiwari said on Sunday online and distant learning will be encouraged. Metro trains will be allowed to resume from September 7 in a phased manner, an official order said. For this, the standard operating procedure will be issued separately.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatre, auditorium and similar places will remain closed. However, open-air theatres will be allowed to open from September 21.Over 67 more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, while the state registered a record daily spike of 6,233 cases, taking its Covid-19 tally to 2,25,632.The Unlock process of the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. Unlock 4 will come into effect from September 1 and will continue till September 30. The lockdown in containment zones in the state will remain in place till September 30, the order said, adding that the district magistrate cannot impose lockdown at the local level.There will be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement, it said.From September 21 onwards, 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff can be called for online education work. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will issue the standard operating procedure for this. Students of classes 9 to 12 who are living outside containment zones can be permitted to seek the guidance of their teachers for which they will need a written permission of their parents.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-govt-issues-unlock-4-guidelines-educational-institutions-to-remain-closed-till-september-30/story-WK1ObHnlkJe7Qn73BVOAFI.html
31-08-2020||India||Govt should not be running airports and airlines; hopeful of privatising AI in 2020: Hardeep Puri||The government should not be running airports and airlines, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday, adding that he hopes to privatise Air India during 2020.His remarks come at a time when the Kerala government has opposed the Union Cabinet’s approval on August 19 to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises under the public-private partnership (PPP) model for a period of 50 years. Addressing a virtual meet on Namo app, Puri said, “I can tell you from my heart the government should not be running airports and the government should not be running airlines.” The Centre-run Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns and manages more than 100 airports, including the one in Kerala’s capital city. On Air India’s privatisation, Puri said, “As a going concern, one that is attractive to potential bidders, we should privatise it (Air India). And I am hopeful that we will be able to complete that privatisation process during this year.” Last Tuesday, the Central government extended by two months the deadline for placing bids for Air India till October 30 as the Covid-19 fallout has disrupted economic activity globally. The process of stake sale in the national carrier was initiated on January 27. This is the fourth extension given by the government for putting in bids. “If the government runs an airport or an airline, then they have to follow the government rules like L1 and L2, and that is not how commercial entities can run,” Puri said.When the government issues a tender, the lowest bidder deemed as L1 is the winner.Puri said he expects that the domestic air traffic would reach pre-Covid levels by the end of this year. Domestic flights resumed on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Currently, airlines are allowed to operate maximum 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.The central government privatised six major airports -- Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati -- in February 2019. After a competitive bidding process, Adani Enterprises won the rights to run all of them.In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out three airports -- Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow - to Adani Enterprises.On August 19 this year, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal for leasing out the other three airports to the Ahmedabad-based company. Earlier this month, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the August 19 Cabinet decision to lease out the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the company. Vijayan stated in the letter that the Centre needs to reconsider the decision as it will be “difficult” for the state to cooperate.Kerala’s repeated requests to entrust the airport management with the special purpose vehicle (SPV) in which the state government is the major stakeholder was also ignored, Vijayan mentioned.“In view of the unilateral decision taken by the Government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the State government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the State,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-not-be-running-airports-and-airlines-hopeful-of-privatising-ai-in-2020-hardeep-puri/story-aMzP0dWHZzcy7Omlk56fKJ.html
31-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Friday, as reported by Hindustan Times the same day, India crossed the peak seven-day average of the US in terms of daily coronavirus cases, according to both worldometers.info and the New York Times database. The US saw its peak seven-day average in mid-July; India saw it in late August. A seven-day average is more representative than just a day’s number. It accounts for spikes, including those caused by reporting delays. For instance, for most countries in the world, the skyline of daily case numbers (represented in bars), shows a dip every five days – at the weekend. In India, even testing drops off on Sundays.Since mid to late July, the US has been on its second trough, with daily cases dropping off by almost 25,000. India’s seven-day average of daily cases has at least doubled since mid-July. And unlike the US, the country hasn’t seen any troughs. The progress of the pandemic in India has been on a steadily rising curve, definitely slowed by the 68-day lockdown imposed by the federal government, but still one that continues to inch up. And that shouldn’t surprise anyone.Why today’s GDP numbers matterIt shouldn’t because of four reasons. One, India is testing more than it used to. At the end of June, the country was averaging 210,525 tests a day, according to the HT dashboard (the number is, again, a seven-day average). By the end of July, this number increased to 501,370 tests a day on average. And by the end of August (as of Saturday), this number was 881,345 tests a day. This is a significant increase (although India continues to remain a laggard in terms of tests per million people compared to many other countries), and when you test more, it is only natural that you find more cases. The average positivity rate (again, a weekly average) has remained in the 8-12% corridor in this period, moving from 8.87% in late June to 10.4% in late July. It was at 8.14% as of Saturday. I’ve always discounted the national positivity rate for two reasons: disparities between testing intensity across states; and the fact that many states have not seen their positivity rates follow the established pattern (as testing is increased continuously, a rise, then a long plateau, and finally a fall) indicating that they are testing nowhere close to the numbers they should be.Vaccine diplomacy in India’s outreach planTwo, India is opening up, and as countries open up, they will see a rise in daily cases (the important question is the efficacy with which they quell these flare-ups). Given India’s size and population, it definitely did not make sense for India to wait, like countries in Europe did, for the number of cases to start declining before opening up. That would have meant waiting till the end of the year perhaps – something the economy could have ill-afforded. The home ministry has issued guidelines for what it calls Unlock 4.0, the fourth stage of India’s phased reopening, and welcome as this is from the point of view of livelihoods and the economy, it will result in some flare-ups.Three, and regular readers will recognise the refrain, India isn’t testing enough. It is only when it tests adequately can infected individuals be identified and isolated, and people exposed to them be traced. Four, the ability of a country to keep the number of coronavirus disease cases under check once it eases its lockdown is directly proportional to its ability and willingness to enforce measures such as the wearing of masks and social distancing (and also directly proportional to the willingness of its people to be disciplined about both). India, unfortunately, lags on this count – as do other countries including the US, but other people’s mess is other people’s problem.India’s peak still seems sometime away, which means the number of daily cases will continue to rise. While the country’s low case fatality rate – touted often by health administrators – is definitely cause for cheer, at the current 1.8%, it is worth noting that 80,000 cases a day, today, will translate into 1,440 deaths, weeks from now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-cCerxiJkXCYYkmq0Tj6CiP.html
31-08-2020||India||Ultra-nationalists call us separatists; treated as nationalists in J-K: Omar Abdullah||A year after a constitutional change nullified its seven-decade-old special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories, the political environment in Jammu & Kashmir is in flux – again. At the heart of the churning, spurred mostly by the release of frontline mainstream political leaders from months of preventive detention, are Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference (NC). Last week, Farooq, 83, emerged as the prime mover and pivot in the formation of a conglomerate of the Valley’s six parties – some of them sworn rivals – that has posed the first challenge to the Centre by reaffirming commitment to the Gupkar Declaration, pegged to the demand for restoration of J&K’s special status. The father-son duo, both former chief ministers and the second and third generations of Kashmir’s formidable Abdullah dynasty, is actively galvanising dormant cadres. On Friday, a day before the party’s first political affairs committee meeting in a year, the Abdullahs spoke to Ramesh Vinayak at their home in Srinagar in their first joint political interview. Edited excerpts:Ramesh Vinayak: How will you take the Gupkar Declaration forward?Farooq: We are not users of guns or stones. We will protest peacefully like Mahatma Gandhi did. Every constituent in this [six-party conglomerate] has its own agenda. But on the restoration of statehood, Article 370 and Article 35A, we are together. Whatever action we take will be joint. It won’t be only of Farooq Abdullah or the National Conference.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Independence Day speech, said the delimitation exercise is underway and assembly elections will followQ: Will you contest the elections? Farooq: Any decision [on contesting] will depend first on my party and we will take a call subject to the situation. We will talk to other stakeholders in the Gupkar Declaration. If we are united in this exercise, we will take them on board and decide. National Conference’s political committee meets for the first time since nullification of Article 370Q: But your party has opted out of the delimitation commission.Farooq: That’s because we told them on their face that we don’t believe in your delimitation. The BJP has a certain purpose. It wants that in J&K, a Hindu majority emerges, and the Muslim majority goes down. Can you beat what the government of India is trying to do here? The state assembly, when I was chief minister, had decided to go for delimitation along with the rest of the country in 2026. Then, why has the Centre suddenly brought it forward? They want to divide us on Hindu-Muslim lines and create Hindu dominance. That will never happen. Omar: It’s not just that. The delimitation commission is a product of the changes brought about on August 5 last year. When we don’t recognise those changes, how can we recognise this panel? By participating in its proceedings, we will essentially be lending credence to the J&K Reorganisaton Act, 2019. When we are fighting this Act, there is no question of participation. The commission’s membership doesn’t grant you the power of veto. Our three MPs may have been able to share their views, but that would not have been binding on the commission. Our participation would’ve been used as a rubber stamp. Q: You are betting on a legal fight in the Supreme Court that may take years to conclude. Farooq: The legal battle is just one fight. We will also fight it politically. Q: How?Omar: We are a mainstream political party. We will fight using legal means at our disposal which are two -- one is the power that the Constitution gives us to challenge the decisions in the court; and the second is forums available, including Parliament, media, social media, and public meetings. We have three MPs to take the voices of the people of J&K to the highest platform of democracy. We are not a party that has ever subscribed to violence as a means to achieving our end. In fact, if anything, the NC has always been the victim of violence. Farooq: Let me also remind you of 1984 when Jagmohan was sent as J&K governor to dismiss me (as chief minister). He told Indira Gandhi (the then prime minister) that Farooq Abdullah would put the state to fire. I said I don’t want the blood of people on my hands. I believe that today also. I’ll fight for their rights even if it takes my life but I’m not going to take their lives. Business revival panel meets in Jammu-Kashmir, discusses way forwardQ: But New Delhi expects you accept the new reality that Article 370 is history and move on. Farooq: (laughs) They want us to accept that through the gun. I’m not going to do that. Omar: The new reality doesn’t mean we can’t argue against what has been done. If dissent is the essence of democracy, then what we are doing is strengthening democracy. We are dissenting against a government decision by democratic means. The fundamental premise in the August 5 decision was that Article 370 was discriminatory, impeding development, promoting corruption and dynastic rule, breeding separatism, and obstructing the state’s integration with the country.Farooq: All that was [said] to sell a lie. I’m living in this house since 1974, when my father was not prime minister or chief minister of J&K. We sold our ancestral property and with that money my father was able to buy this house for me when I was in England. Eighteen members of our family own that (the ancestral properties). Are we that corrupt? And they said, Farooq Abdullah has homes in Dubai, Paris, London and America. Show me where all these houses are, so that I can go and occupy them? My wife is an English woman. She has a home there (England). She is entitled to her home. Then, they said development suffered. Thank God, Ghulam Nabi Azad was able to prove in the Rajya Sabha that J&K is far better than their great state of Gujarat. What we are suffering from is their (the Centre’s) lack of support. To this date, rail has not arrived from Katra to Banihal.There is more separatism now than before August 5 last year. Every day, guns are booming and people are giving up their lives. It’s not the Pakistanis who are dying today, it is the Kashmiris. Who has created them [militants]? Not Farooq Abdullah. I was in jail. They [the BJP government] created them. The hatred they have created between Hindus and Muslims in the rest of the nation… do you think it will not have an effect here? It will. Q: But what if the SC upholds the abrogation of Article 370? Omar: You are asking me to give a categorical answer to a hypothetical question. The arguments are yet to begin in the Supreme Court. Our petition makes an incredibly strong case on a simple point: a governor cannot assume the powers of an assembly, and an assembly cannot assume the powers of a constituent assembly. Because if an assembly can assume the power of a constituent assembly, tomorrow what stops a state in the North-east that has a simmering discontent from converting their assembly into a constituent assembly and then saying, ‘I have the constituent assembly’s powers as demonstrated by J&K and therefore I’m redrawing our relationship with the rest of India’. There is a fundamental flaw to what New Delhi did on August 5, 2019. You can wish away the merit of our case politically, but not legally. The government’s case is all political and emotional. If J&K has suffered, it’s not because of its special status but because of militancy. Either militancy is the product of Pakistan or it is product of Article 370. How can it be both? When we talk to people on the Gupkar Declaration, we will make an emotional argument. Let’s see where it takes us. Centre notifies distribution of power between L-G, govt in Jammu and KashmirQ: A broader national consensus has endorsed the nullification of Article 370 as fait accompli.Omar: I agree that we are on the losing side of public opinion. In J&K, we are losers because we are mainstream political operatives. We lose out elsewhere as well for being the proponents of special status. Article 370 has never been explained in its correct context to the rest of the country. It was always seen as a barrier to buying land in J&K. That is not the nuts and bolts. There are still parties that lend their voice to us, particularly the Left, DMK, and TMC. Would I like to see more? Yes. But we take what we can get. Q: There is a sense that the August 5 move has constricted political space for mainstream political parties in Kashmir? Farooq: Mainstream parties were always taken by the people of Kashmir to be mouthpieces of Delhi. They always thought they are not a part of us and they don’t stand by our emotions. That is so even today. When we (NC) fought the 1996 assembly elections, on what basis did we fight? Narasimha Rao ji, as prime minister, had on the floor of Parliament promised us that sky is the limit and there is no azadi. We never asked for azadi, but we wanted back what has been taken away from us. Where was the BJP at that time? Where was any other party except Farooq Abdullah’s NC. We lost our workers and ministers because they were standing by the nation. But did the nation stand with us? Omar: You have to understand how difficult it is for us. We get fixed from both sides. The ultra nationalists in the rest of country treat us as separatists. But here in Kashmir we are treated as nationalists. Please tell me what we are. IT panel drops J-K internet restrictions from its agendaQ: What is your reading of the mood on the streets in Kashmir? Farooq: If you want to know the honest truth, they are not part of India. This is God’s truth. You ask an ordinary person, he does not want to be Pakistani. Let’s be frank about it. He is not a Pakistani, but he is not an Indian today after what they (the Centre) did. Q: Will the six-party conglomerate become a joint front in the elections? Omar: There is no possibility of an election in J&K before 2021. Thankfully, the Government of India has willy-nilly given us this breathing space to work together on the Gupkar Declaration which is not an announcement of pre-electoral understanding. Q: But there are ideological contradictions between the constituents.Omar: We have different political ideologies, but for the time being, these have been set aside for a larger goal. We wanted to send a wider message to New Delhi that on this question of what happened on August 5, like-minded parties will come together. The legal fight is not being fought together. The government says now J&K’s integration is complete and it will be a harbinger of ‘Naya Kashmir’? Farooq: We are so integrated… my God! That’s why we have sold this in every corner. Do they mention any other state? Every day Kashmir, Kashmir, Kashmir… ‘Kashmir hamara hai’ (Kashmir is ours). Do they ever say ‘Maharashtra hamara hai’ or ‘Bengal hamara hai’. Because they are not sure that Kashmir ‘hamara hai’. Q: How real are the apprehensions on altering the demographic character of Muslim-majority J&K after the government allayed that at the highest level?Farooq: How can you believe the home minister who lied in Parliament that I have been freed? How can I believe their assurances? Omar: Look at the numbers. Take the domicile certificates that have been issued thus far and see what is the religious break-up? I don’t have actual numbers, but I can guarantee you that more than 90% of the new domicile certificates that have been issued will be non-Muslims. Not that the demographic change will take place overnight; it will be a creeping effect. But if this domicile law is not overturned, eventually that is where we will be. That’s why it’s important J&K is given back its statehood so that we can legislate our own domicile law. Today, the domicile law you have given us is weaker than even Himachal Pradesh’s. Q: Both the PM and home minister have said that restoration of statehood is a possibility. Will that help bring the mainstream parties on board? Farooq: You have lost the hearts of the people. It will be difficult for a political party to just accept that statehood has been restored and, therefore, you’re alright. Ceasefire violations in J&K rose by 60 times since 2010: Home ministry in response to RTI queryOmar: It’s a much bigger fight. Statehood is one part of what was done on August 5. Therefore, when you trap us into this argument about statehood, you try and give this impression as if once statehood is done, everything else will be forgotten. How can that be? Domicile is one part. What about the representative character of the government? We are still a Muslim-majority state. Please look at the make-up of our administration today. Your LG is non-Muslim; chief secretary non-Muslim; DGP non-Muslim; both your divisional commissioners are non-Muslims; both your IGs of police non-Muslims; the chief justice of Jammu and Kashmir high court is non-Muslim; the rest of the high court bench, barring two judges, are all non-Muslims. How many of your deputy commissioners and SPs posted in Kashmir today are Kashmiri-speaking? It may appear minor, but please understand these are the issues that resonate with people. We are not fundamentalist people. We don’t play the religious card, but when there is such a severe communal imbalance, there will be resentment. ‘No justification for delay in elections’: J&K Apni PartyQ: Do you see some design behind all this? Omar: Design or not, it affects public perception. You are trying to change the script in which Kashmiri is written. These are changes you are forcing on us and then saying ‘you are integrated’. Integration doesn’t come from a piece of paper. It comes from emotions. I have to feel integrated. If you change the script in which I am writing, you change the language in which an officer on the ground is addressing me, and then you turn around and tell me: ‘I am integrated.’ I am not. I dare you to do this in Tamil Nadu. I dare you to change their script and see what happens. There will be hell to pay there. Why do all experiments have to happen here? Q: The mainstream Kashmiri parties, particularly the NC, have for long been seen as a bridge between New Delhi and Srinagar. Has that changed? Farooq: I don’t want to be the bridge any more. They have deceived my people. Omar: If by bridge you mean that we will allow them to bring their voices and propagate it here, that’s not a bridge. If by bridge you mean that you will allow us to take the voices of J&K and Ladakh and propagate it there, it is fine. Enforced communication will not work. Q: Is there a meeting ground between Kashmiri parties and the Centre?Farooq: No, I don’t see any ground. Omar: We are not appealing to Prime Minister Modi to reverse what he has done. When (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee sahib said that the matter of Kashmir will be decided within the umbrella of ‘Jamooriyat, insaniyat, Kashmiriyat’, that opened the door for us. Today, no such door is open. Our fight revolves around the Supreme Court. Tomorrow, if a government is formed in Delhi that is open to a dialogue, then we will see. We are not asking anything beyond the Constitution, so why should we surrender. Police stop PDP rally in Srinagar, detain half a dozen leadersQ: Doing away with Article 370 has been a core ideological agenda of the BJP. Why did the August 5 happenings surprise you? Farooq: I agree. But is Mr Modi the prime minister of the BJP or Prime Minister of India? Omar: I’m surprised because what you have reversed is not a party’s political position. You have betrayed a sovereign commitment of the Union of India with the state of J&K. The BJP is not India. It is a political party in India. It can play politics. But the BJP, I don’t believe, should have the power to reverse a sovereign commitment that was not time-bound. Q: Some quarters believe the Centre is propping up a new crop of leaders in Kashmir. Omar: You can’t prop up a politician or a party. That has always been the mistake that gets made in places like Delhi. Politicians don’t get propped up by anyone except the people. Haven’t you tried such experiments before? Q: How do you look at the new formation, Apni Party?Farooq: IB (Intelligence Bureau) formation. Omar: Political space is open to everybody. Aaiye apni kismet azamayiye (Come, try your luck). Who stops anybody from trying? Q: What will it take to repair the trust deficit between the Centre and mainstream parties of Kashmir? Farooq: First, honesty of purpose. If they want to win hearts, they will have to reverse what they did on August 5. That will be the starting point. It is not that people will suddenly feel happy. No. A lot more will have to be done. Q: Aren’t you being unrealistic in expecting the Centre to undo Article 370 move? Farooq: We don’t expect them to undo that. Omar: Look, there is a trust deficit. If they are willing to accept that, we will start resolving it. At the moment, they don’t even believe there is trust deficit. They feel everything is fine. Q: Why has Mehbooba Mufti not been released, while you and other mainstream leaders have been set free?Farooq: That only she can answer. We have not cut any deal for our release. We are not dealers. Omar: Whatever freedom we have achieved has been fought for. I’m sitting here today because I went to the Supreme Court and fought my case and was able to get out just before the coronavirus set in. Q: What stops the NC from holding political activities on the ground? Omar: We are battling an illness beyond comprehension. Just a few days ago, we had a meeting of 10 people in this garden and one turned out to be corona positive. All my colleagues were sitting home for 10 days. How can you have bigger gatherings than that? Farooq: I had to lock myself up. I’m more at risk, being on immune-suppressive drugs. Omar: An artificial detention situation has been created here. There is still a threat to life for a mainstream political operative. Yet none of them have security to move around. Today, security and vehicles are provided to only the BJP and the Apni Party. Ram Madhav’s Kashmir visit amid killing of BJP leaders and a political churnQ: What is the way out of the current political vacuum?Omar: Slowly, we will start political activity. We will craft a narrative and move forward. The way forward will not be decided by one or two persons sitting in the garden. What we have lost is 70 years of what we had. Q: How has the August 5 move impacted you personally?Farooq: I felt betrayed as a man who stood for the nation. Friends on the other side (Pakistan) hated us. For them, we were slaves or mouthpieces of India. The only thing that mattered to them is the Hurriyat. If anything gave me strength, it was the Quran. I will fight till my last breath. Omar: I’m bitter and less trusting. I used to be cautiously optimistic, now I’m pessimistic than even realistic. I don’t care that I spent eight months in detention. It’s not a big deal in a life of 50 years. The betrayal with J&K is far deeper. It’s a betrayal of an idea of the relationship between J&K and India that was crafted by far greater minds. It is difficult to reconcile. We are still trying to come to terms. I don’t know if we ever will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ultra-nationalists-call-us-separatists-in-j-k-we-re-treated-as-nationalists-omar-abdullah/story-8q8c1mRrhyWMwkWQaULRVK.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Will contest Article 370 move legally, democratically’: Farooq and Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) leaders and former chief ministers Farooq and Omar Abdullah are “bitter” about, and feel “betrayed” by, the constitutional changes related to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) pushed through by the Centre last year, and will contest them both politically and legally, while asserting that their struggle will be entirely peaceful.The two leaders, in perhaps their first joint interview, said they rejected the Union government’s constituency delimitation exercise and domicile laws as efforts to change the demography of the Valley. They also spoke of the pain of on the one hand being seen as separatists by “ultra-nationalists” in the rest of the country, and on the other, as nationalists in Kashmir.Read the full interview hereThe father-son duo — sitting in their heavily protected Gupkar residence in Srinagar — told Hindustan Times that the mood on the Kashmiri street was of not being a part of India and “not Indian”; warned about the impact in J&K of growing Hindu-Muslim “hatred” in the rest of the country; pointed to the unrepresentative character of the current administration in the UT — with local Muslims having little space; and said that no door was open for a dialogue with the Centre.When asked about the mood on the Kashmiri street, Farooq Abdullah, 83, said: “If you want to know the honest truth, they are not part of India. This is God’s truth. You ask an ordinary person, he does not want to be Pakistani. Let’s be frank about it. He is not a Pakistani, but he is not an Indian today after what they (the Centre) did.”Last year, Parliament effectively nullified Article 370, which conferred special status on J&K, removed Article 35A, which empowered the state legislature to define permanent residents for government jobs and property ownership, reorganised the state into two separate administrative units of J&K and Ladakh, and made them both Union Territories. On August 15 this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that after the delimitation process is complete, there would be elections to the new assembly in J&K. The Centre has also appointed a new lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha. The new UT’s major parties have, meanwhile, issued a Gupkar joint statement, taking forward their Gupkar declaration of last year, pledging that they will fight the constitutional changes together.Rejecting the charge that Article 370 led to separatism, Farooq Abdullah said, “There is more separatism now than before August 5 last year. It’s not the Pakistanis who are dying today, it is the Kashmiris. Who has created them (militants)? Not Farooq Abdullah. I was in the jail. They (the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government) created them. The hatred they have created between Hindus and Muslims in the rest of the nation…do you think it will not have an effect here? It will.”Elaborating on the legal dimension of their battle against the constitutional changes, the younger Abdullah, 50, said that their petition in the Supreme Court rested on a strong point. “A governor cannot assume the powers of an assembly, and an assembly cannot assume the powers of a constituent assembly....There is a fundamental flaw to what New Delhi did on August 5, 2019. You can wish away the merit of our case politically, but not legally.”When asked about the fact that there appeared to be a broader national consensus against Article 370, Omar Abdullah acknowledged being on the losing side of “public opinion”. On the position of mainstream parties in the UT, he later said, “You have to understand how difficult it is for us. We get fixed from both sides. The ultra-nationalists in the rest of country treat us as separatists. But here in Kashmir we are treated as nationalists. Please tell me what we are.” On the PM’s statement on delimitation, Farooq Abdullah said, “We told them on their face that we don’t believe in your delimitation. The BJP has a certain purpose. It wants that in J&K, a Hindu majority emerges and the Muslim majority goes down.” Omar Abdullah added: “The delimitation commission is a product of the changes brought about on August 5 last year. When we don’t recognise those changes, how can we recognise this panel?” National Conference’s political committee meets for the first time since nullification of Article 370He also elaborated on the apprehensions about demographic changes in the Valley, especially due to the domicile law. “I don’t have actual numbers but I can guarantee you that more than 90% of the new domicile certificates that have been issued will be to non-Muslims. Not that the demographic change will take place overnight; it will be a creeping effect.”While Farooq Abdullah said he did not want to be a bridge between Delhi and Srinagar since the Centre had “deceived” his people, Omar Abdullah said that if being a bridge meant voicing the concerns of the people, they would do so — but if it meant propagating the Centre’s views, they would not do so. Farooq Abdullah also said that he saw no meeting ground with the Centre, while his son said, “When (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee sahib said that the matter of Kashmir will be decided within the umbrella of ‘Jamooriyat, Insaniyat, Kashmiriyat’, that opened the door for us. Today, no such door is open...Tomorrow, if a government is formed in Delhi that is open to a dialogue, then we will see.”Business revival panel meets in Jammu-Kashmir, discusses way forwardReferring to the move to nullify Article 370, Omar Abdullah said that “integration does not come from a piece of paper, “it comes from emotions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-contest-370-move-legally-democratically-farooq-and-omar-abdullah/story-ijLqt6hbQyeIph4HEMRvzN.html
31-08-2020||India||Number Theory: How rainfall pattern is changing significantly||Total monsoon rainfall in 2020, as of 8.30am on Sunday, is the 11th highest for this period since 1901. However, 2020 seems to be an outlier when read with long-term rainfall statistics. Monsoon rainfall in India has been gradually declining since the 1950s. This trend has been accompanied by rains becoming more skewed; most of the rains fall over a smaller period of time. Rains are also getting more intense, meaning there are fewer episodes of rain, but when it rains, it pours. In 2019, heavy and extreme intensity rainfall was the highest since 1901.Total monsoon rainfall in the country this year, as of 8.30am on Sunday, has been 771.1 mmTotal monsoon rainfall in the country this year, as of 8.30am on Sunday, has been 771.1 mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s gridded rainfall data set. This is the 11th highest monsoon rainfall for the June 1-August 30 period since 1901. That makes 2020 an outlier already. Decadal averages of monsoon rainfall up to August 30 suggest that total monsoon rainfall in India has been declining. The period from June 1 to September 30 is considered the monsoon season. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Not only are rains declining, they are also getting skewedThis decrease in total rainfall has accompanied another trend: the decrease in the number of days on which at least half the rain falls. In the last decade (2020 has been excluded to see the pattern over the entire monsoon season), 50% of the rainfall over the 122-day monsoon was seen on an average of 40.4 days. This was the fastest in the 12 decades since 1901. To be sure, the corresponding time for 75% of rainfall and 90% was only the fourth highest (70.6 days and 94.3 days respectively), although the long-term trend for those higher shares of rainfall is also the same: it takes fewer days now. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Regional variations in the number of days it takes for rainfall to take placeThe all-India numbers hide a significant regional variation in this pattern. For example, Delhi received 50% of its total monsoon rainfall in 2011-19 in just 83 days. This number was 30 for Karnataka. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();When it rains, it poursSkewed rainfall could mean an increase in heavy and extreme rainfall. And this has indeed happened for India as a whole since the second half of the last century. Combined heavy and extreme intensity rainfall was the third highest in this decade. In 2019, heavy and extreme intensity rainfall was the highest since 1901. A 24-hour rainfall between 35.5 mm and 244.5 mm in a grid - this analysis uses IMD’s gridded rainfall data set - is considered heavy intensity rainfall and that above 244.5 mm, extreme rainfall. A grid is a box bound by two latitudes and longitudes 0.25 degrees apart.Skewed rainfall does not guarantee heavy rainfallThe two trends - days taken for a certain proportion of monsoon rain to fall, and its intensity - can diverge when the total monsoon rainfall is decreasing. This is exactly what has happened over north-central India, the lndo-Gangetic plains and the northeastern states. With declining total rainfall, the amount of heavy intensity rainfall has decreased although the number of days it takes for 50% of monsoon rainfall to fall has reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-how-rainfall-pattern-is-changing-significantly/story-up9eTfw4P3G8Na9r2gk2zH.html
31-08-2020||India||Why GDP data matters and key indicators to look for||The National Statistical Office (NSO) will release the GDP numbers for the April-June quarter of the current financial year on Monday and there is a wide consensus among economists that the data will reflect an economic contraction.To be sure, the estimates vary. SBI’ Ecowrap research expects a 16.5% contraction in the first quarter. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, chief economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Pvt. Ltd, expects a 17.5% contraction. Pranab Sen, India’s former chief statistician, expected the economy to contract between 12% and 40% in an earlier comment to HT (see https://bit.ly/34PFsTV). And a Bloomberg poll of 15 economists, put the contraction at 19.2%.Here are three things to keep in mind while reading the data. Monday’s “first estimates” could see further downward revisions: India’s GDP calculation methodology uses formal sector activity as a proxy for informal sector activity while calculating the first estimates. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari says that because the pandemic has affected the informal sector more than the formal sector, and given the lower shock absorption capacity of firms in the former, the initial numbers could overestimate economic activity in manufacturing and services. Once the informal sector numbers are available, the 17.5% contraction could increase to as much as 25%, she adds.What is happening to nominal growth rate: While the real growth rate is expected to remain in contraction zone not just in the first quarter but also the full financial year, today’s release will give an idea about the hit to nominal growth. Because the consumer price index and wholesale price index have been diverging, there is a lack of clarity on this count at the moment. Nominal growth numbers matter significantly for revenue collections. Taxes, after all, are a fraction of nominal incomes. Nominal GDP growth plummeted to 7.2% in 2019-20, the lowest since 1975-76. A disproportionate fall in nominal growth, and its adverse effect on revenue collection, will make it more difficult for the government to boost economic activity. This will also worsen the already growing tension between the Centre and the states, given the ongoing controversy around the payment of Goods and Services Tax compensation.Sector-wise pain of the pandemic’s disruption: Monday’s GDP numbers will not be the first indicators of economic activity during this period, as there are other high-frequency indicators such as the Purchasing Managers’ Indices, the Index of Industrial Production and the performance of core sector industries. However, the Gross Value Added (GVA) numbers will give a detailed estimate of sector-wise performance of the economy. This, when read with respective employment shares, will tell us the extent of pain that India’s 400 million-plus workforce suffered during the lockdown. For example, construction had a share of 8% in GVA in 2018-19, but its employment share, according to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey was 12.1%. A larger contraction in the employment-intensive non-farm sector will mean that the economic pain of the pandemic has been more widespread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-today-s-gdp-numbers-matter/story-gydjxb6sZCt372kG6rpbaI.html
31-08-2020||India||‘Treat at par with armed forces martyrs’: IMA asks PM Modi for inclusive solatium for doctors||Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to acknowledge the casualties among doctors on the front-line during coronavirus disease outbreak, the Indian Medical Association on Sunday asked for inclusive national solatium for doctors and their families.Citing government data, the IMA said 87,000 healthcare workers in the country have been infected by the virus and 573 of them have succumbed to the viral contagion. “The data has raised concerns all across the country. IMA’s data for doctors alone has registered 307 deaths as of today and a total of 2,006 infected. 188 of those who died are General Practitioners who are the first point of contact for people,” IMA wrote in its letter. “All doctors who have laid down their lives in fighting this epidemic should be treated at par with the martyrs of Indian Armed Forces and acknowledged appropriately,” the letter by IMA stated.Also read | 2.2 million health workers taking care of Covid-19 patients get special insuranceThe authorities at IMA have also underlined that doctors suffer a viral load and higher Case Fatality Rate (CFR). It added, the surviving spouse or dependent should be provided a Government job as per their qualifications. The letter to the prime minister comes almost five months after the government had announced a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, and other health care professionals involved in the care of Covid-19 patients. Around 2.2 million health workers were expected to be covered in this scheme. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in March this year, had said that the government want to attend to the front-line warriors first, not forgetting the risks that they are putting themselves in by dealing with patients affected with coronavirus.“For them, we are providing an insurance cover. In the three months that they are exposing themselves to this virus – hopefully, by then this will be contained – we shall be providing ₹50 lakhs to each person as medical insurance cover in case they need it,” said Sitharaman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-at-par-with-armed-forces-martyrs-ima-asks-pm-modi-for-inclusive-solatium-for-doctors/story-5fStTiIT1c9U3whfPXeFAN.html
31-08-2020||India||Elephant found dead in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, seventh jumbo to die in less than 3 months||An elephant was found dead in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar forest division on Sunday making it the seventh jumbo to die in the state in less than three months. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department said that prima facie the death appears to be due to natural causes. “One male elephant, around 30-years-old was found dead on Sunday morning in an agricultural field at Shah Mansur beat of Khanpur range of Haridwar forest division. As of now, it appears that the elephant died due to a natural cause or could have been electrocuted as a high-tension wire is passing through that area. A post-mortem examination is being conducted, after which the actual cause of death will be known,” said Suhag. In the third week of August (August 20 and August 19), two elephants were reported dead from Lansdowne forest division of Uttarakhand within 24 hours. Sant Ram, divisional forest officer for Lansdowne forest division said that both the elephants were adolescents and the deaths were reported from Kotdwar and Laldhang regions. Of these two elephants, officials had informed that one could have died due to electrocution as a high tension line goes through the place where the elephant carcass was found. On July 27, the carcass of a three-year-old elephant was found in a gorge near Nakraunda area in Dehradun forest division after it was hit by a train. On July 19, a carcass of a sub-adult elephant was found in Jaspur range in Udham Singh Nagar district. On July 14, a carcass of 25-year-old wild tusker was spotted in the forests near a factory under the Mohan forest range of Almora forest division which is adjacent to the Corbett Tiger Reserve. On June 14, a carcass of a seven-year-old female elephant was found in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Dhela range. Uttarakhand government had recently reported that elephant numbers crossed the 2,000 mark in the state after a recently concluded elephant estimation process. The state reported a 29.9% increase since 2015, and reported a total of 2,026 elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar-seventh-jumbo-to-die-in-less-than-3-months/story-23QEM1AUlngGTh8a9rswYN.html
31-08-2020||India||DoPT spells out quarterly review for early retirement of bureaucrats||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on August 28 has asked all departments and ministries to maintain a register of officers attaining 50/55 years of age or completing 30 years of service who may be asked to take early retirement in ‘public interest’ grounds of ‘doubtful integrity’ and ‘ineffectiveness’. The notification, viewed by HT, states that the register is to be scrutinised at the beginning of every quarter by a senior officer in the Ministry/Department/cadre and who will undertake a review of the same to decide on pre-mature retirement or retention of an officer. At present, FR 56 (j) and 56 (l) monitored premature retirement of officials from Group A and B and Group C respectively. The step is being taken to ‘strengthen the administrative machinery by developing responsible and efficient administration at all levels and to achieve efficiency, economy and speed in the disposal of Government functions’. “In order to bring in better clarity to the existing instructions and enable uniform implementation, an effort has been made to review, consolidate and reiterate the guidelines so far issued on the subject at one place,” the DoPT said in the notification. The performance review will be done in January to March, for July to September of the same year. Similarly in April to June, the review will be done for October to December of the same year. July to September, will be reviewed from January to March of the next year and October to December quarter performances, will be done from April to June of the next year. “The move is targeted at removing deadwood and maintaining a high level of efficiency in the bureaucracy,” a ministry of personnel, grievances and pensions official. “It will also help reduce corruption in the system.” The government has also instituted review committee under the concerned secretary of the Cadre Controlling Authority (CAA) having two members. For Group A officers, the review Committee shall be headed by the Secretary of the concerned CCA. Where there are Boards CBDT, CBEC, Railway Board, etc, the Chairman will head the review committee. For Group B officers, an Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary level officer shall head the Review Committee. In the case of Non-Gazetted employees, an officer of the level of Joint Secretary will head the Committee. However, in case the Appointing Authority is lower in rank than a Joint Secretary, then an officer of the level of Director/Deputy Secretary will be the head. In the case of Non-Gazetted employees in other than centralized cadres, Head of Department/Head of the Organisation shall decide the composition of the Review Committee. “Chief Vigilance Officer, in case of Gazetted officers, or his representative in case of non-Gazetted officers, will be associated in case of record reflecting adversely on the integrity of any employee,” states the notification. On August 5, the DoPT also set up a new Representation Committee for civil servants headed by Leela Nanda, secretary, consumer affairs, Ashutosh Jindal, joint secretary, cabinet secretariat and a member to be nominated by the CCA. “Government may, at any time after a Government servant has attained the age of 50/55 years or completed 30 years of service, as the case may be, retire him pre-maturely in public interest,” states the notification. It, however, adds that that premature retirement is distinct from compulsory retirement, which is prescribed as a penalty. In its bid to reduce corruption in the bureaucracy, the Central government last year had compulsorily retired at least 30 Indian Revenue Service officials. There is also no bar on the Government to review any such case again where it had decided earlier to retain the officer, but the Appropriate/Appointing Authority is of the opinion that it is ‘expedient to undertake the review again on account of changed circumstances, in public interest’. “In such cases, the Appropriate Authority is expected to demonstrate visible meticulousness as such Government servants have been found effective on earlier occasion for retention in service,” states the DoPT notification The broad criteria to be followed, according to the DoPT notification includes doubtful integrity and ineffectiveness. However, it adds, no Government servant should ‘ordinarily be retired on ground of ineffectiveness, if, in any event, he would be retiring on superannuation within a period of one year from the date of consideration of his case’. Ineffectiveness also does not hold if a government servant has been promoted to a higher post during the preceding five-year period and ‘his/her service in the highest post, has been found satisfactory’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dopt-spells-out-quarterly-review-for-early-retirement-of-bureaucrats/story-pNAT9ZHLFaocP9QdLVcWWI.html
31-08-2020||India||2 Bengal Teens beheaded for fishing in field, alleges family||The beheaded bodies of two teenagers who went missing two days ago were recovered in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Sunday, police said.The family members alleged that two cousins were killed by men who had warned them against fishing in an inundated field — surrounded by paddy fields — in Berhampore’s Kanthali area.“We are probing the murders. So far, we have detained eight people for questioning. Raids are on,” Murshidabad superintendent of police K Sabari Rajkumar said.On Friday morning, Manjarul Sheikh, 15, and Tanjarul Sheikh, 16, went to the field to catch fish. They were carrying a small boat. The teenagers were not seen again.Large tracts of lowlands and agricultural fields are under water in the area in the aftermath of heavy rains.On Saturday, officers from Berhampore police station went to Kanthali on receiving a complaint, but failed to trace the boys, whose fathers work as labourers in Saudi Arabia.A search operation on Sunday led to the bodies being found near a bush. Their heads were found about 40 meters away.“The boys were fishing to earn some money and help the family. Some local men threatened them against fishing at Hijaler math (where the boys had gone). We informed the police after we found their boat, fishing net, sandals and their clothes near the area,” Firoza Bibi, an aunt, said. “There are several stab injuries on the bodies,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-bengal-teens-beheaded-for-fishing-in-field-alleges-family/story-jI6egQwShI1VPMvNZzFmBJ.html
31-08-2020||India||India first to hit 80,000 coronavirus cases in single day||India on Sunday became the first country in the world to report more than 80,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day, as the outbreak continued to grow and set new records.A total of 80,097 new infections were reported across India on Sunday, taking the nationwide tally to 3,616,747, according to HT’s dashboard. To contextualise the size of the daily tally, China, where the virus originated in December 2019, has a total 85,031 confirmed infections to date. After Sunday’s spike, the seven-day average of daily cases in the country stands at 73,318, also a new global record, and taking it higher than the seven-day daily case peak recorded in the United States when the number touched 69,330 for the week ending July 25. In Delhi, after a gap of over 50 days, new cases of Covid-19 breached the 2,000 mark on Sunday as the resurgence of daily infections in the city continued. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi also continued to rise, with 8.7% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, suggesting that more and more Delhi residents are now carrying the virus. In terms of the single-day, 9.9% of samples tested on Sunday came back positive — the highest since July 13, or in 48 days.On Sunday, the city recorded 2,024 new cases, the highest single-day increase in cases since July 10, when the city reported 2,089 new infections. After Sunday’s new cases, Delhi’s total case count stands at 173,390. Twenty-two new deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in the city to 4,426. Delhi has seen an average of 1,703 new cases every day in the last seven days — the highest this number has touched since July 17. The seven-day average of daily cases in the Capital, which peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4, has now gone up for the 14th consecutive day.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held an emergency meeting as he acknowledged that cases were increasing again after dropping for a month-and-a-half. He announced the city government would “double the number of daily tests” from current levels to around 40,000 per day in an effort to catch and isolate more patients.“An increasing positivity rate means that the transmission of the infection is going up in the city. And, this is likely to increase further as we open up the economy, the metro. We need to keep following the test-trace-treat strategy to keep things under control. We also need to identify cases who need intensive care early to prevent deaths,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Some experts said Delhi may be facing a fresh challenge to control an outbreak it had contained to a considerable extent.“Yes, there has been an increase in the number of cases being reported daily, but it is not alarming as we are not reporting extremely high number of hospitalisations or deaths, like it happened in June. Plus, the government is well prepared and the infrastructure is in place. That said, people should continue following the general precautions like wearing masks and washing hands frequently,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“I do not think there will be a second surge like the one in June. Around 30% people in Delhi already have antibodies against the infection,” he said, pointing to the second sero surveillance that said almost 30% of the people in Delhi have antibodies against the infection.The seven-day average positivity rate, meanwhile, has been rising consistently with 8.7% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, the highest in 47 days, in what experts said was an alarming trend. Positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive — had dropped from a peak of 31.4% in mid-June to 5.7% at the end of July, but is now consistently rising again. The case fatality rate (CFR) – the fraction of people who die among the confirmed cases – in Delhi stands at 2.6%, much higher than the national average of 1.82%. According to Sunday’s bulletin by the Delhi government, 20,437 new samples were tested in the last 24 hours, of which 6,881 were RT-PCR or molecular tests, while 13,555 were rapid antigen tests.Across the country, with 959 new deaths lodged on Sunday, the total number of people who have died from the disease now stands at 64,610, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-first-to-hit-80k-cases-in-single-day/story-J5AgzrIsVDne7cMouEJVCJ.html
31-08-2020||India||MF Husain painting auctioned for ₹18.5cr||Mumbai: An artwork by the late Maqbool Fida Husain titled Voices sold for Rs 18.47 crore at an online auction on Sunday setting a record for as the highest price ever fetched by any of the artist’s works in a public domain sale.The oil-on-canvas (18 feet 10 inches) made in 1958, which was part of a private collection till now, went under the hammer for the first time at a two-day AstaGuru auction of 36 lots of the artist’s works, which included toys, jewellery and tapestry designed and co-created by Husain. It was bought by an anonymous buyer.Voices broke the artist’s existing sale record set by his Battle of Ganga and Jamuna: Mahabharata 12, which fetched Rs 13.44 crore at Saffronart’s March 2020 auction of items seized from the fugitive Indian businessman Nirav Modi’s estate.The artist made Voices shortly after the Progressive Artists’ Group which he had co-founded with other Indian modernist artists, including FN Souza, SH Raza, KH Ara among others, had disbanded and Husain was beginning to achieve global fame. The prices quoted are inclusive of buyer’s premium, a percentage charged by the auctioneer on the winning bid amount.MF Husain, one of India’s leading Modern artists, died in 2011.“Contrary to expectation, there has been a spate of enthusiastic bidding at auctions recorded post-March,” said Arvind Vijaymohan, CEO of the art research firm Artery India. “This could be on account of euphoric buying to ease the Covid-induced locked-in gloom, or more likely new capital entering the market and being deployed.”According to the Artery India Price Databank, the auction also set the record for the most expensive work on paper by the artist — a 1956 ink-on-paper titled Between the Spider and the Lamp, a rare preparatory sketch for one of his most well-known works, sold for Rs 83.4 lakh. The highest selling work of Indian modern art is an untitled painting by VS Gaitonde, which fetched Rs 29.3 crore at a Christie’s auction held in Mumbai in 2015. The second-highest sale recorded is Raza’s Tapovan, which fetched Rs 29.03 crore at another Christie’s auction held in New York, in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mf-husain-painting-auctioned-for-18-5cr/story-DcBhcdhDD9HUohB7vjNoCM.html
31-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI grills Rhea Chakraborty for 9 hours on third day||The CBI questioned actress Rhea Chakraborty for the third consecutive day on Sunday in connection with her boyfriend and filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, a police official said.The 28-year-old actress, who is accused of abetting Rajput’s suicide, was questioned for around nine hours, he said.Her brother Showik Chakraborty was also questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday for the fourth day in a row, the official said.“Rhea Chakraborty and her brother together reached the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, around 10.30 am,” he said.A Mumbai Police vehicle escorted the car in which the two arrived at the guest house, he said.Rajput’s manager Samual Miranda and domestic help Keshav also reached the guest house in the morning.“Rhea and her brother left the guest house around 7 pm,” the official said, adding that the central agency has questioned the actress for around 26 hours in three days.Four women constables from Vakola Police Station were sent to the DRDO guest house to accompany Rhea during the interrogation, he said.Rhea had been questioned for nearly 10 hours on Friday and allowed to return home under police escort as a large number of media personnel were present outside her building.She was quizzed for around seven hours on Saturday.Her brother is being questioned by the CBI since Thursday.On Saturday, the CBI also questioned Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and accountant Rajat Mewati at the guest house.Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.Rhea had been earlier questioned by the Mumbai Police in the case. The Enforcement Directorate has also quizzed her in a related money laundering case.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father in Patna against the actress and others for allegedly abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-grills-rhea-chakraborty-for-9-hours-on-third-day/story-1hiEJFyQlBxJA9cTyxQRMI.html
31-08-2020||India||PM Modi congratulates Indian chess players, lauds their hard work and dedication||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated the India chess players for winning 2020 Online Chess Olympiad, in a shared victory with Russia, and said that the success of these players will motivate other chess players.“Congratulations to our chess players for winning the FIDE Online #ChessOlympiad. Their hard work and dedication are admirable. Their success will surely motivate other chess players. I would like to congratulate the Russian team as well,” PM Modi said in a tweet. India, along with Russia, were announced victorious in the first ever online olympiad in the wake of coronavirus pandemic held by FIDE – the international chess federation – after the championship finale was marred by internet disconnection and server malfunction. After India filed an official appeal for a consequent investigation, it was declared that both India and Russia will be joint winners of the competition.Union home minister Amit Shah also congratulated Indian chess player for winning gold for the country in the 2020 Online Chess Olympiad“Congratulations to Team India on winning the FIDE online #ChessOlympiad. This has been possible because of the unparalleled commitment of our chess masters. I am sure this stellar achievement will further the spirit of our young players across the nation,” Amit Shah wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-indian-chess-players-lauds-their-hard-work-and-dedication/story-lvxI2HaAm2oE5ykvUVqv2K.html
31-08-2020||India||Lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended till September 30||Lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended till September 30, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Sunday.“Under relaxed norms, no complete lockdown will be enforced on Sundays in September. E-pass system for inter-district travel will be discontinued. All places of worship, hotels and resorts have been allowed to re-open,” Palaniswami said.Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally is now at 4.22 lakh with 6,495 new cases and 94 deaths reported today. The actives cases are 52,721, discharged cases are 3,62,133, and the death toll is at 7,231, according to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-extended-till-september-30/story-1jDcBp5uj4Uv5pWu79OCyM.html
31-08-2020||India||States to resume buses, trains||Interstate bus services are to resume in Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu starting Tuesday, September 1, and metro services in Kochi and Bangalore beginning on September 7 as mass transport systems in the states and cities resume after the five-month lockdown for Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra is contemplating allowing inter-state buses to ply from September 7, officials in the state said.This comes a day after the Union home ministry allowed states to resume metro services and hotels and bars to reopen from September 7 as part of Unlock 4.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, meanwhile, announced extension of lockdown till September 30. “Under relaxed norms, no complete lockdown will be enforced on Sundays in September. E-pass system for inter-district travel will be discontinued. All places of worship, hotels and resorts have been allowed to re-open,” he said. Buses run by state owned enterprise will run with 50% capacity with the government deciding to bear the loss.Bihar, which is likely to hold assembly polls in November-December, however, is likely to announce significant relaxations after September 6, when the state-wide lockdown ends. The Centre has prohibited lockdowns outside containment zones without its permission as part of the Unlock 4 guidelines.The Bihar government may come up with guidelines related to social gatherings, public meetings and political functions in view of the elections. In the state-wide lockdown, enforced since August 1, only shops selling essential goods remained open. “Till September 6, the state-wide lockdown is in force. The government will review the situation and likely issue new orders,” said additional chief secretary, home, Amir Subhani. As social distancing norms are being enforced, bus travel in Jharkhand would become costlier from September 1 as the state has allowed only 50% seating capacity to be occupied. Kerala government officials said Kochi Metro will start functioning from September 7 in a staggered manner. Maharashtra government officials said more relaxations would be offered under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ in a calibrated manner including opening up of inter-state bus travel. The state is likely to allow gymnasiums to open and government and private establishments to increase employee strength to between 30% and 50% from the present 10-15%, the officials said.“Going by the surge in cases, we are not in a position to open what all has been allowed by the Centre,” said an official. He said the government is unlikely to open religious places despite demands by the opposition. The relaxations are likely to be notified on Monday.Officials in the West Bengal said that new Unlock guidelines may not be announced as chief minister Mamata Banerjee has declared a complete state-wide lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-resume-buses-trains/story-2BdytXqyP2Pjl4W7xO11ZO.html
31-08-2020||India||New protocol for parliament’s upcoming monsoon session||Doorstep Covid-19 tests for MPs, the freedom to deliver a speech in the House while seated, options to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their constituency before heading to Delhi, and one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors -- these are some of the new measures the Lok Sabha will see in its upcoming monsoon session, following Speaker Om Birla’s meeting with health sector experts last week. The Lok Sabha Speaker met union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, ICMR chief Dr Balaram Bhargava and DRDO and Delhi government officials on Friday for a brainstorming session where he was quick to approve some new ideas, a top functionary aware of the proceedings at the meeting said on condition of anonymity.For instance, Dr Guleria suggested that it would be better if MPs could talk while seated —a departure from the tradition of standing while speaking—as this would restrict any possible spread of aerosols, an idea that was approved. He also suggested that since the home addresses and locations of all MPs are known, they could be administered RT-PCR tests before the session (and in many cases before the parliamentarians left for Delhi). Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary suggested that the Vande Bharat experiment of asking passengers to conduct RT-PCR tests from their place of boarding a flight can be replicated for MPs. Vande Bharat Mission evacuees are allowed to undergo RT-PCR tests 96 hours before take-off. If they test negative, they avoid quarantine in the port of arrival. In the case of MPs who are living outside Delhi, it was decided to request them to undertake such tests in their constituencies 72 hours before coming to Parliament. The much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament, delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will be held between September 14 and October 1. Dr Guleria also suggested that one-way movement should be enforced in some key corridors and the Central Hall of Parliament, according to the functionary. This measure, the AIIMS chief explained, would prevent MPs coming face-to-face with their colleagues and reduce the chance of infection. This suggestion was also accepted.Indian Parliament will see major changes and severe restrictions during the monsoon session and both Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla are focusing on every detail to ensure the safety of lawmakers and workers in the Parliament complex that will house the session for 18 days. Visitors and media persons will not be allowed access to areas including the Central Hall during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Media, however, will be allowed to cover the session from press gallery. A second functionary familiar with the meeting and also the thinking in the speaker’s office said that Birla sees himself as the head of “this large family of Lok Sabha MPs”, and considers it his duty to ensure highest safety standards in the House. This person, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Birla plans a special meeting between the MPs and Guleria, Bhushan and Bhargava. “In the proposed meeting, these health experts will explain details of the Covid virus and it will not just help MPs to take extra care but also educate people in their constituencies.” Indian Tea Board and Indian Coffee Board have also been asked to supply the beverages in disposable paper cups and not use glass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-protocol-for-monsoon-session/story-4C77aX9YpqRzi09IyR7o5H.html
31-08-2020||India||Video of local Trinamool Congress leader firing pistol at rivals goes viral in Bengal||A video of a local Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader firing a pistol on a busy street during a feud between two groups in Murshidabad district on Sunday afternoon, has turned viral on social media. The leader, identified as Asadul Sheikh is a municipal ward-level president of the TMC in the district’s Domkal town. Two people were allegedly injured in the firing but local police refused to comment on the issue till Sunday night. Sheikh could not be contacted while the TMC leadership said he would be arrested. The incident, local people alleged, was triggered by a dispute between two rival TMC groups over setting up some shops by the roadside. In the video, pedestrians and three-wheelers can be seen passing by the spot where Sheikh takes the pistol from an associate and fires it. “Give it to me,” he can be heard saying. Some women can also be heard wailing in the background. Abul Hossain, a local TMC leader whose son Johny sustained a bullet injury, said, “Sheikh tried to shoot me but I grabbed the pistol and moved away. A bullet went through my shirt. A second bullet hit my son. Many shots were fired. They came with bombs as well.” Abu Taher, the TMC’s district president and Lok Sabha member, said, “This sort of activity will not be tolerated. The police will take action. The party will take disciplinary action as well.” Ashok Das, the TMC’s district coordinator said, “The party has nothing to do with the incident. There was a feud between two groups of people.” Zafiqul Islam, chairman of the TMC-controlled Domkal municipality said, “The shops over which the two groups were fighting are being illegally set up on the footpath which is government land.” Bharatiya Janata Party state president Dilip Ghosh condemned the incident and said it was a proof of lawlessness in Bengal. In another incident, in the Bali area of Howrah district the police on Sunday arrested Biswajoy Banerjee, a local TMC leader, for allegedly asking for protection money from Mahesh Surekha, a real estate businessman. Surekha is building a project close by the banks of the Hooghly River. Surekha recorded the phone conversation he had with Banerjee. The recording was given to the media. The accused could be heard saying, “I am surprised that you do not know me. Mamata Banerjee and Mukul Roy know me very well.” Surekha lodged a police complaint on Friday night. Mukul Roy, incidentally, joined the BJP in 2017. TMC’s senior district leader and minister Arup Roy said, “A man does not become a leader of the party just by claiming to be one.” During his arrest Banerjee told the local media that he and his family members are dedicated followers of the chief minister. “The construction is illegal. I called up only to inquire about it. The recording has been edited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-local-trinamool-congress-leader-firing-pistol-at-rivals-goes-viral-in-bengal/story-jITfUsmqol9R2M1VfdEXDM.html
31-08-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: PM stresses on need for self-reliance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was vocal for local in his monthly outreach talk on radio, Mann Ki Baat, stressing on the need for and the importance of India-made apps and toys, and mentioning the USPs of indie dog breeds such as Kombai. “At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?,” he said, asking people to consider bringing home “one of these Indian breeds.” Atmanirbhar Bharat (self reliant India) has been the Prime Minister and the government’s theme for some time. The Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus and relief package announced by the government to help individuals and businesses cope with the Covid-19 pandemic was built around this theme. In his 31-minute talk in Hindi, Modi said he brainstormed with various ministries on how students and children should spend their time during lockdown. It was in this context that he mentioned toys and games. India should become a hub for toy production, he said. The global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small and we will have to work to increase it, Modi added. Some areas are being developed as toy clusters, he said. The best toys are those which encourage the creativity of children, he added, suggesting that start-ups to “team up for toys”. Come, let’s play,” he added. The PM also highlighted the potential of the country’s young people by drawing attention to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology’s Atmanirbhar app challenge that threw up alternatives to popular applications such as Twitter and TikTok. The Atmanirbhar app challenge was launched Modi on July 4. Among the indigenous applications to win the challenge were Koo, an alternative to Twitter; MapMyIndia, an alternative to Google maps; and Chingari, an alternative to TikTok. “Dear countrymen, everyone acknowledges capability of Indians to offer innovation, solutions, when there is dedication and sensitivity, this power becomes limitless... Be it virtual games, be it the sector of toys in the self-reliant India campaign, all have to play very important role...,” Modi said. He mentioned an app called KutukiKids “This is an interactive app for children using which they can easily learn many aspects of maths, science through songs and stories.” Kutukikids won the second prize in the e-learning category. A pair of army dogs, honoured with the army chief’s commendation card on Independence Day for their heroics, found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday, with the PM hailing them as “bravehearts” who performed their duties diligently to protect the country. While Vida, a black Labrador, sniffed out landmines and grenades during a demining operation in Jammu and Kashmir and prevented army casualties, Sophie, a Cocker Spaniel from a bomb disposal unit, helped avert a tragedy by detecting explosives in Delhi, two army officials said. Their names and unique service numbers will be put up on roll-of-honour boards at their respective units. “Army dogs and their handlers perform dangerous tasks but they receive little attention. Many of them have been killed in the combat zone. The PM has thrust them into the limelight by highlighting their contribution in his address,” said a senior army officer, asking not to be named. In his address, the PM also talked about the gallant actions of Balaram, who detected explosives on the Amarnath Yatra route, and Bhavana, who sniffed out an improvised explosive device (IED) many years ago, but was killed as terrorists managed to trigger the explosive.. The PM said indigenous dog breeds such Mudhol Hound, Himachali Hound, Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai were “fabulous,” cheaper to raise and better adapted to the Indian environment. He said the security forces were increasingly inducting these local breeds. In his talk, Modi also focused on nutrition . The month of September will celebrated as nutrition month and schools should have not just report cards but also nutrition cards and nutrition monitors along with class monitors, he said. “Schools are being involved. There should be a nutrition monitor just like there is a class monitor. There should be a nutrition card along with the report card.” Modi said normally this time of the year is festive but this time the situation is different because of Covid-19. He said there has been unprecedented restraint, simplicity in our festivals this time, he said. He said many Indian festivals celebrate nature. Modi made a special mention of a festival celebrated by Bihar’s Tharu tribe in this regard along with Onam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-stresses-on-need-for-self-reliance/story-mlV5U7tGJWPW1skv9AFMiP.html
31-08-2020||India||4 states reject Centre’s options over GST dues||The Centre’s suggestion that states borrow to meet the revenue shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) has run into some turbulence with some states ruled by non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parties rejecting both options presented to them. West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi and Punjab have all objected to the plan. The two options presented are totally unacceptable because such a move will badly impact the financial health of states, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Sunday, warning of what he called a “planned strategy to crush federalism”. Mitra also said huge debt was being thrust on states in the name of an “Act of God” — a reference to the phrase used by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to describe the Covid-19 pandemic that she said had hit GST collections.“Many people are worried and see this as a pattern. Once the financial health of states becomes shaky, the brute power of centralism will come into play. Is this the new ideology?” Mitra asked at a virtual news conference.“At the GST Council meeting, 15 states, including some ruled by the BJP, said the states cannot be asked to borrow to make up for the shortfall in GST revenue collection as this will increase debt burden and [lead to] more expenditure. After the meeting, the Centre has sent us a written reply saying we have to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),” Mitra, who was present at the meeting, said. He did not name the states.Since the meeting of the GST Council last week, Kerala, Punjab, and Delhi all ruled by non-BJP parties, have expressed their discomfort with the plan, and asked the Centre to borrow to make good its commitment to the states. Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia termed the Centre’s move a “betrayal” of federalism. HT learns that other states such as Maharashtra and Chattisgarh are also opposed to the plan. Ahead of the GST Council meeting last week, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray suggested moving to the older tax regime because GST wasn’t working. The Centre has guaranteed states compensation for any shortfall arising from GST for five years starting 2017. Annual revenue growth of 14% was assumed for this. This year, the finance ministry expects the compensation to be around Rs 3 lakh crore, and says Rs 65,000 crore can be met through the collection of cess on luxury and sin goods. The Centre offered states two options to plug a shortfall in their revenue, estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the financial year that ends in March 2021, at the 41st meeting of the GST Council on Thursday,.First, states can borrow Rs 97,000 crore at reasonable interest rates from a special window that will be opened in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India. Both the principal and the interest payments will come from cess collections. In the second option, the states can borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore, but will have to bear the interest cost. The Centre has defined losses arising from implementation of GST at Rs 97,000 crore and the balance as losses arising from an Act of God (Covid-19).On March 14 — before the pandemic spread — Sitharaman said the Centre was duty-bound to compensate the states, MItra said. “Now, they are saying just the opposite. This is totally subterfuge,” Mitra added.According to him, if the states go and borrow, yields will be affected. “Why is the Centre not borrowing directly? The Centre can monetise debt by printing money which the states cannot,” he said.The Union finance ministry did not reply to queries seeking comment. Reacting to Mitra’s allegation that the Centre was trying to crush the federal structure by financially hurting the states, BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said: “He is parroting a rhetoric that chief minister Mamata Banerjee has scripted for him. He made similar statements when the Centre declared the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package.” Sarthak Roychaudhury, a Kolkata-based economics professor, said that in a federal structure, states should not be asked to take loans from RBI and pay interest on them at a time like this. “The Centre should take the loan and pass on the compensation to the states. The states do not have the machinery to recover the losses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-reject-centre-s-options-over-gst-dues/story-ZLSIQ8NDaQrzHtATAo3IiO.html
31-08-2020||India||Thousands displaced, 24 dead, as excess rain and overflowing dams flood central India||An overflowing Narmada threw life out of gear in parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and water released from the Hirakud dam flooded several districts of Odisha on the weekend. At least 24 people were killed in flooding in MP and Odisha. and thousands were displaced as heavy rainfall lashed other parts of India, causing reservors to overflow. Rainfall has been 25% more than normal in August, which India Meteorological Department (IMD) is the highest for the month in 44 years. The previous highest in August was recorded in 1983, when rain was 23.8% more than the normal. In Madhya Pradesh, at least eight people were killed in the past 24 hours and more than 9,000 were moved to relief camps during rescue operations; 454 villages in 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh have been affected by the floods caused by incessant rain since Thursday. The latest fatalities took the rain- and flood-related death toll in MP to 129 since this monsoon. Sixteen people died in flooding in Odisha, officials said.Rain intensity reduces in Mumbai, IMD predicts moderate rain for todayFlood-hit districts in the state include Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Bhopal, Vidisha, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Seoni, Katni, Sagar, Shivpuri and Ujjain. A large number of people were airlifted to safety with the help of air force helicopters; they included 62 residents of Somalwada village in Sehore district.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday morning and sought his help in rescue operations being carried on by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Home Guards, police and personnel of other departments.Photos: India’s wettest August in 44 years brings 25% excess rains“The rescue operations have been continuing since Friday evening. There are 454 villages in 12 districts affected by the flood. As many as 9,300 people have been moved to 170 relief camps,” Chouhan said, adding that he was monitoring the flood situation from a control room set up at his residence. He said huge damage had been caused to standing crops and added that farmers will be compensated with crop insurance and other relief schemes.Large parts of the Narmada river basin in Gujarat were flooded as excess water was released from the Sardar Sarovar dam in the state and dams in Madhya Pradesh.According to home ministry data, until Sunday, 175 people had died because in floods in Gujarat with half the deaths reported in August. “We are providing relief and relocating people from the worst affected areas,” PTI quoted chief minister Vijay Rupani as saying. Over 800,000 have been affected across 500 villages of Odisha, said Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Kumar Jena on Sunday. He said 50,000 people evacuated to safe shelters.According to the the Central Water Commission’s update dated August 29, eight dams have overflown including the Tawa dam in MP on the river Narmada; Rengali dam in Odisha on river Brahmani; and Hidkal in Karnataka on Ghataptrabha. River Mahanadi in parts of Chhattisgarh; Wainganga and Narmada in MP are rising rapidly because of heavy rain forecast for the next two days, CWC said.“It’s a dangerous situation. Any dam that reaches full reservoir level when monsoon is still underway can be disastrous for districts downstream. The dam operators should have released water gradually and not when it’s already 100%. Naramada, Mahanadi and Godavari basins are affected. CWC and dam operators should have been aware of the likely inflow and planned release accordingly,” said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People. The well-marked low pressure area over West Madhya Pradesh and adjoining East Rajasthan is likely to move west-northwestwards during the next two days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.“Extremely heavy rain in Madhya Pradesh and other parts of central India is mainly because of a strong low pressure area over west Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan. We are expecting rain to decrease gradually over central India but Gujarat may experience very heavy rains for one more day. Then rains will increase over the northern plains when the monsoon trough shifts northwards around September 2,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.The western end of the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) lies south to its normal position and its eastern end lies close to foothills of the Himalayas. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and very heavy to extremely heavy rain is likely over Gujarat on August 30 and 31. Widespread rain with very heavy rain is likely over West Madhya Pradesh and north Konkan on August 30 and over Rajasthan on August 30 and 31.“We are not expecting any low-pressure area to develop next week so we are hoping rain will gradually reduce in central India. Rains may increase over northwest India, northeast India and south Peninsula particularly Kerala-Karnataka region,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.Excess rains could ensure soil moisture for months. “There are different ways of harvesting water. But the most important source of water for agriculture is groundwater, more than both dams and rivers. So the focus should be on local storage and local recharge systems. We have to store rainwater where it falls and avoid runoff,” added Thakkar.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 has been 9% excess with 21% excess over the southern Peninsula; 19% excess over central India; 11% deficiency over northwest India and 3% over east and northeast India.According to Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region, a report by the ministry of earth sciences released earlier this year, from 1950 onwards there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme and heavy rain events over central India, along with a decreasing trend in moderate rain events.A study published in Nature journal in 2017 by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology had concluded that there had been a three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India during 1950 to 2015||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excess-rain-overflowing-dams-flood-central-india/story-YUUni3yQk0eMQwxa9ce48M.html
31-08-2020||India||Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive for Covid-19||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Karnataka unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Sunday that he had tested positive for Covid-19. Kateel, who is the MP from Dakshina Kannada seat tweeted that though he was asymptomatic, on the advice of doctors he has been admitted to a hospital.Expressing confidence that with the blessings and good wishes of the people he would return to serve them quickly, he requested all those who had come in contact with him in the recent past to get tested for the viral infection and take adequate precautions.His counterpart, Congress President of Karnataka DK Shivakumar is also in hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and leader of opposition Siddaramiah had also tested positive for the disease and were in the hospital but have been discharged after recovering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-chief-nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-5Z0IXZ6OHhfRg1YJjWo15M.html
