01-06-2021||West Bengal||Home ministry showcause notice to Alapan under Disaster Management Act||The Union home ministry showcause notice to Alapan Bandyopadhyay for not attending a Prime Minister’s review meeting cites provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005, a move that is likely to embed the former chief secretary at the centre of a bitter dispute between the state and Centre. A home ministry official said the showcause notice was served on Bandyopadhyay for not attending a Prime Minister’s review meeting to assess damages caused by Cylcone Yaas, hours before chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced his retirement on Monday. Bandopadhyay, said the officer, has been asked to reply within three days to the notice that effectively opens up the senior and respected bureaucrat to the stringent provisions of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment of up to two or more years, depending on the circumstances. “… by this act of abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister who is also the chairman of National Disaster Management Authority in the aftermath of cyclone Yaas as part of his visit to the cyclone affected areas in the state of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, chief secretary, government of West Bengal, has acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directives of the central government and is thus violative of section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the letter reads. Bandyopadhyay, who has time till Thursday to submit a reply, has, however, been left with few options. He can move a high court or the Supreme Court if any action is taken by the Centre or any other authority. The notice has been served under Section 51 of the Act that specifies “whoever without reasonable cause refused to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the Central government or the state government or the National Executive Committee or the State Executive committee, shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and a fine or with both”. If it is determined that the action of a person, through obstruction or refusal to comply with directions, “results in loss of lives or imminent danger”, the conviction can be punishable with a term extending up to two years. A senior bureaucrat said the Centre’s decision to slap the Disaster Management Act on Bandyopadhyay was not surprising. “They could have issued the same notice to him on Saturday when the first notice was served. They knew he would not comply and waited till his retirement was announced to serve the notice under the Disaster Management Act. Technically, he is no longer in the protection of the state government,” said a retired IAS officer who has served in Bengal. A 1987 batch IAS officer, Bandyopadhyay was due to retire on May 31. On a request from the state government, the Centre had agreed to grant him extension for three months, starting from June 1. “When the order to recall him to Delhi came, the Centre did not cancel the earlier order granting him extension. For any disciplinary action as IAS officer the department of personnel and training can take any action against him _ like, say, withhold post-retirement benefits,” another former officer said, adding that the proceedings against Bandyopadhyay and the DoPT orders were not to be clubbed together. In any case, he explained, that the matter would not have been resolved amicably even if Bandyopadhyay had complied with the Centre’s order of May 28. “He would have to be given a post equivalent to chief secretary in Delhi. Since he hasn’t applied for secretary empanelment since he held the rank of joint secretary, he couldn’t be given that rank in Delhi. The government would have to appoint him as officer on special duty,” the officer said. Sources close to the government debunked chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clarifications on the controversy. “PM landed at Kalaikunda at 1.59 pm. Mamata Banerjee landed at 2.10 pm. It is clear that PM was kept waiting for Mamata Banerjee as he landed much before her,” ndtv.com reported an officer saying. Defending the move against Bandyopadhyay, sources said, he had ignored his constitutional duties. “Chief secretary is an All-India services officer. He chose to ignore his constitutional duties, as a result of which no presentation was given to PM and no officer of the West Bengal government attended the PM’s review meeting,” the officer added. “She knows that facts of the matter are against the chief secretary and his behaviour was such that it will invite strict disciplinary action. All India officers are not expected to be part of politics. Mamata knows all this and his retirement is a last bid to save him,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar takes dig at Mamata over skipping PM meet||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday stirred fresh controversy by saying "ego prevailed over public service" on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee skipping Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting to review post-cyclone damages on May 28. Dhankhar said the chief minister had called him before the meeting at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district and indicated that she won't attend it if Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari is present in it. "Constrained by false narrative to put record straight: On May 27 at 2316 hrs CM @MamataOfficial messaged 'may I talk? urgent'," Dhankhar tweeted. "Thereafter on phone indicated boycott by her & officials of PM Review Meet #CycloneYaas if LOP @SuvenduWB attends it. Ego prevailed over Public service," he said in another Twitter post. Besides Adhikary, Dhankhar and BJP MP Debosree Chaudhuri were present at the meeting. The chief minister said she skipped the meeting because "a BJP MLA has no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting". Adhikari has defeated Banerjee in Nandigram seat in the recent assembly elections. In a letter to the prime minister on Monday, Banerjee had written, "I wanted to have a quiet word with you, a meeting between the PM and the CM as usual. You, however, revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting." Banerjee had also mentioned in the letter that she had no objection to the presence of the governor and other Union ministers in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Deocha-Pachami coal mine project on govt land for now, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked top officials to start the first phase of Deocha-Pachami coal mine project on vacant government land and said her government would compensate adequately those whose land might be acquired later. “Now we are not taking anyone’s private land. We will process the first phase on the land of the state government lying vacant. If we need to take anyone’s land, I can assure you all, including my tribal and minority brothers, there is nothing to worry. We will not evict anyone but provide you with a house, school and a job,” said Mamata at her administrative meeting. The coal block in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar is spread over 11,222 acres with estimated coal reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for 1.5 lakh people, said sources. An official said 550 acres are government land. The state government has been bullish about the project since last year. The chief minister has said the project will not only benefit the local economy and give jobs but also secure coal supply for the state for at least 100 years. In an effort to take the project forward, former chief secretary Rajiva Sinha in July last year held a meeting with tribal leaders in Deocha to seek their cooperation and promised proper compensation. In her campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls, Mamata had stressed how important the coal block project was to her scheme of things. “We don’t need any private land in the first phase and if it is needed in the second phase, we will first talk to you (the owners). If the project is successful, there will be no scarcity of coal in the next 100 years. It will bring you a golden era. You people have nothing to worry as I am here as your guard,” said Mamata. Officials said Mamata spoke on the need to get work started as she was aware that the first phase of the coal mine can be rolled out on 550 acres of government land available at the project site. “Of the 550 acres, around 40 acres can be used immediately as there is no human habitation on the stretch....,” said a senior district official. The Power Development Corporation Limited (PDCL) has started a primary survey in a few areas of the proposed coal mine project to understand the compensation demands of the local populace. “The chief minister has given the directive to start the project today from Nabanna. We will follow the guideline of the secretariat to start the project,” said Bidhan Chandra Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate. Before the poll, BJP leaders started visiting Deocha-Pachami allegedly to instigate the people against the project. The saffron camp had also held several meetings with the villagers but the efforts went in vain. In her several public meetings, Mamata had also warned people not to fall in the trap of the instigators. “If someone instigates or provokes you, don’t fall for it. You need to believe that Didi is with you. I sacrificed a lot for Singur and Nandigram and I will be for you here too,” Mamata said. Rabin Soren, the secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, said, “We have no problem if the project starts on government land. Our only demand is that the government should engage in a dialogue with the owners before they take over private land.” Apart from Deocha-Pachami coalmine project Mamata also asked her officials to speed up projects like green city and sports city in Howrah’s Dumurjala as soon as possible. In 2017, the government had announced its plan to upgrade 125 municipal towns into green cities. However, the project worth over Rs 450 crore has not been rolled out. In 2018, the government had planned to set up a sports city in Howrah’s Dumurjala with a fund of around Rs 1,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee expresses dissatisfaction with ‘poor quality’ of development work in Digha||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday expressed dissatisfaction with the “poor quality” of development work in East Midnapore’s Digha and advised her officials to do more than just seek funds. “There was definitely some negligence in work…The construction (near) the sea beach has been blown away. There are no chairs (of concrete) that we had beautifully set up for visitors to rest. Stones on the walkway have been damaged. I saw that the stone blocks had been placed on concrete, which is not the way to do it. You had to set those deep and not just on the concrete base,” Mamata said and explained how she observed the faults during her visit to Digha on May 28 in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. “Work can last long only if the foundation is strong,” she added. Since Mamata came to power in 2011, she launched a slew of projects for Digha to enhance its standing as a tourist and business destination. The beach in the sea resort town was decorated and a marine drive-like road had been built to connect Digha with Mandarmani and Tajpur. On Monday, Mamata admitted that the beauty of Digha built during her tenure had been completely damaged by Cyclone Yaas and high tide. She directed the officials to get Digha back to its prior look by implementing plans properly. “The beauty of Digha has been damaged. Even shops on the beach that we built have been damaged....Even the shop of Biswa Bangla has been ruined. So, you have to make a good plan to repair those,” said Mamata. Mamata also asked her officials to finish work on the bridge to complete the part of the Marine Drive that remains incomplete.“We have built a Marine Drive that is 7km long. The 3.5km has already been constructed and if the bridge is completed then the rest 3.5 km will be completed.” I will request you to construct the bridge immediately,” said Mamata. In her meeting she asked to reconstruct the shops, and rearrange the stone blocks that had been washed away using the right technique and attitude. “Everything you do needs proper planning. But it will not be right if anyone seeks a lot of funds at this time. I think there is no need for huge funds, but you need a special attitude towards work,” said Mamata asking state and district officials to take care of fishermen and boatmen who suffered a lot due to the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Three-member committee to probe if BJP workers had to flee: Calcutta High Court||A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday directed the state government to set up a three-member committee to find out if some BJP workers had been forced to leave home in the aftermath of the alleged post-poll clashes in several areas of the state. The bench focused particularly on Calcutta’s Entally. The bench directed the inclusion of a representative of the chairman of the National Human Rights Commissio, a representative of the State Human Rights Commission and a member of State Legal Aid Services Authority in the panel. “If necessary, the committee members will help the persons to return to their respective residences and police will have to provide full assistance to them,” the bench ordered. The court order followed a petition by advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who had lost the Assembly polls as the BJP candidate from Entally. She had claimed that a large number of BJP activists had been beaten up and forced to leave their homes by Trinamul supporters after election results on May 2. In Entally, Swarna Kamal Saha of Trinamul Congress defeated Tibrewal with a margin of over 58,000 votes. Tibrewal in her petition claimed Trinamul workers damaged the properties of BJP supporters and tortured their kin. The case will come up for hearing on June 3. Narada case The hearing of a petition moved by the CBI, seeking shifting of the Narada case from a CBI court to Calcutta High Court, resumed before a five-judge bench on Monday. The hearing will continue on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||State BJP unit ‘unhappy’ with Delhi’s stand||The Centre’s recall of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to Delhi and the series of events that led to his superannuation on Monday have not gone down well with a section of the state BJP unit, and the incident is being seen as proof of the ever-widening rift between the national and state leaders in the saffron camp. Sources in the BJP’s state unit feel that central leaders of the party are carrying forward the mistakes of the Assembly poll campaign and continue to overlook the sentiment of the people of Bengal who think injustice is being done to Bandyopadhyay, a Bengali chief secretary. “There is no doubt that Alapanbabu is a decorated and able officer. What is being done to him is tantamount to harassment and citizens of the state aren’t taking it well,” a BJP state office-bearer said. “If the central leadership had discussed with us before going all out against Alapanbabu, we would have advised against it,” this source added. Several other leaders, speaking to The Telegraph, said “leaders in Delhi” were oblivious of the ground reality existing in the state. Top rungs of the saffron camp refuse to learn from the poll drubbing, several BJP leaders said. “The common Bengali isn’t happy with Alapanbabu being harassed. Neither is a major section of our own leaders. But Delhiwallahs refuse to accept that,” said a state unit leader of the BJP’s women wing. The leader reminded that the fuss over Bandyopadhyay’s recall had helped chief minister Mamata Banerjee establish, once again, that BJP was unaware of the Bengal reality. “Bengal might not have another Bengali chief secretary in a long time. Our leaders just proved Mamatadi right once again,” the leader added. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, however, accused journalists in Bengal of blowing the issue out of proportion. Ghosh said: “The government has failed to perform its duties during the cyclone…victims of post-poll violence have not returned home…The media is trying to deviate from these issues by focusing on Alapan.” Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said he was not aware of who in the BJP “think injustice is being done to Alapanbabu”. “If true, it shows there are some sensible people in the BJP.” The controversy on Alapan brought Trinamul critics CPM and the Congress on the same page. CPM leader Rabin Deb accused the BJP of trying to deviate attention from the Centre’s failure to control the second wave of the pandemic by harassing a senior IAS officer. “The chief minister has in fact been very courteous on this matter and had asked the Union government to rethink. Yet they didn’t reconcile,” Deb said. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said: “The chief secretary has turned down the extension offer and no disciplinary action can be taken against him. The Centre should not have recalled him.” “The state government and the CM shouldn’t complicate things any further because of the pandemic situation. The Centre and the state should work together in the interest of the people,” Bhattacharya added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay has guts, boldness, honesty, sincerity: Didi||At 5.11pm on Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s superannuation as Bengal chief secretary and his appointment as her chief adviser for three years. Mamata, who had held a virtual administrative review meeting and a brief news conference on the impact of Cyclone Yaas in the afternoon, had steered clear of elaborating on the developments regarding the chief secretary after she sent a five-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning. Bandyopadhyay was present at the administrative meeting, having not gone to New Delhi to report to North Block by 10am as the Centre had asked him to. However, after the Centre sent another letter to Bandyopadhyay ordering him to report to North Block by 10am on Tuesday, the chief minister appeared for an unscheduled news conference to make the announcement. “Shri Bandyopadhyay has superannuated from the afternoon of May 31, 2021, on his normal date of retirement…. Hence his services are no longer available to join the central government tomorrow (Tuesday). He did not resign; he retired, superannuated,” Mamata said. The chief minister added that state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi would succeed Bandyopadhyay as chief secretary while personnel and administrative reforms secretary B.P. Gopalika would be the new home secretary. It was clear that the decision was prompted by the Centre’s apparent unwillingness to stand down in the latest confrontation with Mamata’s government in Bengal since the BJP’s defeat in the Assembly election. Mamata said she could have prevented Bandyopadhyay from retiring and had him continue as planned with the three-month extension, and the Centre would not have been able to say anything. “But I did not force him; after he said he would like to retire on schedule, today, I permitted him,” she said, repeatedly underscoring the value of Bandyopadhyay’s service and the need for it to continue for Bengal amid the pandemic and in the wake of the cyclone, the grounds over which his extension had been sought and cleared earlier this month. “Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the bright officer… he has the guts, the boldness, the honesty, the sincerity, and his name will be forever in the history of India, about how a bureaucrat was victimised after his long service,” Mamata added. “I allowed him to be the chief adviser to the chief minister --- he will start his work from tomorrow --- for three years, not three months…. Bengal doesn’t know defeat. It is our moral victory, we never bowed our heads.” The Trinamul Congress chief called the Bandyopadhyay episode yet another “great blunder” by the Centre in its alleged efforts to bulldoze state governments and the federal structure of the nation. She demanded answers on the decision, which she called illegal and unconstitutional, wondering about the quality of the political counsel being offered to Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “It’s really a danger for the country… they are damaging the morale of the bureaucrats throughout the country…. Are bureaucrats their bonded labour? They are not,” she said. “There are so many Bengal cadre officers working for the Centre; if we confront like this, what will be the future of this country, Mr Prime Minister? Mr Busy Prime Minister, Mr Mann Ki Baat Prime Minister… what, do you want to finish me? Never, ever…. As long as people give me support, you cannot,” she added, accusing the Centre of adding “injury to the insult”. Mamata repeatedly accused the Modi government of having created the conflict over Bandyopadhyay simply because the BJP does not like her and remains unable to accept or respect the historic Bengal mandate. She lambasted efforts from the saffron ecosystem to discredit the mandate and even call for President’s rule since the results, while creating disruptions in the way of her governance amid the pandemic, even in the wake of the cyclone. “The most senior bureaucrat of the state, the chief secretary, you just call him away like that? It has never happened before since Independence. This is a matter of shame,” she said. “They think only BJP people are superhuman, (and that) everybody else, including the bureaucrats, will digest everything…. There must be end to tolerance now…. I had never seen such a cruel, merciless Prime Minister or Union home minister. Because they are against Mamata, they also attack the bureaucrats, not even sparing the chief secretary. This is too much,” she added. Mamata appealed to civil society across the nation, besides all state governments led by parties from the national Opposition, NGOs, and the bureaucracy to stand together and fight, as this was not just about an Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “This battle is for all bureaucracy…. Only the two-member (Modi and Shah) syndicate, that is the law? Even if they go to court, the court will also not give support as far as my knowledge as a lawyer goes,” she said. “They will regret this one day. For seven years, they binged on Dilli ka laddu, that’s why they are out to destroy the federal structure,” she added. “Having failed on all fronts in running this nation, with disaster in every area, they have nothing left to do, so they are trying to impose -- not even an Emergency -- martial law.” The chief minister said the BJP had been trying to “disturb” the state government relentlessly in her third term misusing its political power, but it was committing yet another blunder in the process. “We don’t mind. We will fight the battle. Ours is a pro-people government, they cannot stop us from working for the people…. They have no idea about us: we were born and raised in struggle, forged in mass movements,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee: State to write to Niti Aayog for shelter funds||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that her government would write a letter to the Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, seeking funds to set up 500 cyclone and flood shelters in the state, considering that natural calamities have become a regular feature in this part of the country. “We will write a letter to the Niti Aayog, seeking funds to set up 500 flood shelters and cyclone shelters in the state. Floods and cyclones are a regular feature now and that’s why more such shelters are needed,” said the chief minister during a virtual meeting with district magistrates and senior officials at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said that currently Bengal has a total of about 100 cyclone shelters in three the coastal districts of East Midnapore, South and North 24-Parganas with the corpus of the PM Relief Funds that had started in 2008. But the state administration believes that those shelters are not adequate as Bengal has started witnessing a cyclone every year since 2019, Fani, Amphan and now Yaas. “Earlier, the cyclones were not an annual affair. Cyclone Aila had hit the state in 2009 and after that there was  a big gap. Now, as cyclones are hitting the state regularly, the chief minister’s plan to set up more cyclone shelters is a timely one,” said an official. Another reason, cited by the officials, for more cyclone shelters in Bengal is that more and more people are being evacuated these days to prevent loss of lives. “During Amphan more than 16 lakh people were evacuated last year. This year, about 18 lakh people were evacuated. We definitely need more cyclone shelters to accommodate so many people,” said an official. This year, several school and college buildings had to be requisitioned to accommodate so many people during the natural calamity. “This year, it was easy as all schools and colleges were closed because of the pandemic. But we will face trouble in accommodating people from vulnerable areas in school and college buildings in future as people may stay more than two weeks in the shelters in case of flooding,” said an official. However, even though the chief minister has stated that her government would write to the Niti Aayog for cyclone shelter funds, many state officials were not hopeful of drawing attention of the central body. “Last year, we had drawn attention of the Niti Aayog for setting up stronger embankments in Sunderbans as relief and rescue related work in the area has become a national problem in the context of cyclones and floods. But we did not get any response yet on the issue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Alapan Bandyopadhyay retires as Chief secretary||Narendra Modi had to digest on Monday another defeat in Bengal less than a month after his party suffered a drubbing in the Assembly polls, with state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay refusing to accept the three-month extension offered to him by the Centre and retiring from service. Bandyopadhyay has opted to serve as chief adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for three years from Tuesday, rebuffing the three-month attachment with the Centre that New Delhi was unceremoniously trying to foist on him through an unprecedented step that smacked of political vendetta. “We wanted Alapan only for three months to take care of the pandemic situation, but see how they behaved…. Now I have managed to keep him for three years,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee told The Telegraph on Monday evening. The biggest victory, Mamata underscored repeatedly, has been won for the pride of Bengal. “It was proven one more time that they cannot dictate to or browbeat Bengal,” the chief minister said. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer who was due to retire on Monday, found himself in the middle of a tug-of-war between Modi and Mamata after New Delhi unilaterally attached him to the Centre through an order on May 28 after allowing him a three-month extension as Bengal chief secretary. That Bandyopadhyay did not opt for a stint in the capital — despite the order and a follow-up letter this afternoon — is being viewed as a setback for Modi. It is perceived that the Prime Minister wanted to teach Mamata a lesson by punishing Bandyopadhyay for skipping a meeting he had convened in Kalaikunda last Friday. Unlike the Assembly polls in which Modi lost to Mamata, the list of victors this time is longer: the bureaucrat himself, Mamata, the bureaucracy and the pride of Bengal. “Alapanda had played by the book all through his career and did the same on the last day…. He didn’t want an extension, but had agreed to lead the state’s battle against the pandemic for three more months because of a request from the chief minister. He chose to retire after realising that he cannot serve the specific purpose,” said a source in the state administration. As opting for an extension in service is the discretion of the person concerned, Bandyopadhyay cannot be faulted for refusing to present himself before the department of personnel and training in Delhi. “It was clear that the plan was to humiliate him by asking him to report to Delhi. By retiring gracefully, he didn’t let that happen,” said another source. The chronology of events since Mamata skipped Modi’s meeting in Kalaikunda on Friday can be seen as a political victory for the chief minister. It offers her another opportunity to highlight the Prime Minister’s perceived arrogance and demagoguery in dealing with the states at a time his Covid crisis management has drawn fire. Mamata has repeatedly explained that she went to Kalaikunda following courtesy and protocol and also met Modi briefly. In a letter to the Prime Minister, she explained in detail why she felt that he had breached protocol, which prompted her to skip the meeting. “A faceless Prime Minister with baseless logic is taking such decisions against Bengal,” Mamata told this newspaper, summing up New Delhi’s action on Bandyopadhyay. If Mamata’s assessment is read carefully, it is clear that she will use the controversy over the bureaucrat’s transfer to buttress her narrative that the BJP regime in the capital is anti-Bengal. In the by-election that she has to win and the civic elections that will follow, the Bandyopadhyay incident will surely add to the existing stock of ammunition in Mamata’s armoury. The other collateral benefit that will accrue to Mamata is higher levels of trust from the bureaucracy --- as the controversy has proven beyond doubt that she rallies around her officers --- whom she needs to deliver on her promise of governance. “It is also a victory for the bureaucracy in the state, which will be a morale-booster for the officers,” a bureaucrat said. According to the officer, had the reverse happened – with Bandyopadhyay going to Delhi and spending three months in ignominy – it would have been a blow to the IAS and IPS community and robbed them of the pride that’s an integral part of their service. “The incident establishes that even a diktat from the level of a Prime Minister can be contested on the ground of propriety and that’s a victory for the entire bureaucracy,” an officer said. Although most of the Bengal cadre officers, who had gone to meet Bandyopadhyay after the news of his retirement became public, were sad to see him go, they were relieved that a senior officer like him could not be bulldozed. The exchanges in the WhatsApp groups of bureaucrats indicated the sense of relief, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt allows shops to operate three more hours daily, between 12 noon and 3pm||The Bengal government has decided to allow shops selling essentials, mainly grocery, to operate three more hours daily, between 12 noon and 3pm, from Tuesday following appeals from across the state after the stricter restrictions were extended till June 15. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday that the information technology sector would be allowed to function with 10 per cent of their employee strength. On the shops, an official said: “Outlets selling essential items were initially allowed to operate between 7am and 10am. Further relaxation has been introduced to give the shop owners reasonable time to refill their stocks and also sell them.” Book shops will be allowed to operate between 12 noon and 3pm like garment shops and jewellery stores. “We were receiving requests to allow retail counters and book stores to open for some time. We had earlier allowed jewellery shops and garment shops to stay open between 12 noon and 3 pm. We are allowing these establishments to operate between 12 noon and 3pm,” Mamata said during a meeting with senior officials and district magistrates in Nabanna on Monday. Some officials said the stricter restrictions imposed by the state government on May 15 had helped the state bring down the daily positive cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 17,856 recoveries||Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 7,850 to 87,048 on Monday, as the state logged 17,856 recoveries, 10,137 new infections, and 131 deaths. The month of May was a mixed bag for the state in the second wave of the pandemic, as the first two-three weeks were a story of largely unabated surge in the outbreak, while the latter half — especially the last 10 days — showed reliable signs of a turnaround. Over the month, Bengal reported over 5.3 lakh new infections, but it was outweighed considerably by the 5.56 lakh recoveries. There were 4,097 Covid-19 deaths in May. “We began May with 1.16 lakh active cases, with the recovery rate at 84.68 per cent. We are ending it with 87,000 active cases, and a recovery rate of 92.55,” said a minister. In another significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 30th consecutive day, rising by nearly 8 percentage points. The national rate now is 92.03. Bengal now has 4.57 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with most active cases. “At the beginning of May, our daily positive confirmation rate was over 31 per cent. Today, it is barely 17 per cent,” said the minister. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. With 15,541 deaths in all this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.12 per cent at the moment, while the national figure is 1.17 per cent. Of the 131 deaths reported on Monday, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts in the state. Calcutta logged 1,324 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,376. The minister said that the two worst-hit districts were also showing signs of improvement. “At the start of May, these two districts had around 50,000 active cases between them. Today, it is down to barely 30,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s retirement creates ripples in administrative corridors||The administrative corridors in Bengal were shocked on Monday afternoon when the Centre overlooked  chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to the Prime Minister and she announced that chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was retiring without taking a three-month extension. Few in the administration expected matters to reach such a pass, especially after the chief minister herself wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to withdraw the letter that asked the chief secretary to be in New Delhi. “I was just shocked when the chief minister announced that H.K. Dwivedi would take over as the new chief secretary this evening. We had thought that the issue of recalling the CS would be resolved after the chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister explaining why the state needed his service for another three months, the tenure that was extended by the Centre itself,” said a senior bureaucrat. The developments that followed the announcement made by the chief minister suggested that the decision to allow the chief secretary to avail himself of his superannuation was taken in a hurry. “H.K. Dwivedi, who was the home secretary, was holding meetings with his department officials till late evening (on Sunday) before clearing some urgent files. In case of premeditated decisions, the officer who would take over as the next chief secretary would complete his work in the existing department much earlier,” said an official. A source told The Telegraph that the home department officials came to know that their boss would take over as the chief secretary on Monday just before the chief minister made the announcement at a media conference a little after 5pm. “We knew that Dwivedi Sir would be the next chief secretary. But it was unexpected that he would take over on Monday itself,” said a senior official. The state government issued the order shuffling IAS officers only late in the  evening. “B.P. Gopalika would be the new home secretary, it was announced by the chief minister. But the change at the top entails a series of reshuffles in other departments too. In normal situations, such orders are issued by the afternoon, not evening,” said another official. According to sources, the officials were almost certain that Bandyopadhyay would continue as chief secretary till 3pm when he attended a review meeting with the chief minister on the post-cyclone situation. “But things dramatically changed after the Centre sent another letter asking the chief secretary to report to Delhi on Tuesday, ignoring the chief minister’s requests. As the chief secretary decided not to accept the extension of service, a series of developments took place after the chief minister accepted the chief secretary’s request around 4pm,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
01-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee sends five-page letter to Narendra Modi on conflict over Alapan Bandyopadhyay||Mamata Banerjee on Monday morning sent a five-page letter to Narendra Modi on the conflict over Alapan Bandyopadhyay in an assiduous response to the Centre’s position on Bengal’s then chief secretary. The chief minister’s letter, drafted with careful thought and displaying sagacity, preceded the retirement of Bandyopadhyay on schedule without taking the three-month extension that had already been cleared by the Centre. A letter from the Centre’s under secretary Kuldeep Chaudhary, sent to Bandyopadhyay in the evening, made it clear that rapprochement with the Bengal government was not foremost on the Prime Ministerial agenda. Mamata called it yet another “great blunder”, taking exception to her letter not being responded to. The highlights of Mamata’s letter to the Prime Minister: Shocked and stunned: I must confess I am shocked and stunned by the unilateral order… asking us to release Sri Alapan Bandyopadhyay… so that he may join the government of India on May 31, 2021, the normal date of his superannuation. The decision seems to have been taken with mala fide intention and in hot haste. Legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional: The unilateral “order” comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the government of West Bengal, without any volition/option of the officer. The unilateral “order” comes without… meeting any of the pre-conditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and other applicable laws under reference. Post-extension change: I really do not understand what happened between your allowing extension to the officer as chief secretary… after Centre-state consultation to enable him to serve the state of West Bengal in these times, and your unilateral order (four days later) issued in contradiction to the extension granted by you. The Kalaikunda meeting of May 28: I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities. Local MLA of the BJP at Kalaikunda: I wanted to have a quiet word with you, a meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief minister as usual. You however revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view (based on my knowledge of the affairs of the state for about 40 years) that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting.   …An individual MLA, having no locus, attending the meeting  was unacceptable. “A local MLA” is believed to be a reference to Suvendu Adhikari who is now with the BJP. The Kalaikunda interaction: Finally, keeping aside my legitimate reservations, I entered the meeting with the chief secretary of my state to hand over our report to you… and then I specifically and expressly sought permission from you for us to leave for Digha… where a meeting was due and participants were waiting. You expressly permitted us…. Request for withdrawal: I therefore humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. Hope for cooperative federalism: I sincerely look forward to earnest federal cooperation in these grim times, the spirit in which I had flown to Kalaikunda…. People suffering: I am sure that you will not inflict further suffering on the people of this state by taking away the services of an experienced officer… whose continued presence in my state in these difficult times was accepted to be vital and necessary by your government even four days back. Appeal to conscience: I thus humbly appeal to your conscience and good sense, on behalf of the people of West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
