02-06-2021||West Bengal||Is Mamata thinking truce with Centre over Alapan?  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dismissed questions on former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday, fuelling speculation on whether she was calling a truce with the Centre, at least for now. “Case is over now, chapter is over now,” Mamata said during a press conference at the state administrative headquarters in the afternoon. Bandopadhyay, who has been appointed chief adviser to Mamata, has been given an office at the Administrative Training Institute (ATI) in Salt Lake, as per an order issued on Tuesday mentioning that he will hold additional charge as DG at ATI. Salt Lake, in the eastern part of the city, is at a distance from Howrah across the river in the west that hosts Nabanna, the state's administrative headquarters where the chief minister and her key officers have their offices.That the chief minister's adviser would not have his office at Nabanna raises questions on how effective Bandopadhyay would be in his new role. Bandyopadhyay, however, did attend a meeting at Nabanna on cyclone relief on Wednesday. “It is surprising that the chief adviser to the chief minister would not be in the same office. This begs the question how far serious the state is about seeking his advise,” said a retired bureaucrat who has served in Bengal. According to sources, Bandyopadhyay’s continued presence at the state administrative headquarters at Nabanna could undermine the role of current chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi, which the chief minister was keen to avoid. Also, Dwivedi shares an excellent rapport with Gautam Sanyal, the principal secretary to Mamata. “CM feels these two officers would be able to work in tandem and any third person could create problems,” claimed a source. Bandopadhyay was served a notice by the Centre under the Disaster Management Act, seeking an explanation for skipping a review meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Friday at Kalaikunda. Bandyopadhyay, then chief secretary, had left the venue along with Mamata without attending the meet. Hours later, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had recalled him to Delhi without consulting the state government, a move the sparked the latest standoff between the Centre and Bengal. Bandyopadhyay, appointed chief adviser to the chief minister for three years post his retirement on Monday evening, must reply to the notice by Thursday. Troubles for the former bureaucrat are unlikely to be over soon as  DoPT can launch proceedings against any officer till four years from retirement. Trinamul sources, however, claimed that Mamata did not want to pursue the issue further as she had established herself as the most vocal Opposition chief minister against Modi. “She has made her point. There is no need for her to carry on with this issue any further. That is why she said, 'the chapter is over',” said a senior Trinamul leader. Also, the sword of central agencies was still hanging over key leaders of her party and also some of her family members. Prior to the Assembly polls, CBI had summoned Rujira Banerjee, the wife of Trinamul Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek, and her sister Menaka Gambhir in a coal mining scam. After the poll results, CBI arrested three Trinamul leaders, including two ministers, and a former party leader, in connection with the Narada sting operation. “Since there are allegations, a probe will be conducted. Any such move brings a bad name to the party. Probes can damage her national political ambition. Though we can always talk about political vendetta, it may not work every time,” a Trinamul insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s claim to vaccinate all by 2021 a hoax, claims Mamata Banerjee||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday dubbed as "hoax" the Centre's claim of vaccinating the entire population above the age of 18 years by 2021 and asserted that the union government must provide jabs free of cost to states. "That claim is just a hoax. The Centre says things like these. Before the Bihar elections, they had promised to inoculate its population after the elections, but nothing happened," she told reporters at the state secretariat. Mamata said considering the gap between doses, the process to vaccinate the entire eligible age group should take six months to a year to complete. She said her government has spent Rs 150 crore to procure vaccines, but only 1.4 crore of the state's over 10- crore population could be inoculated so far. "The Centre is not sending vaccines to states. Whatever little stock that is supplied, gets depleted within days... It must give free vaccines to state governments," she said. The central government had on Monday said it expects to inoculate the country's adult population by the end of the year. Talking about Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the chief minister claimed that it is a closed chapter now, but asserted that her administration will stand by the former chief secretary of the state on the row over his not joining the central government. "Alapan Bandyopadhyay chapter is over now. The West Bengal government will give full support to Alapan Bandyopadhyay in whatever is going around with him," Banerjee told reporters when asked about her government's stance on the fiasco. Bandopadhyay was set to retire on May 31, but the state had recently sought and received permission for extension of his tenure by three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the Centre, shortly after a row broke out over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's post-cyclone review meeting, which the CM and the state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire amid the Centre-state tussle. He was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser. The Union Home Ministry has served a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment up to two years, amid a tug-of-war between the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government over him. Bandyopadhyay has already started working as the chief adviser and was present at Wednesday's meeting of the state Irrigation department presided over by Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||IAS officers divested of double charge in Bengal||The Bengal government had effected a rejig in bureaucracy after chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that IAS officers should not be overburdened with multiple departments. Naveen Prakash, a 1987 batch IAS officer, was holding the charges of public works and irrigation departments. He has been divested of the irrigation charge. Prabhat Mishra, a 1993 batch IAS officer, is the new irrigation secretary. Similarly, Atri Bhattacharya, a 1989 batch IAS officer, was given the charge of fisheries department, which was being held by Mishra. “The policy is clear. No officer would be given charge of two major departments as this leaves an impact on the activities of both the departments. As Mishra was given the charge of the irrigation department, he was relieved of the fisheries department,” said an official. Only officer who was entrusted with two major departments is A.R. Bandhan of the 1989 batch. Bandhan was given the additional charge of the animal resources development department, beside the department of public health engineering. But it appears to be a temporary arrangement as the new home secretary B.P. Gopalika was holding the department of animal resources development. Fifty-five IPS officers were also covered under the overhaul. While, sources said, the majority of the changes were routine transfers, the most significant shift was putting DIG, Midnapore range, Kunal Aggarwal, on compulsory waiting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Jute unions protest against Jagaddal mill closure||Some 1,000 workers attached to the Jagaddal-based JJI Jute Mill and belonging to trade unions of various parties blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore Road for nearly two hours on Tuesday morning, demanding resumption of work suspended by the mill management two weeks ago. The management had claimed insufficient supply of raw jute. Furious over the sudden suspension of work that rendered around 3,000 workers jobless, all trade unions, including those backed by the CPM, the RSS, the Congress, and Trinamul, joined forces, in a rather unusual instance of solidarity, to demonstrate against the management, demanding immediate opening of the mill. The blockade, which disrupted traffic during the morning rush hour, was also supported by workers of other closed jute mills in the Barrackpore industrial zone. A team of local police and administration officials later met the agitating workers, and promised measures to ensure the reopening of the mill in seven days. “At a time the state government has allowed the jute industry to work with only 40 per cent workers, because of the Covid-induced restrictions, the mill management suspended work altogether, effectively pushing us to the brink of starvation,” said a worker. “The management claimed scarcity of raw material, but it should ask the government to take action against jute hoarders,” he added. Gargi Chatterjee, the North 24-Parganas secretary of the CPM’s labour arm Citu, said: “One after the other, jute mills are closing down in the state, creating a major survival crisis for over one lakh workers and their families.” “Amid the Covid-19 situation, management of the mills is playing dirty. Previously, they did not pay wages for the lockdown period, and now they are suspending work only to avoid the financial burden,” she said, adding that if the jute mills are shut down arbitrarily by the management sacrificing the interests of workers, they would stop all activities of the mill, such as sale of finished products. Trinamul’s local MLA Somnath Shyam said the crisis was created in the industry because of a sudden hike in the price of jute. “I have already taken up the matter at various levels of the state government, and also apprised the labour minister. I am hopeful that JJI Jute Mill will resume operations soon,” he said.“I am also trying my best so that many other mills in the Barrackpore industrial zone reopen soon,” the MLA added. Industry insiders said that at least 16 jute mills have suspended work, apparently because of the paucity of raw jute, which led to the price hike. Sources said the number of such closed jute mills in the Barrackpore region is seven. Last week, in a bid to reopen the closed jute mills, the state government asked jute commissioner Moloy Chandan Chakrabortty to carry out raids on raw jute hoarders. State labour minister Becharam Manna announced that the Bengal government would provide required administrative support to the jute commissioner for executing such raids. The state government also issued an order for zero holding of raw jute by balers and traders to ensure availability and supply of the material to the mills. A jute mill owner in North 24-Parganas said: “The hoarders of jute have created a crisis for the mills and their workers.” “Unless the government takes action against such hoarders, more jute mills would be forced to down shutters,” he added. On Tuesday, the jute commissioner issued an order disallowing the holding of raw jute outside mills after June 25. The raw jute present with farmers, middlemen and sellers will have to be contracted before June 10. Physical delivery of jute to the mills has to be completed by June 25. It implies the seller cannot stock raw jute beyond that date. No mill is allowed to receive delivery of raw jute between June 25 and July 20. Anyone found in defiance of the order would be sternly acted against.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s infections below 10,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday, for the first time in 41 days since April 21, logged less than 10,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in a day. With 9,424 new infections, 17,722 recoveries, besides 137 deaths, the total of active cases fell by 8,435 to 78,613. Since the all-time high of 1,32,181 in the total of active cases reported on May 21, the state has improved by over 41 per cent in 11 days. “Getting to this stage of less than 10,000 new cases daily is crucial, even psychologically. Now, we hope to be able to lower it to less than 5,000 a day over the next couple of weeks, or less,” said a minister. Bengal now has 4.36 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh among states with most such cases. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 31st consecutive day, rising by nearly 9 percentage points to 93.2 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate now is 92.41. “Perhaps the most heartening is the steady fall in the daily positive confirmation rate, which was 33 at the peak of the second wave. On Tuesday, it was down to barely 14 per cent,” the minister said. “. Once we drag it back to less than 10 again, we will be decisively on our way to yet another major turnaround,” said the minister. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases among samples tested. Decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. With a total of 15,678 deaths this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent and the national rate is 1.18. Of the 137 deaths reported on Tuesday, 32 were from the city and 35 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 1,032 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,028.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger kills Cyclone Yaas victim in Sunderbans||A woman, who lost her home in Cyclone Yaas last Wednesday, was killed by a royal Bengal tiger in the Sajnakhali sanctuary of coastal Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas when she went to catch crabs early on Tuesday. Police and local sources said Bhagawati Mondal, 38, was fatally mauled by the tiger when she was searching for crabs in a creek, her husband Atin waiting in a nearby boat. Later in the day, Atin returned home in Chargheri-Lahiripara area of Gosaba with the body of his wife. With this death, at least 23 villagers were killed by tigers in the Sunderbans in one year, a wildlife official said. Sources in Gosaba said the couple and a neighbour went to catch crabs at creeks in the Jhila forest range on Monday. “The tiger attacked Bhagawati when she was searching for crabs close to the muddy bank of Golvoxa khal,” Atin said. “We tried to resist the animal but it mauled her on the neck and shoulder. By the time it left, my wife had bled to death,” Atin sobbed. The incident unleashed panic among fishermen and also created serious concern among state wildlife officials. Officials blamed villagers and shermen for “inviting deaths by entering deep jungles despite a ban against it” There is a strong prohibition on entry inside the jungle. We have taken up an awareness drive among the fishermen and urged them not to risk their lives and to try for alternative sources of income like apiculture, but they do not pay heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. A senior official attached to Sajnekhali Tiger Reserve said: “Incidents of tiger attacks have increased following Cyclone Yaas as nylon nets have been torn at several places. This has led tigers to come close to river embankments at many places. In such a situation, we have asked villagers to be very careful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari jibe on Alapan Bandyopadhyay row||Suvendu Adhikari, BJP MLA and leader of  the Opposition in Bengal Assembly, on Tuesday took to Twitter to accuse chief minister Mamata Banerjee and former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay of destroying the federal structure by “skipping’”a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demand stricter action against the bureaucrat. The series of tweets, sources in the party said, was a result of instructions from BJP headquarters in Delhi. The tug-of-war between the state and Centre over Bandyopadhyay, whom the Modi government had given a three-month extension before unilaterally attaching him to the Centre, didn't go down well with many in the state BJP amid murmurs that the action was being seen as another central affront to Bengal. The tweets by Adhikari, a source said, was aimed at silencing dissent within the state BJP. Many in the state BJP told this paper that a decorated officer like Bandyopadhyay was being unnecessarily harassed by Delhi, which could go against the party’s interest in Bengal. “Theatre of the absurd is playing out in West Bengal. For the sake of her own ego, to destroy India’s federal structure and protect the Chief Secretary for his indiscipline, (non-MLA) CM @MamataOfficial (Mamata Banerjee) Didi is bringing disrepute to the CM office and the Constitution of India,” Adhikari tweeted. On Bandyopadhyay, Adhikari wrote: “Is it really becoming of a CS to skip the Prime Minister’s meet organised to help the people in duress due to Cyclone Yass? No. It is not.” He demanded strictest action against Bandyopdahyay for “indiscipline, violating service rules at a time of a natural disaster and a global pandemic…” The tweets bear resemblance to statements made by central BJP leaders and senior ministers of the Modi cabinet on this issue. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had on Monday accused Bandyopadhay of walking out of Modi’s meeting and hence insulting the Prime Minister. Many state BJP leaders speaking to The Telegraph had said that this will go against the party’s interests in Bengal. “This move didn’t go down well with the people of the state. However, our leadership in Delhi don’t want the state unit’s view to prevail and hence comes the tweets from Suvenduda,” a state BJP office bearer said. The larger saffron ploy becomes clear if one compares the contents of Suvendu’s tweets with those of Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Dhankhar, on Tuesday, put out three tweets levelling similar allegations against Mamata and Bandyopadhyay. He went ahead to dub May 28 as ‘a dark day in India’s long-standing ethos of cooperative federalism’ because the duo were ‘absent’ at the meeting. However Mamata has herself repeatedly clarified that neither herself nor Bandyopadhyay skipped the meeting with the PM. She made it a point to underscore that she had gone to meet the PM following the protocol and courtesy and handed over the documents related to the devastation caused by Yaas and left only with his permission. Suvendu, in his tweets, also alleged that Mamata ‘is moving heaven and earth to protect him’ because Bandyopadhyay knows ‘secrets’. He claimed that Bandyopadhyay will be paid ‘a comfortable salary of Rs 2.5 lakhs per month and cushy perks’ in his new position as the chief advisor to the CM. According to the Nandigram MLA, this would be a waste of money. The group of BJP leaders who are disgruntled over the issue reacted to Suvendu’s tweets by saying that the damage to the party’s image in Bengal has already been done and these tweets could do little to revive it. “People are dubbing the issue of Alapanbabu as BJP’s vendetta towards Bengal for handing them a defeat. Suvenduda’s tweets will do little to change that,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
02-06-2021||West Bengal||After 20 months, Toorsa tea garden to reopen on Wednesday||The gates of the Toorsa tea estate will reopen on Wednesday after 20 months. Located in Kalchini block of Alipurduar district, the garden had closed on October 2019, leaving around 800 workers jobless. On Tuesday, the decision to reopen it was made at a tripartite meeting at the office of the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri. Additional commissioner Md Rizwan, the garden’s general manager and tea workers’ union leaders attended the three-hour-long meeting. “At the meeting, it was decided that Toorsa tea estate will reopen from Wednesday. Workers’ wages and staff salary will be paid by June 5. Due bonus will be cleared by July 31,” said Rizwan. According to garden sources, the garden had closed over a dispute on bonus payment for 2018-19 between trade unions and the garden management. The management had declared 8.33 per cent bonus but unions had wanted more. On Tuesday’s meeting, bonus was fixed at 12 per cent. “Initially, it has been decided that wages of a fortnight would be paid to workers while salary of 20 days would be paid to the staff. It is good that the meeting has turned fruitful. The workers were jobless for months,” said a senior trade union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Bathing in Digha sea proves fatal for two visitors ||Two persons died apparently of suffocation after getting sucked by waves in Digha on Tuesday afternoon when they allegedly flouted civic volunteers’ instructions not to bathe in the sea. The deceased were Noor Mohammed Midya, 49, and Maidul Naskar, 38, of Howrah’s Liluah who had come to Digha earlier in the day in a group of four on a business trip. “We came to see the beach as we had seen so much damage by Yaas on TV,” said Muktim Mullick from the group, who insisted he did not bathe in the sea unlike his friends. Civic volunteers on duty differed. “We told the four men repeatedly that bathing in the sea was banned because of strong undercurrents ahead of the June 10 high tide,” said civic volunteer Tapas Jana. “They ignored our advice and proceeded to bathe.” Naskar and Midya were reportedly sucked into a strong series of waves and pulled deep into the sea, where they asphyxiated after drowning. Their bodies were recovered by civic volunteers 15 minutes later and rushed to Digha state general hospital where both were declared brought dead. “We have told the families (about the deaths). The bodies are being sent to Contai for post mortem,” said officer-in-charge (Digha-Mohona), Satyajit Chanakya. The incident occurred in the middle of a state-wide restriction to contain crowds and lower the instances of Covid-19 infection. All hotels in Digha remain shut to tourists. “The reason that we have temporarily banned sea bathing is the brewing high tide that could hit on June 10 or 11,” Chanakya added. Local residents said they had been observing a trend of outsiders taking joyrides through Digha over the past couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Two schoolboys critical after wall falls on them in Murshidabad||Two schoolboys were critically injured when the wall of a decrepit one-storey brick shop fell on them while they were playing cricket on a road at a village in Murshidabad’s Beldanga on Tuesday. The incident occurred around 10am on Tuesday at Mirzapur village when six children were playing near the shop abandoned by its owner over a year ago apparently as it was decrepit. Nabirul Karim, 12, received head injuries and Sakib Sheikh, 9, was hurt in the leg. Their four friends were also injured but less seriously. Eyewitness Alamgir Sheikh, among those who rushed the children to Beldanga block hospital, said they were referred to Murshidabad Medical College. District police chief K. Sabari Rajkumar said probe was on. In Behrampore town, two persons were killed when a truck collided head-on with an autorickshaw around 5.30am on Tuesday. The auto, privately hired by a married couple Babu Sheikh, 26, and Sunita Biwi, from Islampur, was driven by Bellal Sheikh and was headed for Beldanga. Bellal and Babu died instantly. Sunita is critical at Murshidabad Medical College. The truck driver fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
02-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas aftermath: Flooded homes, parched throats in Bengal||Floods triggered by Cyclone Yaas have led to drinking water shortage at several places in coastal South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, with most sources of drinking water remaining submerged for almost a week since last Wednesday’s cyclone. As tube wells, pumping and boosting stations are submerged and ponds flooded by saline water, signs of Coleridge’s immortal lines, “water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink” are clear. “We have been living without electricity and water since last Tuesday, May 25, a day before Yaas. We are surviving on food supplied by the local administration but to get water we have to travel 3km,” said Abdus Salam Gazi of Hingalganj’s Kadakhali in North 24-Parganas. While Gazi and his neighbours are trekking 3km every day for drinking water, villagers in Hingalganj’s Mahmudpur lost patience and staged a demonstration on Monday demanding adequate water supply in their village. To address these concerns, the state government’s public health engineering department has been supplying water but angry villagers say the gap between demand and supply is huge, especially in remote areas. A public health engineering official admitted to the shortage of water but said it was difficult to start restoration work since several areas remained under water. “We can’t restore water supply until the water level recedes. We have to repair several pumping and boosting stations and at the same time clean pipelines clogged with dirt,” a senior office of Irrigation department said in Calcutta. However, the PHE official claimed that water pouches are being distributed through the panchayats on doorsteps. “We supply at least 50,000 pouches regularly in every gram panchayat area. At the same time, we have allowed people to collect water from our packaging units. The pouches are handed over to the panchayat officials for distribution since we have limited manpower,” said an irrigation department official. “In the entire Sunderbans, we have been trying our best to supply safe drinking water so that people in the affected areas do not suffer from water-borne diseases,” the official added. The district officials of North 24-Parganas admitted that the demand for water pouches was high but refuted allegations that the administration was not doing enough. On Monday, a team of the district administration visited Bholakhali island for the first time six days after the cyclone. “We took a boat full of water pouches and dry food for villagers,” an official said, adding the island remained inaccessible. Officials of the PHE and local sources said a long stretch of water supply pipelines in the region had been damaged by the cyclone. Since the area is surrounded by rivers attached to sea, saline water gushed into the villages during the high tide by breaching the embankment. The tidal wave damaged many pumping and boosting stations as well as tube wells that are still under water. Drinking water crisis is visible in several areas under Sandeshkhali, Hansnabad, Minakha in North 24-Parganas as well as in Gosaba, Kultali, Kakdwip, Sagar, Mousuni Island, Namkhana, Patharpratima and Raidighi of South 24-Parganas. A PHE official in Basirhat admitted to scarcity of water.  “Water crisis is there in many places from damage to supply lines caused by broken embankments. We are supplying water pouches and drums to affected areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
