03-06-2021||West Bengal|| Alapan replies to Centre, says he had to go to survey cyclone-hit Digha||Former chief secretary of Bengal Alapan Bandyopdhayay on Thursday replied to the Centre's show-cause notice served to him under the Disaster Management Act to explain his absence from the cyclone review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 28, an official said. In his reply, Bandyopadhyay said that "as per the directive of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee," he left the meeting for a review of Cyclone Yaas-ravaged Digha, a popular sea resort town in Purba Medinipur district, according to the highly-placed official in the secretariat. Bandyopadhyay was set to retire as the chief secretary on May 31, but the state recently sought and received permission for an extension of his tenure for three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the Centre, shortly after a row broke out over the prime minister's post-cyclone review meeting at Kalaikunda airbase, which the CM and state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire and was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser for the next three years. Mamata, along with the chief secretary, met the prime minister for around 15 minutes at Kalaikunda and left after handing over a report on the devastation caused by the cyclone in the state. Her decision to not stay and attend the meeting was partly linked to the presence of her former aide-turned-BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari at the meeting as Leader of Opposition. The CM has since reiterated that she had other meetings to attend and left only with the Prime Minister's permission. The Union Home Ministry then served the show-cause notice to Bandyopadhyay on May 31 under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment up to two years. The notice accused him of making PM Modi and other members of his entourage wait for nearly 15 minutes. "In view of the absence, the Chief Secretary (Mr Bandyopadhay) was called by an official as to whether they wanted to participate in the review meeting or not. Thereafter, Chief Secretary arrived along with Chief Minister of West Bengal inside the meeting room and left thereafter immediately," the Centre noted. Government sources defended its actions on Tuesday, saying the Chief Secretary, as an All India Services officer, "chose to ignore his constitutional duties", NDTV reported. Government sources said his retirement showed that Mamata was on the backfoot. "She knows that facts of the matter are against the Chief Secretary and his behaviour was such that it will invite strict disciplinary action... All India officers are not expected to be part of politics. Mamata knows all this and his retirement is a last bid to save him," they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata eases curbs, appeals to industry to fund vaccine drive||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee relaxed some of the Covid restrictions imposed across the state on Thursday and held out the promise of more in the coming fortnight, but her announcement raised concerns whether Bengal was opening up too soon when a deadly summer had already claimed around 5,000 lives between April and June. Retail shops, which were allowed to remain open between 12pm-3pm, will now get an extra hour and close at 4pm. On an appeal from the IT sector, Mamata granted it permission for double shifts with 10 per cent staff. “You can run your offices from 8am till 12 noon and the next shift till 5pm,” she said at a meeting held at Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters. “To keep the chain broken, it is important that the restrictions on social interactions remain. We have just gone below the 50 per cent mark since the highest number of cases about a month ago. Third wave has already started in South Africa. Since our vaccination rate is extremely low, it is important that people stay indoor for a some more time,” said a critical care expert in a South Calcutta hospital. The government has also decided to allow restaurants to stay open between 5pm to 8pm on the condition that all employees are vaccinated following an appeal from Suresh Poddar, the president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India. Poddar had shared the concerns of  the restaurant industry’s plummeting income and threats to livelihood of those involved. When the chief minister told him about online operations, Poddar said, “Online sales amount to two to five per cent of our sales. That is not enough to run the business,” he said. After June 16, the last day of the exisiting restrictions, the chief minister indicated that the state government might allow opening of shopping malls with limits on the number of staff and operational hours. Between Monday and Wednesday, Bengal has seen a steady decline in the number of new cases which fell to below 10,000 for the first time since April after the restrictions were imposed. On Monday, the number of new cases was 11,514 which fell to 9,424 and 8,923 on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. While the Covid figures are encouraging for the state government, the same cannot be said about its finances. The chief minister was heard telling representatives of various industries and chambers of commerce to donate to the chief minister's relief fund, which would be utilised for procuring vaccines. “You give funds to the chief minister’s relief fund, we will get the vaccines,” said Mamata. Later, during the meeting, she told  business representatives that if they could get the vaccines, then the state government would make arrangements for administering the doses. During the Assembly elections, Mamata had promised free vaccines for everyone above 18 in Bengal though the programme was later deferred. Bengal’s population is around 10 crore and Mamata admitted on Thursday that so far, the government had managed to arrange for 1.4 crore vaccine doses. Bengal has effectively been under a lockdown since April 30 when shopping malls, restaurants, liquor shops and places of public gatherings were shut. A complete shutdown of the transport sector was announced on May 15 and that still continues. The brakes on the transport sector plugged one of the major sources of income for the state government _ taxes on fuel. Fuel sales dipped to the lowest in a year’s time last month, with average sales falling by around fifth of the previous month as state after state went on imposing restrictions on vehicular movement. Bengal too is no different. Excise and fuel are the two available sources of revenue generation. Both have been hit since April, adding to the strains of a cash-strapped government. Liquor shops in the state have been allowed to open for three hours from Tuesday. On the GST front, too, officials are worried that the gains made in April would not be replicated and that would have an impact on the state’s earnings. In April this year, the Centre had announced record high GST collections at Rs 1,41,384 crore. The corresponding figures for May are yet to be released. In this scenario, while Mamata is pushing for opening up certain sectors after due precautions like vaccination, the availability of vaccines itself is under question. “We hope the situation will improve further since vehicular movement and public gatherings are still not allowed. Gradually businesses will have to be opened. We can’t stall them indefinitely,” said a government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal eateries allowed to open for 3 hours with vaccinated employees||With the Covid-19 situation improving in West Bengal, the state government on Thursday decided to allow restaurants to open for three hours in the evening, provided people working there are vaccinated, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. The government is also thinking of allowing shopping malls to open with 25 per cent workforce after the ongoing Covid related restrictions come to an end on June 15, she said at a meeting with representatives of various chambers of commerce at the state secretariat. "Covid-19 contagion is declining in West Bengal following the imposition of restrictions. Restaurants can be open for three hours in the evening from 5 pm to 8 pm provided the people working there are vaccinated," Banerjee said. However, it is not immediately clear from which date the eateries can start operating. The CM said that her government was mulling the option of vaccinating domestic helps in the same way it has planned to inoculate hawkers, bus conductors, vendors and others. Altogether 1.4 crore of people in West Bengal have been inoculated so far, she said. At the meeting, Banerjee also urged representatives of the chambers to help the government in vaccinating the population of the state. "The government cannot single-handedly vaccinate everyone. I will urge you to come forward and help us to inoculate the people," she said. Banerjee also sought their help in relief works in districts ravaged by Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Mom murders her differently-abled daughter||A 30-year-old homemaker killed her differently-abled daughter on Wednesday in East Midnapore’s Khejuri by slitting the five-year-old's throat with a kitchen knife. Bystanders at the Vidyapeeth Minimarket area heard Sagarika Patra screaming that she had killed her daughter as she could not bear to hear her child crying for food. Sagarika lived alone with her daughter after informally separating from her husband last year. They lived in an enclosed room next to a vegetable stall owned by her husband, Biswajit, in the mini market area. Sources familiar with the couple said Biswajit had stopped living there and had even stopped sending money following last year's lockdown. "The poor mother had to kill her own daughter because the girl would cry out for food all day. Even a few weeks ago Sagarika was asking friends and neighbours for help, but she had stopped doing that recently," said a source. Following Sagarika's cries, residents of the market area kept her in their watch till police arrived and arrested her. "Prima facie it seems this woman had been deprived and abused. We have launched a search for the absconding husband, Biswajit," said officer-in-charge Khejuri, Krishnendu Pradhan. "This was Biswajit's second marriage. After noticing their troubles last year, we tried and failed to exhort Biswajit to tend to his responsibilities," said Janka panchayat pradhan Samar Sankar Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Alcoholic son arrested for beating his mother to death||A 40-year-old woman at Raipur tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town was beaten to death by her son, in his early 20s, on Tuesday night. Police sources said Kishan Chik Baraik, the accused, is a habitual drunk and would torture his mother Sundar Mani for money for his addiction. On Tuesday night, Kishan came to his relatives to say his mother somehow hurt her head and died. As people rushed to their hutment in Bhagat Line of Raipur, they found her body and a blood-smeared wooden plank nearby. They caught him and informed Kotwali police station. Soon, police reached the spot and arrested the son. Pradhan Hembram, the chief of Patkata panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block under which the garden is located, said Kishan was earlier arrested for hacking to death his father over money to buy liquor. He was put behind bars for some time but came out on bail. “But his habits had not changed,” said Hembram. Arrested with gun Madarihat police in Alipurduar arrested four persons for illegal trade of firearms and have seized from one of them an improvised firearm along with a round of live cartridge. Sources said acting on a tip-off, the police first arrested Sanjay Saha from Rabindranagar of Madarihat and made the seizure. During his interrogation, police came to know Rustam Biswakarma, a blacksmith from Totopara, made the firearm. Police picked up Rustam and from him learnt about Bikash Rai of Lankapara and Meghraj Lama of North Khayerbari. They were also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Coming soon: A Bailey bridge at Darjeeling More to ease traffic||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) have jointly with the state PWD decided on carrying out a number of infrastructure projects related to Siliguri, north Bengal’s largest urban hub. A Bailey bridge will be built at Darjeeling More, the main entry point to the city in its north-end, to ease traffic. Talks have been held to work on proposals of building an alternative road parallel to the busy Hill Cart Road and Sevoke Road with multi-layer parking in different locations of the civic area. “A proposal was sent to the state PWD for a Bailey bridge near Darjeeling More to ease traffic. This is a longstanding demand of people here as they face traffic snarls daily,” Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of SMC, told the media after a virtual meeting with officials of state urban development and municipal affairs department, and north Bengal development department. Sources said couple of years back, when Deb was the state tourism minister, he had requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take necessary initiatives and communicate with the Union ministry of road transport and NHAI to sort out the traffic problem at Darjeeling More, which is located on the junction of NH-31 and NH-55. He had also suggested constructing a Bailey bridge at the spot then. “After assuming the office of the chairperson of the BoA of SMC, he (Deb) had discussed the issue with the chief minister during his visit to Calcutta on last month,” a source in the civic body confirmed. Deb, after holding the meeting with the officials of various departments and agencies of state, also told SJDA officials to identify a number of areas of the city for multilayer parking arenas. “We will build a number of parking plots across the city. An under-construction building adjacent to Kanchenjunga Stadium will be completed soon with the private group. Elaborate plans will be taken for refurbishing Bidhan Market, the largest marketplace of the city,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha requests for allocation for jabs for tea garden workers||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang camp has requested the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration to allocate Covid-19 vaccines to tea garden workers and teachers and non-teaching staff of private educational institutions. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, said it was difficult for labourers to abide by Covid-19 protocol while working in tea gardens. “I request your good office to initiate steps to vaccinate the tea garden workers,” Pokhrel said in a letter sent to the principal secretary, GTA. The request comes at a time cinchona plantation labourers across the Darjeeling hills, most of whom are not attending to work because of the ongoing “restrictions”, are being inoculated. But the tea garden hands who are reporting for work in the present situation are finding it difficult to manage jabs. The paradox stems from a government order that has identified priority groups for vaccination. The Directorate of Cinchona & Other Medicinal Plants, which employs around 5,000 workers, is a public service undertaking. Tea gardens which employ nearly 3 lakh workers across north Bengal are private entities. “The state government has identified 20-odd categories as priority groups. One such group is government employees. The cinchona plantation is a government entity,” Darjeeling district magistrate S. Poonambalam said. While vaccination is currently open for people aged only above 45 years, those listed in the priority group can get vaccinated if one has attained the age of 18 years. Sources in the cinchona plantation said vaccination of workers had started a few days back. Samuel Rai, director, cinchona plantations, did not answer calls from this newspaper but sources said apart from emergency and office staff, most cinchona workers were staying off work after some Covid-19 cases were detected in the plantation. “Workers stopped attending to work, two three days into the restriction announced by the state government,” said a source. When the state government announced the restriction from May 16 onwards, it allowed tea gardens to operate with 50 per cent of the workforce in each shift. There was no such mention regarding cinchona plantations. Most of the 87 tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills are open. “Some divisions of tea gardens did enforce localised lockdowns when cases were detected but by and large, the estates are open,” said an industry source. The source also said “some” tea groups were ready to buy vaccines at their own cost and not wait for free doses from the government. A tea garden worker earns Rs 217 a day, while the wage of a cinchona plantation labourer is Rs 260. “In fact, we had started the process to procure vials from private hospitals during the start of the second wave of the pandemic. But the government then restricted the availability of vaccines to private hospitals,” said a source. Now that vaccines are being made available to private hospitals, some tea gardens are trying for tie-ups. “Even though we are still hopeful, we have not managed to secure the vaccines (for the workers) till now,” said a source. The tea estates in the hills employ around 55,000 permanent workers and 15,000 temporary labourers. “It will definitely be difficult to get vaccines in such large numbers at this moment,” admitted a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek visits TMC turncoat Mukul’s wife at a city hospital||Trinamul’s de facto number 2 Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday evening paid a visit to a private hospital off the EM Bypass, to check on the health of party turncoat Mukul Roy’s wife Krishna, who has Covid-19. The development is deemed significant as Roy, formerly Trinamul’s number 2, is now a national vice-president of the BJP. Roy left Trinamul in 2017, largely on account of testy ties with Abhishek, Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and political heir-apparent. Abhishek’s gesture prompted a visit hours later, in a first since Krishna fell so ill, from the BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek and Roy did not come face to face on Wednesday evening. Nor could he meet Krishna. But he spoke to their son Subhranshu at the hospital. “Krishnadi tested positive, along with Mukulda, over two weeks ago. But she was hospitalised with complications and is deemed critical, on ventilation …. That’s why Abhishek paid a visit. Officially a courtesy visit, it has political significance,” said a Trinamul MP. “Clearly, she (Mamata) encouraged Abhishek to do this. But had Abhishek not been willing and had Prashant Kishor not recommended it, he would not have gone,” he added. On Ghosh’s visit, the Trinamul MP said: “This is absurdly tragicomic....The BJP is now going to go all out to retain the Roys.” Subhranshu, Trinamul’s former Bijpur MLA, followed his father to the BJP and lost from the same seat this time. His recent post on social media, which did not name any party but advised introspection instead of criticism of a state government elected by the people, caused a stir. Roy won the first election of his life from Krishnagar North, as one of the BJP’s 77 MLAs. Asked if frosty ties between Roy and Abhishek would thaw, a Trinamul vice-president said there were no permanent friends or enemies in politics. “A lot of this is being engineered by Subhranshu, who has a long political career ahead of him. It certainly isn’t unreciprocated, as this evening showed,” he said. Roy, whom Mamata had repeatedly spoken fondly of in her otherwise all-out aggressive campaign against the BJP, has been conspicuously “disinterested” in the party’s activities for a while. Sources in the BJP state unit have said that in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Roy had been placed at the helm of the election committee of BJP. In both the elections, he had enabled unprecedented successes for the party. In 2021, the central leadership spearheaded by Amit Shah commandeered the state unit, and Roy was left with little to do. His diminished role, despite his reputation as a master strategist with the ability to deliver electoral triumphs, upset him. A state unit functionary of the BJP said that Roy had been issuing warnings, identifying crucial inflection points for months before the elections, but his advice went unheeded. “For instance, he had advised against banking so heavily on polarisation in the campaign, he had been saying it would not produce the desired results in a state like Bengal. Now we know he was correct, but nobody paid heed to him then,” said the source. After the results, Roy has largely been silent on the BJP’s electoral debacle in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records drop in Covid cases||Bengal on Wednesday recorded a drop, by 8,598, in its total of active Covid-19 cases, aided by besides 17,386 recoveries, 8,923 new infections and 135 deaths. The total of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 70,015 now. “We are looking at lowering the daily total of new infections detected to less than 5,000 in a week,” said a minister. Bengal now has 4.07 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases.The state now has a total of 13.94 lakh cases, which includes 13.08 lakh recoveries, besides 15,813 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 32nd consecutive day, rising by nearly 9 percentage points to 93.85 per cent on Wednesday. The national rate now is 92.72. “From the 33 per cent peak of the second wave, the daily positive confirmation rate has fallen to 11.87. We are close to getting it back to less than 10, which will be a huge morale boost,” said the minister. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. Black fungus For the first time in north Bengal, two persons with mucormycosis (black fungus) died on Tuesday night at the NBMCH in Siliguri. Both were middle-aged women with a number of ailments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim Firhad meets bereaved kin of migrant workers who died in Varanasi mishap||State municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim arrived in Malda on Wednesday and met the bereaved families of the two migrant workers who died in the Varanasi mishap on Tuesday. He handed over cheques of compensation to the families, a job to the wife of one of the deceased and cheques to families of six injured workers. The workers were serving under a Gujarat-based private firm carrying out the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in the temple town of Uttar Pradesh. While the kin of the deceased Aminul Momin, 40, and Ebadul Momin, 30, got Rs 2 lakh each, the kin of the injured received Rs 50,000 each. The bodies reached Malda. When some people told Hakim that the bodies were “not packed properly”, the Trinamul minister took a dig at the Yogi government and said in Uttar Pradesh bodies of many Covid patients were dumped in the Ganga or on its banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Two workers die of carbon monoxide poisoning at Burnpur’s IISCO steel plant||Two contract workers died reportedly after inhaling carbon monoxide that leaked at the coke oven unit of SAIL’s IISCO Steel Plant in West Burdwan’s Burnpur on Wednesday. Sources at the central public sector unit said the gas had leaked after a glitch at battery 11. Three workers were doing cleaning jobs at the battery chamber shut for maintenance around 3.30pm when the incident occurred. “All three had breathing problems and were rushed to the plant hospital with oxygen. Doctors declared two workers dead on arrival. The third was released after treatment,” said an IISCO official. Deceased workers Suman Biswas, 38, and Babun Sarkar, 43, stayed in Burnpur. The bodies were sent for autopsy. The survivor, Shyamapada De, 35, had managed to escape from the chamber a little earlier, an IISCO source said. Relatives of the deceased and other workers reached the hospital to demand compensation. Trade union leaders blamed steel plant authorities. “Workers don’t get minimum protection and forced to work in life-threatening situations. We demand permanent jobs for the kin of the deceased,” said Harjit Singh, general secretary of INTUC-affiliated Asansol Iron and Steel Workers’ Union. The agitation was withdrawn after IISCO agreed to give jobs to a relative of both victims. Singh later confirmed that the IISCO management had promised to provide compensation, including a job to one family member of each of the deceased workers. The steel plant, which is now running with less than half the regular manpower in each shift following the ongoing restrictions put in place by the state government because of Covid-19, has around 4,750 permanent employees, including executives and around 8,000 contractor workers. IISCO authorities have ordered a probe into the incident. However, they said the incident did not affect production at the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Yaas aftermath: Floodwater disrupts rural health services||Floodwater accumulated in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas at several villages in coastal districts of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, including those located in and around Gosaba and Sagar Island, has led to disruption of grassroots health services. Sources said over a few hundred ground-level health workers were unable to provide their services as their homes had either been damaged in the cyclone or remain inundated in the floodwater. On the other hand, nearly 100 health centres in rural areas of the two cyclone-hit districts remained submerged in saline floodwater for almost a week. Gita Samanta, 45, an accredited social health activist (ASHA), from Sagar’s Ghoramara island was left homeless when Cyclone Yaas blew away her home’s tin roof and caused irreparable cracks in the wall leading to its collapse. “Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, I was the one extending whatever little help I could to infected people. Now I am in the biggest need of help,” Gita said on Tuesday, standing under a tarpaulin she erected a few metres from the ruins of her former home. Both the districts have seen a steady rise in Covid cases in tandem with the second wave last month. On Wednesday, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas logged 1,860 and 606 new cases, respectively. Alluding to the severity of the situation, Gita asked: “How can I do anything now? What if someone needs my help.” Gita is one of a handful of accredited rural health workers in the Sagar area, all of whom are reportedly now either battling Covid-19 or the cyclone’s aftermath. “It is really a difficult situation,” said auxiliary nurse Rituparna Ghati. Sudha Maity, another Asha worker from Kuemari in South 24-Parganas, said she had to take shelter in the house of a neighbour as her home had gone underwater. “Everything in my house was washed away by saline flood water. Now I am struggling for my livelihood. If the government stands by us, we will be able to provide better services. Even in such adverse conditions, I am trying to provide whatever service is possible,” said Maity. The only glimmer of hope has come in the form of block medical officer Indranil Bargi who visited the homes of health workers on a boat and delivered medicines. “If I don’t take care of them now, then who will help us later when we will need it,” he said. Sources said diarrhoea had become an increasing problem in the area following Cyclone Yaas. “We need to appreciate all volunteers and villagers who have come forward to help us notwithstanding their own troubles,” Bargi said. “A lot of people have been affected in South 24-Parganas but accumulation of water for almost a week is making it difficult to deliver health services. Our workers are working hard even though they are in a very critical situation,” said Somnath Mukhopadhyay, the South 24-Parganas chief medical officer of health. Sources in the South 24-Parganas district administration claimed at least 50 health sub-centres remained underwater even on Tuesday. The number of health centres that remain underwater in North 24 Parganas is almost 20. The disruption caused by non-functioning health centres has become a matter of concern for the state health directorate. A senior health official in South 24-Parganas said: “Water entered health sub-centres because of high tides. Huge stocks of medicines kept at the centres were damaged.” “We are still not in a position to access those centres to provide service to the people who are themselves inundated and are suffering from water-borne diseases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Chief Minister seeks liability period in embankment repair||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday forwarded a proposal to the irrigation department to insert a provision of liability period for agencies that would henceforth be engaged to repair an embankment. Mamata’s proposal during a meeting at Nabanna is significant as it was found that 100-odd km of embankments were either damaged or breached during Cyclone Yaas though some of these stretches were repaired after Cyclone Amphan had struck last year in May. A displeased Mamata had then wondered how embankments with repairs less than a year old were damaged and questioned the quality of the work done. “You can consider inserting a liability period of 10 years or so. This will ensure that embankments are repaired properly,” said the chief minister on Wednesday during the meeting to fix a road map to repair the damaged embankments after the cyclone. Sources in the state government said that the proposal is timely particularly when the state government is trying to make embankments stand for a longer period so that people in low-lying areas do not face inundation every year. The PWD has gained after inserting a liability period clause while floating tenders for repairing major roads, a source said. The PWD fixed a liability period of five years for an agency that repairs or constructs a road. That means the agency has to repair the road if it is damaged within the liability period. This has improved the condition of roads across the state, said sources. “If the same initiative is taken for embankments, it would also benefit the government as agencies have to repair damages within the liability period,” said an official. The irrigation department told Mamata there are 3,500kms of embankments in the Sunderbans, which have to be strengthened to ensure that the areas get rid of regular inundation from breaching of embankments. “Some 150km of embankments needs to be strengthened with concrete brick blocks. Remaining 3,350km of embankments have to be strengthened by raising their heights,” said an official. Experts from IIT-Kharagpur, IIT-Madras and Jadavpur University had submitted a report to irrigation authorities after Amphan that the height of existing earthen embankments would have to be raised by 1.5 to 2 metres. “Moreover, it was also proposed that mangroves (trees) have to be planted along embankments to strengthen the base of the earthen ones,” said another official. The chief minister said the state government would plant 15 crore mangroves in the Sunderbans areas to ensure that cyclones leave a lesser impact on the embankments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
03-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan chapter closed with his retirement: Chief Minister||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday refused to comment on the tug of war between the Bengal government and the Centre over Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now the chief advisor to the chief minister, saying the chapter was over with the 1987-batch officer retiring on May 31. “The Alapan Bandyopadhyay chapter is over…. He has retired,” said the chief minister during a news conference at Nabanna on Wednesday. “The state government will give full support to whatever is going on with him,” she said, making it clear that she would stand by the bureaucrat, whom the Centre targeted since Mamata, along with him, skipped a Cyclone Yaas review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda last Friday. Bandyopadhyay was showcaused by the Union home ministry asking him to explain why action would not be taken against him under Disaster Management Act, 2005, for not attending the review meeting of the Prime Minister in Kalaikunda. The Union government had earlier asked him to join on central deputation by June 1. But as he retired on May 31, the home ministry issued the showcause under the Disaster Management Act. Sources at Nabanna consider the chief minister’s latest approach to the episode to be smart as the state government cannot remain busy with one issue. “The state has to take care of so many things, including Covid-19 and post-Yaas rehabilitation. At the same time, the chief minister also made it clear that her government would stand by the former chief secretary in case he faces any trouble,” said a source. The sources have also said Mamata’s move could be a calculated one as she knows that if the focus is shifted from the issue, it could die a natural death. “This had happened in the case of three IPS officers who had been asked to join central deputation after the attack on BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s convoy. There had been a tug of war between the state and the Centre over the issue for the first few days. Once the issue was out of the limelight, it had a natural death and the officers are still working with the state government,” said a bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay did not send his reply to the showcase under Disaster Management Act, 2005. “He will send his reply on Thursday. As he was given three days of time to send his reply, he took his time and would send the letter on the last day,” said a bureaucrat aware of the developments. Sources close to Bandyopadhyay think he has a strong case in his favour as he was present when the chief minister handed over a list of damage that had taken place in the state because of Yaas. “Technically, he cannot be held responsible for giving the Prime Minister’s review meeting a miss. It is another fact that he had to obey the chief minister’s instructions and followed her to Digha by taking permission to leave the meeting early. No one can deny that the chief minister was his immediate boss and no bureaucrat can disobey his or her immediate boss,” said a retired bureaucrat. The sources also said the former chief secretary’s reply would be in those lines. Bandyopadhyay on Wednesday met several officers and attended a meeting of the chief minister at Nabanna where issues like repair and construction of damaged embankments were discussed. A number of river embankments had been damaged in the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
