04-06-2021||West Bengal||High Court asks victims of political violence in Bengal to email complaints||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court asked victims of recent political violence in Bengal to file online complaints with the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority on Friday, following up on its directive to the state government to set up a committee to look into complaints that BJP workers were being forced to flee their homes since May 2 when results of the Bengal Assembly election were announced. As per the order, passed by the bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, the victims were free to use legal counsels to lodge their complaint via the website of the authority. “We direct that anyone in West Bengal, who is not being allowed to go back to their home allegedly on account of post-poll violence will be at liberty to launch a complaint on the website of WB State Legal Services Authority,” the court ordered. The bench had on Monday directed the state government to set up a three-member committee to look into BJP workers' allegations that they were being forced to flee their homes, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee had dismissed as “motivated” and “fake”. Advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket, had filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court, primarily focussing on the Entally constituency where, on Wednesday, around 144 people were sent back to their homes under police escort. While making it clear that the court’s priority was to ensure rehabilitation of displaced people to their homes, Acting Chief Justice Bindal observed, “The AG has been instructed to say there is none (victims).” Advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya told the court some people were threatened by local police, saying that they would not be allowed to live in their homes since they had approached law enforcement authorities. The division bench ordered that on receipt of such complaints, the competent authority should take corrective measures to ensure that the victims were able to return to their homes and then submit a report to the court. “Complaints may be sent to the official email id of the authority. Other displaced persons will also be at liberty to send copies of their complaint at the official email of WB State Legal Services Authority. On receipt of such grievance, the competent authority shall take necessary steps for rehabilitation of such persons and report to this court,” the order read. Advocate Tibrewal told the court that she had received similar complaints from many people from across the state. Friday's court order came a day after leaflets announcing social boycott of 18 families in Keshpur’s Mahishda village were distributed. Along with a list of names, the leaflets included a warning to shopkeepers and tea-sellers in the village not to trade with any of them. Those found violating the warnings were threatened with stern action. The leaflets had "Mahishda All India Trinamul Congress" written on top followed by booth 176 and 179 in the next line. However, there was no signature. The BJP has claimed that all the 18 families were its supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Four heavyweights appear before CBI court in Narada case||Four senior leaders, facing trial in the Narada case, appeared before the special CBI judge at a court in Calcutta on Friday. Judge Anupam Mukerjee had on April 17, while ordering interim bail to the four leaders, directed them to physically appear before the court on June 4. State ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee appeared before the judge and left the Bankshall court premises after a while. Judge Mukherjee said that the next date for the hearing of the matter will be fixed later in the day. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court granted interim bail on May 28 to the four leaders, who were arrested on May 17 by the CBI, which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on an order of the high court. The special CBI court had granted them bail on that day itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody. Production of the four before the special CBI court was held virtually on May 17 as the investigating agency claimed it was unable to produce the accused in court physically owing to protests outside its office at Nizam Palace by a mob of 2,000-3,000 people. Chargesheet in the Narada sting case was also submitted against the accused before the special court on that day. The special court, granting interim bail, had fixed the next date of hearing on June 4, when the accused were to appear before it. They were placed under house arrest on May 21 by a division bench of the high court, which modified its earlier stay on interim bail granted to the four leaders by the special CBI court. The matter was referred to a larger bench of five judges after the judges of a division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal differed on granting interim bail to the four accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Exporters to Mamata Banerjee: Allow movement of inter-state carriages and operations||The Federation of Indian Export Organisation and several other export promotion bodies have made a joint appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow movement of inter-state carriages and operations with 50 per cent workforce. The government had announced stricter restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19. The federation wants export-oriented MSME sector, manufacturers, SEZs, process industries and their raw material vendors to operate with at least 50 per cent workforce. The federation said suspension of work and ban on movement of inter-state trucks had resulted in the imposition of heavy penalties on exporters by foreign buyers for failing to honour the deadline and commitment. The federation has also requested the state government to allow their offices to function between 10am and 3am every day with 25 per cent workforce to carry out work related to accounts, export/import, communication and transaction with bank, customs and port. “The government should understand that we need to work with limited staff at least during the banking hours. This is required for the survival of the exporters and their employees and the state’s economy too,” an exporter said. Ghojadanga Exporters’ Association, an organisation of exporters engaged in export through the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas, has also made a similar appeal to the chief secretary. They have urged the government to allow movement of inter and intra-state carriages carrying export items to avoid loss. Export and import activities with Bangladesh through land ports, however, continued since nothing was specifically stated about its operations in the government order. Exporter Ranabir Dutta said, “Such suspension of movement has led to our failure to meet our commitment to international buyers. We are incurring huge losses every day and at the same time would be charged heavy penalties by our buyers. The state government should consider this sympathetically and allow our vehicles to move.” Federation’s eastern region chairman Sushil Patwari said: “Exports play a pivotal role in the state's economy. Exports and manufacturing units, who are part of the national and global value chain, have been suffering seriously due to complete suspension of work. We appeal to the government to consider this aspect to save the industries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Ease hope for businesses, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government would relax a few more Covid restrictions, offering an evening window for restaurants and an extra hour for shops in the afternoon, and consider a proposal to allow malls to open with limits on footfall. Sources in Nabanna said the relaxations for eateries and shops could come in a couple of days while those for malls would have to wait till after June 15, when the current spell of stricter restrictions ends. The state government, which has earmarked shop owners, transport workers and hawkers as “potential super spreaders” and is prioritising their vaccination with doses bought from the manufacturers, now plans to widen the category to include weavers, rice mill workers, ration shop workers and domestic workers. “Eateries and restaurants can remain open between 5pm and 8pm provided the employees are vaccinated. Retail shops can operate between noon and 4pm,” the chief minister said at a meeting with representatives of business chambers and trade bodies. Currently, retail outlets can operate between noon and 3pm, while grocery stores and vegetable shops can stay open between 7am and 10am. The Nabanna meeting, which senior officials and business representatives from across the state joined virtually, had been called to discuss what the trade bodies can do to help Bengal’s battle against Covid and its post-Yaas relief and rehabilitation efforts. During the one-hour, 45-minute meeting, the delegates convinced the chief minister about the need for more relaxations for the sake of livelihoods. “I have never favoured a total lockdown and that’s why we have given so many widows of opportunities for business to run. But nor can I see people dying,” Mamata said, underscoring the need to balance the rights of life and livelihood. She said, without specifying a timetable, that IT industries would be allowed to operate with 10 per cent of the workforce each in two shifts. Currently, they are allowed just one shift a day with 10 per cent of the workforce. During the meeting with 50-odd chambers of commerce, including bodies from the districts, the chief minister asked these organisations’ members to take the initiative to have their employees vaccinated. “We don’t want to close trade and business. But in the middle of a pandemic, some steps need to be taken. I urge you to ensure that all your employees get vaccinated,” she said. Initially at the meeting, Mamata had asked the trade bodies to get the vaccines on their own — which employers can do through an arrangement with private hospitals — and said the state would provide the vaccination facilities. But chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi suggested that the state provide the vaccines to the labourers and workers of the various trade sectors by bringing them under the “potential super-spreader” category. Mamata accepted the proposal and set up a committee headed by the chief secretary to oversee the matter. The district authorities have been asked to prepare databases of workers from various sectors and send these to Dwivedi. Government sources said Mamata’s stress on the vaccination of employees was timely. “The chief minister believes the state should be prepared to counter the (possible) third wave. If employees of all these establishments get vaccinated soon, the state can easily avoid the third wave,” a source said. Another official said: “A total of 18 lakh shop owners, transport workers and hawkers have already been vaccinated. They get in touch with many people every day and can spread the virus rapidly if infected.” Officials said Mamata’s decision to allow some relaxations stemmed from the significant fall in daily infections since the enforcement of stricter restrictions from May 16. “When the stricter restrictions were put in place, the state’s daily count of positive cases was around 21,000. It has now fallen to 8,000-odd,” health secretary N.S. Nigam said. “The daily positivity rate too has come down to 13 per cent from 33 per cent, and the total active cases to 70,000 from 1.4 lakh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Mirik gets 50-bed safe home for treatment of Covid patients||A 50-bed safe home for treatment of Covid-19 patients was opened in Mirik, 50km from here, on Thursday at the local college building. Sources said the first of its kind facility in the hill town will be jointly operated by the sub-divisional administration, the health department and the local civic body. “Earlier,  residents of Mirik town and nearby areas had to rush to the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital for Covid treatment. The new facility will provide preliminary treatment to them ,” an official of the health department said. A source said there were altogether 30 beds available at the block primary hospital in Mirik.  So far, the hospital had only two isolation beds for suspected Covid patients and no other arrangement was available for them in the hill town. “The new healthcare infrastructure here will have a total of 50 beds, 25 each for male and female patients. Out of these, six beds will get oxygen support. Apart from that there will be four oxygen concentrators which would be provided to patients who need such support at home. Also, two doctors along with health workers will be present at the facility to monitor the condition of the patients and provide round the clock service to the patients,” Tashi Lama, the block medical officer (Health) of Mirik, said. At present,  there are 345 active Covid cases in Mirik. Majority of them are in home isolation. As per reports of the Darjeeling district administration, a total of 340 cases were detected across the district on June 2, and 40 of them were from Mirik. Meanwhile in Siliguri, an upgraded 20-bed safe home — with full time doctors and nursing staff and each bed with complete oxygen support — was inaugurated at Tinbatti More in Siliguri on May 31. The facility will provide treatment to the patients with mild symptoms of Covid-19. Apart from the government aided health establishment, this is for the first time a sophisticated safe home or a field hospital will be completely managed by the couple of prominent NGOs of the city. Indian Chamber of Commerce and Liver Foundation have extended its support for making the home operational here. “It will have a total of 20 beds. Each of the beds will get round the clock oxygen support. There will be in-house doctors and nursing staff at the home, who will monitor the health condition of the patients on a regular basis,” Avijit Majumdar, the working president of Siliguri Welfare Organisation, which took the initiative in association with some other organisations. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the BoA of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, inaugurated the facility located under Ward 32 of the civic body. “When people are struggling to get a bed for the treatment of Covid-19, such upgraded home with all the necessary facilities under the single roof under the round the clock observation of doctors and nursing staffs with free medicine, oxygen supports and food in completely free of cost will definitely helpful for the common people,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tathagata Roy targets four BJP leaders over post-poll results violence||Former Bengal BJP president Tathagata Roy on Wednesday accused senior party leaders of abandoning the workers at the grassroots at a time they were targeted in post-poll results violence. “A very close person came crying today. Said a few thousand men who had worked for BJP have been driven out by Trinamul goons. They will possibly have to pay hefty sums of money to be allowed to return. I am helpless. Of the state leaders KSA have run away. D doesn’t receive calls!” Roy, the former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya, wrote on twitter. He has been targeting four BJP leaders for the party’s debacle and using the first letters of their names to describe the quartet in his tweets. K stands for BJP national general secretary and minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, S national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, A co-minder Arvind Menon and D state party president Dilip Ghosh. Multiple state and district BJP leaders have told this correspondent that while they don’t have the courage to be as outspoken as Roy, they share his views and hold the likes of Vijayvargiya, Shivprakash and Menon responsible for the party’s debacle as they got Trinamul turncoats to contest for the BJP in the Assembly elections. Referring to Roy’s tweet, a BJP functionary said a female worker from a rural area had called up Dilip Ghosh on May 3 morning for help after her house had been attacked by alleged Trinamul workers. “However, the call to Ghosh was attended by someone else at first and when the Midnapore MP finally answered, he dispassionately said he had nothing to do.” “How can a state president react like this? Whom are we to look up to in times of need if our chief turns us away?” Roy’s jibes at the state leaders prompted some of them to lodge complaints with the central leaders, following which he was summoned to Delhi on May 6. But he could not visit the capital because he was detected with Covid-19. Roy told The Telegraph on Thursday that he was still unwell but planned to visit Delhi once the capital came out of lockdown. “I will submit a report on why and how the party lost in Bengal when I visit Delhi,” he said, making it clear that he didn’t regret the tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi calls up Mukul Roy to inquire about his wife’s health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned BJP MLA Mukul Roy on Thursday to inquire about the health of his wife Krishna who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital off the EM Bypass here. The call from Modi, BJP sources said, assumes significance as Abhishek Banerjee, de facto number 2 of the Trinamul Congress, had paid a visit to the hospital on Wednesday to enquire about the health of Krishna and spent some time with Roy’s son Subhranshu. After Abhishek’s visit, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh also went to the hospital on Wednesday. The sudden concern in the BJP camp about Krishna’s health has drawn everyone’s attention. “Krishnadi has been unwell for a long time and has been on ventilation. Suddenly, everyone seems to be concerned.… The PM could’ve called up Mukulda earlier as well or Dilipda could have visited her before. But all these happened only after Abhishek paid a visit to the hospital,” a state BJP leader said. Sources close to Roy said Modi’s phone had come around 10.30 on Thursday morning and the two spoke for about a couple of minutes about Krishna’s health. “The Prime Minister had called up my father since he is a worker of the BJP. I can’t say anything more about it,” Shubhranshu told The Telegraph. He added that BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, and the party’s national president J.P. Nadda had called up earlier to enquire about Krishna’s health. Although Subhranshu — a Trinamul turncoat who lost as a BJP nominee from Bijpur in the Assembly polls — didn’t share details of the calls from BJP leadership, he was effusive in his praise for Abhishek and the chief minister. “My mother is like Abhishek’s aunt. She loves him a lot. His gesture must become a practice in Indian politics,” Shubhransu said. “The Honourable CM has also enquired about my parents’ health through several sources and I’m very happy,” he added. Mukul also tested positive for Covid, but he is better now and has gone back to his Kanchrapara home. Subhranshu’s praise for Abhishek and Mamata caused jitters in the saffron camp as it willy-nilly endorsed Mukul’s displeasure with the scheme of things in the state BJP. “The party leadership knows that Mukulda is unhappy with several things... That is why efforts are made to assuage his concerns,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden owner proposes to donate CT-Scan machine to Darjeeling district hospital ||Tea planter Ajit Kumar Agarwala has proposed to donate a CT-Scan machine that would cost Rs 1.1 crore to Darjeeling district hospital. Agarwala, who owns eight tea gardens in the region, six in Darjeeling district and the rest in Jalpaiguri, stated in his proposal that a May 31 report in The Telegraph on the lack of CT scan and portable X-ray machine to treat Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling district hospital caught his eye. Darjeeling has no CT scan facility in any hospital, which hampers Covid-19 treatment. “…..upon reading the news article it is felt that an urgent installation of CT Scan machine is the need of the hour so we as a social organisation wish to extend our helping hand to the citizens of Darjeeling, through your good office, by donating a 16 Slice CT Scan machine to the Darjeeling Govt. hospital,” Agarwala has stated in his letter to the principal secretary of the health department, the administrator of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and Darjeeling district magistrate. Agarwala is the managing trustee of the Amit Agarwala Foundation, which is named after his only son. Amit Agarwala died in 2006. “I don’t have any legal heir but I want to do social work in the region that has given me so much,” said Agarwala. Agarwala said he also plans to come up with “hospitals and schools”. He said that he was the first planter in the country to write to the government to distribute land to the tea garden workers. “At Kanchan View (one of the tea gardens that he owns) I once had 200 workers but now we only have 99. I had proposed to the state government to take 50 per cent of the garden land and distribute it to the workers and other landless people,” said Agarwala stressing that lack of workforce is a major problem in smooth running of a tea garden. Asked about the businessman’s proposed gift of the CT scan, S. Poonambalam, Darjeeling’s district magistrate, however, said the health department has already started the process to procure a CT scan machine for the Darjeeling district hospital. “The process was to start before the election but was stalled because of the model code of conduct,” said Poonambalam. To this, Agarwala said that if the government wished, he could buy and install the CT scan at another hill hospital like the Covid hospital at Triveni, Kalimpong district, which is run by the GTA. The tea owner previously owned two gardens in the hills, Chungthung and Kanchan View. He, however, sold Chungthung in 2008. At the Kanchan View tea garden, Agarwala is planning to come up with a 72-room resort, which will be a commercial venture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Tajpur residents put dyke repair over politics||Over 1,000 disgruntled residents in East Midnapore’s Tajpur on Thursday afternoon surrounded Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and demanded that a 3km stretch of embankment and guard wall, be repaired “immediately”. Abhishek had travelled by road to Tajpur around 2pm to inspect the damaged embankment and guard wall, which were devastated in Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The Telegraph had reported last Friday that several villages lying close to coastal Tajpur had been flooded and several homes ruined as a result of a high tide coursing through the demolished guard wall structure and embankment. “We don't want rations. We want this embankment and guard wall to be repaired immediately so that we can return home,” said Pritilata Majhi, 65, almost upbraiding Abhishek as he gave the crowd assurances of looking into it by the department concerned. Abhishek, who was accompanied by fisheries minister Akhil Giri, had begun his interaction with the group of villagers asking whether they had received ration and relief materials but the interaction took a different turn with people demanding the embankment and guard wall repaired. “You all know who the DSDA chairman and irrigation minister were till recently. Your district has lost everything in trying to protect one family,” Abhishek said without naming Suvendu Adhikari and his clan. Trinamul turncoat Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari was the chairman of Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) till earlier this year. Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Assembly polls in Nandigram by a slim margin, had earlier been irrigation minister briefly. So had the other Trinamul turncoat, Rajib Banerjee. But Majhi was not interested. “We don't care about who did what. We just want our safety, you look into that,” she told Abhishek, who was then assuring protesters that officials in the Digha Development Authority and the irrigation department, who were responsible for the embankment, guard wall and road cover, would face a probe. It was clear that villagers did not care about political twists and turns when their survival was at stake. The crowd of over 1,000 even had a few members carrying placards that said “Badh chai, bnachte chai (we want the embankment, we want to live).” The area is slated to witness high tide waves for the June 10 full moon. Over 2,000 residents of Tajpur remain displaced for a over week owing to standing water after Cyclone Yaas. Especially in places like Chandpur, Tajpur, Jalda and Shyampur, and loss of essentials during the sudden flooding that took place late last Wednesday. Some have even moved to nearby higher land and are living under tarpaulins. “All we told him (Abhishek) is that we want our homes back, kitchen back. If I don’t have a kitchen, where will I cook the ration,” said homemaker Sabita Maity, 32, who had to shift to a relative’s home with her two sons after the cyclone-induced floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: State govt starts Duare Tran camps to provide financial help to people ||The state government started its Duare Tran (relief on doorsteps) camps from Thursday to provide financial help to people affected by Cyclone Yaas that hit coastal Bengal on May 26. Unlike after Amphan last year, the government has prepared a month-long schedule to make the process transparent. According to the plan, the government will receive applications from June 3 to 18, field enquiries will be done over the next 12 days and then the beneficiaries, depending on the extent of damage, will receive benefits from July 1 to 7. The North and South 24-Parganas opened 20 and 34 Duare Tran camps, respectively, in the districts’ Yaas-hit pockets on Thursday. Taking lessons from alleged malpractices in relief distribution that had snowballed into a major political controversy in the aftermath of Amphan last year, this time the government has taken several precautions to ensure that Yaas relief reaches actual beneficiaries in three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas. The Telegraph lists some steps to ensure transparency in the process: Primary survey: Two days after Yaas struck Bengal, teams of officials armed with photographers were sent to affected villages to collect data from the ground. Officials said the teams sent a detailed report with names of cyclone victims. Photographs of damage caused to properties of the victims were sent with the report. During Amphan, the government had invited applications from people and money was transferred to their accounts without verification. Senior officials said this time they took this strategy for two reasons — first, for a primary database on victims before they apply, and second, if any application comes from unaffected places, verification would be faster. For example, officials have enlisted around 200 households severely damaged in a village in South 24-Parganas. When applications reach officials, they can quickly verify if the names are fresh ones or are part of the primary survey. All applications will be checked and fresh names further cross-checked. “After receiving applications, we will do a ground enquiry for each applicant. In case of data mismatch, the application will be cancelled,” said the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, P. Ulaganathan. Identifying locations: Unlike Amphan, the government is carrying out location specific campaigns for the Duare Tran. The campaign is done only in those villages where people are affected. The number of camps per day is fewer to keep the process transparent and camps free of crowding amid the pandemic. “We are holding camps in small numbers. Only 20 camps were held on Thursday, in the Basirhat area,” said Sumit Gupta, the North 24-Parganas district magistrate. Proactive documentation: During Amphan, there was no documentation was done apart from receiving the application with a bank account number. This time, every applicant has to submit his or her Aadhaar card and the first page of a bank passbook. A photographer at the camp clicks pictures of the applicants. “The photographs will be cross-checked to find whether the person is real or fake,” said an official in North 24-Parganas. Keeping away politicians: The government this time decided not to involve politicians, including elected representatives of panchayats or panchayat samitis, in the process of distributing relief and at Duare Tran camps. Before starting camps, elected representatives had been asked to help affected people gather documents and send them to camps. In case a person can’t write, the forms are filled up by government employees at the camp. Elected representatives of panchayats or municipalities are not allowed in the Duare Traan camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay explains ‘situation’ in reply to showcause issued by ministry of home affairs||Former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Thursday sent his reply to a showcause issued by the ministry of home affairs, explaining why he had to leave a review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Cyclone Yaas at Kalaikunda last week. After his retirement on May 31, Bandyopadhyay was appointed as the chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. A section of officials said the former chief secretary had mentioned in the reply the chain of events on Friday when Modi had called the review meeting. “He explained the situation in which he had to leave the meeting, along with the chief minister, after handing over a list of damage caused by Cyclone Yaas to the Prime Minister. Bandyopadhyay explained that he had not skipped the review meeting. He left the meeting after taking permission from the Prime Minister,” said an officer aware of the development. The Centre had given him three days’ time to send his reply to the showcause. “He sent his reply within the time-frame given to him,” said the officer. Sources said Bandyopadhyay was right in his stand as he had to obey the chief minister’s order as the chief minister was his immediate boss. “It’s the duty of a bureaucrat to obey orders of his or her immediate boss. In case a bureaucrat fails to obey orders from his or her immediate boss, he could face disciplinary action. Keeping this in view, Bandyopadhyay apparently did not do anything wrong,” said a source. But a section of the officials was sceptical whether the Centre would accept the reasons cited by the former chief secretary. “The Centre made it clear that it was not happy and did not hesitate to initiate steps that could be termed as acts of revenge. Once the Centre came to know that he had retired on May 31 refusing extension of service for three months, it immediately showcaused him under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which frames criminal charges against the offenders,” said an official. Another section of the officials said new chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi had also sent a letter, informing the Centre that Bandyopadhyay had retired on May 31 and he did not opt for extension of service for three months which had been approved by the Union government on May 24 on the state’s request. “This letter was sent to make it clear that Bandyopadhyay was not in service any more and no disciplinary action could be taken against him,” said a source. The state had sought Bandyopadhyay’s service extension, citing the second wave of Covid-19. Although nobody in the state government officially confirmed the content of the letter sent by Dwivedi, sources said the letter was a message that the state government stood by its former chief secretary. “This will boost the morale of the bureaucrats working in Bengal. They will be sure that the state would stand by them in case they face any trouble,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
04-06-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal drop by 8,235||Bengal on Thursday recorded a drop by 8,235 in total active Covid-19 cases, aided by 16,938 recoveries, nearly twice the 8,811 infections reported on the day. The state also logged 108 deaths on Thursday. Of the 108 deaths, 27 were reported from Calcutta and 30 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 976 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,842. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 61,780 now, having improved by over 53 per cent in the past 13 days. Bengal now has 3.78 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. The state now has a total of 14.03 lakh cases, which include 13.25 lakh recoveries, besides 15,921 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 33rd consecutive day, riding the consistently large number of recoveries, rising by nearly 10 percentage points to 94.46 per cent on Thursday. The national rate now is 93.05. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.81 on Thursday. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of total samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.19. “From the peak of more than 53,000 active cases between them, these two districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) now have around 20,000 active cases. From around 40 per cent of the state’s total of active cases, the two districts now have around 33 per cent,” said a minister. “When these two, collectively, have less than 5,000 active cases once again, we will have effectively seen off the second wave,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
