05-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata elevates nephew Abhishek with key Trinamul post||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee took a step towards anointing her political successor on Saturday by elevating her nephew, the Trinamul Congress’s youth wing chief and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek, as the party’s  only all India general secretary. “Didi is doing the groundwork for the 2024 general elections. With Abhishek’s elevation, he will play a much bigger role in the party now. Unlike others like Suvendu (Adhikary), Didi cannot just remove Abhishek in a day. After all he is her own nephew whom she has groomed,” said a Trinamul leader after a 30-minute meeting at Trinamul Bhavan on Saturday. “Abhishek’s elevation removes any doubt about who is going to be her political successor,” he added. From his days as “Balak Abhishek” when he was brought into the party fold to contest his first election in 2014 from Diamond Harbour, the last seven years have turned out well for the young satrap, the latest in India’s long tryst with politics of dynasties. Saturday’s elevation indicates the growing importance of Abhishek in the party. Though Mamata has never hidden her aversion to dynasty politics—the reason she went public on not giving tickets to people born with a golden spoon—her actions have been contrary to her claims. At the annual July 21 rally of 2011, barely two months since she became chief minister, Mamata had floated the Trinamul Yuva to accommodate Abhishek. Like then, as well as in 2014, her decision had raised eyebrows, given that she has often claimed she does not have a “family”. The Trinamul Yuva, now disbanded, was floated to give Abhishek a platform without disturbing the party’s organisation. Son of Mamata’s brother Amit, Abhishek has an MBA degree and his first foray into politics was campaigning for the Trinamul nominees in the 2011 Assembly polls and working behind the scenes with select members from the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad and the party’s cyber team. Mamata had told a public gathering at Diamond Harbour that at the age of two, Abhishek had promised to avenge the vicious attack on her, referring to the assault by CPM goons in 1990. “He was barely two years old when CPM goons hit me on the head. O amake ese bolechhilo, ‘pisi, boro hoye ami badla nebo’ (He came and told, me, ‘aunty, I will avenge this when I grow up),” Mamata had said on May 4, 2014. The “revenge” was in the form of his victory in Diamond Harbour twice and bringing one of CPI(M)’s youngest leaders, Ritabrata Banerjee, to the Trinamul fold. Along with Abhishek, the CPI(M) turncoat -- he used to head the party’s SC/ST cell -- was on Saturday made in charge of the Trinamul’s trade union front. In the last five years, since Mukul Roy fell out of favour and quit Trinamul, Abhishek inducted several leaders of his choice from other parties, like, for instance, former Congress veteran Manas Bhunia. "He does not trust most of the leaders who are close to Mamata di. On his insistence Sonali Guha was dropped from the candidates’ list this time," said a Trinamul leader. Abhishek was also instrumental in recruiting Prashant Kishore which has paid rich dividends for the party and Mamata’s becoming chief minister for the third time. Suvendu factor Abhishek’s entry to the Trinamul had sparked a feud with another rising leader, also regarded as the satrap of another dynasty though far from the seat of power in Calcutta. That man was Suvendu Adhikary. Setting up the Trinamul Yuva had pitched a young Abhishek directly with the Adhikary family scion, whose biggest political victory has come in the form of his victory against Mamata in Nandigram. Abhishek’s journey in politics has almost mirrored that of his celebrated aunt. Like Mamata, Abhishek too has borne the brunt of public assault though not as violent as what his aunt had to face. On January 5, 2015, while addressing a rally in East Midnapore’s Chandipur, Abhishek was slapped. The incident happened soon after Mamata had given him charge of the party’s youth wing as well. On Saturday, after Abhishek’s elevation as all India general secretary, Bengali actress Sayani Ghosh, who contested unsuccessfully from the Asansol South seat, was made the party’s youth wing president. ‘One man one post’ On Saturday, Mamata spoke of the Trinamul adhering to the “one man, one post” rule, a lesson she seems to have imbibed from the Adhikary episode. After Suvendu joined the BJP, his father Sisir, though still a Trinamul MP, campaigned for the BJP in the Assembly elections. During the campaign, Mamata had repeatedly spoken about how much she “gave” to the Adhikaries referring to the numerous posts the Adhikary clan held in East Midnapore district. Mukul Roy had held the post of all-India general secretary till he fell out with Mamata and quit the party in 2017 to join the BJP. Mukul’s importance in Trinamul’s scheme of things, and gradually in Bengal politics, was largely because of his position in the organisation, the Number Two in the hierarchy. “Mamata di made it clear that she was in favour of one leader, one post. (Subrata) Bakshi da held the two posts for four years now,” said the Trinamul leader referring to his holding the post of state party chief and also all India general-secretary. More changes likely Another key appointment was former state labour minister Purnendu Basu being named as head of the farmers’ wing of the party. Mamata also held a separate meeting with MPs and senior leaders of the party. Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said major changes will also be made within a month in district units. A senior Trinamul leader said while the final call will be taken by Mamata, the stamp of Abhishek will be there in these changes. At the second meeting, Mamata is understood to have told all her ministers not to use the beacon. She also warned party leaders against getting embroiled in any corrupt activities like illegal coal and sand mining and unfair relief distribution, all of which the Trinamul has been accused of in the last 10 years in Bengal. The Trinamul’s core committee comprising Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Bakshi, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Chandrima Bhattacharya and Gautam Deb has been asked to keep “watch” on the activities of the party leaders and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee becomes new general secretary of Trinamul Congress||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday elevated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the party's all-India general secretary, a senior leader in Calcutta said. Addressing a press meet, TMC leader Partha Chatterjee also said that the working committee has decided that one person will be allowed to hold just one post in the party, and the core committee has duly given its approval. "Our party chief Mamata Banerjee has nominated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the all-India general secretary of the TMC," Chatterjee said, following two crucial meetings earlier in the day. Abhishek, nephew of the party supremo, will be replacing Subrata Bakshi as the national general secretary, while actor-turned-TMC leader Sayoni Ghosh has been made the youth wing president - a post earlier held by the MP. The party also appointed its MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar as the president of its women’s wing. It retained Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O'Brien as the parliamentary leaders. Chatterjee further stated that no discussion was held on turncoats, who had quit the TMC to join the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, and were now willing to return to the party fold. Chatterjee also informed that Trinamul is planning to expand its wing outside Bengal -- a move that may influence the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat next year, as well as Lok Sabha elections scheduled for 2024. Saturday’s meeting was the first major organisational meeting of the Trinamul Congress since the Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Four Trinamul leaders appear in CBI court||Four leaders — two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul Congress MLA and a former mayor — arrested in the Narada case on May 17 and later granted interim bail by Calcutta High Court presented themselves before the CBI court in Calcutta on Friday to honour the lower court’s order. The magistrate handling the case fixed June 18 for the next hearing. Panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, transport minister Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee had been arrested by the CBI on May 17 for their alleged involvement in the Narada case. Soon after the arrest, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a few of her cabinet colleagues reached the CBI office at Nizam Palace here. Trinamul supporters blocked the road outside the CBI office to demand the release of the leaders. On the same day, the four were virtually produced in the CBI court which granted them bail. The magistrate also asked them to be present before the court on June 4. On May 17 evening, the CBI moved Calcutta High Court and informed it about the presence of the chief minister and her “associates” at the CBI office and the Trinamul supporters outside the building. During the hearing of the case, the CBI asked the high court to stay the lower court’s order granting bail to the four leaders. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the lower court’s bail and sent the four to jail. Following a split verdict of the division bench on May 19, the four leaders were placed under house arrest and a larger five-judge bench was formed to hear the case. The five-judge bench granted the leaders interim bail with certain riders on May 28. As the bench is yet to give its order on the CBI petition seeking shifting of the trial from the lower court to the high court, the case in the CBI court still prevails. “To obey the May 17 order, the leaders attended the court today (Friday),” lawyer representing Madan Mitra said. On Friday, the five-judge bench of Justice Bindal, Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Arijit Banerjee heard the case for the fifth consecutive day. CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta, whose submission ended on Friday, tried to convince the larger bench that the presence of the chief minister in the CBI office, that of her associates in the CBI court and the blockade on the road outside Nizam Palace by Trinamul supporters might have had influenced the trial court to award bail to the leaders. The counsel prayed to the high court to take over the trial of the case. Appearing for the two ministers, advocate Abhishekh Manu Singhvi told the court on Friday that Mehta had failed to prove that the incidents had influenced the trial court. Subrata Mukherjee’s counsel Kalyan Banerjee countered the CBI’s claim that he had threatened a CBI counsel. Banerjee in an affidavit claimed that during his presence at the CBI office on May 17, the DIG CBI had shown him a text message that said that he was acting under pressure from someone. Banerjee, however, said he did not see who had sent the message to the DIG. Banerjee also sought to refute the CBI’s claim that law minister Malay Ghatak was present in the CBI court. The hearing will resume on June 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj TMC councillor assaulted for protesting against illegal liquor sale ||A Trinamul Congress councillor at Raiganj municipality was allegedly assaulted by a BJP leader and his associates on Thursday evening for protesting against illegal sale of liquor. Abhijit Saha, the Trinamul councillor of ward 27, filed a police complaint against BJP leader Biswajit Ghosh. North Dinajpur district BJP leaders have denied the charge. Sources said a group of people led by Ghosh had been illegally selling liquor at Debinagar in Saha’s ward. “Youths from other areas would swarm Debinagar to drink alcohol. There would be brawls among drunkards daily. Yesterday evening, I went there and asked Ghosh and others to stop the liquor sale. He took out a firearm and hit me on the head with its butt. His sidekicks roughed me up and snatched my gold chain,” said Saha. Saha called up Prasenjit Sarkar, the Trinamul councillor of the neighbouring ward, for help. Sarkar rushed in with Trinamul supporters, prompting the BJP leader and the associates to escape from the spot. “A police complaint has been filed. All of them should be arrested. We will never allow such practices at any locality of the town,” said Sarkar. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur district president of the BJP, said: “As Trinamul lost the Raiganj Assembly seat, the party has become vindictive and started implicating our leaders and workers in false cases. The BJP has nothing to do with the liquor sale and the attack on the councillor.” Based on Saha’s complaint, Raiganj police registered a case. “No arrests have been made so far. Our officers are collecting details,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Fire breaks out in air-conditioned coach of Kanchankanya Express near Bagdogra station||A minor blaze broke out in one of the air-conditioned coaches of the Alipurduar-bound Kanchankanya Express near Bagdogra station while it was heading towards Siliguri on Friday morning. According to railway sources, a section of passengers could smell something was burning under the coach and also smoke was emanating from it. “The train was at that time crossing the Atal tea estate, near Bagdogra. The loco pilot and the guard immediately stopped the train. The next stop of the train was Siliguri Junction, 18km away,” said a source. The loco pilot and the guard examined the coach and after some time, the train was taken to Bagdogra railway station. Meanwhile, the GRP and RPF personnel, along with railway officials and fire engines from Matigara, rushed to the Bagdogra station. They thoroughly inspected the coach and around 11am, the train left for Siliguri Junction, almost an hour after its scheduled time. “During preliminary examination, it was found that the brake-binder of the wheels (which is made of rubber), somehow got heated. There was no major blaze and the train reached its destination — Alipurduar Junction — safely,” said S Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR. Miscreants nabbed Police arrested five miscreants from Englishbazar in Malda. Acting on a tip off, a team of Englishbazar police station in Malda conducted a raid in a locality that is close to the government polytechnic located on Malda-Manikchak state highway on Thursday night and arrested five miscreants. The gang, police sources said, had assembled to commit a robbery in the locality. A number of sharp and blunt weapons have been recovered from them. All the five are residents of different localities of Malda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
05-06-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur: Three persons killed in highway crash ||Three persons died and two suffered serious injuries after a vehicle ferrying them went off the road and rammed into a tree on NH31 in North Dinajpur on Thursday night. Police said the victims were travelling from Suryapur of Dalkhola to Islampur. The driver lost control of the vehicle and the accident took place in  the Ghordhappa area. “The impact of the crash was so intense that the vehicle had virtually turned into a mangled junk of metal. It took us time to take out all the five passengers who were rushed to the sub-divisional hospital in Islampur. Doctors pronounced three of them dead on arrival. The injured are under treatment,” said a police officer. The deceased are Mohammad Mohzam, 30, who hailed from Katihar in Bihar, Kaushar Alam, 25, and Vikram, 26, both residents of Dalkhola.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Central team to visit cyclone-hit areas in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore ||A seven-member inter-ministerial team from Delhi would visit areas hit by Cyclone Yaas in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore and make on-spot assessment of the damage. The team headed by S. K. Shahi, joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, is scheduled to reach Bengal on Sunday. It would visit some of the affected areas and hold meetings with officials in the two districts and Calcutta for three days. The visit of the central team holds significance in the backdrop of a tussle between the Union government and the state following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s non-attendance at a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda last week to review the post-cyclone relief operations. The state government has, however, made elaborate arrangements to ensure that the central team gets a true picture of the damage. “We have told the district concerned that all arrangements should be made to ensure that the team members can visit the areas devastated by Yaas and talk to affected people,” said a senior government official. Announcing the team members as state guests, the disaster management department asked all officials concerned to ensure that they got due “courtesies and facilities”. “It is therefore requested that due courtesies and facilities may kindly be extended to the VIP and party during their visit to this state,” reads an order issued by the disaster management department on Friday. Sources said such a clear directive was not usually spelt out in government orders after declaring the team members as state guests. “Everybody in the government knows what should be extended to the state guests. But mentioning in the order clearly gives a hint that the state wants to avoid any kind of confrontation with the Centre,” said an official. Although a section of officials said sending a team to the state didn’t mean that the Centre was ready to announce a handsome amount for Bengal to help in restoration work in the post-cyclone period. “Central teams had visited the state after Fani and Amphan. But the support the Centre extended after Amphan was too meagre. So, we will do our job by letting the team know about facts. But at the same time, we don’t expect anything,” said an official. The sources also said it had become imperative for the Centre to send a team to Bengal after the Prime Minister had visited the state following the cyclone. “So, we don’t read too much into the visit of the central team... We would wait to see if the Union government wants to help the state by allotting some funds which we would require to rebuild damaged embankments,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||More than 10% of Darjeeling tea gardens seek buyers, but in vain||More than 10 per cent of the tea estates in the Darjeeling hills are up for sale but insiders say there are no buyers, offering a grim situation report on what was once known as the pearl of the tea industry in India. “Annual production has come down from 8.5 million kg of made tea to 6.5 million kg of made tea for 2020-21, imports are down from 4.2 to 3.1 million kg and no importer is increasing the price because they, too, are under stress,” said a planter. He was citing one of the key reasons — lower production — for the plight of those growing Darjeeling Tea, a globally recognised brand. “More than 10 per cent of the tea gardens are up for sale but there are no takers,” the planter added, echoing the assessment of several industry figures in Darjeeling. Multiple tea industry insiders referred to a combination of factors like absenteeism, political instability in the hills, the weather pattern, management style and the poor health of the economy as the reasons for the state of affairs in the Darjeeling Tea industry. Only 87 tea gardens can sell their produce as “Darjeeling Tea” because of the Geographic Indicator status they received in 2003. Other gardens cannot sell their tea as “Darjeeling Tea”. “Despite these protections, the industry is in the red and that’s the biggest worry,” said a source. The annual turnover of the industry in the hills is estimated to be around Rs 400-500 crore. The 87 gardens altogether employ 55,000 permanent workers along with 15,000 temporary workers. It is estimated that 3 lakh people in the hills directly or indirectly derive sustenance from the industry. The 170-year-old industry traces its history to Dr A. Campbell, a civil surgeon who became the superintendent of Darjeeling and experimented by growing tea seeds at Beechwood in Darjeeling. However, the gardens are now looking for buyers. “Why would people want to sell tea gardens? Definitely something is wrong,” said a source. The telltale signs had emerged sometime ago. In the past two years, two gardens changed hands but the owners of several others were desperately scouting for buyers. Many planters said the crisis had deepened after the fight between “Didi and Daju”, an allusion to the standoff between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung that culminated in a 104-day general strike in the hills in 2017. Apart from political instability, other factors have come into play, planters said. “This year, the industry has lagged in first-flush production by more than 40 per cent because of the drought-like conditions that prevailed in the region,” an industry official said. Of the four flushes — first, second, monsoon and autumn flush — the first accounts for 20 per cent of the annual production and fetches the highest price. Most of it is exported. The second flush, too, accounts for 20 per cent, while the monsoon flush yields 50 per cent and the autumn flush 10 per cent. “On an average, the first flush leaves get sold for around Rs 1,800 a kg, while the broken leaves go for Rs 500 to Rs 600,” said a planter. The owners are not complaining much about the price of the produce. Their main concern is the fall in production by 40 per cent, which has reduced the top line. The lower production has a direct link with poor labour supply. “We have also been hit by absenteeism, which is as high as 40 per cent in Darjeeling, compared to 15 to 20 per cent in Assam,” an industry insider said, referring to a lack of interest among the labour force to work in the industry. Poor labour supply has been one of the biggest problems. The unions blame low wages and point to a general trend of aspirations driving youths towards the hospitality industry and other less labour-intensive and more rewarding avenues. Many planters said Darjeeling’s tea gardens used to complete around 26 rounds of plucking in a year. “Now this has come down to 16-18 rounds on an average,” a planter said. He said a particular tea garden had increased its green leaf quantity by 15,000kg last year after employing 80 workers from a closed tea estate nearby. “The engagement of 80 workers ensured six more plucking rounds for the garden,” he said. Against this backdrop, several planters feel that only major groups with diversified interests might be able to make the industry thrive again. “There is a group in the industry whose share from the Darjeeling industry is only 2 per cent of their overall business. Such groups will survive,” said an old planter. Tea planters have come up with other suggestions. “The government must fix a minimum selling price for the industry. The industry is under the commerce department but it should be brought under the agriculture department so that the industry can avail agriculture sops,” said a planter. “Marketing of Darjeeling tea in the domestic market is important as exports are coming down. Also, the Centre should be vocal for local products and strictly stop the inflow of Nepal tea, which is eating into Darjeeling tea’s domestic sale,” said another planter. “The time has come for the governments, both at the Centre and in the state, the tea management and the unions to sit down and have an honest discussion to revive the industry,” said a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Digha trader loses home and livelihood ||Cyclone Yaas has dealt a double blow to Madhab Jana, 35, a resident of Gobindabasan village in East Midnapore’s Digha. The cyclone, which hit the state on May 26, has thrown him out of his home and destroyed his source of livelihood. While he remains homeless for almost 10 days since the cyclone, his shop situated on the Old Digha beach, which he acquired on lease from the local administration a few years back, has been damaged by floodwater. “We are currently living at a relative’s house. Hopefully in a few days, we can get back to our home and make it habitable after a few repairs. But what about my stall?” Madhab wondered. “I used to run a shack previously. Three years ago, I took this stall on lease from the Digha Shankarpur Development Authority and it cost me Rs1.36 lakh. I also paid a monthly rent of Rs 100 to the authority. Now, the stall, along with the products kept inside, has been completely damaged,” a teary-eyed Madhab added. A large number of the 2,000 odd stalls situated along the Digha coast have either been fully or partially damaged in the cyclone. These stalls — a major tourist attraction and an important source of livelihood for local people — mostly sold fancy seashells and similar products used for household decorations. Many of these stalls are owned by the likes of Madhab, who reside within a few kilometres from the coast. Gobindabasan, Madhab’s village, is less than a kilometre away from the sea. Water has gusted into these villages during the cyclone and many of these areas are still flooded. “The loss we have incurred is around Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Sumita, 30, Madhab’s wife. “Moreover, everything in my house, including television, refrigerator and furniture has been destroyed,” she added. The likes of Madhab and Sumita are staring at a bleak future. Their lives depended on the sea-side stalls. These businesses were slowly but efficiently recovering from the losses they had suffered during the pandemic induced lockdown last year. But the cyclone has come as a double blow for them washing away their shops and houses alike. A widowed sea shell product seller and Madhab’s neighbour Kanan Majhi, 50, didn’t even have a proper stall since she couldn’t afford the money. She would sit on the road near the beach with her products every day. Her goods worth Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 were packed inside her house and all of those has been destroyed by floodwater. In spite of all their sufferings, government help or relief has not reached these villages. While some NGOs have come with food, tarpaulin and other relief materials, the local administration was nowhere to be seen, Madhab complained. “NGOs and some individuals have helped us but that isn’t enough. We have lost our livelihoods. If the government doesn’t stand up to the situation there can be no relief for us,” Kanan said. However, Bishnupada Roy, the BDO of Ramnagar 1 block, said: “We are providing relief and tarpaulin to everybody. But the losses have been great and if someone has been left out we will look into it.” Ashutosh Samanta, the secretary of Digha Stall Owner’s Association, admitted that most of the stalls and the goods inside them had been damaged and washed away. The association has requested the DSDA to repair the stalls and take care of the losses. “These permanent stalls were built after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011 and has been a lot of help for us. We hope the government will take care of the damaged stalls too,” Samanta said. State fisheries minister and local MLA Akhil Giri said the issue had been brought to the notice of chief minister. The issue of helping the stall owners was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers gherao Dilip Ghosh for removal of district president and state secretary||Around a dozen BJP workers surrounded state party president Dilip Ghosh at the district office in Hooghly’s Chinsurah on Friday, demanding the removal of district president Goutam Chatterjee and Dipanjan Guha, a state secretary who unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly polls from Chandernagore. Angry BJP workers alleged that promoting leaders who were hand-in-glove with the Trinamul at the cost of old-timers had led to the party’s debacle. Demanding the removal of the leaders, the workers asked Ghosh to form a new district committee. “The district president and the state secretary are responsible for the defeat. They were hand in gloves with Trinamul and had fielded candidates without any background. So, today we had come to the party office to demand removal of the district president,” said an agitating BJP worker. Chatterjee took over as district president in 2020 by removing Subir Nag, a move that had angered BJP old-timers. The district had faced a series of protests over selection of candidates and a central leader was gheraoed in Singur after the party decided to field Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharjee as the BJP nominee from Singur. Ghosh had arrived for a meeting at the district party office in Chinsurah on Friday afternoon. The BJP workers surrounded Ghosh when he was leaving the office after the meeting. “You have come here to lodge a complaint with me but you never came to my office to inform me about this. The party has a decorum and come to my office to tell me about your allegations,” Ghosh told angry party workers. BJP district president Chatterjee later told reporters that Ghosh had asked him to suspend all those who had demonstrated on Friday. Mukul wife BJP MLA Mukul Roy on Friday said no one from the BJP state committee had enquired about the health of his wife Krishna Roy even while Trinamul MP and de-facto number two in the party Abhishek Banerjee visited the hospital and then Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him up. “I did not know when he (Dilip Ghosh) came to see her...No one from the state committee had taken any update in this regard,” Roy said. Ghosh, however, said it was not possible to call on Covid patients and that was the reason for not going to meet Mukul's wife. He added that for the same reason no one had visited him when he had contracted the disease last year. “However, when I heard that she was seriously ill and on life support I went to the hospital. I got worried when I heard that Abhishek had gone to see her. One should be thankful that he came to see her,” said Ghosh. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to hold first major Trinamul Congress meeting since Assembly elections||Mamata Banerjee will on Saturday chair the first major organisational meeting of the Trinamul Congress since the Assembly elections, where she is likely to announce some decisions to ensure better performance of the party, especially in areas where it still remains weak. Besides Mamata and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, the top tier of the leadership, including the likes of Subrata Bakshi, Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, besides poll consultant Prashant Kishor, would be present at the meeting at Trinamul Bhavan. “All of this remains in the realm of speculation, as she is unpredictable, with a bit of a reputation for last-minute surprises and U-turns. But some of these things are very likely to take place tomorrow… things such as Abhishek being given more importance, formally, in the parent party, a “one person, one post” policy being adopted,” said a minister, on the condition of anonymity. “There will be attention to rewarding performers and sidelining of those who could not deliver even amid such a historic mandate in our favour. Changes in order to minimise conflict within are likely to be prioritised,” he said, adding that districts where Trinamul did not do well — such as Darjeeling, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Bankura and Purulia — are likely to see drastic changes in the party organisation. A Trinamul vice-president said Kishor and his team, having contributed substantially to the turnaround since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, are also back after a month’s leave. “PK and his team are now likely to focus, over the next three years, on charting a path for her in national politics...  This is the most opportune moment, in her entire political career, for that, given the national scene. It is also a very convenient time for the party,” said the vice-president. “Of course, Team PK will not focus on Delhi at the cost of the state. It will be in tandem, all in a deft balance…. Complacence or letting our guard down now could leave the door ajar for the BJP to make quick inroads here, once again,” he added. Also attending the meeting, virtually or otherwise, would be the party’s MPs, MLAs, and key representatives from 120-odd civic bodies of the state. Civic polls in Bengal, deferred because of the pandemic since last year, have to be conducted at some stage, when the Covid-19 situation improves. “There will be some instructions for the civic bosses, as the civic polls – where we no longer fear major losses – will be held in a matter of months, depending on the pandemic situation,” said a south Bengal MLA associated with a civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress bid to build up bases at north municipal towns||The Trinamul Congress has decided to cement its support base at municipal towns in north Bengal as the party lost to the BJP at the urban centres in the recent Assembly elections. “Civic elections are ahead and we need to work in urban areas to develop our support base. We could win 23 (of 54) seats in north Bengal and simultaneously, lost most urban Assembly segments, including the district headquarters barring Jalpaiguri,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri. In north Bengal, the BJP won 30 Assembly seats, including Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Siliguri, Darjeeling, Englishbazar, Balurghat and Raiganj. Ever since the poll results were announced, Trinamul has taken up various activities. They include distribution of food grains to the poor, providing of support to Covid-19 patients and their families who are in isolation at homes and engagement of frontal organisations for pandemic awareness programmes. In north Bengal, elections are due at around 20 civic bodies, which include the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and the Darjeeling municipality where Trinamul or the BJP has never been voted to power. Like other parts of the state, the support base of both the Left and the Congress was obliterated in north Bengal in the Assembly elections. “Trinamul and the BJP are aware of this swing. When it comes to towns, the BJP is keen to retain the votes, while Trinamul is desperate to build up its support,” an observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs less than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for first time since April 17||Bengal on Friday logged less than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time since April 17 with increasing hints that current restrictions to curb the disease’s spread were effective in achieving a turnaround from the peak of the deadly second wave. The state recorded 16,557 recoveries, over twice the 7,913 infections, and 113 deaths on Friday. Total active Covid cases, which were at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, are 53,023 now, having improved by 60 per cent in the intervening 14 days. Compared to the previous day, the number of active cases on Friday dropped by 8,757. “There should be no doubt anymore about how necessary and effective the restrictions were,” said a Bengal minister. “We are days away from getting to the goal of less than 5,000 infections being detected daily. After that would be the goal of less than 1,000 daily,” he added. Bengal now has 2.85 per cent of the total active patients at the national level and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. Till now, Bengal has recorded a total of around 14.11 lakh cases, which include 13.42 lakh recoveries and 16,034 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 34th consecutive day, riding the consistently large number of patients getting cured. The rate rose by nearly 11 percentage points to 95.11 per cent on Friday. The national rate now is 93.23. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.11 on Friday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.19. Of the 113 deaths reported on Friday, 23 were from Calcutta and 25 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 899 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,686. The total of active cases, of the two districts taken together, improved from over 53,000 to more than 17,000 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
05-06-2021||West Bengal||Garment merchant hangs self after killing wife and son in Sodepur||A garment merchant has apparently hanged himself after allegedly killing his wife and son at a rented accommodation in North 24-Parganas’s Sodepur. Khardah police seized the trio’s decomposed bodies on Friday afternoon after neighbours complained of stench from the house at Basakbagan in Sodepur. The police said Samir Kumar Guha, 58, was hanging from a ceiling fan, while his wife Jhuma, 51, and son Babai, 22, were found lifeless on bed. “Crippling debt and poor business because of the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19-induced lockdown appear to be the reasons for the drastic step,” said an investigating officer of Khardah police. The police found a suicide note written on June 2 by Samir and addressed to one of his friends. The note described the trader’s financial crisis and advised the friend to pay his dues by selling his properties. Samir also wrote down details of his creditors against the outstanding amounts. Deputy commissioner of police, Barrackpore commissionerate (central zone), Aashish Maurya, said: “Prima facie, it appears the man probably poisoned his wife and the son to death and then killed himself. It could not be immediately ascertained whether the woman and the son were beaten up before death since the bodies were decomposed. We have sent the bodies for autopsy and the cause of the death can be ascertained only after that.” Neighbours said Guha used to supply garments to local retailers and had settled in the area four years ago. “His business suffered a serious setback during March last year when the Centre announced a lockdown,” said Tarun Das, a friend of Samir. “Samir had been in a deep financial crisis since last year. We tried our best to support him, but he went into depression because of pressure from his creditors and wholesalers to whom he owed money.” Neighbours and relatives claimed that the couple and their son had not been seen in the past two days. They suspected something was amiss when stench started emanating from their rented home, prompting them to call the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
