06-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC inducts young leaders as part of brand renewal strategy||The Trinamul Congress organisational changes seem aimed at bringing in fresh faces from the next generation in order to renew brand TMC ahead of the next round of elections. The move also reflects a trend among regional parties where Akhilesh Yadav, has taken over the mantle from his father and founder of the Samajwadi Party, while Tejashwi Yadav has taken over from his father Laloo Prasad Yadav in leading the powerful RJD party which almost upset the apple- cart in Bihar. Abhishek Banerjee has taken over as national General Secretary, even though the party has hardly any presence outside West Bengal, in a move where he is seen to project him as the next leader of the party. Abhishek was also the most prominent TMC campaigner other than West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is his aunt, in the recently concluded state assembly elections. However, Trinamul insiders aver that this should not be viewed as Parivar-waad or nepotism as its critics and opposition parties were making it out to be, but rather a bid to reward youngsters for their hard work and to groom a next line of leaders, keeping in mind the next round of general and assembly elections. Newly appointed state General Secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Inducting new faces doesn’t indicate Trinamul is not giving weightage to the experience and wisdom of seasoned veterans they will be there to guide the young.” Ghosh known to be close to both Trinamul Surpremo Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek, claimed the move to induct younger faces was with an eye to project a young band of leaders before the people ahead of the Lok Sabha battle three years from now, to reach out with the development work pursued by our government and counter the false communal narrative of BJP. Bringing in new faces is part of a strategy aimed at brand renewal. The selection of candidates for the assembly elections where many old party leaders were sent to the benches and younger people were brought in was similarly based on feedback and a pre-planned strategy, said Rajat Roy, well- known political analyst, and member of the Calcutta Research Group. Even before the next general elections, the party will have to face elections to around 80 municipalities and four Municipal Corporations besides polls to the three-tier panchayat set up in districts. Some TMC leaders who did not wish to be named are also speculating the trend towards promoting the youth brigade is also a prelude to Banerjee attempting to focus more on national affairs. She has already signalled that she has been reaching out to other opposition parties in her bid to take on the BJP. Other TMC insiders said promotions to the younger brigade effected in Saturdays organisational changes were reward promotions. A top TMC leader told PTI, “Take the instance of Ritabrata Banerjee, (a former CPIM MP) who has been made state General Secretary of INTTUC. He had been working for the party organization in Dooars area for past one year without any fanfare or hype. The party felt he did his job well and has rewarded him with greater responsibility.” Agreed TMC insiders who pointed out that the party had fielded young men and women in 30 per cent of the seats it contested including actor-turned candidate Saayoni Ghosh. Despite her loss at the hands of the BJP by a small margin in Asansol South, we believe in Saayoni's potential as a street fighter. The actress has been made the President of Trinamul Yuva Congress, a post vacated by Abhishek. “From Birbaha Hansda at Jhargram to Raj Chakraborty in Barrackpore we had fielded many new faces who have potential, young faces and they vindicated our trust by winning, TMC leaders said. Chakraborty has now been entrusted with charge of the cultural cell which is considered an important organisation within the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks public opinion before taking final call on board exams||Three days after forming an expert panel to check the feasibility of conducting board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the West Bengal school education department on Sunday shared email ids and sought public opinion on the matter within 24 hours. The six-member expert committee, comprising the head of the secondary board, the chief of state child rights protection panel, a doctor and academics, has already submitted its report to the government on Saturday, but its recommendations have not been made public. A member of the panel, however, told PTI that he and the others have unanimously agreed that conducting offline exams, both for Class 10 and Class 12 students, was not realistic, under the present circumstances. Opinions, however, differed about the next course of action -- if an open book examination system would be more apt for the students or an online assessment. The school education department, in a notice issued on Sunday, said, views of the public are being sought on "whether to conduct or not conduct the Madhyamik/Ucchya Madhyamik examinations 2021. If yes, suggestions should be made on the mode of conducting the examinations." The department has also sought views about the possible criteria for assessment. "While the expert committee is considering and discussing the matter, the government of West Bengal invites views from the general public, guardians/parents, students on the above points by 2 pm tomorrow, 7th June 2021," the notice said, sharing the email ids. Authorities had on June 3 cancelled a joint press conference, which was scheduled for announcing dates for Class 10 and 12 board examinations. Last week, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had declared a possible time period for holding Madhyamik (Class 10), and Higher Secondary (Class 12) exams. Taking to Twitter, she said on Sunday, "Our children's future is my greatest priority. To this regard, we have formed an expert committee to decide over holding the Class 10th & 12th board exams in 2021." "We are also inviting views & opinions from parents, general public, sector experts, civil society & students. https://t.co/eVpEIbJkBK. I request each one of you to send us your feedback on the issue by emailing us on the following addresses by June 7th, 2021, 2 PM," she added. Over 12 lakh students are set to appear for Madhyamik and 8.5 lakh for Higher Secondary examinations this year. CBSE and CISCE have recently cancelled 12 board exams in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Law and order situation in Bengal ‘extremely alarming’, says Dhankhar||Describing the law and order situation in post-poll Bengal as "extremely alarming" with numerous cases of killings and rapes recorded, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said he has called upon Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi to learn about the steps being taken by the administration to contain this "retributive violence". He also claimed that the state police is "engaged as an extension of ruling dispensation to let loose vindictiveness on political opponents". Dhankhar, taking to Twitter, said lakhs of people were being displaced and property worth hundreds of crores vandalised in Bengal. "Extremely alarming law & order scenario. Security environment is seriously compromised. In such a grim situation called upon (the) Chief Secretary to brief me on the law and order situation on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence," he tweeted on Sunday. The governor also alleged that people who have voted against the ruling TMC are victims of "targeted violence". "The state is in (the) grip of unprecedented post poll retributive violence at unimaginable scale, with lacs of people being displaced and property worth hundreds of crores vandalised. Rampant vandalism and hooliganism has resulted in large scale arson, loot, destruction of property. "Numerous instances of rapes and killings at the hands of rogue elements who have no fear of law (sic)," he stated. Condemning alleged incidents of socially boycott and denial of benefits to people who had voted for TMC rivals, he said they are being made to pay extortion fees for living in their own house or running their own business. "Democratic values are openly shredded and trampled by ruling party harmads. People are in mortal fear of police and that in turn is at the feet of ruling party rogue elements," he wrote on his Twitter handle. He maintained that the state functionaries "are not recognising this malaise, much less take steps to contain it". "Police is engaged as extension of ruling dispensation to let loose vindictiveness on political opponents. In such a grim situation Chief Secretary of the state be called upon to brief me urgently on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence," Dhankhar, who has always been at loggerheads with the TMC government, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Central team to visit Bengal for assessing damage caused by Yaas||A central team headed by a joint secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will visit Bengal to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas, days after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee abstained from a cyclone review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi triggering a controversy. The very severe cyclone Yaas made landfall in Odisha on May 26 and affected a large part of the state as well as Bengal. A central team led by a joint secretary of the MHA will visit Bengal for three days to assess the damage caused by the cyclone, a Home Ministry official said. The Bengal chief minister had said, as per preliminary assessment, the cyclone had led to damage of an estimated Rs 20,000 crore to property and agriculture. She had also said that 18 lakh people were affected by the cyclone and around 2.21 lakh hectares of crops and 71,560 hectares of horticulture area suffered damage. Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected area of Bengal on May 28 and later called a review meeting at the Kalaikunda air force station. However, the chief minister and the then chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a senior IAS officer, did not attend it, even though they met the prime minister for a few minutes. Following this, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the cadre controlling ministry for the IAS officers, summoned Bandyopadhyay for serving in the central government. However, he did not come to the capital and chose to retire on May 31, instead of accepting a three-month extension sanctioned to him by the state and central government. Subsequently, he was appointed as the chief advisor to the state government by Mamata. On May 31 itself, the MHA slapped a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment for up to two years for abstaining from the meeting presided by the prime minister at Kalaikunda. The Chief Minister had alleged that the officer was targeted by the central government due to a "political vendetta". The ruling Trinamul Congress claimed that the Centre was wreaking vengeance on the Bengal government and that the notice sent to Bandyopadhyay was an "illegal" move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: WBCPCR raises Covid murder finger at EC||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has filed a petition in Calcutta High Court seeking a directive to the Election Commission of India to pay compensation to children orphaned by Covid-19 and to the families that lost children to the infection after the announcement of the Assembly polls on February 26. “The petition has been filed before the court,” advocate Debashish Banerjee, representing the child rights organisation, told The Telegraph on Saturday. In the petition, the child rights commission, a statutory body set up under the Protection of Child Rights Act, accused the EC of “wilfully and deliberately putting the lives of about 10 crore in the state into the depth of despair” amid the pandemic by conducting a prolonged, eight-phase election. The WBCPCR said it was restricting itself to the “disastrous effect and consequences that have been caused to the children of the state and how the statistics of pre- and post-poll Covid cases reveal that countless number of children have directly and indirectly been affected during the time the general election had been conducted in the state and still continue to suffer”. Ananya Chakraborti, the WBCPCR chairperson and petitioner, told this newspaper: “Covid in our state was under control as we did not participate in any of our festivals last year. Some schools had also resumed classes in February this year. Then, the election was announced.… Reports that we have collected from various department have shown that children were the worst affected in the last couple of months and so we decided to file the case against the EC.” The WBCPCR said in the petition that the large number of central force personnel who came to Bengal on poll duty did not adhere to Covid norms. “The Election Commission did not direct for mandatory Covid test of such personnel,” the petition said. The WBCPCR said the personnel moved about “uncontrolled and unrestrained” in Bengal, even travelling to the remotest corners. The forces had put up in “government and government-aided primary, upper primary and secondary schools, which were requisitioned for such purpose by the Election Commission, remaining nonchalant of the fact that midday meal were handed over from such schools on a regular basis… to guardians of students”, the petition said. The child rights commission said the EC “did not take any step to completely restrict public gatherings during the election campaigns”. “About a week before the first phase of the elections, less than 4,000 active Covid-19 cases were reported in the state of West Bengal and by the time the seventh phase of election was held on April 26, 2021, the state reported near about one lakh active cases. During this period, the number of new cases per day increased from less than 400 to about 16,000,” said the petition, which has attached copies of Covid bulletins from dates before, during and after the polls. The child rights panel is mandated to examine everything that inhibits the enjoyment of child rights and look into matters relating to children in need of special care and protection. The poll panel is immune from legal scrutiny in the phase between the announcement of the poll schedule and the declaration of results. “The election code of conduct prevails from the time between the date of announcement of the election to the publication of the election results. During this period, the courts have no jurisdiction to entertain any issue relating to the polls. But after the election, petitions can be entertained,” explained Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, senior advocate with Calcutta High Court. The child rights commission said in the petition that some of the affected children were those with special needs, who have “suffered significantly more during the Covid-19 lockdown, giving rise to stress with psycho-social problems of isolation, abandonment and violence”. The panel said the Election Commission was “solely, entirely and absolutely responsible and accountable for the children, firstly those who have lost their lives… (to) Covid, secondly those who have survived the disease and are thus compelled to live the rest of their lives with post-Covid syndromes, thirdly and most importantly, those who have lost both their parents and guardians and have thus been rendered as orphans, fourthly those who are being compelled to live like orphans since their parents and guardians are admitted in medical facilities”. “It cannot be denied that today the lives of so many children are at stake, some have become orphans, opening a gate for illegal adoption, many have been adversely affected, some have become victim of child labour/ child trafficking, their education, their future everything are at stake and the Election Commission of India is fully liable for such violation of child rights, which attracts penal provisions,” the petition added. “…The Election Commission of India must admit to its failure to prevent such massacre and compensate adequately and on the event otherwise, this Hon’ble Court may kindly be pleased to hold the Election Commission of India solely and absolutely accountable and responsible for all those children that the state has lost and for those children who have lost, due to deliberate, wilful, unconcerned, nonchalant, illogical act on the part of the Election Commission of India,” the child rights body said. The WBCPCR appealed to the court to direct the EC to “compensate each of the families of the deceased children, being responsible and accountable for the children who have lost their lives due to the Covid-19 disease in the state (after the) announcement of the general election on February 26, 2021, the quantum of which may be stipulated by this Hon’ble Court”. The petitioner sought an order to the EC “to render necessary financial assistance to all children who have lost their parents or guardians due to the Covid-19 disease in the state, and have thus been rendered as orphans”, till such period they are suitably and appropriately rehabilitated. The WBCPCR said the pandemic’s second wave, “invited by the Election Commission of India”, had left children “once again locked in their houses”. “Schools are once again indefinitely closed and board exams have been (cancelled or) deferred, thereby severely affecting their career. Children in rural areas cannot even avail online classes due to financial crisis. These unpredictable circumstances are sheer violation of their right to education. Such families, having no other means, are compelled to engage their children in such works which are definitely violation of their rights, attracting provisions of the Prohibition of Child Labour Act, 1986,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp group exit adds grist to BJP rift mill||BJP MP and state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan left a media WhatsApp group of the party’s Bishnupur unit in Bankura and skipped an organisational meeting convened by state party chief Dilip Ghosh in Bishnupur on Saturday. On Saturday morning, the BJP’s Bishnupur organisational committee put up a post in the party’s official media WhatsApp group to share Ghosh’s schedule with journalists. Soon, Khan, the Bishnupur MP, left the WhatsApp group and party insiders said it was a reflection of his tenuous ties with Ghosh. “This WhatsApp group is not of importance. It gets difficult to keep tabs on all the groups I have been added to. So, I decided to leave one. There is no question of having any rift with Dilipda,” Khan said. Khan added that he had to skip Ghosh’s meeting because of a pre-scheduled meeting of the BJYM, which was later rescheduled to Sunday. A BJP leader said the BJYM meeting had been convened by a leader known for his proximity to Ghosh. “It is no longer a secret that Dilipda and Saumitrada don’t get along well. As the Bishnupur district committee is led by people close to Dilipda, they are always at loggerheads with Saumitrada,” said a leader in the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: State govt to include tourism sector staff in priority group for vaccination||The state government has decided to include tourism sector workers in the priority group for vaccination, a move that has brought a sigh of relief to an industry among the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, there is no clarity whether the nearly three lakh tea garden workers from north Bengal are included on the vaccination-priority list. The list issued by the Bengal’s health and family welfare department also includes those working in micro, small and medium enterprises, khadi workers, handloom weavers, rice, flour mill and cold storage workers along with “industrial workers”. Confusion prevails on whether the tea workers fall under the “industrial workers” category. Tea and tourism are the mainstay of the hill economy. “We are hopeful that workers in the tea industry will fall under the industrial workers category,” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association. Darjeeling district magistrate S. Poonambalam, however, said that he would seek a clarification from the higher authorities on whether tea workers are part of the priority list. “However many tea workers who are above 45 years have been vaccinated.” Apart from tourism sector workers, domestic workers, cable TV operators and TV channel staff have been included in the new list. “The state government’s decision to include tourism sector workers in the priority group has come as a huge relief as this industry is among the worst hit sectors,” said Tashi Pencho, owner of Hotel Seven Seventeen in Darjeeling which also has a restaurant. The state government has decided to open restaurants from 5pm to 8pm from Saturday, provided all the employees in an establishment are vaccinated. A survey conducted for the Union tourism department in 2015 suggested that nearly 64 per cent of the staff working in the hotels and restaurants were less than 40 years old. Enlistment in the priority group ensures that people in the 18-44 age category, too, can be vaccinated quickly. Most of the vaccination camps in Bengal are vaccinating only those above 45 years. Darjeeling hills is one of the top tourist draws in Bengal. The hill town alone has 350-odd hotels. There are also over 2,500 homestays that have come up in recent times. At present, most hotels are closed in the hills because of the pandemic-induced restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases in Bengal now stand at 44,441||Bengal on Saturday logged 7,682 new Covid-19 infections, less than half the 16,146 recoveries, to register a drop in its total of active cases by 8,582. The total of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, is 44,441 now, having improved by over 66 per cent in these 15 days. Bengal now has 3 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. “We are decidedly past the second wave’s peak,” said a minister. There were 118 deaths reported on Saturday. Bengal now has a total of 14.19 lakh cases, which includes 13.58 lakh recoveries and 16,152 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 35th consecutive day, rising by nearly 11 percentage points to 95.73 per cent on Saturday. The national rate now is 93.61. “We are sixth on the list of states with most people (1.2 crore) vaccinated with at least one dose, and third among states with most people (39.3 lakh) fully vaccinated. Despite the Centre’s many blunders in vaccination, we managed to give at least one dose to 12 per cent of our huge (state) population, and around 4 per cent of our population are fully vaccinated,” added the minister. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave to nearly 33 per cent, fell to 11.57 on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.13 per cent, while the national rate is 1.2. Of the 118 deaths reported on Saturday, 23 were reported from the city and 28 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 796 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,664.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari’s remark on migrant workers rattles BJP||The BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday indicated his party could create problems for lakhs from Bengal who work in BJP-ruled states, prompting many within the saffron camp to say the party was yet to understand Bengali sentiments. “Forty lakh people from Bengal work outside (the state). If they (Trinamul) think that they can boycott BJP workers in Keshpur from having tea… even we can stop them from working in Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Noida, Surat…. But that isn’t BJP’s policy and we won’t do that,” Adhikari told journalists. The MLA was reacting to an allegation that Trinamul’s local unit in Mahishda, which is part of the Keshpur Assembly seat in West Midnapore, had issued a social boycott fiat against Opposition workers. The alleged notice addressed specifically to tea stall owners, names 18 persons, mostly BJP supporters  and a few CPM workers, who cannot be sold tea without Trinamul’s permission. While BJP leaders have condemned the alleged boycott call, Adhikari’s reaction has shocked them. “The poll results have proved how alienated our party is from the people of Bengal. Suvenduda’s statement will only aggravate it further,” a state BJP office-bearer said. “This (Adhikari’s statement) sounds like a threat to poor migrating labourers of Bengal. This cannot be the language of the leader of Opposition ,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul MP. Local Trinamul leaders said the boycott notice was fake. Dev Adhikari, Trinamul MP from Ghatal that covers Mahishda, also tweeted that party leaders had not issued  the notice. He said: “I have personally spoken to my party members in Keshpur after having seen this and they too have reconfirmed that such a notice has never been issued by any TMC party office/ members.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Floating body in Ganga sparks fear in Malda||A body was recovered from river Ganga on Saturday morning, while residents claimed another body was swept away by the current, in Malda where the river enters Bengal from the Jharkhand border. Residents fear that the body could be of a Covid patient from another state tossed into the river. This is the first time that a body has been recovered from Ganga on the Bengal border following reports of such incidents in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Police have confirmed recovering the unidentified and decomposed body from the Ganga. Sources said that a body was found stuck on a bend of the river by residents of Kesharpur village of Bhutni islet under Malda’s Manikchak police station. Villagers claimed another body was carried away by the river’s current. “The body that was found was beyond recognition. We will follow the statutory measures as directed on post mortem and last rites. As people have claimed to have seen another body in the river, we are keeping watch,” said SP  Alok Rajoria. The district police chief said no missing complaint had been filed in the area in the past few days, which suggests that the body may have found its way here from a neighbouring state. “There is a possibility of that, but it is difficult to confirm,” said Rajoria. Residents are sure that the body floated from another state. Bholanath Mandal, a Kesharpur resident, said: “We could not identify the body and are sure it came from outside as all villagers here are vouched for. We think it is that of a Covid patient from elsewhere.” People have stopped bathing in the river. Fishermen have stopped casting nets after news of ‘bodies” in the Ganga spread, said sources. Debajyoti Sinha, district secretary of CPM-backed labour union Citu quoted villagers to say the second body, which could not be found, was wrapped in coloured plastic. A senior administrative official said: “It  is too early to comment on the origin of the body and if it was of a Covid victim. But  all those who died of Covid in Malda and Bengal as a whole have been suitably cremated or buried.” Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate said: “We have been keeping watch on the Ganga. The body recovered would be dealt with according to protocol and directives from higher-ups.” Fake cops arrested Alipurduar police arrested four persons from Jaigaon town along the Indo-Bhutan border for impersonating men in uniform and demanding ransom from a trader. Police said four local men, Kiran Sharma, 33, Shubash Lama, 26, Biswakarma, 27, and Migma Dorjee, 26, pretended to be cops and raided the house of grocer Dharam Kumar Gupta at Deokota Tole in Jaigon on May 29. They allegedly demanded Rs 3 lakh and threatened him with a gun. On Friday night, when they called up Gupta for ransom, he shared the phone details with police, which was traced to Kiran and all four were arrested. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee fills Mukul’s shoes in Trinamul Congress||Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and till now the Trinamul youth wing chief, on Saturday succeeded Subrata Bakshi as the all-India general-secretary, a post held for years by Mukul Roy before he joined the BJP. Bakshi, one of Mamata’s most trusted lieutenants, will continue as the state president of the party. On Saturday, the formal seal of approval was given at a two-part organisational meeting chaired by Mamata Banerjee at party headquarters. “Humbled at the new role that @AITCofficial has bestowed upon me. I thank every single soldier of the party who fought this battle shoulder to shoulder with me despite all odds and helped Bengal emerge victorious,” tweeted Abhishek, 33, and the party’s Diamond Harbour MP, in the evening. “I assure all that I will leave no stone unturned towards the service of the people & take @MamataOfficial’s message to every nook & corner in India in the days to come. I bow to all the senior colleagues in the party who stood by the party & its values despite all odds,” he added. Sayani Ghosh, the 28-year-old actor who recently joined Trinamul and lost from Asansol South, was picked to succeed Abhishek at the helm of the youth wing. The historic mandate of the Bengal election was in some ways, a referendum on Trinamul’s succession plan, made so by Narendra Modi-Amit Shah’s key poll plank against alleged bua-bhatijavad (“aunt-nephewism”). A Trinamul vice-president said with the poll results, Abhishek silenced critics outside and within the party. “Many expressed reservations regarding him. Some left for the BJP, mainly over their differences with him, such as Suvendu (Adhikari) and Mukul (Roy). His methods, especially after he got (poll consultant) Prashant Kishor on board, were questioned by many. But he did not budge from what he believed was right for the party,” he said. He pointed out how, in every public statement for months, Prime Minister Modi, home minister Shah, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and others from the party’s national and state leadership spoke about bhatija or bhaipo (nephew). Subrata Mukherjee, a Trinamul veteran, said: “The old must make way for the new.... The next generations have to be readied, so that they can carry the mantle forward. Mamata was once a youth leader. I was too…. Abhishek has truly earned it.” Mukherjee and several others in the party lavished praise on Abhishek’s role, especially after the setback of the general election in 2019 in which the BJP made unprecedented gains. Abhishek, said a senior minister, was instrumental, along with Kishor, in setting up the election war room for the party, one of several unprecedented exercises that apparently paid off very well. He said Abhishek was also behind the bohiragawto (outsider) versus Banglar nijeyr meye (Bengal’s own daughter) pitch that Mamata pursued relentlessly in her campaign. “Abhishek played a key role in everything, from shortlisting of candidates based on their winnability for her (Mamata’s) final selection, to countering the BJP’s polarising campaign with Bengali sub-nationalism,” said the minister, adding that the Diamond Harbour MP was second only to his aunt in crisscrossing Bengal in the intense campaign, holding over 100 rallies and roadshows. Besides Abhishek’s promotion, two crucial elements from the two-part meeting stood out. First, as Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee announced, instructions were issued by the Bengal chief minister in her third consecutive term in power to enhance the party’s organisational presence and strength in other parts of the country. This is in keeping with Mamata’s refuelled national ambitions in the run-up to the Lok Sabha election of 2024. Poll strategist Kishor and his team have returned, and are now likely to focus, over the next three years, on furthering Trinamul’s national agenda. Second, Mamata’s purported stress on the need for a “clean image”. “She warned against excesses, against complacency, against allowing this mandate to be sullied by allegations of graft or popular resentment against ostentatious shows of wealth or clout. She repeatedly underscored how the historic mandate should bring with a greater sense of responsibility and humility,” said a senior MP. At the meeting, Trinamul adopted the “one person, one post” policy in the party, at least on principle. Secretary-general Chatterjee said it would, in a process meticulously overseen by the supreme leadership, be implemented over the next few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Brick by Trick||The message read thus: “You have to see it with your own eyes to believe this. Four-year-olds, six-year-olds with barely a thread on them, working all day long at brick kilns.” The sender of the message, Jaydeep Mukherjee of NGO Meghdutam Foundation, has been delivering relief to the pandemic affected since March last year. One morning, as he set out for an aid sortie, I went along with him to the brick kilns at Joynagar and Tilpi in South 24-Parganas. As we headed towards Gocharan railway station and crossed the wholesale market of Dhosha Bajar, I noticed the river. “That’s Piyali,” said Jaydeep. “It flows and meets Matla some kilometres downtown.” Brick kilns are invariably near river banks because the soft earth there is used to make bricks. We met Mohammed Kutubuddin Molla, a social worker from Tilpi at Dhosha Bajar. He led us to the kilns on his motorbike; we followed in an SUV. The roads turned dusty and the landscape desolate. Tall brick chimneys spouting black fumes showed us the way to the kilns. They have names for the kilns — Jamuna, Shilpi, Sagar and so on. The Bengali word for kiln is bhnata. As we made our way towards Shilpi bhnata, children of different sizes came running towards us. They were dressed in rag-tag shorts or pyjamas or were bare-bodied. Their enthusiasm had to do with Jaydeep; on previous visits he had come bearing treats. Kutub showed me around. Wide fields stacked with grey clay bricks all neatly arranged and waiting to be furnaced. I was ushered to the base of the brick chimney. Coal was being spaded into carts, carried to the base and poured into channels. The ground was smouldering hot. The furnace was right below our feet; here neatly arranged bricks were being fired. I was told they would have to be fired for four to five months continuously to make red bricks. Shilpi bhnata is a 24-hour kiln during summer months. Once the rains start, the furnace is put out, workers take their pay and head home and stay there till winter. I climbed into the pit and found Tasmira Lashkar, all of two-and-a-half feet, standing against a pile of bricks. Her head was covered with a red gamchha and she was one of the few children who wore a colourful frock. She looked at me quizzically. “What are you doing here,” I asked. “I work here with my family,” she replied. How old is she? “Fifteen,” she replied. “They hide their age,” said Kutub, “They are tutored by the kiln owner to hide their actual age.” Engaging children below 14 years of age is a violation of the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act and also the Right to Education Act. Tasmira has three brothers. All of them and their parents work at the kiln. What does Tasmira do? “Ami int kati… I make bricks,” she said. Does she go to school? “No,” pat came the reply. Tasmira’s parents were nowhere to be seen. It was two in the afternoon, break time. Most likely, they were cooking a hurried meal before the next shift. Tasmira’s friend Madhura Handa joined us. Madhura is a little taller and she too is wearing a colourful frock. Madhura has left behind her extended family in Mariganj village. She was a student of Class V in Nonakhali High School when the nationwide lockdown happened. Asked if she would return to school once it reopens, Madhura nodded. As we headed towards the field lined with rows of grey bricks, we saw Rupa Sikari hurrying along. Like Tasmira, she had her head covered with a cloth. In a full sleeved blouse and a brightly printed cotton sari, Rupa looked ready for a long stint under the sun. She had her four-year-old daughter in tow. The Sikaris too have been camping at the kiln. At the peak of production season, a brick kiln will have 100 to 200 people camping at the site. Asked how much she is paid, she replied, “We get Rs 400 for 1,000 bricks.” Her job entails cutting the bricks to size and getting them ready for the furnace. She has to stack them neatly so her employer can count easily, otherwise her payment will be stalled. The shifts are rigorous. Work starts at four in the morning and continues till noon. After the azan at 1pm, work resumes and continues till 4pm. Rupa’s husband Ramprasad is also at the kiln. She said, “He used to do zari work before the lockdown, but now there is no work at our village in Hedobhanga. So we came here to earn some money.” Rupa has brought one of her children with her. “My son is with his grandmother at the village. His school is closed since lockdown but he goes for tuitions. My daughter is too small to work. But I can’t leave her behind at the village,” she said. When asked if her daughter was safe at the kiln, she said: “I keep her with me,” and no more. Jaydeep tells me little girls have been sold off during the lockdown. How does he know? “I have been told by the locals, the social workers who asked me to come here and distribute relief,” he replied. “There was no work anywhere, people couldn’t feed their children. Some families apparently sold off their girls for as little as Rs 1,000,” said Jaydeep. So who were the buyers? “It’s usually the brick kiln owners and their middlemen,” he told me. But none at Shilpi bhnata said as much when I asked them about this. “We don’t feel unsafe here. We bring our husbands along and live here as a family. I have not encountered anything nor do I feel unsafe,” said Rupa. As we talked, a whole bunch of women gathered around us. There was Sabitri Naiya from Kashinagar in Raidighi, Shikha Sardar from Shyamnagar, Rupa from Deulbari, all in South 24-Parganas. They were all on their mid-day break from work; nearly all of them had either a gamcha or the pallu covering their heads and shielding them from the sun. “What are you writing,” asked Shikha. “I am writing down your stories,” I replied. “Write down our names also,” she demanded and I scribbled them down obediently. All of them stood in a queue and rattled off their names and names of their villages. Why were they so keen that I write down their names? “If you write something about us, maybe things will change for the better,” said Rupa. They fought among themselves, scolded each other. Sabitri took up cudgels with one, “Why are you here, you don’t work in the kiln.” Umbe Nazma Sardar, with a child in her lap, was the target of Sabitri’s ire. Umbe pleaded, “No, I don’t work in the kiln but won’t she write down my story?” Her husband had just recovered from tuberculosis and was working in the kiln. She has two children to feed. She cannot work because her children are too young. More such stories follow. Sabitri has a teenaged handicapped child back home. “He can’t walk or do anything by himself,” she said with the furrows in her forehead deepening. Then added, “That I have to live here and work tears me up.” Shikha labours to feed her family of five. “My husband does not work, he’s an alcoholic and my in-laws are too old and frail,” she said. And where are the families whose children were trafficked? In February, The Telegraph reported that over a hundred headmasters and headmistresses from 23 districts of West Bengal met in Calcutta to discuss ways to combat trafficking against the backdrop of the pandemic. At the conference, Chandan Kumar Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, said: “There were 450 Madhyamik aspirants in our school before the pandemic. But around 350 have enrolled for the exam. The rest have not contacted the school for a long time.” Maity, who is the general secretary of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses, West Bengal, added, “Most of the parents are extremely poor. Their livelihood has taken a massive hit because of the pandemic. Many of them want to get their girls married off.” Said Shyamal Kumar Majumder, the headmaster of a school in Murshidabad, “My area has over 400 brick kilns. There are a lot of daily wage earners. Their children are most vulnerable to these threats... I cannot keep an eye on all of them. There is a block child protection wing but that is not enough. We need an institutionalised support system.” Shantha Sinha, leading child rights activist and former chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “Every out-of-school child is a child labourer or a child bride.” Ananya Chakraborti of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights added, “At least at the kiln the children are working. Mostly in the interior villages, parents give away their children for some paltry sum.” We drove to another bhnata nearby. Rows of shanties lined the kiln site. Plastic covers over the makeshift homes billowed in the warm breeze. Children in underpants played amidst the mounds of earth and dust. Some women were drawing water from a tubewell. I asked them about the trafficking menace and they replied almost in unison. “We are all okay here. We work, we get paid,” was all that they would say. Possible. Except that their frail bodies, their clothes in tatters and vacant eyes told another story. These women from the bhnatas of South 24-Parganas wanted The Telegraph to publish their names. As one of them, Rupa Sikari, said: “If you write something about us, maybe things will change for the better.” Here’s introducing to you: Sabitri Naiya, Shikha Sardar, Rupa Sikari, Nila Mandal, Sanaka Naya, Saraswati Mandal, Haskura Laskar, Naurita Laskar, Ashabari Mandal, Joba Mandal, Leena Sardar, Sadeda Laskar, Alpana Jana, Kajal Mandal, Samina Laskar, Durga Haldar, Sakera Gain, Nebujan Laskar, Durga Sarada, Riziya Haldar, Ashura Mandal, Rafiqul Mandal, Mahima Laskar, Rubaiya Laskar, Sangita Molla, Innhar Mandal, Alema Mandal, Raida Mandal, Anima Mollah, Nazira Mandal, Amina Mandal, Zasmina Mandal, Ozira Mandal, Tumpa Manna, Fargu Manna, Shyamali Sardar, Ashaphali Mollah, Anima Mollah, Shohana Mollah, Shaharan Mollah, Akash Mandal, Suraj Mandal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
06-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Chinsurah youths offer bike rides to those in need only for fuel cost||A group of eight friends from Howrah’s Chinsurah have turned their passion for bike riding into a way to assist those in need and are ferrying people to and from Chinsurah on their motorbikes, taking only the cost of fuel. “We have always loved riding and have travelled to many places. We even purchased our bikes together. So, we thought of converting our passion into assistance,” said Amit Ray, a state government employee and a musician who runs a platform — Amit Ray Creation — with his friends. Amit and his friends Sandip Sana, a sound engineer, Arun Saha, an employee of the Chinsurah civic body, and sound engineer Sushovon Parui, recently broadcast their intentions on social media groups that they would ferry people to and from Chinsurah (within a radius of 100km-140km) on their motorbikes only against the cost of fuel. They started the initiative on May 15, when the state announced lockdown owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and have already assisted over two dozen people to reach various locations, including Burdwan, Calcutta, Nadia and North 24-Parganas. “Burdwan is around 96km from Chinsurah and four litres of petrol is needed to cover the distance. Our cost is around Rs 400 for the rider. We are also requesting our riders to donate something for the poor if they wish. We have received a huge response from the people here,” said Amit. However, after the state government imposed stricter restrictions to curb the Covid graph, the service is open only for those who need to travel for emergency purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
