07-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata cancels Madhyamik, Uchchamadhyamik exams for 2021||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelled Class X and XII state board examinations for the academic year 2020-2021, going by public opinion largely in favour of not holding the exams amid the Covid pandemic. “Thank you very much for sending us your valuable opinions and suggestions. GoWB arrives at the decision of cancelling Madhyamik/Uchchamadhyamik examination for 2021. We will work out the best possible way to secure the future of our children,” Mamata tweeted on Monday. At Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters, Mamata said the state education department had received around 34,000 emails since Sunday till the deadline of 2pm, Monday. “Around 79 per cent of students and their parents are against holding Madhyamik. In the case of higher secondary, 83 per cent are not in favour. That is why we have decided not to hold the exams this year,” she said, adding that the evaluation process "will be decided in seven days., This is the second consecutive year of academic disruption with schools and colleges remaining shut. In 2020, by the time the national lockdown was announced, Madhyamik exams had been concluded, though most of the main subjects in higher secondary were pending. The higher secondary board had then drawn up a method to award the average highest scores to subjects in which the exams could not be held. On Sunday, the state government had released three email addresses in the public domain and asked people to submit their opinion on whether to go ahead with the examination process or not. Under the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the state government had closed all educational institutions and activities. On June 15, the state government will take a call on whether to continue with the restrictions imposed or ease certain restrictions. It is unlikely that the government would agree to let schools and colleges open without the transport system back in place. An expert committee set up by the state government had also recommended against conducting the exams, as many school buildings in the state have been converted into safe houses for Covid-19 patients. The expert committee has suggest that evaluation be carried out giving 70 per cent importance to Class IX performance and 30 per cent to class X performance.  Mamata had told officials to prioritise Class IX vs Class X syllabus carefully for internal evaluation, since the syllabi of the two classes were quite different. Now, the education department will finalise the method whihc will announced within the next seven days. Mamata has asked for the evaluation process to be carried out as quickly as possible so that students do not face any problems with competitive and entrance exams necessary to continue their higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||March for concrete embankments in South 24-Parganas’s Gosaba||Residents of at least three riverside villages in South 24-Parganas’s Gosaba on Saturday took out a march with posters demanding concrete embankments, instead of relief material which, according to them, would be a temporary solution to recurrent inundation. In the wake of Cyclone Yaas on May 26, when over 136 embankments were breached and more than 290 riverside and coastline areas submerged, demand for a permanent solution to the problem of displacement gained momentum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas. Sources said residents of Satjelia, Rangabelia, Lahiripur and Kumirmari at Gosaba in the Sunderbans had gone to the embankments of local rivers raising posters stating “Tran noi, concrete-er bnadh chai (Not relief, we want concrete embankments)”. The protest lasted over an hour with the villagers declaring that they would “respectfully” decline relief material from henceforth unless the administration took up their demand for concrete embankments more seriously. “If the embankment becomes stronger, there will be no flood. We will need no relief then,” said a Kumirmari resident, belying a tone of frustration with the administration’s apparent focus on temporary assistance rather than a permanent solution. The levees made of earth and raw material dot riverbanks in the Sunderbans which is prone to floods perennially. The demand for the concrete embankments in North 24-Parganas was also raised by members of several nature care organisations and villagers on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday when they took out a mangrove plantation drive in the Yaas-affected areas. The demand has been raised from several pockets, including Ghoramara Island and Mausuni Island in Sagar, as well as other places like Kultali and Raidighi, over the past few days. A group of villagers in Digha, East Midnapore, placed the demand for a concrete embankment before Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee when he visited the Yaas-affected people last week. At several administrative meetings, chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her dismay over the apparently ineffective repair of embankments and asked officials to find a permanent solution. She told them that government money should not be “wasted” on fragile and futile repairs that needed to be repeated every year. Opposition parties in the cyclone-affected districts have backed the local residents’ demand for the concrete embankments. “We understand that this is a genuine and legitimate demand,” said a senior CPM leader. CPM leaders said a plan to construct concrete embankment stretching 778km had first been proposed by an expert committee formed by the central government which had visited coastal areas in 2010, a year after the devastation caused by Cyclone Aila. “It is not a new demand and it is better to concretise 778km of the embankments. The UPA 2 government at the Centre had provided funds of Rs 5,032 crore and the work had commenced. But it was halted and Rs 4,000 crore was returned because of delays. I personally sent letters to the chief minister and the state government to take measures for a permanent solution,” said Kanti Ganguly, a former CPM minister. BJP leaders also supported the demand since lakhs of people residing in riverine or coastal belts were suffering every year. “We want either concrete embankments or rehabilitation of the poor families from these areas,” said Palash Rana, a BJP secretary in South 24-Parganas’s Mathurapur. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Job racket: Suvendu Adhikari’s aide arrested ||Calcutta police have arrested a person for his alleged involvement in a job racket where the complainant was falsely promised a job in the state irrigation department in 2019, when the current leader of the Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari, had been the irrigation minister. Rakhal Bera, a resident of Manicktala, was picked up by Manicktala police officers on Saturday night and produced in court on Sunday. He was remanded in police custody till June 12. BJP sources said on Sunday that Bera used to be close to Trinamul as an aide to the Adhikari clan, but switched sides along with the former Trinamul heavyweight late last year. “It is clearly an attempt to victimise Bera now, for being with the BJP, besides being a part of a larger conspiracy to fabricate cases of corruption and shame the Adhikaris. Attempts are on, on several fronts, to harass the Adhikari family,” said a BJP state unit functionary. “We will fight this legally and politically,” he added. Police said they had drawn up a case with the Manicktala police station, based on the complaint of Sujit Dey, a resident of Ashokenagar in North 24-Parganas. “According to the complaint, sometime between July 2019 and September 2019, accused Rakhal Bera and co-accused Chanchal Nandi (yet to be arrested) had organised a purported government job camp inside a flat in Block B of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics Cooperative Housing Society on Manicktala Road,” said a senior official of the Eastern Suburban Division. “They had collected Rs 2 lakh from the complainant in exchange of a job as group D staff in the irrigation department, but he never got any job,” he added. Police during investigation have found that not only Dey, but many others from Calcutta and the adjoining districts have been allegedly defrauded in a similar way, with false promises of getting a government job. A case was drawn up under the sections of cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy,in February 2021. During his court appearance at Sealdah court on Sunday, the public prosecutor said that as several people have been duped by the accused, there was a need to take him into police remand for 14 days. Bera’s defence lawyer, however, questioned the timing and intention of the law-enforcing agency, asking why the arrest was made after a gap of two years from the date of the alleged cheating. The magistrate, after hearing both the sides, sent Bera to police remand for a period of seven days. He would be produced before the court again on June 12. Police sources said they would summon more people based on the statement of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Tikait to meet Mamata for greater involvement in farmer's movement ||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait is scheduled to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to seek her greater involvement in the fight against the Narendra Modi government’s contentious farm laws. The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the resistance against the farm laws. “Netaji (Tikait) will visit Calcutta on June 9 to congratulate Mamata on her handing a crushing defeat to the BJP and to urge her to join the battle farmers have been waging on Delhi’s borders against the Modi government since last year,” a close aide to the BKU chief told The Telegraph on Sunday. The aide added that Tikait and the Morcha leadership wanted to mobilise farmers in the states, and meeting Mamata was part of that plan. The source, however, did not confirm whether Tikait would meet Mamata in his individual capacity or as a Morcha leader. The Trinamul Congress confirmed that Tikait and a few others were likely to meet Mamata on Wednesday. “They see Mamata as a pro-poor, pro-farmer, pro-people mass leader who is a street-fighter capable of felling many a Goliath. They see a wider role for her now, beyond Bengal’s borders. That is why they are paying her a visit,” said Trinamul national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. The BKU source said the BJP’s defeat, despite the aggressive campaign by Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, in a predominantly agrarian state like Bengal reflected the farming community’s anger against the saffron brigade. According to state government data, Bengal has 71.23 lakh farmer families, of whom 96 per cent are small and marginal farmers. “The victory of Opposition parties in Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the recent Assembly polls has given a big boost to the fight against the BJP. The farming community looks up to the leaders who have made these victories possible to further strengthen the fight against the Modi government’s farm laws,” a Morcha source added. Roy said Mamata’s firm opposition to the farm laws and her unflinching support for the farmers’ movement was appreciated by those spearheading it. In the early stages of the movement, Mamata had sent several delegations to the protest gatherings, spoken to many farmers there over the speakerphone and expressed her unconditional support. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary and Morcha leader Hannan Mollah said Tikait could be calling on Mamata in his individual capacity or on behalf of the BKU. “He (Tikait) is not meeting Mamata on behalf of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. SKM leaders will travel to the states where polls are due next year and ask people not to vote for the BJP. As they had done in Bengal, the SKM will not ask for votes for any particular party or let any political leader use its platform,” Mollah said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt seeks public opinion on whether and how to conduct Madhyamik and HS||The Bengal government has sought opinion from parents, students and the public in general on whether and how the Madhyamik and higher secondary examinations should be conducted this year. A six-member expert committee the government had formed handed in its report to the school education department on Saturday, ruling out on-campus or online exams and recommending pen-and-paper exams written from home. But an official of the department said that along with the views of the experts, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wanted to know the common people’s mind before taking a decision. Mamata tweeted on Sunday afternoon: “Our children’s future is my greatest priority. To this regard we have formed an expert committee to decide over holding Class 10th and 12th board exams in 2021.” She added: “We are also inviting views and opinion from parents, general public, sector experts, civil society and students. I request each one of you to send us your feedback on the issue on following addresses by June 7th 2pm (three email addresses are mentioned)…. Your suggestions will be valuable to us.” A notice signed by Manish Jain, principal secretary to the school education department, said the public needed to mail their views to pbssm.spo@gmail.com; commissionerschooleducation@gmail.com or wbssed@gmail.com. Anyone who wants the exams conducted must state the mode they favour. “If one is not in favour of the exams, he or she has to suggest what the method and criteria for evaluation should be,” an official of the department said. The Bengal boards’ higher secondary exams are currently scheduled to start in the last week of July and the secondary exams in the second week of August, after both were postponed from June. But last week’s planned announcements of the detailed exam schedules were put on hold after the CBSE and the ISC board cancelled their Class XII exams citing the pandemic. Asked why feedback was being sought from parents and students despite an expert panel having given its recommendations, a school department official said the government wanted to consider every shade of opinion. “Since the issue is very sensitive and involves the future of 21 lakh secondary and higher secondary students, we are collecting as much opinion as we can. More opinions means a wider pool of options,” the official said. He added that feedback from the public would also help the government decide on the acceptability of the model proposed by the experts. “The committee has proposed sending printed questions physically to the homes of the examinees and bringing back the written answers.” The answer sheets are to be stored at the schools for the teachers to evaluate them,” he said. The official said: “We hope that while sending their feedback, the students and guardians would give their views on the feasibility of the proposal.” Some school education department officials said that getting the questions delivered to every student’s home and bringing the answers back would be difficult amid the pandemic and the coastal devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. “The committee has proposed home assignments (exams) as (online) exams cannot be held because of the digital divide handicapping underprivileged students,” an official said. “But we need to know how far the committee’s proposal is acceptable to the students, guardians and the general public. If they can suggest an alterative model, that could be explored as well.” Sources in the school education department said the state government wanted wider consultations before arriving at any decision also because the Supreme Court was considering the same issue for the national boards. The apex court had on Thursday set a two-week deadline for the Centre to come up with “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class XII students of the CBSE and the ICSE council. The Bengal expert committee too has advised the school education department to note what the Supreme Court says at its next hearing on June 17 on the method of assessing CBSE and ISC council students. “If there is overwhelming public feedback saying the state government should wait till the apex court takes a call, that opinion would be taken into consideration as well,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 7,002 new Covid-19 cases, 107 fresh fatalities||Bengal on Sunday logged 15,882 Covid-19 recoveries, 7,002 infections and 107 deaths, reporting a drop by 8,987 in total active cases, to 35,454. The state’s total active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, declined by over 73 per cent in 16 days. The occupancy rate of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients has fallen from 37.66 per cent on May 21 to 23.28, despite the number of such beds increasing from 21,696 to 24,721. Bengal now has 2.53 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most such cases. The daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to below 10 per cent on Sunday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. “With the daily confirmation rate falling to 9.99 per cent, we have achieved yet another goal, towards working our way out of the nightmare of this second wave. Now, we will work towards lowering it to less than 5, then 3 per cent, over the rest of this month,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for the 36th consecutive day, rising by nearly 12 percentage points over five weeks, to 96.37 per cent on Sunday. The national rate now is 93.9. Of the 107 deaths reported on Sunday, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 34 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Calcutta logged 645 new infections, North 24-Parganas 1,434. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.2. The state now has a total of 14.26 lakh cases since the start of the pandemic last year in March, which includes 13.74 lakh recoveries and 16,259 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Adult leopard trapped at Gopalpur tea estate in Alipurduar||An adult leopard is trapped at Gopalpur tea estate in Alipurduar district on Sunday morning after a vigil of nearly a month. Sources in the garden said that cattle had been disappearing from the Mohonpur division of the garden for nearly a month. “Foresters were alerted and they started keeping tabs,” said a source. A worker had been attacked by the leopard in a section of the tea garden about a month back, but workers and foresters could not spot the animal then. A few days back, tea garden workers, while plucking leaves, came across pug marks. Foresters were informed, and a couple of days ago, they set up a cage with a goat as bait, said a source. The leopard was finally trapped early on Sunday morning after which foresters tranquillised it. Deepak M. divisional forest officer, Jaldapara wildlife division, said the animal was released in Jaldapara forest after preliminary treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Nine turncoats rejoin Trinamul Congress after two years||Nine BJP members out of 10 of gram panchayat under Dinhata Assembly seat, part of the Cooch Behar parliamentary constituency represented by BJP MP Nishit Pramanik, joined Trinamul on Sunday. Like Pramanik, all the 10 members of Vetaguri-1 gram panchayat were formerly in Trinamul. They defected to the BJP after Pramanik won the Lok Sabha elections from Cooch Behar as a candidate from the saffron camp in 2019. Pramanik had also won the recent Assembly elections from Dinhata, defeating Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by a mere 57 votes. Many believe that BJP’s order to Pramanik to vacate his Dinhata MLA seat and retain his Lok Sabha seat might have prompted the turncoats to join Trinamul. Now that a by-election will be held for Dinhata, the development is indicative that Trinamul has started gaining lost ground. “Out of the 10 members, nine have joined Trinamul from Vetaguri-1 gram panchayat. Prabhat Das is the only member not to join us and we are also not keen on taking him back,” said Guha. Das happens to be Pramanik’s father-in-law. Sources said Vetaguri-1 was under Trinamul’s control after the 2018 rural elections. But things changed after Pramanik’s Lok Sabha victory. “In 2019, just before Lok Sabha elections, Pramanik was expelled from Trinamul for anti-party activities. He then contested on a BJP ticket and won the Cooch Behar seat,” said an observer. “All 10 members of the panchayat, including his father-in-law, decided to join the BJP then. Now that Trinamul has swept the Assembly polls in Bengal, nine joined the ruling party.”’ Among Cooch Behar’s 128 gram panchayats, only three are with the BJP now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang plans to rejig Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction ||Binay Tamang on Sunday announced his decision to go for a major overhaul of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction, which he formed in 2017, in anticipation of a series of local body elections. Elections to four hill municipalities of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik are eight months away. The Tamang faction tasted its first major electoral success in four years this summer when its candidate Ruden Sada Lepcha won the Kalimpong Assembly seat. ‘We did manage to win the Kalimpong seat and when we look at the individual strength of the hill parties we are in a better position. Nevertheless, I have decided to go in for a major overhaul of various committees to further strengthen our party,” Tamang said. The three-phase overhaul will start with a reorganisation of committees in Darjeeling and Kurseong. “If needed, I might even dissolve some of the committees,” said Tamang. During the second phase, the faction will restructure its organisational set-up in Kalimpong district. “We did win Kalimpong but certain changes need to be brought about,” said Tamang. During the third phase, the party will restructure its frontal organisations. The party has 23 frontal organisations like tea trade union, employees' union etc. The faction also has 45 constituency committees, three subdivisional committees, a district committee and the central committee. Many in the hills believe that restructuring plans have been devised with an eye on the possibility of locals elections being held soon. It is said that the party that controls local bodies and especially the GTA controls hill politics. As far as visibility is concerned, compared to the first wave of Covid-19, the Binay Tamang camp is less active this time around. During the first wave of the pandemic, the party’s general secretary, Anit Thapa, was in charge of the GTA. Thapa was not nominated as the chairman of the board of administrators, GTA, by the state government after the Assembly elections though his earlier extension, before the model code of conduct forced him to step down, was till August. Tamang’s rival Morcha faction led by Bimal Gurung is more visible on the ground now with Gurung hitting the streets for sanitisation drives. The GNLF is also active, mostly through their leader Ajoy Edwards and his foundation. BJP leaders are also visiting nooks and corners of the hills with the party’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista donating many oxygen concentrators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
07-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker killed, three injured as bike-borne miscreants hurl crude bombs in Bhatpara||A BJP activist was killed near his home and three others with him were injured on Sunday afternoon, when bike-borne goons allegedly hurled crude bombs in Bhatpara of North 24-Parganas, the backyard of the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. Witnesses said the persons threw at least four bombs, of which two hit BJP activist Jayprakash Yadav, a resident of Muktarpur, and killed him on the spot around 2.30pm. The incident purportedly occurred when Yadav, a trader by profession, was speaking to his neighbours, with his mother standing near him. She as well as two bystanders sustained serious injuries. All four were taken to the Bhatpara State General Hospital, where Yadav was declared brought dead. Hospital sources said he had suffered fatal head injuries from one of the bombs, damaging his cranium beyond repair. Police have begun a murder case and have purportedly identified three persons allegedly involved in the attack. BJP MP Singh, who rushed to the spot after the incident, accused Trinamul of the attack. “Yadav became a target because he was an active BJP worker and had played an instrumental role in the BJP’s (Singh’s son, Pawan Singh’s) victory in Bhatpara during the Assembly polls. It was a planned attack to eliminate him, and so the criminals hurled bombs at him, targeting his head from close range,” alleged Singh, .a Trinamul turncoat. “Such a daring attack in broad daylight speaks volumes about the law and order in Bengal,” Singh said, adding he had complained to his party leadership and Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Trinamul leader and Jagaddal MLA Somnath Shyam held Singh responsible for bloodshed in the area.“He has been trying to incite tension, which we will not allow. We have requested police to take stern action and to restore normality,” said Shyam. The incident triggered panic in the area, which has been on the boil since the Assembly election results came out. In fact, violence is not new to Bhatpara, which has seen several incidents since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. On Friday, goons had driven up in a car to the home of BJP leader Lalbabu Prasad and allegedly opened fire indiscriminately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
07-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police anti-rowdy squad seize 51 bombs near BJP poll office||Calcutta police anti-rowdy squad seized 51 crude bombs from a spot a stone’s throw from the BJP election office in Hastings on Saturday night after receiving military intelligence inputs. The bombs were stashed in a bag and left along the roadside near Kidderpore crossing. A senior police officer said they were in the process of analysing CCTV footage to ascertain who left the bombs. “This is a serious matter and we are taking it up on a priority basis. CCTV footage is being scanned,” said the officer. No one was arrested in connection with the case till Sunday evening. State BJP unit chief Dilip Ghosh asked why it had to be the job of the (Centre’s) military intelligence to know about the bombs, his statement taking a dig at state police. He alleged it was part of a larger conspiracy to attack his party. He said had the bombs been used on the party office or workers and leaders, it could have been “disastrous”. “Everyone has seen, and is aware of the extent of violence being unleashed on the BJP in Bengal since the election results were announced. Mamata Banerjee has been claiming that since she took oath, it has stopped. But it is far from the truth,” said Ghosh. “This is proof, once again, that only one industry thrives in Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal, that of crude bomb-making,” added the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
