08-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders in Bengal hold meeting on 'post-poll violence'||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday held a meeting with party functionaries over the post-poll scenario in the state, as he claimed that workers were being attacked and forced out of their homes across districts by goons bearing allegiance to the ruling TMC. Several senior leaders, during the discussion, talked about ways to deal with the current situation, and activists shared their woes, sources in the party said. "Violence continues unabated in the state even after the formation of the government; the ruling party is unwilling to acknowledge the incidents," Ghosh told reporters ahead of the meeting. Claiming that the "state government does not want peace to prevail", Ghosh said that the BJP has moved various commissions and courts seeking protection for its workers. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari wasn't present at the session as he is away in Delhi to meet Home Minister Amit Shah and party's national president J P Nadda. Party national vice-president Mukul Roy also skipped the meeting, amid speculation about a possible change in political equation after TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee visited his ailing wife in hospital on June 2. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called Roy on June 3 to enquire about his wife's condition, and Ghosh, too, had visited the hospital to meet her. PTI AMR RMS RMS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||CISF firing: CID ballistics team visits school at Sitalkuchi||A three-member team of ballistic experts from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday visited the school in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi that was a polling booth on April 10 during the Assembly elections, where four voters were killed in the CISF firing. The state police had handed over the probe to the CID soon after the firing by CISF personnel manning the 5/126 booth  at Sitalkuchi's Jorpatki village. The CID team on Monday, along with some officers of the district police, which reached by 11.30am the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra, thoroughly inspected the entire school premises and building for over two-and-a-half hours. They also spotted a bullet mark on the blackboard of a classroom. “During probe, it was found that one of the bullets had pierced the door of the classroom and hit the blackboard. This indicates some bullets were fired even inside the booth,” said a source. The CISF personnel had claimed they were forced to open fire after some villagers attacked and ransacked the booth. The CID ballistics team used chemicals in certain locations where bullet marks were found and measured distances between marks with tapes. “Earlier, another CID team had visited the site to reconstruct the incident. But this visit of the ballistic team that comprises forensic experts is significant. It is evident that the CID is giving due importance to the case and is collecting all possible details,” said a senior police officer. After the probe, the team sealed the school building and put up a notice to restrict the entry of people on the premises. So far, the CID has interrogated a number of persons, including some police officers of Mathabhanga, the subdivision under which the school (polling booth) falls. However, there are reports that the CISF personnel who had opened fire have not appeared before CID sleuths though they have been called for interrogation. Residents of Jorpatki, who have said they want the guilty CISF personnel to be punished, sounded hopeful at the visit of the ballistic team. “The state government has stood by the four bereaved families. We are confident that justice will be served,” said Alizar, a resident and a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Foresters arrest man with four snakes in Malda||Foresters of the Gazole forest range office arrested a suspected snake charmer and seized four snakes from his possession here on Monday. The rescued snakes are Indian rock python, a monocled cobra and two spectacled cobras. Snake charmers are prohibited to exploit these species. P. Siddharth, the divisional forest officer of Malda, said Mazid Bede used to roam around with the snakes and would display those to people for money. “A case has been registered against Mazid, a resident of Kandaran in Samsi, under the wildlife protection act. The snakes have been kept under observation and would be released in the forest in due course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata orders evacuation of 20,000 people from Sagar and Mousuni islands before high tides||Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked South 24-Parganas district administration officials to make arrangements to evacuate 20,000 people from Sagar Island and Mousuni island ahead of high tides on June 11 and 26 as the embankments breached during Cyclone Yaas at those places would not be repaired before the end of the current month. “There were breaches in river embankments at 317 places. Most of the breaches would be repaired by June 21, but a few breaches at Sagar Island and Mousuni Island would not be repaired before July 31. So, nearly 20,000 people would be required to be evacuated during the coming high tides,” the chief minister said during a review meeting with officials of different departments at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said the irrigation department had taken initiatives to repair damaged embankments almost immediately after Yaas had hit the state. “But all breaches could not be repaired as agencies engaged for the work could not reach certain places with construction material because of stagnation of water,” said an official. Water stagnation has become a serious problem in 63 gram panchayats spread across 14 blocks, mainly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas, since the cyclone. Mamata pointed out during the meeting that those gram panchayats might face health-related issues and scarcity of drinking water. “The health department should take care of the issue. The public health engineering (PHE) should distribute water pouches to ensure that people get safe drinking water. The PHE should try to install deep tube-wells at places which are not prone to frequent inundation,” she said. The chief minister also instructed the irrigation department to display the details of the work carried out to repair the damaged embankments. “People will get to know what kind of work was carried out in their areas,” said the chief minister. The sources said the move was considered to be significant as the chief minister was laying stress on repairing the embankments properly. Now, the agencies will face a kind of social audit, which is required in case of government projects, to minimise corruption. The state government has received more than 1 lakh applications seeking compensation after Cyclone Yaas. Bengal chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi said people in many areas could not reach out to the camps set up to receive applications. “We are planning some ways to collect applications from the affected people,” said the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports drop by 8,568 in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Monday logged 14,352 Covid-19 recoveries, 5,882 new infections and 103 deaths, reporting a drop by 8,568 in its total of active cases, to 26,886. This is the first instance of fewer than 6,000 new infections being detected in a day since April 14, 54 days ago, around the time the second wave started peaking. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, improved by nearly 80 per cent in these 17 days. Bengal now has 2.02 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 9.79 per cent on Monday. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for the 37th consecutive day, rising by nearly 12 percentage points over five weeks, to 96.98 per cent on Monday. The national rate now is 94.15. The state now has a total of 14.32 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 13.88 lakh recoveries and 16,362 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, the national rate is 1.21. Of the 103 deaths reported on Monday, 23 were from Calcutta and 32 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 610 new infections, North 24-Parganas 1,181. The total of active cases in these two districts, which was over 53,000 in the peak of the second wave, was 8,427 on Monday. “This is a big achievement, as a turnaround in Bengal is not possible without major improvement in these two districts,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Citizenship claim  in cattle smuggling case||The counsel for Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, an accused in a cattle smuggling case, told Calcutta High Court on Monday that his client had got citizenship of an island nation on the Pacific Ocean in 2018, and asked if an Indian court could try his case. Vinay’s lawyer Siddharth Luthra also sought an extension of the time limit ordered earlier by the court directing the CBI not to arrest him till June 10. The court will hear the case again on on June 9. Vinay and his brother Vikash were implicated by the CBI in cases involving smuggling of cattle heads from Bengal to neighbouring countries. According to the CBI, the Mishra brothers are linked to main accused Anup Maji. The CBI issued a look out notice against Vinay, who is absconding, and interrogated Vikash. On March 20, Vinay moved a plea in the HC seeking anticipatory bail and that the CBI’s proceedings against him be quashed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||ISF worker's home set ablaze, parents assaulted in Bhangar||The house of a worker of the Indian Secular Front (ISF) was set ablaze and his parents assaulted by alleged Trinamul supporters at Bhangar in South 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. Bhangar, on the fringes of Calcutta, has been witnessing frequent incidents of post-poll violence ever since the ruling Trinamul lost the seat to the ISF by 26,151 votes. ISF leaders said that unable to digest defeat, the local Trinamul leadership was selectively attacking Opposition activists, Kutub Mullick being one. His father Rafiqul Mullick, a farmer, said Kutub had to flee after May 2 “for his life”. Local Trinamul leaders did not comment on the charges levelled against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Thunderbolt kills 26 persons across five Bengal districts||Lightning killed at least 26 persons across five Bengal districts — Hooghly, Murshidabad, Bankura, East and West Midnapore — on Monday. A state government official said 11 persons died in Hooghly, nine in Murshidabad, as well as two each in West Midnapore, East Midnapore and Bankura. The official could not recall the last time so many had died of lightning on a single day. Most were farmers working in the fields, he added. Six farmers were killed and eight others injured in a field at Nowda village in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj. Police said the deceased were Sainul Sheikh, 25, Surja Karmakar, 23, Sunil Das, 35, Durjadhan Das, 32, Jalauddin Sheikh, 28, and Mazharul Sheikh, 17, all from Nowda. Elsewhere in the district, Abhijit Biswas, 42, Prahlad Murari, 40, and Enamul Sheikh, 46, were killed by bolts. Murari and Biswas were working in an under-construction home, Sheikh was in a field. In Hooghly, 11 persons, including two women, were killed by lightning. Farmer Hemanta Guchai, 42, and his wife Malabika, 38, were killed while returning home from a field in Balipur village in Hooghly’s Khanakul. Ananda Roy, 40, of Goghat, Sishir Adhikari, 68, and Kanai Lahari, 79, died elsewhere in Khanakul. Kiron Roy, 27,  died in Nabagram. Farmer Harun Rashid, 46, was killed in Hooghly’s Mahanad. Others who died were Dilip Ghosh, 50, of Haripal, Susmita Koley, 39, of Singur, Sanjib Samanta, 43, of Champadanga and Shailya Malik, 42, of Pachgachhia. In Bankura’s Ranibandh, lightning struck dead Basudev Mahata, 40, and Krishnapada Hansda, 63. In East Midnapore, Shampa Mondol, 25, of Moyna, and Gourango Majhi, 24, of Panskura were killed. The state government has asked the administration in districts to start awareness campaigns on lightning. PM Narendra Modi has approved Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for each injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||20 BJP supporters claiming to be victims of post-poll result violence protest Dilip’s refusal to meet them||Around 20 alleged victims of post-poll result violence raised protests when state BJP president Dilip Ghosh refused to grant them an appointment on Monday. Ghosh, who was at the district BJP office in West Burdwan’s Asansol for an organisational meeting, finally met the members of the three-four families for 15 minutes. They all are supporters of the BJP. This is the second time that Ghosh has run into protest. Last week, he was gheraoed by BJP workers at Chinsurah in Hooghly district. “We are the ones who are being threatened by our political opponents and yet, we are not allowed inside (the BJP office),” said Kalachand Mondal, a vice-president of the OBC cell of the party’s Asansol organisational district. “The people who are meeting Dilipda are mostly turncoats from other parties. Why shouldn’t he speak to grassroots workers?” he asked. A source in the BJP said as Ghosh had finally started visiting district party offices to take stock of the post-poll violence, more such incidents were likely to happen. The source said BJP workers were angry that Trinamul turncoats had been given upper hand during Assembly elections. “We accused Trinamul of being a party of thieves. But the BJP has become an even bigger party of thieves,” said a BJP old-timer. Ghosh finally gave in to the demands of the agitators and spoke to them at the end of the organisation meeting. He later said: “This wasn’t an agitation. Several of our workers are unhappy because they fought to win but we weren’t successful. This was an expression of their grief.” A section of the Asansol district committee said the agitators were members of around six to seven families, who had taken shelter at the party office following post-poll violence. The district leaders alleged that even while all the needs of these families had been taken care of, they created an unnecessary ruckus. “All their needs are being taken care of. Food, shelter and even mobile recharge. They’ve also been given cash assistance multiple times. What else do they want?” an Asansol BJP leader said. In a similar incident on Friday, Ghosh had to face the wrath of BJP old-timers when they had surrounded him in Chinsural to demand the removal of district president Goutam Chatterjee and state secretary Dipanjan Guha. The agitators accused that the party owed its poor results in the Hooghly district to Chatterjee and Guha. Subir Nag, the former Hooghly BJP president, was issued a show-cause notice on Monday on charges of provoking the agitation. In the midst of such circumstances, the BJP’s state executive committee will meet at its Hastings office on Tuesday. A section of state office-bearers is likely to raise questions on why the party received a drubbing at the polls and who should be held responsible for it. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputy Arvind Menon and the party’s national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash are likely to be present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
08-06-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee hurls 20-year vow to blunt BJP’s dynast barb||Abhishek Banerjee on Monday said on record that he would not be part of the state government or occupy any ministerial berth over the next 20 years, daring the BJP to actually “preach what it practises” in dynastic politics. He also vowed to make Trinamul truly national in his new role as the party’s national general-secretary. In his first news meet after his ascent on Saturday to the post that formalised his role as the party’s No 2, a concept that he vehemently nixed and asserted that he is no more than a worker, the 33-year-old Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew jeered at the saffron camp for apparently being rattled by his new role. “You have the Union home minister (Amit Shah) and the secretary of the BCCI (Jay Shah) from the same family (father-son)… will such questions be asked of the (Union) home minister?” he asked journalists at Trinamul Bhavan on Monday. “I don’t want to be in any public office. I am an elected representative, I am an MP…. I don’t want to be in the state government, or for that matter any ministerial berth for the next 20 years. Let me put this on record again, I want to focus on the organisation (of the party),” he said. He pointed out that his party was the only one attempting to implement the “one person, one post” policy. “…You keep bringing up dynasty, your entire campaign was based on this dynasty concept, you got your answer,” he said, referring to the historic mandate of the Bengal election that was also, in some ways, a referendum on Trinamul’s succession plan, made so by the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly’s key poll plank against the alleged bua-bhatijavad (aunt-nephew ‘ism’). “My answer to them is: sometimes, dynasty is better than being nasty,” said Abhishek, turning the knife in the wound. He added: “I fail to understand this. On the one hand, the BJP is saying that Trinamul does not exist outside Bengal. On the other hand, they are rattled, confused, perplexed and bewildered by my appointment…Why are you so scared? I ask in all humility.” He advised the BJP to enact a legislation so that one family can have no more than one representative in politics or any public office. “Have it enacted, and I will be the first one to resign. Preach what you practise…. You talk about dynastic politics? You welcome dynastic turncoats…. Your own people, with elected representatives, sons, daughters, in-laws… first remove them. You are exposing your own hypocrisy,” Abhishek said. Since his elevation, Abhishek has been conspicuously reaching out to veterans in the party’s top-tier leadership, underscoring how humbled he is with the responsibility. Several seniors in the party have also lavished praise on Abhishek’s role, especially after Trinamul's relative setback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in which the BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats and secured leads in 121 Assembly segments in Bengal. This summer, however, the BJP won only 77 Assembly seats, and Abhishek said many within the BJP were in touch with his party, looking to defect. He said over one lakh congratulatory emails from across the nation still remain unread, a bulk of which were emails from the masses, common citizens. Abhishek promised to hold a news meet within a month with details of Trinamul’s national foray, his foremost priority. “We will come out with a concrete plan — what Trinamul wants to do, which are the states we want to start our units in, and what is our expansion plan,” he said. “…This attempt of Trinamul to go national is going to be very different from what was attempted in the past. If we are going to go to a state, whichever it is, small, big, southern, northern… we are not going to go there only to contest elections. Wherever we will go and start our unit, our organisation, we will do so to win the state, because we want to be a platform of choice for people of that particular state,” he said, but did not divulge names of these states. “We do not want to exist in the form of Opposition, in the form of three-five MLAs…. We will be going to take the BJP head on, to win the state,” he added. “In the words of the great Gopal Krishna Gokhale, what Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
