09-06-2021||West Bengal||Even the gods aren’t safe as Sagar Island braces for another storm||Even the gods aren’t safe on Sagar, the largest of the Sundarbans islands. The Kapil Muni temple on the south side of Sagar attracts millions of Hindu pilgrims every January but their combined prayers can’t keep the seawater away. Says priest Durgapada Pahari: “The temple has been pushed in by at least 7km. It has been rebuilt at least four times, each time further from where it stood earlier.” Another move may not be long coming. “This time during Cyclone Yaas, the seawater had reached the temple,” adds Pahari. The temple priests and the island’s people are bracing for another rough weekend of heavy rain and storm. Embankments will be breached again, homes will get flooded, crops will be damaged and the fish in the pond will die. Thursday's new moon will mean high tides and more devastation. For the 4,000-odd residents of Sumatinagar and Kachuberia on the north side of Sagar Island, this is their life. Islands like Lohachhara, Suparibhanga and Bedford have long vanished and are preserved only as memories by a few community elders. Younger people say these are mere names to them. “I don’t know these names. Maybe the elders will know,” admits Shubhankar Mandal, a post-graduate in history who still lives on the island. Sagar, spread over 280sq km, has lost about 51.8sqkm since the middle of the last century but the island’s residents hang on even though they’ve become resigned to a dismal future. “We lose our fields, our homes, we go elsewhere to survive the current threat. I don’t know how long we can manage like this,” says Sheikh Farooque, who taught at a private school at Subhasgram near Sonarpur near Calcutta before the lockdown. He now survives by giving tuitions to students, though most of them can’t pay. Farooque has gone through this routine countless times. He’s from Ghoramara island north-west of Sagar and was at a storm shelter here before Cyclone Yaas hit on May 23. Says Farooque: “Our house is completely destroyed. We are staying in a tent. The pond feels like acid. Even now there is water till the knee. After tomorrow the situation is going to get worse. Some people have left in a vessel which came in the evening, some have decided to stay in the cyclone shelter.” There have been countless plans to prevent damage to these islands. But the fact is that even the most basic measures haven’t been completed. Yaas hit on May 23 and since then, only half of the 317 embankment breaches have been repaired. It will take a month for the remaining to be fixed. This means that local residents are exposed to another round of inundation and destruction. This time under the invisible gaze of a new moon, which causes higher tides, on Friday, June 11. The agents of destruction have come particularly swiftly in the last two years. Before Yaas, three other cyclones, Fani (May 2019), Bulbul (November 2019) and Amphan (May 2020), struck with devastating force. They’ve made life even worse than it usually is for the people of Sagar and the islands around it at the confluence of the Bay of Bengal and the Channel Creek locally christened Muri Ganga River. Located around 130km from Calcutta at the southern-most tip of West Bengal, Sagar Island is one of the 102 islands on the Indian side of the Sundarbans, one of the world’s largest mangrove forests, shared between India and Bangladesh, with over 200,000 residents. Kachuberia in the northern tip of the island is connected to the Kapil Muni temple at the southern extreme by a 30-km metalled road, which fortunately survived the last cyclone. Nevertheless, localities on both sides of the road were hit badly by it. Around 54 islands on the Indian side are inhabited and home to approximately 5 million people, many of whom have learnt to live with the constant threats to their homes, livelihood and lives as natural disasters of increasing ferocity keep pounding the area. Kept alive by mythology, the vagaries of nature, coupled with human greed, have brought the islands to the brink of disappearance. The gradual destruction of Sundari forests, that lends its name as well as protection to the area, has left Sagar’s residents vulnerable. Over the past several decades Sagar has turned home for many of those who were displaced from neighbouring islands, primarily Ghoramara. Today, its very existence is under threat. Almost 12 per cent of the shoreline has been lost to the advancing sea. NASA satellite images reveal the rise of the sea level by an average of 3cm in the past two decades. The ravages of nature are particularly harsh on livelihoods. Before the sea devours land, it makes it unfit for life and farming. Ponds get inundated with salt water. Fish die. Construction of dams on rivers has reduced the flow of freshwater to the delta, while the sea pushes inwards and increases the saline quotient. “Ponds need to be dry fast for freshwater to fill it up again. But where is the respite from this never-ending series of natural calamities that has left us on the brink of ruin?” said Gouranga Jana, a resident of Sumatinagar. With saline water deposition leaving the fields unfit for cultivation, an increasing number of residents are venturing out into the sea for fishing, an unsustainable livelihood measure for most as the catch is fast dwindling. Pratikar Rahman, state SFI president who has been travelling around Yaas-affected areas of South 24-Parganas, including the Sunderbans, has a lot to say about the hopeless situation. “The only way to protect Sagar and Sundarbans is planting mangroves and building concrete embankments. Everything else is a temporary measure that will be washed away in the next floods,” says Rahman who contested unsuccessfully from the neighbouring Diamond Harbour constituency in the just-concluded assembly elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also stresses that mangroves must be grown to protect the islands, but officials looking after the development of Sundarbans agree it will take time. “It will take time for the mangroves to grow. Every monsoon, every cyclone our priority is to save lives from the imminent threat. Long-term measures take a backseat as immediate relief takes over,” said a senior government official. Sources in the state administrative headquarters said Mamata has instructed the South 24-Pargana district administration to shift 20,000 people from Sagar and Mousuni islands to safe zones and cyclone shelters ahead of Wednesday’s rainfall and high tide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions Centre's decision to distribute vaccine to private hospitals||Alleging that the Narendra Modi government is not following the spirit of federalism, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wondered why the Centre kept to itself the right of distribution of 25 per cent Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals and not to the states. The prime minister had on Monday announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. Banerjee said that she opposed the imposition of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on medicines, equipment and vaccines required for the treatment of Covid-19. Addressing a press meet at the state secretariat 'Nabanna' after meeting leaders of agitating peasants, she said that from "Covid to farmers", the BJP-led central government has pushed the country into serious crisis. "The Centre has said that it will directly provide 25 per cent of vaccines to private hospitals. Why by the Centre? The state implements the policy of the Centre in a federal set-up," she said. Taking a dig at the prime minister, she said, "He only knows how to speak against states. He only knows about divide and rule. Why is there no word by the PM about withdrawing 5 per cent GST on Covid vaccines?" Banerjee said that the prime minister did not think about spending Rs 34,000 crore from PM Cares Fund to fully vaccinate the people of the country in all these days. Had the Centre taken up the free vaccination drive in this period, "we would not have to lose so many citizens in the age group of 18-45 years", she claimed. "What happened to the promise by Modi before the Bihar elections about free vaccination to everyone? So many months elapsed afterwards," she said. The Bihar Assembly election was held in three phases in OctoberNovember last year. "The PM should not take credit for the free vaccine policy of the Centre now and should explain what happened in all these days," Banerjee said. The CM said that two crore people were inoculated in West Bengal and the state government spent Rs 200 crore to procure vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata promises to support farmers’ agitation after meeting with leaders||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday assured farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh of support to their agitation against the new agriculture laws. At a meeting with the farmer leaders here during the day, the TMC chief said that there should be a platform where states could converse on policy issues. "Bulldozing states is not good for the federal structure," she said. Mamata’s support for the north India-based farmers' unions comes within days of the Trinamool Congress announcing that the party would spread its footprints outside Bengal's geographical boundaries. The Bhartiya Kisan Union led by Tikait and Singh had supported the 'No vote for BJP' campaign ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections and now have plans to extend that in other upcoming state elections as well. Mamata announced after the meeting that her "support for the farmers' movement will be there" and added in an obvious jibe at the Centre that "India is hungrily waiting for policies which help in fighting Covid-19, assist farmers and industry." The chief minister rhetorically asked, "...why is it so difficult to talk to the farmers?" She was referring to the breakdown in communication between the Centre and the farmers who have been camping at Delhi's borders for the past one year against three farm laws passed by the Parliament. The agitators feel the new laws will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry. "The BJP rule has been disastrous for all sectors from healthcare to farmers to industry. India is suffering...we are facing both natural and political disasters," Mamata said. The chief minister said that the agriculturist leaders have requested her to talk to other state leaders on the farmers' issue and organise a dialogue with farmers' unions. "The farmers' movement is not just for Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh. It is for the whole country," she said. Mamata also said that it was necessary for states to come together to discuss policy issues and stand together against injustice. Earlier in the day, Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU, told PTI, "We want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her electoral victory and to elicit her support for the move to give farmers a fair MSP for their crops." Tikait and other farmer leaders have been agitating on Delhi's borders for the past one year against three laws passed by the Parliament which they feel will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Over 4,000 evacuated from Yaas-hit islands amid high tide warning in Bengal||More than 4,000 inhabitants of cyclone Yaas-hit Mousuni and Ghoramara islands in Bengal's South 24 Parganas district have been evacuated to safety following warning of new moon high tides on June 11 and June 26, a state minister said on Wednesday. Around 3,000 people from Mousuni Island and 1,100 inhabitants of Ghoramara have been shifted to different flood centres in the district, Sunderbans Development Minister Bankim Hazra said. "So far, we have evacuated over 4,000 people from these two islands but more people need to be moved as per Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's direction. Over 1,100 families live in Ghoramara and 3,200 in Mousuni," he told PTI. Mamata had directed the district administration to evacuate residents of the two islands where embankments were ravaged by cyclone Yaas on May 26 and repairs would not be completed before June-end. "The Irrigation Department is trying to complete the repair work," he said. Hazra expressed hope that high tide waters will not enter coastal areas like Dhobal and Shibpur but may inundate parts of Gosaba, Kultuli, Patharpratima, Frazerganj, Noapukuria, Iswaripur and Narayanpur on June 11 as repairing of embankments are yet to be completed in those areas. "I will be holding a meeting with senior officials of the Irrigation and Panchayat departments and SDOs, BDOs and the police administration to chalk out a plan," he said. Mamata had earlier said that there have been breaches at river embankments at 317 places, most of which will be repaired by June 21 barring a few in Sagar and Mousuni islands, work for which will be completed only by June 31. Hence, nearly 20,000 people will have to be evacuated before the coming high tides, she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb, wife discharged from Calcutta nursing home||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was on Wednesday discharged from a nursing home in Calcutta where he was undergoing treatment for post-COVID ailments, doctors said. His wife Mira Bhattacharjee, also admitted at the same nursing home, was discharged as well, they said. The former chief minister's health condition is stable, a senior doctor of the nursing home said. "His antibody report is okay and other parameters are also fine. But, he is needed to follow the prescribed medicines at home," the doctor said. Bhattacharjee, 77, is a patient of COPD and need to be very careful, he said. "Our doctors will be in touch with the family and keep a tab on the health conditions of both Bhattacharjee and his wife," he said. The former minister and his wife, diagnosed with COVID-19 last month, were discharged from a hospital on June 2 after recovering from the infection. They were then admitted to the nursing home for treatment of post-COVID complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Farmers set to meet Mamata today to elicit support for protest||Farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union will be meeting Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to elicit her support for the ongoing farmers' stir against the new agriculture laws and for a Minimum Support Price for farm produce. Mamata’s support for the agitation which has drawn on the farmer community in rural north India, is being viewed as a potential booster which has been flagging in recent weeks. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU, told PTI, "We want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her electoral victory and to elicit her support for the move to give farmers a fair MSP for their crops." Singh wants to also impress Mamata to come up with MSP for fruits, vegetables and milk products in Bengal as "this will serve as a model" elsewhere. The lack of a specified MSP and glut in produce often leads to farmers suffering from extremely low prices which results in huge losses, often leading to farmer suicides in many parts of the country. Tikait and other farmer leaders have been agitating on Delhi's borders for the past one year against three laws passed by the Parliament which they feel will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets Modi for the first time after election results||BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. Adhikari met Modi at his residence a day after meeting the BJP's top brass, including its president JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. This was the first meeting of Adhikari with the top leaders of the BJP after becoming the leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. On Tuesday, he met Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed various issues concerning the state. In his first meeting after becoming the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Adhikari also met Union minister Mansukh Mandviya. He was also scheduled to meet BJP national president J P Nadda, party sources said. Adhikari had defeated Trinamul Congress (TMC) supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a closely contested election in the Nandigram Assembly segment. His meeting with top brass of the BJP comes days after his presence in Modi-Mamata meet over cyclone Yaas review had irked the TMC leader. According to sources, Mamata Banerjee had arrived late at the aforementioned meeting and left after submitting a report on the impact of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
09-06-2021||West Bengal||20-minute-long cyclonic wind wreaks havoc in North 24-Parganas||Around 200 houses were damaged as a 20-minute-long cyclonic wind wreaked havoc in several areas of Gaighata block in North 24-Parganas on Monday evening. Local sources said that a rotating column of wind, quite similar to the tornado-like mass of wind that recently rampaged several areas of Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and Nadia districts, lashed Jaleshwar, Ichhapur, Panchpota, Sutia, Rajapur, Chowgacha and some other adjacent areas under Gaighata block. The cyclonic wind brought down houses and uprooted several trees. Govinda Das, chief of Gaighata Panchayat Samiti, said the damage had left many families homeless. “Preliminary reports suggest that more than 200 families have been rendered homeless by the sudden calamity. We have begun an assessment of the losses that people suffered so that they can be compensated according to government norms. For now, we have also arranged relief items and shelter for people who lost their homes,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Former Bangladeshi enclave residents back Trinamul at Dinhata ||Some 120 families from erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves and are mostly from the minority community, shifted allegiance to Trinamul at Dinhata in Cooch Behar on Tuesday, in a major setback for the saffron camp. Since 2015, when the enclaves merged with the Indian mainland and became Indian villages, most dwellers supported the BJP, with the party securing a number of seats in the 2018 panchayat elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the Assembly elections held earlier this year, these people had supported the BJP. “Cooch Behar is a district where the BJP had the support of many Muslims, especially dwellers of former enclaves. In fact, a number of youths from these villages were office bearers of BJP’s frontal organisations in the district. The BJP also publicised this to say it enjoys the support of minorities,” said a political observer. However, the tables have turned against the BJP.  Around 120 families of erstwhile enclaves like Madhya Mashaldanga, Dakshin Mashaldanga and Poaturkuthi (all in Dinhata subdivision of the district), joined Mamata Banerjee’s party at an event in Salmara under Dinhata-II block on Tuesday. Udayan Guha, the immediate past Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, who lost to the BJP’s Nisith Pramanik by 57 votes this time, was present at the event. As Pramanik is also the Cooch Behar MP and has resigned as MLA, Dinhata will have a bypoll soon. On minorities quitting the BJP for Trinamul, Guha said they realised that the BJP only makes “hollow promises” and the leaders play the polarisation card. “Unlike the BJP in power at the Centre, Mamata Banerjee has kept her promises. In the coming days, BJP will be wiped out from these areas,” said Guha. Jainal Abedin, who stays in one of the former enclaves, and was a general secretary and vice-president of the BJP’s young wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha for years, was among those who quit the BJP on Tuesday. “We are fed up with the divisive politics of BJP. Some leaders do speak of inclusiveness but ultimately practise religion-based politics. That is why we felt it necessary to join Trinamul,” said Abedin, the grandson of Asgar Ali, one of the leaders at the forefront of a movement for the exchange of enclaves between India and Bangladesh that happened in 2015 under a bilateral pact. BJP leaders, however, are confident of retaining their support base. “A few families of Dinhata may have joined Trinamul but thousands in the district are still with us,” said Diptiman Sengupta, a district BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Four persons arrested for harassing sub-divisional officer in Alipurduar||Four persons, including two employees of the state health department and a civic volunteer, were arrested on charges of harassing the sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Alipurduar and also for driving in an inebriated state on Monday evening. Police sources said Priyadarshini Bhattacharya, an IAS officer posted as the SDO, was returning to Alipurduar from Rajabhatkhawa when her vehicle had a close shave as a car was running recklessly at a high speed with four persons in it. “The SDO asked her driver to follow the car — heading in the opposite direction. Police were also informed who intercepted the car at Damanpur (on Alipurduar outskirts). The quartet had an argument with the SDO as she reached the spot. They were under the influence of alcohol and have been arrested,” said a police officer. On Tuesday, the quartet Sanjib Kushali, a pharmacist, Surajit Chatterjee, a medical technologist, Amal Ghosh, a civic volunteer, and Ranjit Das were produced in a local court and released on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Bolt from the blue tears apart seven-year-old girl’s life in Hooghly||A bolt from the blue on Monday evening tore apart a seven-year-old girl’s life in Hooghly, killing her parents. Her parents had gone to their field to save their peanut crop from rain, when lightning fell. The couple became a statistic among the 26 lightning deaths in five districts in a day. The child’s father owned an acre in a village in Hooghly, but would give his land to sharecroppers, as he ran a studio in the market. This was the first time that he farmed peanuts, a cash crop, on his land, as income from the studio fell drastically amid Covid-19. “The harvested peanuts were heaped on the field and he went to cover them with a plastic sheet. His wife went with him. That’s when a bolt killed the couple,” said Gopal Roy, a Trinamul zilla parishad member. “We are all worried about the little girl, her education and her life in general,” he added. On Tuesday, state government officials, headed by representatives of local bodies, gave her two cheques of Rs 2 lakh each as compensation for her parents’ deaths. “The girl is a minor and has no bank account. The authorities will open a bank account for her and deposit the money,” said an official. Pranay Samui, a neighbour, said no amount of money could compensate what the girl lost. “The little girl is so shocked that she hasn’t even spoken since last (Monday) evening,” said Samui. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of each deceased and and Rs 50,000 for each injured. His party leaders tripped over themselves to lavish praise on the decision. The Mamata Banerjee government has a standard compensation for such mishaps, of identical amounts, Rs 2 lakh and Rs 50,000. Sources said the state government asked its officials not to waste time in giving aid after Modi’s announcement. Trinamul leaders visited every affected family on Tuesday, and helped with last rites. The party also  announced that its national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee would visit homes of the deceased in Murshidabad, Nadia and other places over the next two days. Lightning killed three persons  on Tuesday evening as well, two in Birbhum and one in Nadia. The deceased are Birbhum’s Mungali Hembram, 27, a farm labourer, and Sukumar Garai, 56, a farmer, and Nadia’s Hasan Mondal, 48, also a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP unit sets up disciplinary action committee amid dissent||BJP’s Bengal unit on Tuesday set up a disciplinary action committee with an intent to curb anti-party activities at a time when the saffron camp is rattled by agitation by workers at the grassroots and criticism from within the party. The formation of the disciplinary panel had been due since the new state committee had been formed in 2020 with Dilip Ghosh as the president. “We have set up a disciplinary action committee with MP Subhas Sarkar at its helm. Two other leaders Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury and Rathindra Bose will assist him,” Ghosh told journalists at the end of a state executive meeting on Tuesday. The timing of the decision has prompted several BJP workers to question if there is no space to voice their opinions anymore. Ghosh himself faced two protests — one at Hooghly and the other at Asansol — in the last few days. Many in the party felt it appeared the leaders were trying to stop them from speaking the truth. However, the same meeting where measures of restricting dissent were decided also witnessed at least two leaders raising questions over several instances of conduct of the party during and after the Assembly polls. According to sources, Barrackpore MP and Trinamul turncoat Arjun Singh and a state vice-president Raj Kamal Pathak targeted the central and state BJP leaderships over the drubbing it had received in the Bengal polls. Singh pointed out how the para-dropping of leaders from outside Bengal had worked in favour of the Trinamul Congress and Mamata Banerjee’s attempts to tag the BJP as a party of “outsiders”. He, according to a source, accused leaders from Delhi of visiting places like Midnapore and speaking in Hindi. “Naturally, the people there failed to understand what the leaders had to say, which alienated them from the party,” the source added. Talking to a TV channel later, Trinamul turncoat Sabysachi Dutta echoed the sentiments of Singh. “Arjunda was furious. He said in spite of being an MP, he hadn’t been consulted before leaders were sent to his constituency for campaigning,” a source said. Pathak, on the other hand, had said it was necessary to discuss why the party, which had secured a lead in 121 Assembly segments in the 2019 parliamentary polls and targeted a win in more than 200 seats, was stopped at 77. “It is good that we have gone up to 77 from three. But we must also discuss why we were restricted to 77,” Pathak is quoted to have said at the meeting. Hours after the committee was announced, BJP’s Domjur candidate and Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee took to Twitter to criticise his party’s stand on persistent attacks on the state government and the chief minister. Later, Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan hit back at Rajib on Twitter and said: “You remembered this after losing by 42000 votes? 42 BJP workers have been killed and to keep mum at this time would mean supporting the ruling party…” According to a BJP leader, all these contradicting statements show how disoriented the party is at this moment. “On one hand, the disciplinary action committee is being set up and at the same meeting, two leaders speak against the leadership. It’s mayhem.” The BJP has decided to launch state-wide agitation from June 23 to protest against the death of its workers in violence after declaration of Assembly results. .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid daily toll below 100 after 36 days in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 12,290 Covid-19 recoveries, 5,427 new infections and 98 deaths. With this, it reported a drop by 6,961 in its total of active cases to 19,295, less than 20,000 after April 9, 60 days ago, and daily toll below 100 after May 3, 36 days ago. “Everything else has been improving for weeks. The daily death toll was the final frontier in the second wave,” said a minister. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, has improved by over 85 per cent in these 18 days. Bengal now has 1.56 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is out of the top 10 states with most such cases, jumping from the eighth spot to the 12th in a day. The recovery rate rose for the 38th consecutive day, rising by 13 percentage points over five weeks, to 97.47 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate now is 94.5. “We are truly en route to getting past the second wave, emerging from it decisively now. The restrictions put in place since May 16 helped immensely,” added the minister. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to 9.01 per cent on Tuesday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state now has a total of 14.37 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.01 lakh recoveries and 16,460 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.21. Of the 98 deaths reported on Tuesday, 21 were from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 528 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,109. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000 in the third week of May, is barely 6,000 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Trinamul Congress workers accused of taking away four sacks of rice from youth club ||Trinamul Congress workers have been accused of taking away from a youth club four sacks of rice donated by a social organisation for Cyclone Yaas victims at Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. The alleged misappropriation of relief material, which came to light on Tuesday morning, left residents of the Katakhali-Boltala area angry and they blocked the Basirhat-Hingalganj road for an hour demanding a probe. The blockade was withdrawn after Hingalganj block development officer Saswata Prakash Lahiri assured the protesters of the probe. Several homes collapsed and vast tracts of land were inundated in Hingalganj during Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The villagers alleged that aides to local panchayat member Sarafat Gaji had taken away four sacks of rice from the club room. “A social organisation provided us with rice and other items for daily cooking. We stored all the items at the club. But the panchayat member’s men took away rice without informing us. The panchayat member couldn’t give a satisfactory reply,” said a villager. Rejecting the allegation, Gaji said: “Four sacks of rice were actually taken out for sale to pay six cooks who have been tirelessly cooking twice every day for about 600 people for the past two weeks at the community kitchen. Since we have no provision to make such payment, we collectively decided to sell the rice to arrange for their payment because we have enough stock of rice to meet the daily needs.” BDO Lahiri said: “I advised villagers to lodge a written complaint to conduct a probe. But till evening, no complaint has been lodged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation dept faces daunting task of repairing embankments before high tide strikes coastal districts ||The irrigation department is faced with the daunting task of repairing long stretches of damaged earthen embankments before high tide strikes coastal districts of South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore on June 11 and 26. Cyclone Yaas damaged 294km of earthen embankments that protect villages from floodwaters. Irrigation department engineers said they got barely over a week to repair embankments damaged in the three districts by Cyclone Yaas on May 26, as floods made work impossible in the first few days. State irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra said: “Altogether 294km of the 400km embankments have been damaged. We are carrying out temporary work in all pockets as permanent work can’t be done now. I have spoken to the Met officials who said the water level won’t rise like it did when Yaas struck.” Though the minister sounded confident, engineers on the ground voiced misgivings. “We got little soil to repair embankments as most places are under water. The soil is loose and if monsoon comes, it will be more difficult for us. We have been trying our best to strengthen embankments but at many places could not bring earthmovers or soil from outside because of logistics,” said Kalyan Dey, an executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip division, Sourg 24-Parganas. “There is scarcity of soil as large tracts of land have gone under water since May 26. At a few places, saline water is yet to be drained out. We have repaired embankments at many places but we doubt if they can withstand (waves of) high tides,” said a senior engineer of the irrigation department in South 24-Parganas. “Yaas stressed the need for concrete embankments to save lives and livelihood in the Sunderbans. It is impossible to repair 294km of damaged embankments in seven days. We could not start our work immediately after Yaas as the places were under water,” he added. Repair of a 3km stretch of embankment along the Bay of Bengal near Digha is underway with sand bags and soil as a temporary step, said an irrigation official in East Midnapore. Villagers in Yaas-hit East Midnapore asked for concrete embankments in an interaction with a central team headed by a joint secretary in the home ministry, S.K. Shahi, on Tuesday. When the team visited Mandarmani, around 1,000 villagers said that in the face of recurring breaches in earthen dykes, they wanted concrete embankments along the sea. Lack of concrete embankments has left the state government, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, worried as villages near rivers and sea are expected to face the brunt of high tides on June 11 and June 26. Mamata on Monday had directed South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan to evacuate 20,000 people from many islands in the district as it would be difficult to finish repairs before the first of the two high tides strikes on June 11. Irrigation department officials said earthen embankments were not repaired during monsoon as soil gets washed away and so do government funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
09-06-2021||West Bengal||National Gorkhaland Committee rakes up statehood demand||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body which is positioning itself as a “think tank” of the community in India, has decided to set up a Peoples Forum (PF) to “expedite the demand of a separate home state” at a time hill political parties are relatively silent on the Gorkhaland issue. Lt. Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, chairman, NGC, said its members scattered across India had held a meeting with Mahendra P. Lama, founding vice-chancellor of Sikkim University, on Sunday on Lama’s proposal of forming a Peoples Forum for a “permanent political solution for the hills”. Many in the hills construe the “permanent political solution” as a separate state. Lt. Gen. (retd) Gurung said: “Following the discussions, Dr Lama, while promising his full cooperation, requested the NGC to initiate the process of setting up the PF and to lead it, for which the NGC has agreed.” NGC has now started reaching out to political parties “of the proposed state”, eminent citizens and institutions representing different stakeholders like “tea, tourism, cultural, natural resources … and social organisations to participate in the PF and work together in this endeavour”. The NGC’s announcement comes at a time when Gorkhaland is not really a buzzword among political parties in the hills. The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morch is focused on issues like scrapping of provisions for free movement of Indian and Nepalese citizens in the 1950 Indo-Nepal treaty. Bimal Gurung is less vocal on the issue. Both Tamang and Gurung are in alliance with the Trinamul Congress, which is opposed to the statehood demand. Gurung has merely said they would support a party that backs Gorkhaland in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The statement was issued while announcing their tie-up with Trinamul before the Bengal Assembly elections. The BJP and its ally Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) are also talking about a “permanent political solution” but they have not expressly said it is Gorkhaland. In fact, the GNLF wants a constitutional body with “not less than Sixth Schedule status”. Many in the hills believe the state government is likely to push for a Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)-type body once again. In fact, chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her election campaign had said they would find “a permanent political solution” for the hills. The NGC, however, wants to start a campaign against forming a GTA-like body in the hills. “It has been agreed (at the Sunday meeting) that all communities in the hills must be advised to oppose the possible formation of GTA-3 or a similar body ……..as such an agreement in the past has failed miserably to fulfil the aspirations of the people,” said Lt Gen (retd) Gurung. Many in the region, however, argue whether an apolitical body can spearhead an initiative for the statehood, which is a political issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
