10-06-2021||West Bengal||Film fraternity remembers Buddhadeb Dasgupta, a ‘shining name’ of cinema||Actors and directors across the Hindi and Bengali film industry, including Prosenjit Chatterjee, Srijit Mukherji and Deepti Naval, remembered celebrated filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta as a "sensitive poet" and "God of cinema". The 77-year-old National Award-winning director, who had been battling kidney ailments for quite some time, died at his residence in Calcutta early on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, his family members said. Dasgupta began his career as an economics lecturer in a college before taking a plunge into filmmaking in the '70s, after having enrolled his name as a member of Calcutta Film Society. Some of his notable films include "Neem Annapurna", "Grihajuddha", "Bagh Bahadur", "Tahader Katha", "Charachar", "Lal Darja", "Uttara", "Swapner Din", "Kaalpurush" and "Janala". Chatterjee, who worked with Dasgupta in the 2004 drama "Swapner Din" and "Ami, Yasin Ar Amar Madhubala" in 2007, took to Twitter and posted a heartfelt note. The actor remembered him as a "shining name", not just in the Indian cinema but also in the "international film world". "Fortunately, I had the opportunity to do two films with him and I went with him to various film festivals to find out how much his other genre of cinema is appreciated internationally... Buddha Da is also incomparable as a human being. Be well, stay with us through your work," Chatterjee wrote in Bengali. Dasgupta had also directed Hindi films -- "Andhi Gali" and "Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa". Naval posted a picture with the filmmaker from 1984's "Andhi Gali". Calling Dasgupta one of the finest directors of Bengali cinema, Naval wrote, "I had the good fortune of working with him in a Hindi film called 'Andhi Gali' and since have had a huge regard for Buddha Da not only as a fine director but also as an extremely sensitive poet and a wonderful, gentle human being." "Urojahaj", which released in 2019, was the last film Dasgupta directed. The Chand Roy Sanyal-headlined drama had its world premiere at MAMI. Roy Sanyal posted a series of pictures with the filmmaker on Instagram and wrote he was so gutted with the news of Dasgupta's passing away that he was unable to talk to anyone. The actor, who also worked with him in "Tope" (2017), said his growing up years in Delhi were dotted with Dasgupta's films. Roy Sanyal remembered the director as a taskmaster and "a man of perfection". "For a regular Bengali, Buddhadeb was the God of cinema and he leaves behind a great legacy of films. He was in a league of his own. Not in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that at some point in my career, I would actually get to work with him..." "It's been an honour to have worked with you in 'Urojahaj," actor Parno Mitra wrote on Twitter. Mukherji said Dasgupta's films, which boast of impeccable storytelling, have shaped up his cinema memory. Mukherji especially remembered Dasgupta's two films -- 1982 drama "Grihajuddha", which had the Naxalite movement in Bengal of the 1970s as the backdrop, and 1989 drama "Bagh Bahadur", about a man who paints himself as a tiger and dances in a village. "Even his last film 'Urojahaj' bore the stamp of his class and poetry in every frame. Goodbye, Memory-maker." Actor Paoli Dam, who worked with him in two episodes of a Doordarshan show in 2008 and "Tope", said Dasgupta's films were a lesson on "filmmaking, philosophy, life and perspective." "I grew up on Buddhadeb Dasgupta films. And one can imagine how elated I will always feel to have worked with him. It is very rare for any actor to be blessed with a chance to work with a director of that calibre in their lifetime. I got that..." Actor Sudiptaa Chakraborty said she was fortunate to have collaborated with the filmmaker on two of his projects -- "Mondo Meyer Upakhyan" (2002) and "Kaalpurush" in 2005, which also featured Mithun Chakraborty and Rahul Bose. "Poet and Filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta is no more. In the post Ray-Ghatak era, he was one of the most celebrated and valued Indian (and Bengali) filmmaker in the international diaspora," she said. Bose took to Instagram and described "Kaalpurush" as one the most satisfying films of his career. The actor said Dasgupta was a "part poet, part filmmaker", which was reflected in his cinema, from his storytelling and framing to the sound. "It took time for me to understand Buddhada's style of direction. But once we understood each other the relationship flowed with ease." The actor remembered the filmmaker as a sensitive, emotionally acute "with an impish sense of humour" and said he would miss the time spent with him during shootings and travelling to various film festivals. Filmmaker and Bengal MLA Raj Chakrabarty tweeted his condolences to Dasgupta and wrote, "Recipient of numerous national and international honours, legendary filmmaker and renowned poet, #BuddhadebDasgupta has passed away. Sincere condolences to his family and friends." "Mirzapur" star Pankaj Tripathi, who worked with Dasgupta on "Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa", said he shared a "very wonderful and loving relation" with the filmmaker. "He was a master of cinema. I remember we would chat a lot about cinema, life. Later I met him at a film festival and I have always loved being around him. It is a sad day today for all of us but his cinema will stay alive among us," he said. Dasgupta is survived by his wife and two daughters from his previous marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national held by BSF along India Bangladesh border in Bengal||A Chinese national was apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the India-Bangladesh international border in Bengal on Thursday, officials said. The 35-year-old man, dressed in a black sweatshirt, pants and shoes, was "intercepted" by a BSF party around 7 am when he was "infiltrating" into the Indian territory after crossing the border in Malda district, they said. A Chinese passport bearing a Bangladeshi visa, a laptop and three mobile phone SIM cards were found on the man who was identified by security officials as Junwei Han. He has been kept at the Kaliachak post of the border guarding force, and a BSF spokesperson in Delhi said an "interview of the individual is underway by agencies concerned". Sources said the Chinese man does not probably understand English, and hence, a security officer conversant in the Mandarin language has been called in for a joint questioning session by officials of the BSF, local police and the intelligence agencies. Further details and the reasons for his venturing into the Indian side will be known once the session ends, they said. Headquartered in Calcutta, the BSF's South Bengal Frontier guards the India-Bangladesh international border in this area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Celebrated film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta dies at 77||Eminent film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, who had been battling kidney ailments for quite some time, died at his residence here early on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, family members said. He was 77. The national award-winning director is survived by his wife, and two daughters from a previous marriage. Extending her condolences to the ace director's friends and family, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "Saddened at the passing away of eminent filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta. Through his works, he infused lyricism into the language of cinema. His death comes as a great loss for the film fraternity." Dasgupta was found motionless by his wife, Sohini, at his residence in Kalikapur area of the city at 6 am, according to the family members. He suffered cardiac arrest in his sleep, they added. Mourning his demise, filmmaker Goutam Ghosh said, "Buddha da continued to make films, write articles and stay active, despite his failing health. He had directed 'Tope' and 'Urojahaz' even when he was unwell. It is a great loss for all of us." Actor-director Aparna Sen said Dasgupta's films were "soaked in surrealism". "I am sad that I won't be able to bid a final farewell to Buddhadeb da at the crematorium, like I did in the case of Mrinal da. It is upsetting that we cannot give due recognition to a director of his calibre, due to this COVID pandemic and the lockdown," Sen said. Actor and theatre personality Kaushik Sen said Dasgupta was in the league of filmmakers such as Satyajit Ray, Ritwik Ghatak and Mrinal Sen, "who took Bengali cinema to global platforms". "He had often been accused of making cinema in a style that was not easily understood by the masses. But he stuck to that style, never deviated from what he believed in," Sen said. Born in 1944 in Purulia, Dasgupta began his career as a lecturer in a college before taking a plunge into filmmaking in the 70s, after having enrolled his name as a member of Calcutta Film Society. He made his first feature film 'Dooratwa' in 1978, leaving his mark as a poet-lyricist-director. Prior to that, he had made a short 'Samayer Kache'. Some of the notable films he has helmed include 'Neem Annapurna', 'Grihajuddha', 'Bagh Bahadur', 'Tahader Katha', 'Charachar', 'Lal Darja', 'Uttara', 'Swapner Din', 'Kaalpurush', 'Janala'. He had also directed Hindi films -- 'Andhi Gali' and 'Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa'. Dasgupta -- who bagged 12 national awards in his lifetime -- was liberal in his views, having criticized arrests of several political activities in the recent times. He stood by younger filmmaker Anik Dutta, when anti- establishment 'Bhobisyoter Bhoot' was withdrawn from theatres in the city one week after release. A recipient of Venice film festival silver lion, Locarno critics' award for Uttara, Locarno Special Jury award, the auteur, after one of his ventures did not get a commercial release a few years ago, had told PTI, "It hurts me when my film gets recognized internationally but doesn't hit the theatres in Kolkata and the rest of Bengal. But there is a strong distribution lobby at work. PM condoles demise Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish on Thursday at the death of film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, and noted that his diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. Modi tweeted, "Anguished by the demise of Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta. His diverse works struck a chord with all sections of society. He was also an eminent thinker and poet. My thoughts are with his family and several admirers in this time of grief. Om Shanti."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Leopard caged in Haldibari tea estate||A wild male leopard was trapped on the Haldibari tea estate in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday. Sources said in the past few days, the residents and the managerial staff of the garden had felt the presence of a leopard in the plantation. Also, the big cat had mauled a garden worker a couple of days back. The foresters of Binnaguri said after the incident they had laid a cage with bait at the plantation area. “On Wednesday morning, the residents could hear growls of the animal. They went near the cage and found that the animal had been trapped,” said Subhasish Roy, range officer of the squad. “We soon went to the spot and the animal was taken away from the garden later in the day. The big cat will be kept under observation and released in the forest in due course,” Roy added. Jumbo raids A wild elephant entered Subhashpally area of Birpara in Alipurduar district around 9pm on Tuesday and mauled a woman. Sources said Nisha Pal suffered an injury in the chest as she fell into a roadside drain after the jumbo nudged her. She is under treatment. A team from Dalgaon forest range managed to steer the elephant back into the forest later in the night. Also, another wild elephant came out of the Pana forest range of Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar and damaged three workers’ quarters at the Chinchula tea estate. The foresters drove the animal back to the forest and no injury or casualty was reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal police team gun down two Punjab gangsters in New Town||A Bengal police team gunned down two gangsters wanted in Punjab during a raid on a New Town flat on Wednesday afternoon. A team of officers knocked at Flat 201 in the Shukhobrishti housing complex at 3.30pm, and was greeted with gunfire when the door opened. The police returned the fire and killed two men, later identified as Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi Kharar, both of whom had bounties on their heads in Punjab. Officers said they had found five automatic pistols, 89 rounds of live ammunition and Rs 7 lakh in the flat. Over 40 personnel from the Bengal special task force (STF) and the State Striking Force (SSF) were involved in the operation. STF inspector Kartick Mohan Ghosh took a bullet in his left shoulder and was rushed to AMRI Salt Lake in the middle of the gunfight. Hospital officials said the bullet had entered below the scapula and exited through the left arm. Ghosh had abrasions caused probably by glass shards. He will undergo an MRI scan and a nerve test on Thursday to determine whether he needs surgery. Ghosh, who is from Karimpur in Nadia, himself lives in the Shukhobrishti housing complex. Additional director-general of police (Bengal STF) Vineet Goyal, who visited the spot after the operation, said his officers had fired back in self-defence. “We had received inputs that two men wanted for killing policemen in Punjab were hiding here. When we zeroed in on their location and knocked on the door of Flat 201, they started firing on us. We returned fire in self-defence and killed them,” Goyal said. Bhullar and Kharar were allegedly part of a gang that killed two cops, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, at the Jagraon grain market in Ludhiana district on May 15. Dinkar Gupta, director-general of Punjab police, told a news conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday that his force had been tracking Bhullar and his associates since that incident. The Punjab police had earlier on Wednesday arrested a man named Bharat Kumar, who apparently said his in-laws lived in Calcutta and that he had recently rented a flat in New Town. Kumar is suspected to be part of the same gang as Bhullar and Kharar, and the Punjab police thought it likely the two wanted men were holed up in the flat he had mentioned. Sources said the Punjab police had named the operation to nab the gangsters “Operation Jack”. The Bengal police began a recce of the building from Wednesday noon. They started the operation around 3.30pm when, one officer said, they were “sure of the presence” of the suspects inside the flat. Residents of the complex heard gunshots and saw plainclothes and uniformed men run around the block, some of them armed and wearing bullet-proof vests. Officers said 35 gunshots were fired during the exchange. Bhullar and Kharar continued firing till they died. A resident of the complex said he had gone downstairs when he heard what “sounded like gunshots”. “As I was talking to the guard under my building, trying to figure out what was happening, some plainclothesmen ran towards me and asked me to stay indoors,” Mainak Kanrar said. “I saw armed cops running. I went upstairs and alerted others through our society’s Telegram group that police activity was going on and no one should step out.” Several residents complained about the security inside the complex, saying most of the flats were occupied by tenants whose antecedents were unknown to them. Later in the evening, the police removed the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. Teams from the state CID and the state forensic laboratory visited the flat. Goyal said that since the shootout had taken place in Bengal, the Bengal police would probe it although the two gangsters were wanted by the Punjab police. The state CID has begun investigating the incident. Punjab DGP Gupta said: “We had received information that the gang used a black four-wheeler with a Bengal number plate for movement from Gwalior to Bengal. We started tracking it through CCTVs on the highways and found it had entered Bengal. We shared the intel with the Bengal police.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Mom dies of shock after gang rape of daughter in Malda||The mother of a 19-year-old tribal girl died of shock on Wednesday after she learned that her daughter was gangraped by a group of miscreants here on Tuesday night. Police sources said the quintet had picked up the victim and her 16-year-old sister while they were returning home from a wedding ceremony at a village in Malda district and took them to two separate spots. “The elder girl was gangraped while the younger one was released after she refused to give in to their filthy proposals,” said a police source. As both the girls were released after the crime, they had sought help from some villagers who took them for treatment, said the sources. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said: “The principal accused Shailen Soren has been arrested following a complaint lodged by the victim. He has admitted his involvement in the crime and searches are on to nab four others involved in the incident. The case had been handed over to the women police station.” The mother of the girls died of shock on Wednesday after she learnt about the incident, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Farmers' protest: Mamata agrees to liaise with non-BJP chief ministers||Farm leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday called on Mamata Banerjee and requested her to consolidate the backing of non-BJP chief ministers across the country for the farmers’ movement, to which she readily agreed and pledged her “full support”. “Chief ministers opposed to the Narendra Modi government coming together for a conference and issuing a joint statement in favour of the farmers’ movement will create pressure on the Centre to withdraw the anti-farmer laws. Mamataji has promised to take the initiative,” Tikait told The Telegraph after meeting the Trinamul Congress chief and party national vice-president Yashwant Sinha at Nabanna. Tikait was accompanied by Yudhvir Singh, another farm leader. At a joint news conference after the meeting, Mamata threw her weight behind the peasants’ struggle. “I assured my full support to the cause of our dear farmers…. The Centre’s indifference towards our farmer brethren is to be blamed for this situation. As I have said earlier, farmers’ rights cannot be compromised in any way and we will together fight every battle to uproot the BJP along with its insensitive, miscalculated policies,” the Bengal chief minister said. “They requested me to speak to all Opposition chief ministers and gather them for a virtual conference with them…. I will definitely speak to the chief ministers who are my friends,” Mamata added. “In a federal structure, there should be a union of states so that if the Centre harasses a particular state, the other states can jointly fight it,” Mamata said, demanding to know why none from the Centre had spoken to the agitating farmers since late January. Asked if she was ready to lead the national Opposition and, perhaps, chair the UPA in the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2024, the Trinamul chief said: “I don’t want to do anything (else)…. I just want to remove Modiji.” Tikait, a leader of the largest faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha umbrella outfit leading the battle against the three contentious farm laws, said the process of coordination with leaders in the national Opposition would continue. During the discussions, the farm leaders spoke of measures the Trinamul government could adopt for farmers in Bengal. A BKU leader said Mamata had handed over a document listing the initiatives her government had implemented for farmers. “We will go through the document and suggest measures we feel the (Bengal) government must implement for the welfare of farmers,” Tikait said later. According to state government data, Bengal has 71.23 lakh farmer families, of whom 96 per cent are small and marginal cultivators. “We repeatedly tried to impress on the chief minister that for the survival of the peasantry it is imperative for the Bengal government to provide them adequate price and infrastructure support like cold chains, a marketing network and robust kisan mandis (farmers’ markets),” Tikait said. He added that the measures should also cover those engaged in fisheries, horticulture, fruit growing and poultry farming. Tikait urged Mamata to turn Bengal into a “model state” by bringing in a law that guaranteed farmers a minimum support price in keeping with the M.S. Swaminathan Commission’s recommendation to governments to buy crops at a rate one-and-a-half times the cost of production. “We told Mamataji to turn Bengal into a model state for farmers so that other states can emulate it,” Yudhvir, the BKU (Tikait) general secretary, said. He stressed the need to keep corporate groups out of the agriculture sector, avoid the establishment of a “company raj” in the state, and at the same time ensure the elimination of conduits. “We told her the government should take strict action against corrupt government officials who, in nexus with middlemen, deny farmers government benefits. We asked her to ensure that political intervention is eliminated in the purchase of crops by the government,” Singh told this newspaper after the meeting and the media conference. The BKU leaders asked the state government to promote agri-based industries in Bengal and requested Mamata to ensure that her government’s initiatives such as kisan mandis and the Krishak Bandhu and Bangla Sasya Bima schemes reached the doorsteps of farmers. A BKU source said the delegation asked the government to consider waiving all kinds of agricultural debt in view of the losses farmers had suffered because of the pandemic and the lockdown. They also stressed the need for a special government package for farmers in the Yaas-affected districts, where land remains inundated with seawater, and crops, fish and cattle have been lost. “Their land has become uncultivable. They should be given a monthly support of Rs 10,000 for at least two years,” the BKU source said. Mamata told the news conference that farmers’ rights had always been her foremost priority and formed the basis of her anti-land-acquisition movement in Singur. “From agriculture to industry, employment generation to Covid-19 (management) --- over the past seven years, this BJP raj has completely destroyed the country... which has become weak and is suffering. The economy is a disaster. The nation now faces twin disasters, natural and political,” she said. Trinamul has made it clear that it wants to assiduously pursue a national role for itself — a process to be overseen by Trinamul parliamentarian Abhishek Banerjee. Abhishek, Mamata’s nephew, last Saturday took over as the Trinamul national general secretary. A detailed expansion plan aimed at taking the BJP head-on and win elections in other states is likely to be unveiled within a month. “This meeting with Tikait amid an Opposition vacuum in the national space and ahead of crucial Assembly elections in seven states next year is not an isolated incident. The party needs all the help possible to get a foot in the door, especially in the Hindi heartland that has a substantial farm community,” a Trinamul source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: BJP MLAs call on Gautam Deb, offer help for Siliguri||Two BJP MLAs on Wednesday met Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, and offered their help to handle the Covid-19 situation and resolve longstanding civic issues. Shankar Ghosh and Shikha Chatterjee, the MLAs of Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari, respectively, were accompanied by Pravin Agarwal, the BJP president of Siliguri (organisational) district. The trio spoke to Deb, a former minister, for about an hour and discussed a series of issues pertaining to Siliguri and its surrounding areas. “It was a cordial meeting where we told the chairperson of the civic body that being local MLAs, we are ready to extend all possible help to the SMC as well as the state government. Be it the prevailing pandemic or old issues of Siliguri, we are there to work together,” Ghosh said. The Siliguri civic area, which is spread over 47 wards, comes under the Assembly constituencies of Ghosh and Chatterjee. Chatterjee defeated Deb in the Assembly polls. In north Bengal, this is the first time after the Assembly elections that BJP MLAs have met a civic functionary who has been nominated by the Mamata Banerjee government. Political observers noted that the courtesy visit by the BJP MLAs could indeed help in addressing different issues more effectively. “That is what any common man expects from elected representatives. If they work together by keeping aside political differences, it would surely help in handling the ongoing (Covid 19) crisis in a better manner as well as solving issues like the traffic congestion that has been plaguing Siliguri for years and conservation of the Mahananda river and some rivulets,” said an observer. Deb said the MLAs had paid a courtesy visit and underscored certain civic issues. “The board of administrators has been constituted by the state government and we have certain limitations. We have explained to them what we have been doing to curb the pandemic and how we are providing civic services to people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal district hospitals asked to arrange special units for kids ||The state health department has asked district officials to arrange special units, including new intensive care infrastructure, for children at district and block hospitals amid the threat of a probable third wave of Covid-19. A health official said the preparation comes in the wake of reports that children may be more susceptible to the new wave. The apprehension of the state health officials is contrary to opinion expressed earlier this week by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. The body representing paediatricians in India has ruled as baseless fears about a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP has said that available clinical data did not give any reason to conclude that any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic was “highly likely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The state government, however, is not ready to take any chances. In a video conference on Tuesday evening, top health officials in Calcutta instructed all tiers of district healthcare infrastructure — including heads of medical colleges and hospitals — to keep at least one special unit to treat children. “We are well equipped to handle adult patients but not children right now. There are several units like the Sick Neonatal Care Units (SNCU), but there are very few Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU) in the districts. We also have been asked to increase the number of High Dependency Unit beds in the district,” said a senior health official. Health officials also apprehend that the infection rate among children could be at least twice that of the first or second wave of the pandemic, and may potentially hit the state in late September. Medical colleges have been asked to prepare special PICU units for Covid-19 patients where all block and district hospitals have been asked to increase the number of SNCU or HDU beds. “We are planning to open a 15-bed PICU unit to treat Covid-infected children at Suri district hospital. Block hospitals have been asked to keep separate units for children apart from their existing facilities. Hospitals with SNCU facilities have been asked to ascertain in advance that the entire infrastructure is functioning,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. Sources said there were around 70 SNCU units in government hospitals that can admit around 2,400 patients. Officials said they were planning to increase PICU beds in medical colleges and new SNCU units or beds at the district hospitals. Bankura has sent a proposal to increase 150 HDU beds in three Covid hospitals in the districts to admit both adults and children. “We have already sent a proposal for 150 HDU beds in our Covid hospitals. There will be additional facilities in medical colleges too. Our first priority is to assure as many oxygen beds as possible before the third wave hits,” said Shyamal Soren, the chief medical officer in Bankura. Sources said the health department has asked districts to involve health workers on the ground to keep a record of vulnerable children in blocks along with those whose parents were infected over the last two waves. On Wednesday, the government also enlisted rural healthcare providers and family members of health workers to be vaccinated as a priority community. “We need rural healthcare providers to handle the situation in rural pockets as the virus will spread in rural areas this time. So, vaccination of those healthcare providers is now in our priority list,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari meets Narendra Modi and Amit Shah in Delhi ||Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Wednesday amid speculations that the Nandigram MLA had been lobbying the Centre for the President’s rule in the state. He had met Shah on Tuesday as well. However, sources in the BJP said state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and leaders close to him were unhappy with Suvendu’s hyper-activity on the issue. Three BJP MPs and Trinamul turncoats — Arjun Singh, Nishit Pramanik and Saumitra Khan who are in favour of imposing Article 356 (President’s rule) in Bengal — also reached Delhi on Wednesday morning. Suvendu discussed “important issues” with the two before meeting Shah. “We are unaware of the exact reason for Suvenduda’s stay in Delhi. But it is a fact that he is in favour of invoking Article 356 in the state. Dilipda, on the other hand, is against treading that path immediately,” a source close to Ghosh said. The rift between Suvendu and Ghosh has been the talking point among BJP leaders and workers for the past few days. It became apparent on Tuesday when Ghosh claimed that he had no idea why Suvendu had gone to Delhi. On Wednesday, Suvendu claimed that he had gone to Delhi by informing Amitava Chakraborty, the general secretary (organisation) of the BJP’s Bengal unit. He had also met BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda on Tuesday. A close aide to Ghosh said the state party chief and his associates were unhappy that Suvendu was gaining importance in the BJP. There is a rumour that Ghosh might be removed from his position as the Bengal president well before his term ends in 2022. Multiple leaders, who were once close to Ghosh, are steadily aligning with Suvendu, the former protégé of Mamata Banerjee, and this has further angered Ghosh. “It is really surprising that the president and the general secretary (organisation) of the state unit are in Calcutta and the leader of Opposition has gone to Delhi to meet Modiji, Amitji and Naddaji,” a BJP old-timer said. “This is not how things in our party used to work.” On the other hand, party insiders said that Ghosh was of the opinion that there was not enough ground for the implementation of the President’s rule in Bengal yet. However, the likes of Suvendu, Singh and Khan have repeatedly appealed to the Centre to weigh the possibility of the President’s rule in Bengal since law and order in the state, according to them, has gone for a toss. After meeting Modi, Suvendu said: “Human rights are being trampled upon every day in Bengal.…As public representatives, it is our duty to protect their rights and stand by them.” He added post-poll violence was a part of his discussion with the Prime Minister. Speaking to The Telegraph, Saumitra Khan said he and Arjun Singh had met Suvendu to discuss the “prevailing situation in Bengal and other important issues”. The MPs will meet BJP’s top leaders on Thursday. Issues related to the party’s organisation in Bengal also came up for a discussion at the meeting, according to sources, but Khan rejected such claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Truck kills two civil engineers on NH12||Two friends, both civil engineers, died after a truck collided with their bike on NH12 at Chakdah in Nadia on Tuesday night. A police patrolling van found Subhankar Biswas, 29, and Sukhendu Debnath, 28, lying in a pool of blood along the highway and took them to Chakdah state general hospital where doctors declared them dead. Family sources said the duo, both residents of Chakdah, worked at a private construction firm and were returning home from a site in Ranaghat when the accident happened. The police have launched a search for the truck. But till late Wednesday evening, the vehicle could not be traced. A police constable suffered multiple injuries when unidentified assailants fired at him from close range on Wednesday night. Niloy Biswas, 30, attached to the DIG office in Barrackpore, was walking with wife Shilpa at Baro-Andulia in Chapra when the goons attacked him. Bullets hit the constable on the shoulder and the left hand. He was rushed to Chapra block hospital, but soon shifted to Nadia district hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
10-06-2021||West Bengal||People of East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas asked to shift before high tide||Authorities have launched a massive campaign, asking people in low lying areas of East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas to shift to shelters or higher areas ahead of high tides on June 11 as several stretches of embankments damaged by Cyclone Yaas are yet to be repaired. “We are working to repair all damaged embankments by June 10. But it appears that in some areas, the repairs would be of temporary nature because we did not get much time after Cyclone Yaas. We have appealed to people in vulnerable areas to move to higher places or relief camps or cyclone shelters as a precautionary measure,” said a senior government official. Sources said East Midnapore district authorities had started campaigning in the vulnerable areas to make people aware of the forthcoming high tide. “In East Midnapore, almost 80 breaches in river embankments have been repaired. But we apprehend that sea water could gush in through seven to eight spots where the damage is yet to be repaired. So, we have asked people to move to shelters if they feel unsafe,” said an official in East Midnapore. A total of 24 shelters are being run by the authorities where 3,100 people are still spending days as they could not move to their villages because of stagnation of water. “Although we feel the situation would not be as worse as Yaas, we are taking no chance,” said another official. Tarun Das, vice-chairman of the Digha-Shankarpur Development Authority, said the damaged river embankments had already been repaired. “We expect the high tide would not leave a severe impact like Cyclone Yaas did, but still, we have completed inspection of damaged embankments and decided to help people living in vulnerable areas.” In South 24-Parganas too, the cause of concern remains the river embankments that were breached but could not be repaired completely yet. “In this district, too, evacuation of some people might be required. The decision on how many people would have to be taken to the cyclone shelters would be taken by tonight,” said an official on Wednesday. A 15-meter part of an earthen dyke along the Vidyadhari river in Minakhan, North 24-Parganas, was swept away on Wednesday afternoon. The breach led to fresh inundation at adjacent villages like Ghusidanga, Kulti, Ghospur, Bamunpukur and Kushagra in North 24-Parganas. A team of Minakhan block officials and irrigation department officials rushed for the repair of the breached stretch on war-footing. Sources in the district administration said several families had been evacuated from the area and shifted to safe locations. Same measures would be initiated in South 24-Parganas also if it was felt that the high tide could submerge villages. The Bengal government has placed estimated damages of Rs 20,000 crore in Cyclone Yaas before the central team that visited the affected districts in the past three days. The team on Wednesday met the top brass of the government at Nabanna where the estimated loss was placed. “A detailed damage report would be sent to the Centre soon. But the central team was informed the state primarily estimated that it had suffered a damage of about Rs 20,000 crore in the cyclone,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur leader Atul Roy dies at 62||Atul Roy, the vice-chairman of Kamtapur Bhasha Academy and the president of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP), died at a private nursing home in Matigara, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Wednesday afternoon. The 62-year-old is survived by mother, wife, son and two daughters. Roy, a prominent political face of the Rajbanshi community, was instrumental in the 1990s in spearheading a movement for the separate Kamtapur state. In 1996, he had floated the Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (KPP) to press for the statehood and raised demands like recognition of Rajbanshi language and its introduction as a medium of instruction at schools. However, the KPP split in 2004 with Roy forming the Kamtapur Progressive Party (also abbreviated as KPP). He headed the KPP till the last day of his life. In 2017, Roy was made the vice-chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy which was formed by the Mamata Banerjee government as part of her efforts to reach out to the Rajbanshi community. Rajendranath Roy, the vice-chairman of the KPP, said Atul had been suffering from various ailments, including diabetes and high blood pressure. “He had initially been admitted to a private nursing home in Pradhannagar (of Siliguri) on May 22 after being diagnosed with Covid-19. A couple of days later, he was shifted to another nursing home at Matigara where he was on ventilation for a week. He breathed his last this afternoon,” said Rajendranath. In her condolence message, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Deeply saddened at the demise of Atul Roy who was serving as the vice-chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasha Academy. I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones. His dedicated & continuous fight for the people of North Bengal will always be etched in our hearts,” Mamata tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
10-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Total cases drop below 15,000 in Bengal||Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases fell to 14,702 as the state on Wednesday logged 10,512 recoveries, 5,384 infections and 95 deaths. This is the first time in 63 days after April 7 that the total active cases dropped below 15,000. The figure plummeted by 5,223 compared to Tuesday. The recovery rate rose for the 39th consecutive day on Wednesday to reach an all-time high of 97.83 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The rise was by 13 percentage points over five weeks. The previous high in the recovery rate was 97.68 per cent, reported 85 days ago on March 16. “This is a huge morale-booster. We will get past 98 in a day or two and breach the coveted 99 per cent mark in recovery rate in a week. Bengal has all but defeated the second wave,” said a minister. The national recovery rate is 94.71 now. The total number of active cases, which was at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, improved by nearly 89 per cent in the intervening 19 days. The state now has a total of 14.42 lakh cases since the first infection was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.11 lakh recoveries and 16,555 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the national rate is 1.23. Of the 95 deaths reported on Wednesday, 17 were in Calcutta and 20 in North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 547 infections and North 24-Parganas 996. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000, is less than 5,000 now, at 4,344.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
