11-06-2021||West Bengal||In Bengal, the question BJP leaders are asking is, ‘After Mukul, who?’||Mukul Roy’s exit from the BJP on Friday afternoon has triggered a churning within the party in Bengal, especially among a section of leaders who were perceived to be close to him. Now, the question on most BJP leaders’ minds is after Mukul, who? Who else from the Trinamul camp will leave BJP? The disarray within the Bengal BJP was evident on Friday when at least four public representatives in North 24-Parganas district skipped a meeting called by the party’s Bengal president Dilip Ghosh. Ghosh refused to comment on Roy’s exit from the party, which is being seen as another victory for Mamata Banerjee over the BJP. “What can I do? Many of our workers are under attack in the districts. Our priority is to ensure they can return home. I don’t have the time to think about who is joining and who is quitting,” he said. Many former Trinamul leaders who had joined the BJP appeared to be treading cautiously while trying to send out signals. One of the reasons behind the sudden noises _ critical and conciliatory  _ from Trinamul turncoats in the saffron camp is that no one is sure how the BJP’s national leadership _ Narendra Modi and Amit Shah _ will respond to the developments in Calcutta. BJP MP from Bishnupur Saumitra Khan did not name Roy but called him “Mir Jafar”. “It is because of Bengal’s Mir Jafars that BJP is in such a state. The sooner they leave the better. We were foot soldiers of the BJP and we will remain so. No traitor can break our spirit to fight,” Khan tweeted. Incidentally, Khan’s entry into Parliamentary politics was by holding the hands of Roy in February 2014 when he defected from the Congress to Trinamul ahead of Rajya Sabha elections. After Roy switched to the BJP, Khan too had joined him. Apart from Khan, Arjun Singh, Nisith Pramanik, Anupam Hazra, Sabyasachi Dutta, Wilson Champramary, Sunil Singh, Biswajit Das and Mihir Goswami joined the BJP on Roy’s insistence. Another TMC turncoat in the BJP, Vaishali Dalmia, has asked BJP’s new-found poster boy in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari to get rid of the “garbage” in the party. Dutta, the former Bidhannagar mayor, has been critical of the BJP’s state leadership. At a meeting earlier this week, Dutta was vocal about his opposition to bringing leaders from outside Bengal to campaign and the party's failure to project a Bengali face against Mamata Banerjee. “I am sticking to what I have said,” Dutta said. Both within the Trinamul and the BJP, Dutta is known for his proximity to Roy. Another pro-Roy leader, Anupam Hazra, who has been sulking since he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Jadavpur contesting on a BJP ticket, has asked the BJP leadership to stop “lobbying” and involve leaders according to their skills and qualities. “Showering excessive attention to one or two leaders during the polls and sidelining other qualified leaders should be stopped… I had joined the BJP when it was under duress and I will stay here,” Hazra said in a social media post in an attempt to stall, for now, any pre-emptive strike by the BJP leadership. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee has already made it clear that those who had betrayed the party before the elections and spread canards against it were not welcome. She was hinting at Suvendu Adhikari and his father, Sisir. Several others who had quit Trinamul before the elections, like Sonali Guha and Dipendu Biswas, have already appealed to Mamata to take them back, while others like Rajib Banerjee have started speaking out against the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Dilip ‘unsure’ of Mukul’s significance in BJP, Anupam Hazra blames saffron camp||Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy's return to the TMC evoked mixed reactions in the saffron camp on Friday, with its state unit president Dilip Ghosh asserting that the move will have no impact on his organisation, and former MP Anupam Hazra claiming that "lobby politics at play is adversely affecting the party". BJP state general secretary Joyprakash Majumder, on his part, extended his best wishes to Roy, and said that he should immediately quit all saffron party posts. "Mukul babu is a veteran leader, he is a known face in Bengal politics. We wish him the best in his new innings, but shouldn't he forthwith quit from the primary membership and all other posts of the BJP? Shouldn't he not resign as the MLA as he had won a seat on Lotus (BJP) symbol," Majumder said. Roy along with son Subhanshu was on Friday cordially welcomed back to the TMC by party supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other senior leaders. He had quit the TMC in 2015, after being removed from the post of the party's national general secretary, and subsequently joined the BJP two years later. Ghosh, while talking to reporters, said he was not sure if the BJP would lose anything from Roy's decision, given that he was "unsure whether we gained anything" from his entry three-and-half years back. "Right now, we are bothered about more serious issues as the cycle of violence goes on unabated in the state. We are bothered about the safety of our workers, who are being targeted by TMC activists," he added. Hazra, earlier in the day, said lobby politics with the saffron camp has led to such a situation, hours before Roy made his re-entry in the Mamata Banerjee camp. Taking to Twitter, he contended that it was high time that the state unit of the BJP put an end to the practice and utilised leaders according to their merit. The former MP, who had switched over from the TMC to the BJP in 2018, however, asserted that he will continue to be a part of the saffron camp under all circumstances. "Too much importance has been accorded to one or two leaders while ignoring and humiliating the rest. That has led to the present sad situation. There is also no trace of the royal passengers who had taken a chartered flight," the academic-turned-politician, who had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, said. Hazra was possibly referring to TMC turncoats Baishali Dalmiya, Rajib Banerjee and Prabir Ghosal, who had taken a chartered flight to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's residence in Delhi earlier this year. He further said, "Please don't give me the tag of a disgruntled leader for this post. I am with the BJP and will remain in the BJP. But the dirty lobby politics should come to an end. This is all I want." A section of state BJP leaders are of the view that Roy and other senior leaders, including Sabyasachi Dutta, were not accorded due importance by the saffron party top brass during the assembly elections, and only a handful of leaders, such as Suvendu Adhikari and actor-turned-politician Mithun Chakraborty were given all responsibilities. Hinting he was not made a part of important meetings, Hazra said, "Hoping to get an invite to state unit meetings of the BJP as per protocol."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy, the ‘prodigal son’, returns home to Trinamul||Former all-India general secretary of the Trinamul Congress Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu returned to the party after more than three-and-a-half years of joining the BJP on Friday, ending weeks of speculation on the “return of the Prodigal”. “I can say that I am very happy to be back here in this room and seeing the old faces,” said Roy before addressing Mamata Banerjee as “our leader, India’s leader” at the Trinamul Bhawan, where he had held fort before many election campaigns. “I couldn’t continue in BJP. I don’t want to continue in BJP. That is why I have returned to my old home,” he said. “I will issue a detailed statement on why I had to leave the BJP.” Roy, who was the second-in-command till his fall from grace at TMC, was given a seat between Mamata and her heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. Roy and Abhishek shared a hug before Mamata handed over the microphone to him. “I have quit BJP. Nobody will remain in that party… We will see how many will come (to the Trinamul),” said Roy, who had been appointed as a national vice-president in the BJP but had little role to play in the Bengal unit in the last two years. While welcoming her old lieutenant, Mamata made it clear that the bonhomie that existed between the two was now a thing of the past, as she reminded one and all that the party had just won a landslide victory. What was left unsaid was that the Trinamul victory came while Roy was still in the BJP. “Our party is already strong,” she said when asked how Roy’s return would strengthen the Trinamul. “We have just won a landslide victory… Nobody can stay in BJP. Mukul was also pressured (to join BJP), threatened with agencies,” Mamata said. “Mukul did not say a word against us. There are moderates and extremists. Those traitors who quit the party before elections for money and other gains and abused us, we will never accept them back,” Mamata said, making it clear the Trinamul door was shut for the Adhikari family. She added that with Roy’s exit the BJP would fall like a house of cards. Architect of victory Two summers ago, Roy was being hailed as the “architect” by none other than the number two in the BJP, Amit Shah, after the party’s spectacular performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it bagged 18 seats. But seeds of his decision to return to the Trinamul were possibly planted in the months between the Lok Sabha and the Assembly elections. “I couldn’t continue in BJP. I don’t want to continue in BJP. That is why I have returned to my old home,” said Roy, while his son sat behind him. In November 2017, Roy was then the prized catch of the BJP and was made the head of the party’s election committee. While BJP had its own brand of home-tutored RSS-backed leaders, none of them could hope to capture the attention of the masses. Not that Roy himself was a mass leader. Only once in his life had he contested an election in 2001 but lost from the Jagaddal Assembly seat. Yet, from his days in the Trinamul, Roy was hailed as an organisational man, a strategist who knew the ins and outs of each and every polling booth of Bengal. Vice-president without a role Long before BJP turned poaching Opposition lawmakers into a national strategy, Roy had mastered it. “Though Mukul da was made a national vice-president, he did not have a specific role in the BJP. He was always a back-office man and that is what he did without being told to,” said an aide. Roy kept one eye on the organisation and another on leaders in the Trinamul who had joined politics either by clutching his hands or owed their rise to him. Barrackpore MLA Arjun Singh, Cooch Behar Trinamul leader Nisith Pramanik went on to become MPs in the BJP. Roy had entered the saffron fold holding the hands of the late Arun Jaitley and Kailash Vijaywargiya, but he never did enjoy a good rapport with the old guard, especially the Bengal unit chief, Dilip Ghosh. For the most part of his stay in the BJP, he remained inactive, while Ghosh and his men called the shots in the party. ‘Wrong tactics’ Things took a turn for the worse after the Lok Sabha results. “Though he never said it explicitly, he was not happy with the way the party was being run. He would say BJP is using the wrong tactics,” said another Roy aide. After the Lok Sabha election, the BJP opened an office at Hastings where Roy met supporters and journalists over a cup of tea in the afternoon. “There were hardly any BJP leaders who joined him there. Dada would have preferred to be in the back-office deciding on strategy, but no one was asking for his opinion,” the aide said. If that wasn’t enough, Roy found himself restricted to the Krishnagar North Assembly seat from where the BJP gave him a ticket, facilitating his maiden victory in electoral politics. His son Subhranshu lost from the Bijpur Assembly seat contesting on a BJP ticket. Saradha scam Long regarded as the Number Two in Trinamul scheme of things, Roy’s fallout with Mamata started around September 2014, when the heat of the Saradha scam was scorching the Trinamul leadership. Roy’s attempt to distance himself from a deal signed between the railway subsidiary IRCTC and Saradha during Mamata’s tenure as railway minister had irked the chief minister. One after the other, Roy’s key men were removed from their positions, and he himself was sidelined. Till December 29, 2014, Roy was the sole in-charge of handling membership and renewals, after which a six-member scrutiny committee was announced. Roy had stayed away from the first meeting of the committee held on January 1, 2015. After much speculation in November 2017, Roy formally joined the BJP, the same party, one of whose leaders had coined the slogan: “Bhag Mukul Bhag”. On Friday, Mukul ran away from the BJP to return to the Trinamul. “As long as he was in the party, he focussed himself on the organisational role. He was not hankering after personal glory. He did whatever he was told. Though differences had cropped up, he never worked against the interest of the party,” said a Trinamul source. In better light This gesture of Roy showed him in a better light against the likes of the Adhikari family. Sisir Adhikari continues to be a Trinamul MP, while campaigning for the BJP in the Assembly polls. It is expected Roy will formally quit his maiden Assembly seat Krishnagar North, like he did with the Rajya Sabha seat which he resigned from after quitting Trinamul. The buzz in Trinamul is that Roy could be offered either of the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhunia. While Trivedi has joined the BJP, Bhunia is a minister in the Mamata cabinet. Mukul Roy's " homecoming" has dominated speculation in Bengal for weeks, ever since the state election results that returned Mamata Banerjee to power with a landslide against the BJP's challenge. The buzz intensified last week when Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee and a key leader of her party, visited Roy at the hospital where his wife is admitted. The very next day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly spoke to Roy on the phone to ask about his wife's health. Roy's silence and his absence from a key BJP meet in Calcutta were seen to be big hints that the reports were true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Pranab's son quashes rumours of joining TMC||Dispelling rumours, Late President Pranab Mukherjee's son, Abhijit Mukherjee, on Friday made it clear that he is not leaving the Congress unlike his friend Jitin Prasada. Television channels and a few newspapers had reported he would be joining the Trinamool Congress on Friday afternoon. "I remain in the Congress and reports that I am joining Trinamool or any other party are not correct," Mukherjee, a former Lok Sabha MP and Congress Campaign Committee chairman during the assembly elections, told PTI over phone. Mukherjee had good relations with Jitin Prasada when they were colleagues in the Congress Parliamentary Party, and the Late President was also known to be fond of him and his father Jitendra Prasada. Mukherjee, an engineer-turned politician who won twice from Jangipur constituency, said in a lighter vein: "I am nearly 300 km away from the Trinamool Bhavan right now, sitting in Jangipur House... so, unless someone can teleport me, it would be impossible for me to join any party this afternoon." He said the rumours probably arose after some of his father's former Congress colleagues "who are now in Trinamool" had come to have tea with him. "They included MP Khalilur Rahman from Jangipur, MP Abu Taher Khan from Murshidabad and TMC ministers Akhrruzzaman and Sabina Yesmin. "But, I have known them for long, as they were close to my father... to speculate that just because friends came to meet me, I will join TMC, is stretching it too far," Mukherjee said. Pranab Mukherjee had won from Jangipur twice in 2004 and 2009, before becoming President of India. Several projects started by him, including a branch of the Aligarh Muslim University in the district, an Army cantonment and a management college, are now bearing fruit. Abhijit Mukherjee said he had also been involved with some of these projects as an MP, and most of his interactions with state leaders are based on these developments, "besides normal social relations with old friends".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul on way to Trinamul office, the buzz he is quitting BJP ||Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy is likely to return to his parent party, the All India Trinamul Congress after more than three and-a-half years, sources close to him said in Friday amid widespread speculation over the last couple of weeks. “Yes, I am going to Trinamul Bhawan,” Roy told newspersons outside his Salt Lake residence a little after 2pm. Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee has called a meeting with key party  leaders at the party headquarters, where the issue of turncoats "returning home" is likely to be discussed, at 3pm. Long regarded as the Number Two in Trinamul scheme of things, Roy’s fallout with Mamata started around September 2014, when the heat of Saradha scam was scorching the Trinamul leadership. Roy’s attempt to distance himself from a deal signed between the railway subsidiary IRCTC and Saradha during Mamata’s tenure as railway minister had irked the chief minister. One after the other, Roy’s key men were removed from their positions, and he himself was sidelined. Till December 29, 2014, Roy was the sole in-charge of handling membership and renewals, after which a six-member scrutiny committee was announced. Roy had stayed away from the first meeting of the committee held on January 1, 2015. After much speculation in November 2017, Roy formally joined the BJP, the same party, one of whose leaders had coined the slogan: Bhag Mukul Bhag. Mukul ran to the BJP and on Friday was likely to be making a reverse journey to the Trinamul. “As long as he was in the party, he focussed himself on the organisational role. He was not hankering after personal glory. He did whatever he was told. Though differences had cropped up, he never worked against the interest of the party,” said a Trinamul source. This gesture of Roy makes him stand in a better light against the likes of the Adhikary family. Sisir Adhikary continues to be a Trinamul MP, while campaigning for the BJP in the Assembly polls. It is expected Roy will formally quit his maiden Assembly seat Krishnagar North, like he did with the Rajya Sabha seat which he resigned from after quitting Trinamul. The buzz in Trinamul is that Roy could be offered either of the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Bhunia. Trivedi has joined the BJP and Bhunia is a minister in the Mamata cabinet. Sources said Roy had told close associates about feeling "suffocated" in the BJP and that his frustration grew with the BJP's defeat in the Bengal election. The former Trinamool MP has concluded, said sources, that the BJP's political culture and ethos was alien to Bengal. "No one has their finger on their pulse of the people like Mamata Banerjee," sources close to Mukul Roy said quoting the leader as saying. "Certainly not the BJP or those who have jumped from Trinamool," he reportedly said, reported ndtv.com. Mukul Roy's " homecoming" has dominated speculation in Bengal for weeks, ever since the state election results that returned Mamata Banerjee to power with a landslide against the BJP's challenge. The buzz intensified last week when Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of Mamata Banerjee and a key leader of her party, visited Roy at the hospital where his wife is admitted. The very next day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly spoke to Roy on the phone to ask after his wife health. Roy's silence and his absence from a key BJP meet in Calcutta were seen to be big hints that the reports were true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Nadia siblings lose parents to Covid||For 80-year-old Sandhya Saha, life has thrown before her an unprecedented challenge. The octogenarian who lost her son and daughter-in-law to Covid-19 barely within two weeks of each other now wants to live longer so that she can take care of her grandchildren Souvik, 16, and Soumit, 8. The challenge has become even more tough for Sandhya in Nadia’s Aranghata as she awaits help from the district administration and wants some Good Samaritans to step forward. The uncertainty of Sandhya and her dependents will linger on for some time as the administration has no idea what to do for the children who lost parents to Covid. On May 19, Sandhya’s son Utpal, 51, a readymade-garment seller, died at a Covid hospital in Kalyani. On June 4, Utpal’s wife, Kajalrani, succumbed to Covid at the same hospital. Souvik was scheduled to appear in this year’s Madhyamik examination, whereas Soumit will move to Class II. Sandhya’s husband is no more and she has another son who lacks financial means to take care of Souvik and Soumit. The deaths of their parents have created a survival crisis for the young siblings, for whom neighbours have come up in support. “I don’t know how they will survive. We have almost no resources apart from the house. Neighbours are helping us. I am praying to God to keep me alive so that I can take care of them,” said Sandhya and added that she had approached the local panchayat member, Rekha Ghosh, but did not receive any assurance. “I am trying to help them personally, but I have no idea how to arrange for official benefits to ensure their (the children’s) well-being,” said Ghosh. Last week, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPRC), in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, stated six-step schemes to monitor the well-being of children orphaned by the pandemic. According to the affidavit, as of May 29, there were 1,742 children whose both parents died of the novel coronavirus. At the same time, the women and child development ministry has issued guidelines for the rehabilitation of such orphan children. The ministry stated in a notification that if any child lost both parents to Covid with no one else to look after them, the child needed to be produced before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within 24 hours. “The CWC shall ascertain the immediate need of the child and pass appropriate orders for rehabilitation of the child, either to restore the child to caregivers or place her/him in institutional or non-institutional care, on a case-to-case basis,” the notification stated. However, even five days after the two brothers’s parents died, the CWC has remained in the dark. The chairman of the Nadia District Child Welfare Committee, Tiya Biswas, said: “I have no idea. Nothing has also been communicated to me by district authorities so far.” Ranaghat subdivisional officer Rana Karmakar said: “I have heard about the incident and advised the local BDO to share details. But nothing has been reported to me so far.” Repeated calls made by this correspondent to the Ranaghat 2 BDO went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders in Darjeeling and Kalimpong seek elected rural faces||Trinamul leaders in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills have decided to underscore the necessity of having elected panchayat functionaries in the hills before central leaders of the party. They also seek to inform senior state ministers like Subrata Mukherjee that having elected panchayat boards in the hills would help the Mamata Banerjee government expedite implementation of social welfare schemes in the rural areas. In the hills, the area under the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) earlier and now under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the last panchayat samiti election was held in 2000. The region comprises Darjeeling district, minus Siliguri subdivision, and the entire Kalimpong district. After the DGHC was formed in 1988 through a constitutional amendment, the three-tier panchayat system changed to two-tier, without the uppermost tier or the zilla parishad, and with gram panchayat and panchayat samiti remaining. “However, since then, elections for the panchayat samiti (the second tier), have never been held in hills. The only election was for 70 gram panchayats spread across eight blocks. As elections in the panchayat samiti were not held after 2000, there is no elected representative in the panchayats since 2005. For past 16 years, these rural bodies are being managed by officials and employees,” said a veteran in hill politics. Also, after the GTA was formed in 2012, its board members were elected. However, the tenure of the elected board of GTA expired in 2017, and since then, there is no elected member. For almost three years now, the GTA is being run by a board of administrators. L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul, said they would soon pass a resolution in the party on the issue. “We will send the resolution to the chief minister, also our party chief, that it is a must to have elected rural bodies in the hills. A delegation of the party will meet state panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee on the issue. The rural polls in hills are important as it would help in faster implementation of social welfare and infrastructure schemes and help the state reach out to the rural populace,” said Rai. A senior Trinamul leader in the hills said that young voters hardly know about panchayat elections and it was time rural bodies are revived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Villagers vow to save embankment in coastal North 24-Parganas||Thousands of villagers in coastal North 24-Parganas, including a part of the Sunderbans, are spending a sleepless night on the eve of the high tide set to hit Bengal’s coastline on Friday evening. Ignoring repeated appeals to shift to safe locations, these villagers at Hansnabad, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj, and Minakha have decided to lodge themselves close to the earthen embankment of rivers like Raimangal, Bidyadhari, Dasa, and Goureswar by erecting tents so that they can pitch in to save the dykes and take immediate protective measures, if possible, if high tidal waves cause a breach. Around 1,000 families had been evacuated from these areas a day before Cyclone Yaas on May 26. These families have returned home some two days ago and begun repairing their damaged properties. As high tides are expected to lash the areas on June 11 and 26, they were told by the district administration to move to shelters, but most refused. “It’s useless to move to the rescue centre. Survival is a burden without home and livelihood. So, we decided to stay back despite the odds and have vowed to fight to save the embankment if necessary,” said Suchitra Mandal, a homemaker, as she sat inside a tarpaulin tent mounted on trees on the banks of Goureswar river. Homemakers Anupama Mondal, Anita Barui and Bandana Mondal echoed Suchitra. “We came home on Wednesday after staying at the flood shelter since May 25. Officials today (Thursday) came and asked us to return to the shelter before Friday’s high tide. But we won’t move. Unless we can protect the embankment, our survival will be forever at stake,” a woman said. “Most of the dykes here are very weak as they have been freshly repaired. These could be damaged again. We will try to protect these stretches during the high tide with sandbags and mud,” a villager said. An official of North 24-Parganas district administration in Basirhat said: “Repair of embankments is on and we have assured villagers of all possible protection. We have asked them to leave villages in coastal belts but many have refused to oblige.” After Yaas wreaked havoc on May 26, chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed displeasure about the quality of the irrigation department’s work to repair embankments. In view of the impending high tides, she had advised officials to complete repair of damaged dykes by June 9. But work remains incomplete at most places where Yaas had hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears proposals on thika tenancy land to convert into lessees of state govt||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday cleared four proposals from tenants on thika tenancy land in Calcutta to convert them into lessees of the state government, a move that would enable the beneficiaries to avail themselves of bank loans to develop their dwelling units. “The state government had brought in an amendment to the West Bengal Thika Tenancy (Acquisition and Regulation) Act in 2019 to allow tenants on the land to become lessees. The cabinet today cleared first four proposals after the amendment,” a minister present at the cabinet meeting told The Telegraph. Several big slums in south and north Calcutta and Howrah are located on thika tenancy land, which the government had acquired from zamindars after the Independence. However, the government had allowed the tenants to continue to occupy the land. The 2019 amendment enabled the tenants to become the lessees who have rights to develop their homes on the thika land. In Calcutta, there are about 2,000 acres of thika tenancy land, while Howrah has 517 acres. So far, the tenants and sub-tenants of the plots could not apply for bank loans to build homes. “As they will be lessees of the government now, they can secure bank loans and develop houses, majority of which are in a shambles. This will definitely change the landscape of the slums,” said an official. As the state government has already removed the height cap of 9.5 meters of structures on these plots, the tenants and their sub-tenants would be able to construct taller buildings, sources said. “So far, four tenants had applied through the rent controller to convert them into lessees. The applications were forwarded to the cabinet which okayed them. All the applicants are living on two to three cottahs of land. We hope we will get more applications from the tenants in near future,” said the minister. The state government has also fixed an easy term to convert the tenants into lessees. “They have to pay a salami of Re 1 only and their annual lease rent would be 0.3 per cent of the current price of their plots,” said an official. The sources have said nearly 20 lakh families are living on thika tenancy land in Calcutta, Howrah and Asansol. Although one can sub-lease their plots, it is unlikely that private builders would be interested in the land located in some of the prime areas of Calcutta, the sources said. All the families hold a very small quantity of land — upto 3 cottahs — and major private builders would not be interested in investing in very small plots. “Our target is to ensure that tenants get bank loans to develop their homes. This can change the landscape of the slums. We don’t want the entry of private builders in the slums to protect the interest of the poor,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata keeps pre-poll pledge, hikes farmer aid from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000 ||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday stamped  its seal of approval on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pre-poll promise to enhance the annual financial assistance to farmers to Rs 10,000 from Rs 6,000 under the Krishak Bandhu Scheme. The saffron ecosystem has been attempting  to question the Trinamul government’s commitment to farmers. “The cabinet cleared a proposal put forward by the agriculture department to enhance financial assistance to Rs 10,000 under the Krishak Bandhu Scheme.… The chief minister had promised this ahead of the polls in the manifesto and now is the time to deliver,” said a minister who attended the meeting at Nabanna on Thursday. This direct benefit transfer scheme for the farmers, added the minister, would establish that the Trinamul government is more concerned about the well-being of the farmers than the Narendra Modi regime at the Centre that offers Rs 6,000 under the PM Kisan scheme. Sources in the agriculture department said that all the 62 lakh farmers, registered under the state scheme, would benefit from it as it is not conditional. “All the farmers who have more than one acre would get Rs 10,000 annually. Those who have less than an acre would at least get Rs 4,000 annually. Even sharecroppers are eligible under the scheme,” said the official. On the other hand, the central scheme offers Rs 6,000 annually to the farmers. Those farmers who have income tax payers, government employees, retired government employees with over Rs 10,000 monthly pension, doctors, engineers, chartered accountants, lawyers and architects in the family are not eligible under PM Kisan. Sources in Nabanna added that the state scheme is more lucrative because of some other factors. “The state scheme has several other benefits, including compensation of Rs 2 lakh, in case of premature death of a farmer. As the state scheme does not prevent any farmer from getting assistance from any other scheme, the farmers can avail of both the central and the state schemes,” said an official. The enhancement of the assistance under the state scheme comes at a time when the central PM Kisan scheme has also been launched in Bengal and more than seven lakh farmers got their first instalment of Rs 2,000 in May this year. For the past two years, the central scheme could not be implemented in the state due to the Trinamul government’s resistance. But in November last year, the chief minister had agreed to implement PM Kisan in the state after 23 lakh farmers had applied for the scheme. The PM Kisan had become a political issue during the Assembly poll campaign during which scores of BJP leaders, including Modi, had accused the Bengal government of depriving farmers in Bengal by not implementing the scheme. In his campaign rallies, Modi had promised to release two years’ backlog under the scheme if the BJP formed the government in Bengal and transfer Rs 18,000 to the accounts of all the farmers. “The chief minister had countered the allegation by claiming that the state’s scheme was better than the central one. Now, she has proven that,” said a senior official. Another official said that the move would help the ruling party to strengthen its support base in the rural areas, where agriculture remains the sole means to earn livelihood. “Trinamul performed well in the rural belts of Hooghly, Birbhum and East Burdwan though it had faced electoral debacle in these areas in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. So it is clear that Trinamul is trying to consolidate its position in these areas,” said another official. Sources in Nabanna also said that they were expecting to bring more farmers under the state scheme by relaxing the norms for registration. “There are 73 lakh farmers in the state. The scheme so far covered 62 lakh farmers. We expect to reach out to more farmers soon as the eligibility norms have been relaxed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Infection from wild elephant’s leg removed surgically in Bankura ||A wild elephant, which had been roaming with an iron chain tied to the right front leg for the past two years and developed an infection, was tranquillised and operated on successfully in Bankura on Thursday evening. Forest officers said the 25-year-old tusker had been caught and chained after tranquillisation in 2019 after it had killed three persons in Bankura. But the animal fled with a chain on the right front leg on regaining senses when efforts were on to release it into a forest in Purulia’s Bandwan. “Before the last chain was released, the elephant regained senses and fled with a chain still attached to the front right leg. As its muscles grew, the clamp of the chain began to sit tightly on the leg and a sore developed,” said a forest officer. Kalyan Rai, the divisional forest officer of Bankura north division said: “Our team which had a vegetarian tracked down the animal last month and cut the chain today (Thursday). The elephant was released after antibiotics were administered on the wound and it is under observation in the Bankura forest.” Sources said the full-grown male elephant was from Dalma range of Jharkhand and had entered Bengal through Purulia. Officers said the operation was crucial as infections could make wild elephants lose mental balance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in total active cases by 17 after a gap||Bengal on Thursday reported the first rise, albeit by 17, in its total of active Covid-19 cases since May 21, 20 days ago, as only 5,170 recoveries were logged, compared to 5,274 new infections detected. The state also recorded 87 deaths. Total active cases, peaking at 1,32,181 on May 21, had fallen by around 89 per cent till Wednesday, before Thursday’s minor rise. Bengal has a total of 14,719 active cases now. “There have been enough positive indicators for weeks now for us to assume that this  mini spike is an aberration and that we will stay on course to completing the turnaround after the second wave peak,” said a minister. Recovery rate was static, for the first time after a 39-day spell of rise, at 97.83 per cent, also the all-time high this pandemic. The national recovery rate too remained 94.71. Bengal has 1.25 per cent of the national total of active cases, and was 13th among states with the most active cases. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave at nearly 33 per cent, fell to 7.96 per cent on Thursday. The state now has a total of 14.48 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. It includes 14.16 lakh recoveries, and 16,642 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.14 per cent, while the nation’s is 1.23. Of the 87 deaths reported on Thursday, 24 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 485 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 966. The total of active cases in the two districts, which was over 53,000, is less than 4,000 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Wife of Covid victim continues food distribution initiative among needy||Nandita Sinha, wife of Kajal Sinha, the main patron of the Khardah Sanskriti Mancha, a social outfit in North 24-Parganas, who died of Covid during the eight-phase Bengal polls, distributes food among the needy. Sinha, a Trinamul candidate from Khardah, and his aides had started this much-needed service during the Covid-induced lockdown. After his demise, his wife and followers have carried on with the initiative of distributing food among the poor by running community kitchens. “These (lockdown-like) restrictions have created hardship for the poor by robbing them of livelihood opportunities...We are trying to help them by providing food packets to at least 1,200 people belonging to the marginalised sections (in a day),” said Nandita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari pushes for CAA pill to recharge BJP||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari has reportedly urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to expedite the process of implementing the CAA in Bengal. Several BJP insiders this reporter spoke to said stress on implementing the CAA was viewed by state unit leaders as the most potent way to revive the party’s fortunes in Bengal. “Our leaders, including Suvenduda, believe dividing the electorate on religious lines is the only way to expand the BJP in Bengal. To do so, there can be no better weapon than to bring the CAA back in the political discourse,” a state BJP office bearer said. “This is why he lobbied with the Union government for its immediate implementation.” In Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday, Suvendu called on Modi, Shah and BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda. He also met two BJP MPs from Bengal, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh, on Wednesday on how to start a fresh political movement in the state around the CAA. At a time several elected BJP MLAs are in touch with Trinamul and scores of foot soldiers have become idle or switched over to the Trinamul, the CAA can recharge the saffron party in Bengal, many believe. Though the BJP got 77 seats in the Bengal polls, it fared well in the Assembly segments inhabited by social groups that support the CAA. It won 30 of the 54 Assemblies in north Bengal and 12 of the 14 Assemblies under Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats. While most seats that the BJP won in north Bengal are dominated by the Rajbanshis, the Matuas hold sway in the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha areas. Both Scheduled Caste communities, they vocally support the CAA. On the other hand, Trinamul performed exceptionally well in Muslim-dominated districts of Malda and Murshidabad, earlier traditional Congress bastions. Leaders in the Trinamul have often pointed out that results in these areas went their way as the Muslims believed that only Mamata Banerjee could stop the implementation of the CAA. “Poll data bear proof that the electorate can be divided over the CAA. If we wish to increase our vote share to an extent where we can finally wrest power in the state we have to tread the CAA path ,” a state leader said. The BJP is hoping talks of rolling out CAA will trigger a chain of reactions such as Mamata hitting the streets and the Muslim community protesting against the Act. “The moment these two things happen, polarisation will start.... That's the ideal situation for us,” said a source. The Union home ministry is yet to frame the rules to the implement the CAA. But last month it issued a gazette notification granting powers under existing rules to authorities in 13 districts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab to accept, verify and approve citizenship applications from members of minority communities hailing from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The parliament had given the home ministry an extension till July 9 to frame rules for the law. However, sources said Bengal BJP wants the Centre to implement CAA in Bengal fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Government starts rehabilitation of vulnerable families in Sunderbans||The state government has started a process to rehabilitate hundreds of families which are perennially exposed to vagaries of nature as their homes are situated on an island surrounded by two rivers and the Bay of Bengal. The process started with 35 families being shifted from Ghoramara — a small island at Sagar in South 24-Parganas. A 6.5km stretch of an embankment on the island was washed away by Cyclone Yaas on May 26. The rehabilitation has been kicked off ahead of high tides on June 11. Sources said the 35 families would be taken to a government land in Dhaspur-Sumatinagar 2 gram panchayat in Sagar and would be initially sheltered at government accommodations. This is the first time that the government has taken an initiative to rehabilitate people from any vulnerable island in the Sunderbans. Ghoramara, which is among small gram panchayats in Bengal and has a population of roughly 5000, is located around 92km from Calcutta. The island is surrounded by the Hooghly and the Battala rivers and the Bay of Bengal. “We will shift 35 families from the island to a safe place in Sagar because of the vulnerability of their homes, which are situated close to river embankments. There are many other families which need to be shifted from the island but we will do it in phases,” Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Hazra said. Sources said the decision of rehabilitation was taken after the island had faced severe damage during back-to-back cyclones in the past three years. However, the local people say the impact was highest in Cyclone Yaas as a large stretch of the embankment was washed away. “It has become a challenge for us to save the lives and livelihood of around 1,150 families living on this island. Most of the families have bought land at several places like Kakdwip and Sagar. We are now identifying those who have no money to shift themselves from here,” said Sanjib Sagar, the chief of Ghoramara gram panchayat. Officials said several of those families were facing problems of livelihood as saline water kept entering the island after the breach in the embankment. The coming high tides will further affect means of livelihood at Ghoramara, said a villager. Before Yaas, the government had shifted around 2,500 people from the island and sheltered them in different cyclone centres by boats. After the warning of high tides, a process to shift the rest of the families has been started. “We had appealed to the government to shift as many families as they can from this island. Most of the people lost their houses in Yaas just a few days ago. Now, they are being evacuated again. Is it possible to flee from your house every fortnight?” asked Surajit Kar, a resident of Ghoramara island. The officials said many families from the island had already moved out of Ghoramara to Sagar or Kakdwip in the past 10 years as means of livelihood on the island were at stake. “But there are a lot of poor people who have nowhere to go. The government will provide them with land to set up houses outside the island,” said an official. Asked about the state of the breached dyke, an irrigation department official said they were trying to save the island by reconstructing the damaged embankments. He, however, admitted that earthen embankment could not be a permanent solution to protect the island from natural calamities. “We have already landed machines and started reconstruction of the embankment on the Ghoramara island,” said Kalyan Dey, the executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national held by BSF in Malda’s Kaliachak||A Chinese national was nabbed by the BSF in Malda’s Kaliachak on Thursday morning, soon after he crossed the Bangladesh border illegally to enter India. BSF sources said it was not clear why Han Junwei of Hebei province, north China, had entered India without a visa. He crossed fences of the India-Bangladesh border at Milik-Sultanpur village under Akondabaria panchayat of Kaliachak around 6am. “From the border, he was taken to the BSF camp where he was frisked. It was found that he was carrying Indian, Bangladesh and US currencies. In addition, a laptop, a Chinese passport, a visa issued by the Government of Bangladesh and electronic gadgets, including three mobile phones, were found on him,” said a BSF source. No Indian visa, however, was found in his possession. “We are trying to know if he had a proper Indian visa. It appears he was trying to infiltrate India with a definite motive. He is being grilled on his purpose of infiltrating India,” a senior BSF official said, choosing not to be named. BSF authorities, however, did not issue a formal statement about nabbing Han. Sources said Han was under BSF custody and had not been handed over to Malda district police till Thursday evening. Police refused to comment on the issue. However, sources said the BSF officials were looking into all aspects of the situation. “This (infiltration) appears unusual. It is being probed if he was denied an Indian visa and hence was trying to get inside India via Bangladesh, and entering India through Malda which has a long stretch of porous border with Bangladesh,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Three persons held for illegal sale of blood units in Malda||Three persons, including a contractual employee of a blood bank, allegedly involved in illegal selling of blood units were arrested in Malda on Wednesday night. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda, said that Sujit Roy, Moloy Kundu and Debabrata Dutta had been picked up from the blood bank premises of the Malda Medical College & Hospital. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that Roy was a contractual employee of the blood bank at the MMCH and two others are his associates,” the police chief added. Sources said the demand for blood in the district went too high during the second wave of the pandemic. “On one hand, there was a high demand for blood and its components while on the other hand, less number of blood donation camps were held because of the Assembly polls and the pandemic. Altogether, the situation made the crisis formidable,” said Uttam Jha, secretary of the Malda District Voluntary Blood Donors’ Association. “To take advantage of the crisis, a racket became active and unfortunately, with the help of people like Roy, who have access to the blood bank, they started illegally selling blood. It has been alleged that they have sold a unit of blood for Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000,” Jha added. Majibul Haque, in-charge of the blood bank of the MMCH, said that strong action would be taken against Roy, the contractual employee of the blood bank. “A departmental enquiry has been ordered against the accused contractual staff,” Haque added. The police said a probe had been initiated to find out details of the crime and also to trace other members of the racket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
11-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Vaccine priority for health workers family members||The Bengal government has asked district administrations to vaccinate family members of health care workers directly involved in the treatment of Covid patients on a priority basis, terming them as “at risk” and “potential spreaders”. The state health and family welfare department has also directed the district magistrates and chief medical officers (health) across the state to undertake similar vaccination drives for family members of informal health care providers (IHCP) who have been tending to Covid patients in the rural areas. “This decision should have been taken by the state government much earlier. Many family members of doctors, nurses and other health care workers had tested positive and also died. However, it is a good decision which should be implemented fast”, said a doctor attached to a government-run hospital. On May 25, the state health department issued a list of categories of people who needed to be vaccinated on a priority basis stating them as potential super-spreaders. The state government enlists over one lakh health care workers including doctors, nurses, medical technologists, pharmacists, GDA, and ambulance drivers. The number of informal health care providers across the state is around 2.5 lakh, who have been included in the Covid patient support programme in the rural areas. Manoj Chakraborty, state president of the Progressive Rural Physician Welfare Association, West Bengal, an organisation of the IHCP, said: “Vaccination of family members of all categories of health care workers involved in Covid management was our longstanding demand. We are thankful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for considering our demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
